
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1886.	No. 1.


THE LEGEND OF THE PASSION
		FLOWER.

When from Eden's garden banished
	By a just, offended God,
Those two exiles—angels followed.
	Sprinkling with their tears the sod,

Where those jewels fell, bright flowers
	Sprang to life in dale and wood.
One, amidst the thorns and briers,
	Grew in mystic similitude.

With no comrade but the night wind,
	Pressed its loneliness like pain,
Till it bowed its head in anguish,
	Asking o'er and o'er again

Of the centuries sweeping past it,
	In their ever changing mood,
"Why, unlike all other flowers,
	Am I doomed to solitude?

"Sympathies unmeasured for them
	Poets sing in sweetest lays.
Must I unknown thus forever
	Dwell where none may love or praise?"

"Ah!" the breezes softly answered,
	As they kissed its tears away,—
"Bliss unknown to others waits thee,
	Patience but another day."

With the morning light came soldier,
	On their cruel errand sent.
To the crown for Him they plaited
	Its sweet charm the flower lent.

When upon the cross they crowned Him,
	One in whom was found no guile
Crushed amid the thorns this flower
	Sweetest fragrance gave the while.

Through the darkness and the horror
	Of that terror-stricken morn,
Brightly gleamed this mystic symbol,
	Where of anguish Love was bon.

Ah, revealed! at last its mission,
	Fulfilled its destiny. 
Emblem of the Crucifixion,
	Passion-flowers bloom to-day.
							FAITH.
	Brunswick, Me., 1886. 

	*The column of this flower represents the pillar to which
Christ was bound; its fringes, the crown of thorns; the
tendrils, the cords that bound Him ue styles, the nails; 
the stamens, the hammer that drove hem through His
tender flesh.


[Column 1]
		EXPLANATORY.

		Salt Lake City, May 26th, 1886.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	Agreeable to your request, I send you a copy
of my article, which was prepared for the late
Mass Meeting, but through some oversight
did not appear in the published pamphlet:

		SOME HARD QUESTIONS.

	Has Senator Edmunds a [-]fe or a daughter?
If he has either, what must be her feelings to-
wards him? How must she r[-]gard his injustice
to woman? How can she tolerate the inhu-
manity of his nature, which is so apparent in
the laws he has framed for Utah? laws which
are to take away the political rights, not only
of those women whom he cho[-]ses to call offend-
ers, but those also who have committed no of-
fence.
	And the government officials, who, here in

[Column 2]
Utah, are carrying out some of Edmunds’ un-
just suggestions even before they have become
laws. Is it possible that they, at least some of
the most cruel of them, can have wives,
daughters, or sisters? It is to be hoped not!
After heaping the insults and indignities upon
“Mormon” women that they do, how could
they ever have the assurance to speak to or
look at any woman again? They must have
had mothers—are they dead? It is a great
pity if some of them are not. Supposing it to
be the case, that either of the gentlemen
operating in the federal court here has a wife,
how would he like to have such questions asked
of her, as have been asked of other men’s
wives, and in open court?
	It is to be feared that these gentlemen, in all
their studies and researches after knowledge,
have failed to come accross, or else have en-
tirely overlooked the GOLDEN RULE. It
would be a charitable work to get that beauti-
ful law printed on Sunday School cards and
send it to them by an army of the little “Mor-
mon” children whose papas are now in prison.
In prison for no crime, except that they own
and support them and their mammas, and
some of the leading ones of the nation choose
to call this wrong. “If you would only re-
nounce polygamy!” some of them have said;
but how is it now, if non-polygamists are to be
disfranchised the same as though they were
really among the offenders? Can they not see
that they are showing us before hand that we
need not anticipate any good from them, how-
ever we might turn, so long as we choose to
serve the Lord instead of the evil one, so long
as we will live pure lives instead of corrupt
ones? If they don’t see it we do, and we are
all the more determined to love the Lord and
serve Him with all our might. May He have
mercy on us and save us, and may He have
mercy, and if possible turn them from the
error of their ways. We do not ask them to
have pity on us; we have learned better; but
from the very bottom of our hearts, great,
warm, loving hearts, such as they know noth-
ing about—we pity them and pray for them.
We are shocked and wounded now by their
cruelty towards us, by all that we see and hear
of them; but oh! it will be far more terrible to
see and hear them in the near future, when
they are calling for rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the
presence of an offended and all powerful God!
			LULA GREENE RICHARDS.
	March 5th, 1886.


[Column 1]
	CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.

EDITOR DESERET NEWS:	 
	DEAR SIR—Something over twelve years ago,
by my solicitation, Brother William Clayton,
at that time and for many years Territorial
Auditor, wrote a brief history of facts which
came undnr his observation relative to the
writing of the Revelation on Celestial Marri-
age, as now found in section 132, Doctrine
and Covenants, page 463, and first published
to the world in 1852,at a general conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in Salt Lake City. I now for-
ward this document to you for publication,
believing that the perusal of it will prove in-
teresting to your numerous readers just at this
present juncture, when the subject seems to be

[Column 2]
the all absorbing topic with respect to the
Latter-day Saints, and “Mormonism” in gen-
eral. It may prove a stumbling block to
some,but it will throw light upon many points
heretofore obscure, and but little understood
by many, which I trust will prove not only in-
teresting but instructive and profitable. It
will at least prove a guide to all, in connection
with the abundant and incontrovertible evi-
dence already had on this point to the identity
of its author, under God, for which, all who
love the truth, cannot but feel thankful. It
must be borne in mind that this great and
glorious principle was first revealed to Joseph
Smith in 1831—or 1832 (I have not the exact
date with me,) but being forbidden to make it
public, or to teach it as a doctrine of the Gos-
pel, at that time he confided the facts to only
a very few of his most intimate associates.
Among them were Oliver Cowdery and Ly-
man E. Johnson, the latter confiding the fact
to his traveling companion Elder Orson Pratt,
in the year 1832. (See O. Pratts’ testimony.) 
And this great principle remained concealed
in the bosoms of the Prophet Joseph and the
few to whom he revealed it, until he was com-
manded, about 1842, to instruct the leading
members of the Priesthood, and those who
were most faithful and intelligent, and best
prepared to receive, it in relation thereto, at
which time, and subsequently until his
martyrdom, the subject, in connection with the
great principles of baptism, redemption and
sealings for the dead became the great themes
of his life, and, as the late Prest. Geo. A.
Smith repeatedly said to me and others, “The
Prophet seemed irresistibly moved by the
power of God to establish that principle, not
only in theory, in the hearts and minds of
his brethren. but in practice also!” he himself
having led the way. While this doctrine was
thus being taught by the Prophet to those
whom he could trust—those who had faith,
righteousness and integrity, to believe and ac-
cept it, with all its consequences, (which are no
trifling things) it remained an “unwritten law”
and commandment of the Almighty to the
faithful only of His Saints, designed to be en-
larged as intelligence and fidelity to the laws
of God increased; until the 12th day of July,
1843, when a portion of the revelation was writ-
ten in the manner, and (at that time) for the
purpose set forth in the statement of Elder
Clayton’s now submitted to the world, and as 
indicated in the revelation itself, as follows, v.
66: “And now,as pertaining to this law, verily,
verily I say unto you, I will reveal more unto
you hereafter. therefore let this suffice for the
present.”
	Let all the Latter-day Saints know that
Joseph Smith, the martyred Prophet, is re-
sponsible to God and the world for this doc-
trine, and let every soul know that he and his
brother Hyrum did practice the doctrine, in
their lifetime, and until their death, notwith-
standing their seeming denials as published in
the Times and Seasons and which are so fer-
vently relied upon as evidence against the fact
by a certain class of anti-polygamists. Those
denials can be explained, and have been, and
while they are true in the sense, and for the
purpose for which they were designed,they are
not denials of plural or celestial marriage as
taught by Joseph Smith and practiced at the
time by both of  them, and many others in
prominent standing in the Church. These
seeming denials themselves are specific proofs


[Column 1]
of the existence of the true coin, the counter-
feit of which they denounced.
	Let every Saint know by unimpeachable
testimony, as well as by the spirit of inspira-
tion to which each Saint is entitled, that God
Almighty revealed this doctrine to Joseph the
martyr, and that under God he was and is the
the founder, by precept and example, of the
same in the Church.
	Praying God to bless this testimony to the
comforting of the Saints and the confusion of
their enemies, I have the heartfelt pleasure to
remain eternally yours for the truth, "if it
wake the dead."
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.

	STATEMENT OF WILLIAM CLAYTON.

				Copy.

	Inasmuch as it may be interesting to future
generations of the members of the Church of 
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to learn
something of the first teachings of the princi-
ple of plural marriage by President Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, Seer, Revelator and trans-
lator of said Church, I will give a short re-
lation of facts which occurred within my per-
sonal knowledge, and also matters related to
me by President Joseph Smith.
	I was employed as a clerk in President
Joseph Smith's office, under Elder Willard
Richards, and commenced to labor in the office
on the 10th day of February, 1842. I con-
tinued to labor with Elder Richards until he
went east to fetch his wife to Nauvoo.
	After Elder Richards started East I was
necessarily thrown constantly into the com-
pany of President Smith, having to attend to
his public and private business, receiving and
recording tithings and donations, attending to
land and other matters of business. During
this period I necessarily became well ac-
quainted with Emma Smith, the wife of the
Prophet Joseph, and also with the children—
Julia M. (an adopted daughter), Joseph, 
Frederick and Alexander, very much of the
business being transacted at the residence of
the Prophet.
	On the 7th of October, 1842, in the presence
of Bishop Newel K. Whitney and his wife
Elizabeth Ann, President Joseph Smith ap-
pointed me Temple Recorder, and also his
private clerk, placing all records, books, papers,
etc., in my care, and requiring me to take
charge of and preserve them, his closing words
being, "when I have any Revelations to write.
you are the one to write them."
	During this period the Prophet Joseph
frequently visited my house in my company,
and became well acquainted with my wife Ruth,
to whom I had been married five years. One
day in the month of February, 1843, date not
remembered, the Prophet invited me to walk 
with him. During our walk, he said he had
learned that there was a sister back in Eng-
land, to whom I was very much attached. I
replied, there was, but nothing further than an
attachment, such as a brother and sister in the 
Church might rightfully entertain for each
other. He then said, "Why don't you send
for her?" I replied, "In the first place, I have
no authority to send for her, and if I had, I 
have not the means to pay expenses." To 
this he answered, "I give you authority to
send for her, and I will furnish you the 
means," which he did. This was the first time
the Prophet Joseph talked with me on the sub-
ject of plural marriage. He informed me that
the doctrine and principle was right in the
sight of our Heavenly Father, and that it was a
doctrine which pertained to Celestial order and
glory. After giving me lengthy instructions
and information concerning the doctrine of
celestial or plural marriage, he concluded his
remarks by the words, "It is your privilege to
have all the wives you want." After this in-
troduction, our conversations on the subject of

[Column 2]
plural marriage were very frequent, and he
appeared to take particular pains to inform
and instruct me in respect to the principle. He
also informed me that he had other wives liv-
ing besides the first wife Emma, and in par-
ticular, gave me to understand that Eliza R.
Snow, Louisa Beman, Desdamona C. Fullmer
and others, were his lawful wives in the sight 
of Heaven.
	On the 27th of April, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph Smith married to me Margaret Moon,
for time and eternity, at the residence of Elder
Heber C. Kimball; and on the 22d of July,
1843, he married to me, according to the
order of the Church, my first wife Ruth.
	On the 1st day of May, 1843, I officiated in
the office of an Elder by marrying Lucy
Walker to the Prophet Joseph Smith, at his
own residence.
	During this period the Prophet Joseph took
several other wives. Amongst the number I
well remember Eliza Partridge, Emily Part-
ridge, Sarah Ann Whitney, Helen Kimball 
and Flora Woodworth. These all, he ac-
knowledged to me, were his lawful, wedded
wives, according to the celestial order. His
wife Emma was cognizant of the fact of some
if not all of these being his wives, and gener-
ally treated them very kindly.
	On the morning of the 12th of July, 1843,
Joseph and Hyrum Smith came into the office
in the upper story of the "brick store," on the
bank of the Mississippi river. They were
talking on the subject of plural marriage. Hy-
rum said to Joseph, "If you will write the
revelation on Celestial Marriage, I will take
and read it to Emma, and I believe I can con-
vince her of its truth, and you will hereafter
have peace." Joseph smiled and remarked,
"You do not know Emma as well as I do." Hy-
rum repeated his opinion and further re-
marked, "The doctrine is so plain, I can con-
vince any reasonable man or woman of its
truth, purity and heavenly origin," or words
to their effect. Joseph then said, "well, I 
will write the revelation and we will see." He
then requested me to get paper and prepare
to write. Hyrum very urgently requested
Joseph to write the revelation by means of the
Urim and Thummim, but Joseph, in reply
said he did not need to, for he knew the reve-
lation perfectly from beginning to end.
	Joseph and Hyrum then sat down, and
Joseph commenced to dictate the revelation
on Celestial Marriage, and I wrote it, sentence
by sentence, as he dictated. After the whole
was written, Joseph asked me to read it
through, slowly and carefully, which I did
and he pronounced it correct. He then re-
marked that there was much more that he
could write, on the same subject, but what was
written was sufficient for the present.
	Hyrum then took the Revelation to read to
Emma. Joseph remained with me in the
office until Hyrum returned. When he came
back Joseph asked how he had succeeded.
Hyrum replied that he had never received a
more severe talking to in his life, that Emma
was very bitter and full of resentment
and anger.
	Joseph quietly remarked, "I told you, you 
did not know Emma as well as I did." Joseph
then put the Revelation in his pocket, and
they both left the office.
	The Revelation was read to several of the
authorities during the day. Towards evening
Bishop Newel K. Whitney asked Joseph if he
had any objections to his taking a copy of the
Revelation; Joseph replied that he had not,
and handed it to him. It was carefully copied
the following day by Joseph C. Kingsbury.
Two or three days after the Revelation was
written Joseph related to me and several others
that Emma had so teased, and urgently en-
treated him for the privilege of destroying it,
that he became so weary of her teasing, and to

[Column 3]
g[-]t rid of her annoyance, he told her she
m[-]ght destroy it and she had done so, but he
had consented to her wish in this matter to
pacify her, realizing that he knew the Revela-
tion perfectly, and could re-write it at any
time if necessary.
	The copy made by Joseph C. Kingsbury is a
tru[-] and correct copy of the original in every 
resp[-]ct. The copy was carefully preserved
by Bishop Whitney, and but few knew of its
exist[-]nce until the temporary location of the
Cam[-] of Israel at Winter Quarters, on the
Missouri River, in 1846.
	Aft[-]r the Revelation on celestial marriage
was w[-]itten Joseph continued his instructions,
privat[-]ly, on the doctrine, to myself and
others, and during the last year of his life we
were sc[-]rcely ever together, alone, but he was
talking on the subject, and explaining that
doctrine and principles connected with it. He
appeare[-] to enjoy great liberty and freedom
in his te[-]chings, and also to find great relief
in having a few to whom he could unbosom
his feelin[-]s on that great and glorious subject.
	From h[-]m, I learned that the doctrine of
plural and celestial marriage is the most holy
and impor[-]ant doctrine ever revealed to man
on the eart[-], and without obedience to that
principle n[-] man can ever attain to the fulness
of exaltatio[-] in celestial glory. 
			(Signed) WILLIAM CLAYTON.
Salt Lake C[-]ty, February 16th, 1874.

TERRITORY OF UTAH.
		Co[-]nty Salt Lake. ss.

	On the si[-]teenth day of February, A. D.
1874, before [-]he undersigned, a notary public,
in and for sai[-] county and Territory, person-
ally came Wm. Clayton, who, being sworn in
due form of l[-]w, says, that the foregoing state-
ment is true i[-] every paticular where the facts
are stated as coming under his own personal
observation, a[-]d where the language of others
is quoted the [-]xact sentiments and as near as
possible the exact words are given in every
instance.
	In testimony whereof I have hereunto sub-
				scribed my name and affiixed
		[SEAL.]  my Notarial Seal at my office
				in Salt Lake City, Utah Terri-
				tory, the day and year afore-
				said.
			(Signd). 		JOHN T. CAINE,
							Notary Public.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


At the rece[-]t commencement of London
University thir[-]y girls were made bachelors.
Several of them took high honors, Miss Mary
Madeline Adam on taking first honor as bachel-
or of science ov[-]r her male competitors.  One
young woman w[-]o took a prize in medicine is 
described as lo[-]king "as if surgery in her 
hands would nee[-] no anaesthetics."
	Mrs. Joshee, t[-]e Hindoo lady who lately
graduated from t[-]e Woman s Medical College
of Pennsylvania, has carefully preserved her 
caste since comin[-] to this country, since if she
lost it, she could [-]ot be of professional use in 
high-caste familile[-] in India on her return 
home.  Every pa[-]ticle of her daily food she 
has cooked for her[-]elf, and has served herself
at table.
	The following l[-]tter, addressed to Professor 
Maria Mitchell, te[-]s its own story:
		DANVERS, Mass., 3rd Mo. 31, 1886.
	My Dear Frie[-]d:—I hear thou art rais-
ing funds for the [-]assar Observatory.  I en-
close check for— just to show my good will,
as I am unable to [-]ake a subscription in ac-
cordance with my [-]ishes. Hoping that thy
efforts will be suc[-]essful, I am thy sincere
friend,
	JOHN G. WHITTIER.


3
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOLDEN WEDDING DAY.

To Bro. and Sister M. I. Horne on the Fiftieth Anniver-
	sary of their wedding day, May 9th, 1886, with the
	sincere congratulations of the author, Mrs. Emily
	H. Woodmansee.

	Think of fifty years departed
	Since as plighted mates ye started—
	Coupled friends so happy-hearted—
		Hand in hand life's wedded way!
	All the birds their songs commingled,
	All the bells of nature jingled,
	Earth with teeming gladness tingled,
	In that joyous month of May.

	Fifty years of married glory
	Tell their interesting story:
	Hail! ye wedded vet'rans hoary,
		With such olive branches crowned;
	Love's delightful off rings bringing,
	Children's tongues your praise are singing,
	Yea, like bursting buds upspringing,
		Generations gather round.

	What a wond'rous retrospective,
	Food indeed for minds reflective,
	What a host of souls collective
		Lend their lustre to your name.
	Endless glory from a kernel;
	Endless lives and power eternal;
	God's own precious gift, supernal,
		The supremest wealth and fame.

	Bards might laud in language glowing
	This grand boon of heaven bestowing
	Ever wid'ning, ever growing,
		Inexhaustible the theme.
	Could my simple strain befit it,
	Time and space will not permit it,
	Time and space prescribe a limit
		To the poet's loftiest dream.

	Back my wand'ring fancy glances,
	Tracing all the great advances
	Dimly seen by seers in trances,
		That our natural eyes behold.
	From the birth, or restoration,
	Of the plan of full salvation
	Promised to this dispensation,
		You have seen what seers foretold.

	You have witnessed such progression,
	That in spite of man's transgression,
	Leads us all to this confession,
		Wonderful our age and fate!
	Giant strides the world has taken,
	Narrow grooves are now forsaken,
	Sleepy souls must needs awaken,
		Or be counted out of date.

	Schemes and plans, by skeptics scouted,
	Are established facts undoubted;
	Science every foe has routed,
		In this looked-for, longed-for time.
	Swiftly as with eagles' pinions,
	To earth's uttermost dominions,
	Fly the messengers of mercy
		To the meek of every clime.

	As the prophet bards predicted,
	Truth with error has conflicted;
	Faithful Saints have been afflicted,
		Fierce and furious is the strife;
	Hunted oft and persecuted,
	Oft from hard earned homes uprooted;
	You have borne the brunt of battle
		Nearly all your wedded life.

	To the scornful, proud oppressor,
	Zion bows, yet heaven doth bless her;
	All the foes who now distress her
		One by one will pass away
	Banished be the sound of sadness,
	Dedicated unto gladness—
	For the sake of love and friendship—
		Is this "Golden Wedding Day."


AN ADDRESS TO MR. AND MRS.
	HORNE.

	To write at a time so potent with events, and
produce something that may charm, edify and
amuse, I fancy would tax the ability of the


most adept scribe, but an effort sometimes has
resulted in a great success. We have by invi-
tation assembled upon this occasion to partici-
pate in one of the great events in the lives of
the family of Bro. and Sister Horne. Our
numbers are many, yet scores there are of their
friends that are not able, from different cir-
cumstances, to be present, and we are reminded
that some of those are their dearest friends,
deprived of this right through oppression's
hand; were it not so we doubt not that our be-
loved President, John Taylor, and others
would be here.
	To mingle with such a throng—truly we can
say it is an occasion rare. These, their chosen
friends, have endured, and are numbered with
the people of God, and having thus the varied
experience of years, none but Saints can
feel for and talk to the inmost soul better than
these tried and proven ones. While we min-
gle our spirits together on this enjoyable oc-
casion, may we be reminded that it is a fac
simile of a union, and a friendship which we
hope to continue while eternity lasts.
	I will here say to the members of the family,
may their works and faith so blended be a tie
to hold to this earth's embrace their parents
dear, as long as life shall be desirable, and may
their offspring each aspire to be the noblest
and the best.
	In conclusion I will here present to Sister
M. I. Horne a gold thimble, with her name en-
graven, on this memorable occasion, as a mo-
mento of friendship.
	DR. E. S. BARNEY,
	In behalf of several sisters.
Salt Laks City, May 10th, 1886.


FAULT-FINDING.

	One of the greatest faults connected with
this people is that of "fault-finding." We are
all too liberal in showing to the world the
faults and weaknesses of our fellow beings.
	Why do we not stop and scan our own
selves and see if all is well—if we have not
the misfortune to possess some little trifling
faults, perhaps unperceived by us, still plainly
visible to others? faults that, however small
they appear, will balance equally with the
larger, and seemingly more important fault in
our neighbor?
	We are but weak mortals, prone to do evil,
to be guided by the splendor and hollow
mockery of the outside world, to stray from
the path of rectitude, to forget Him from
whom all blessings flow; the hearer of our
prayers, the one born of meekness and love,
who died for the redemption of a world, that
frail, erring man might live; live to multiply
in iniquity, to erase, as much as possible, from
the mind the deeds of love and kindness, of
goodness and truth, sown by the hand of that
Supreme Being who sacrificed so much for
mortal man. "To err is human," but can we
not repay Him in a different way? Can we
not cease to complain of the faults of others
to criticise our own lives and actions with mo[---]
scrutiny, to wield an influence over our [---] so-
ciates worthy of imitation, an influence [---] that
only the good and pure are capable [---] wield-
ing? Yes, I think so.
	Let us cease all such immora[-] habits, and
form in our minds resolves of reform; let us
place, in the distant future [---] mark to guide
us as we journey on through [---] life, and with that
mark in view, let us stre[---] along our pathways
deeds of love, of kindness and of truth, that
we may thereby lay up treasures in heaven,
where "moth canno[-] corrupt, and thieves break
through and stea[-]."
		HYACINTH.
	Alpine, April 30, 1886.


NO CHANCE FOR PRODIGAL
DAUGHTERS.

	If the prodigal son had been a prodigal
daughter there would have been no fatted
calf killed.  She would have crawled in at the
back door, and on her knees begged simply
for a crust and shelter, knowing that these, if
accorded at all, would be accorded most grudg-
inly. She would have known that if the
parents were willing to kill the fatted calf
that the neighbors would not come to the
feast.  The opinion of centuries would have
borne on her with such crushing weight as to
cause her to hide upon the approach of her
old-time friends had they desired to approach.
The women of the neigborhood would have
refused to meet her.
	And of the men?  They would probably
have been willing to meet her, but how few of
them would have met with manly intentions
of uplifting and upholding her?  Not one out
of fifty.  The great bulk of them would have
met her with the intention of dragging her
still lower.  This is a truthful statement of
woman's position as compared with man's.
Man is an important factor in the household,
in society and in the State.  There is much
rejoicing when man is born; he is worth sacrific-
ing for; he is worth forgiving when he slips
from the path of rectitude.  But his sister is
of less importance; she makes a misstep and is
lost; she is of no value to the State; she is not a
money producing factor in the household; she
is a dependent and adds to the family cares, and
when she falls she is hardly worth saving. If
she attempts to reform what has she to reform
to? "It is felt by herself and her friends that
she never had any independence to lose, and,
therefore, she has none to regain.—Our Coun-
try,		HELEN WILMANS.
	New York.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Dio Lewis died lately at his home
in Yonkers, N.Y., of erysipelas, after a shor
illness.
	Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has been seri
ill, but at the last accounts is getting beption
	Mrs. H. L. T. Wolcott gave and Mrs.
recently at the Vendome to M
Joshee.
	[---]d as United
	Frank H. Dyer was con[-]ry of Utah in
States Marshal for the Te[-]
Washington, May 28.
	[---]the M. E. Woman's
	Two lady physicianiety, in Northern India,
Foreign Missionaryted last year 28,253 pa-
and one assistant.
lients.	
	[---] Andrews gets praise in high
	Miss Janner latest book, "Ten Boys who
quarters [-]e Road from Long Ago to Now."
Lived o says, "It is the best child's book I
Whittad." James Parton described Miss An-
evers as the best teacher in the world.
	Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney at the Annual 
Meeting of the New England Woman Suffrage
Associations, said she had never before so deep-
ly felt the deep injustice toward woman of not
giving her a voice as to the legal and moral
safety of her own children. The latent con-
victions of the men and women of this Com-
monwealth need to be aroused as to the im-
portance of the suffrage question in relation to
the welfare of children, as well as on the 
question of temperance.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 18th, 1886, as follows:
Gracie S. Roberts, Rockville Centre, N. Y.,
Sewer-pipe.
	Amanda E. Stout, Lakewood N. J., Shoul-
der-brace.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
	HOME AGAIN.

	At last, after an absence of some months,
traveling hither and thither, up and down, visiting
scenes of interest and places specially dear on ac-
count of childhood's associations, clasping the
hands of those of our own kindred from whom
we had been many long years separated, and so-
journing sometimes temporarily among strangers,
it is partiularly pleasant to be at home once more
among the Saints, and to meet the kindly and
cordial welcome from familiar friends and acquaint-
ances, in addition to the embraces of the loved
ones of our own household. The city, too, is in
its most beautiful attire, and the air is fragrant
with the perfume of roses and honeysuckle, and
everything seems to denote happiness and com-
fort, and nature rejoices upon her thousand hills
and in her peaceful vales. Zion is indeed beauti-
ful, as we have often described it to those we met
while away, and such a delightful feeling as one
has in one's own mountain home and among the
Saints—so different to that which a "Mormon"
has to meet in mingling with the world outside,
who are so filled with prejudice and bitterness to-
wards those who have accepted the doctrine of
celestial marriage. The present crusade against
this people has had its influence in embittering
many who were before prejudiced, and the an-
[---]gonism to the doctrines in which we believe and
[---]hich this people have made many sacrifices,
The [---] increased during the last seven years.
and ye[---]er of the nation seems to be aroused,
who, bec[---] are many honest thinking people,
Mormonism [---] of the persecution waged against
are making in[---] anxious to know tht truth, and
parent to the wo[---] s, below the surface, that is ap-
Gospel is being tat[---] In this way, unwittingly, the
to those, who, perha[---] and the opportunity given
any inquiry to know co[---]might never have made
themselves and to decidening the doctrines for
or against.	heir own minds for
	We met people often that
"Mormon" woman, and who hd never seen a
any plural wife could be either c[---]no idea that
fined. However, altogether, journe[---]ated or re-
as we did, there was seldom anything u[-] about
except occasionally the bitterness manife[-]asant
individuals. One thing we can say, which mby
be astonishing, and that is the people w[-]
treated us best and seemed to interest themselves
most in learning of our faith and practice were
those of the finest culture and highest attainments
educational and social.
	Newspaper reporters make capital out of Mor-
mons: the situation at present is a fertile subject,
and the more extravagant the articles the better
they take with the masses, who swallow down
any scribble if it is sensational, no matter how
highly colored or far from the reality it may be.
There is something new in this generation, at
least, when a man marries women and makes
them honorable wives, and provides for his chil-
dren instead of keeping them secretly, and dis-

[Column 2]
owning his own offspring, as is so often done in
the world,. And when women are so unselfish
and self-sacrificing as to wish for other sister-
women to have the same rights and privileges they
themselves enjoy, only such a state of things is
scarcely to be credited by the women of the
world, who fancy they possess the unqualified
affection of the husband and cannot for a moment
countenance the idea of any other women hav-
ing part or lot in either the affection or attention
of the man, who is in their estimation at least,
wholly and solely their very own.
	Knowing as society women must do the many
serious evils that exist, and that mar the peace
and happiness of many a household, and indeed
break up and often utterly destroy domestic
tranquility therein, yet these very women who
realize the situation have no idea of helping by
the sacrific of their own selfishness to aid in
solving the great social problems that agitate the
public mind, and that cannot, nor never will be
remedied without woman's actualy assistance. No
great effort for the higher advancement of the
human family can ever be permanent without
woman as well as man taking part in the earnest
endeavor. And for the sake of so great a good
the equality of all women to the rights of home
and maternity, may not women of large hearts
and generous souls be willing to endure the scorn
and ridicule, that is sure to follow the introduc-
tion of any new and strange theory, which con-
flicts with the established traditions and customs
of the country. There are a thousand objections
brought forward to prove the position taken by
the outside world that monogamy is the natural
relation of men and women, and however strong
the testimony of an individual may be to prove
the doctrine of a plurality of wives, when argu-
ment fails on the side of monogamy "the law of
the land" and the "sixty millions of people who
have made up their minds," is brought forward
as the climax, and that is thought to be the end
of all controversy. There is this difficulty, which
seems apparent through all, a sort of vague fear
lest there might be something in it, and therefore
those who are puzzled about the matter want to
convince themselves that there is no need for
alarm, and indeed that there is nothing in it.
Then why trouble about the matter at all, if it is
so weak it has no strong props to uphold it, and
if there is nothing anywhere to substantiate such
strange doctrines, they will very soon be forgotton
and sink into oblivion. But this very fear, or
dread, or horror, that it might be true, is what
many of those who are so furious in denouncing
it are greatly afraid of. It is like the lady who,
having been among this people sometime, and
having seen and heard a great deal of doctrines
and practices, was greatly afraid there was
something which demanded obedience to princi-
ple in the "Mormon" faith, and said "I have to put
my "Mormon" books in the very bottom of my
trunk, and I dare not read them lest I should be
converted!" And lest they should actually ac-
cept a faith so intensely obnoxious to the
prejudices and traditions of the world, they de-
nounce it violently and circulate every sensational
report that has ever been sent abroad, and thus
try and pacify their own consciences and justify,
the selfish course they pursue. 
	There are many progressive thinking women
w[-] advocate reform in the connubial relation,
who e plainly that there is imperative need of
a radi[---] change, and advocate that woman be
more the [-]istress of her individual self—with
time at her [---]osal of improvement and advance-
ment in the g[---]at questions of the age and the
hour, but do not d will not see that with the op-
portunities given in [-]lural marriage she may not
only fulfill the first geat commandment, fill the
measure of her creatio[-] and satisfy the natural
desire for motherhood, but [-]ithal have that larger
freedom from the daily and continuous routin

[Column 3]
that is often wearisome and a barrier in the way
of woman's intellectual culture. There are many
good physiological reasons why a plurality of
wives would be elevating to society if practised
according to the laws of purity and chastity; but
it must be from exalted motives, and consequent-
ly only those who are willing to sacrifice for the
sake of a noble purpose are ever likely to accept
it as a rule of life. Therefore, there is little fear
of its being wide spread in the United States, and
the great law makers of the nation have samll need
of puzzling their brains to obstruct its operations,
for when forty years have passed since the Revela-
tion was given, and so few, comparatively, of the
Latter-day Saints have been willing to enter into
it with all its conditions and consequences, it
seems absurd in the extreme to suppose it will
supplant monogamy.
	Mrs. Angie F. Newman, the agitator for an In-
dustrial School in Utah, and who recently ap-
peared before the Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, and made something of a sensation by
her eloquence, is the woman who sometime ago,
it will be remembered, lectured in Cincinnati on
the "Mormon" question, making the most absurd
statements. The Cincinnati Enquirer, containing
notes from her lecture taken by the reporter for
that paper, was sent to the writer at the time, and
in an editorial in the EXPONENT, published imme-
diately after, we quoted her own words as pub-
lished in the Cincinnati papers forwarded to us.
Some comments made upon the subject at the
time by a Gentile lady in that city were also used
in the same paper, and Mrs. Newman was con-
fronted with these facts when she made her first
call at this office in 1884; also with the articles
written by young women, giving their views upon
plural marriage, and some practical experiences
in their own homes, and indignantly protest-
ing against any interference with their
domestic relations. Mrs. Newman's quotation
from the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in the Committee
Room shows how she misrepresents. The clip-
pings sent in a letter to us in Nov. 1883 were
from the Commercial Gazette as well as the Cin-
cinnati Enquirer, and accompanied by a letter as
before stated, it was from this letter she quoted,
and tries to palm the whole report off on to a
"Mormon" scribe. Does the "Commercial Ga-
zette" or "Cincinnati Enquirer" keep a "Mor-
mon" reporter to take notes at Anti-"Mormon"
lectures? We presume not. That is far-fetched,
but there are Gentile ladies who have listened to
Anti-"Mormon" lecturers and felt disgusted,
knowing the unfaithfulness of many men in the
"marriage relation," and the depths of bitterness
in the hearts of the wives of such men. But Mrs.
Newman and other women who quote from their
own lectures and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
should be careful to do it correctly, and not blame
"Mormon" reporters or "Mormon" Editors for
sentiments uttered by those who sat and heard
them and have no interest whatever in making
mis-statements.
	We are very sorry for Mrs. Newman that she
should use her talents to injure and oppress those
who have sought all the day long to keep the
commandments of God and obey the Golden rule,
because she will have to account for the talents
given her, and to whom much is given, from him
much will be required. There are plenty of
women in the world who need help and assistance
but "Mormon" women are very independent, and
will take care of their own without assistance
from the Home Missionary Society, and the mem-
bers of Congress know pretty well that the
women of Utah who helped to settle and beautify
the desert have taught their children to be self-
reliant, and they do not need Mrs. Newman to
speak in their behalf. If Mrs. Sara Andrews
Spencer could not, with all ehr impresive elo-
quence and strong arguments, induce Congress to
appropriate mo[-]ey to establish such a house right


in the District of Columbia it is not at all likely
Congress will make such a liberal appropriation
r the Territory of Utah.


5
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of the Salt Lake Stake will be held on Friday,
June 25th, in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is
expected there will be a verbal report from each
Society in the Stake, either from the President, 
her counselor, or some other officer.
	FROM Mrs. Sarah Sears, eleventh Ward, we
have received a large and handsome bouquet of
choice flowers, which came soon after our arrival
in the city, and for which we were deeply grateful.
There is nothing more expressive of sentiment
and affection than these silent messengers, that
are so beautiful to the eye, and so grateful to the
sense in the sweet fragrance they bring. What
would the earth he if it were not for the flowers?
The cultivation of them gives one a touch of
kindliness and delicacy, for they require the most
perfect care and constant attention. Mrs. Sears
has a charming variety, and her success with
plants, vines and shrubbery is no doubt owing to
the thought and tender care bestowed, and they
have repaid her well.
	TO MRS. M.O. KELTING, of San Bernardino,
we wish to express grateful acknowledgements for
a box of beautiful flowers received during our ab-
sence in mid winter, and most fully appreciated
by the girls, though mother was not at home.
Orange blossoms and roses at a time when the 
earth was mantled with snow came like blessed
harbingers of the happy future, and brought
sweet thoughts and tender memories to cheer the
hearts of all. The sentiment which came as a 
sort of introduction or tie between giver and re-
ceiver, was beautifully suggestive.
	"If but a pure drink of water is given in love
and sympathy it may prove a true link in the chain
of our union. The good Giver will take care of
his own children. Yours in faith as pure as the
contents of this can.—M. O. K.
	ANOTHER Home Book has been printed and
issued here, that is suitable for the libraries of
our young people's associations. The Author is
Elder John Nicholson, and he wrote the book
during his imprisonment in the Utah Penitentiary.
The story is "The Martyrdom of Joseph Stand-
ing," and is perfectly true. The details were re-
lated to the writer by Rudger Clawson, and are
extremely thrilling and pathetic, and should be
perused by all the youth of Zion. Beside the narra-
tive, the book contains a graphic description of
the Utah Penitentiary enclosure and buildings,
its management and prison fare; also a brief
sketch of each of the brethren who have been in-
carcerated there for conscience sake, or because
they have practically accepted the principle of
plural marriage, and believe it to be a divine
theory. The "Conclusion" by the author is very 
finely written and very impressive, and cannot fail
to have an effect upon any one who will read it.
	THE Deseret University commencement exer-
 cises were held at the new University building,
May 27th. The Chancellor and Regents occupied
the platform with the Professors and His Excellen-
cy, Governor West. Prof. Weighe led the
orchestra, which discoursed sweet and select
music. First of the programme, Wm. Allison, of
Coalville, delievered the Valedictory; next, an ad-
dress by Dr. J. R. Park, Principal of the institu-
tion, to the Normal graduates; then a song by
Mrs. M. F. Bassett—"Once Again"—one of her
best efforts. The second part of the programme
opened with an essay by B. F. Howells, "Influ-
ence of Passion." T. D. Lewis read an essay on
Socrates. Prof. Park addressed the graduates in

[Column 2]

the Scientific Course; they were the first to re-
ceive the degree of Bachelor of Science in the
history of the University. After this, excellent
music by the orchestra, then an address by
Chancellor O. F. Whitney. Governor West
made a brief extempore speech. The entire pro-
gramme was an excellent one, and there was a
great deal of applause. The Iniversity singing
class rendered a fine serenade, and Regent Stewart
pronounced the benediction. Dr. Park, in his
address, gave a concise history of the Deseret
University—establishment, growth and progress,
which we intend to publish; we shall also publish
the addresses of the Chancellor and speech of
Governor West.


[Column 1]

RESPONSE OF THE "MORMON"
PRISONERS.

TO GOVERNOR WEST'S OFFER OF CONDITIONAL
AMNESTY. THEY PREFER PERPETUAL
IMPRISONMENT OR DEATH TO
DISHONOR.

	UTAH PENITENTIARY,  May 24, 1886.
To His Excellency, Caleb W. West, Governor of
Utah:
	Sir:—On the 13th instant you honored the in-
mates of the Penitentiary with a visit, and offered
to intercede for the pardon of all those enduring
imprisonment on conviction under the Edmunds
law, if they would but promise obedience to it in
the future, as interpreted by the courts. Grati-
tude for the interest manifested in our behalf
claims from us a reply. We trust, however, that
this will not be construed into defiance, as our
silence already has been. We have no desire to
occupy a defiant attitude towards the Government.
or to be in conflict with the Nation's laws. We
have never been even accused of violating any
other law than the one under which we were con-
victed, and that was enacted purposely to oppose
a tenet of our religion.
	We conscientiously believe in the doctrine of
plural marriage, and have practiced it from a 
firm conviction of its being a divine requirement.
	Of the forty-nine Elders of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints now imprisoned
in the penitentiary for alleged violation of the 
Edmunds Law, all but four had plural wives from
its passage to 35 years prior to its passage. We
were united to our wives for time and all eternity
by the most sacred covenants, and in many in-
stances numerous children have been born as a
a result of our union, who are endeared to us by
the strongest paternal ties. 
	What the promise asked of us implied you de-
clined to explain, just as the courts have done
when appeals have been made to them for an ex-
plicit and permanent definition of what must be
done to comply with the law.
	The rulings of the courts under this law have
been too varied and conflicting, heretofore, for us
to know what may be the future interpretations.
	The simple status of plural marriage is now
made, under the law, material evidence in secur-
ing conviction for unlawful cohabitation, thus, in-
dependent of our act, ruthlessly trespassing upon
the sacred domain of our religious belief.
	So far as compliance with your proposition re-
quires the sacrifice of honor and manhood, the
repudiation of our wives and children the viola-
tion of sacred covenants, heaven forbid that we
should be guilty of such perfidy: perpetual im-
prisonment, with which we are threatened, or even
death itself, would be preferable.
	Our wives desire no separation from us, and
were we to comply with your request, they would
regard our action as most cruel, inhuman and
and monstrous, our children would blush with
shame, and we should deserve the scorn and con
[---] of all [---] and honorable [---]

[Column 2]

	The proposition you made, though prompted
doubtless by a kind feeling, was not new, for we
could all have avoided imprisonment by making
the same promise to the courts; in fact, the pen-
alties we are now enduring are for declining to so
promise rather than for acts committed in the
past. Had you offered us unconditional amnesty;
dearly as we prize the great boon of liberty,
it would  have been gladly accepted; but,
we cannot afford to obtain it by proving untrue to
our conscience, our religion and our God.
	As loyal citizens of this great Republic, whose
Constitution we revere, we not only ask for, but
claim, our rights as freemen and, it from neither
local or national authority we are to recieve equity
and mercy, we will make our appeal to the Great
Arbitrer of all human interests, who in due time
will grant us the justice hitherto denied.
	That you may, as the Governor of our import-
ant but afflicted Territory, aid us in securing
every right to which loyal citizens are entitled,
and find happiness in so doing we will ever pray.

AS WITNESS OUR HANDS,

LORENZO SNOW,		GEO. C. LAMBERT,
ABRAM H. CANNON,		GEORGE H. TAYLOR.
HUGH S. GOWANS,		HELON H. TRACY,
RUDGER CLAWSON,		JAMES MOYLE,
WM. WALLACE WILLEY,	HYRUM GOFF,
DAVID M. STUART,		H. DINEWOODEY,
HENRY W. NAISBITT,		JOSEPH MCMURRIAN,
L. D. WATSON,			HERBERT J. FOULGER,
CULBERT KING,			STANLEY TAYLOR,
WM. D. NEWSOM,		JAMES H. NELSON,
WILLIAM GRANT,		FREDERICK A. COOPER
JOHN PRICE BALL,		JAMES O. POULSEN,
AMOS MAYCOCK,		ROBERT MCKENDRICK,
OLUF F. DUE,			ROBERT MORRIS,
JOHN Y. SMITH,			SAMUEL F. BALL,
JOHN WM. SNELL,		S. H. B. SMITH,
HENRY GALE,			GEO. B. BAILEY.
THOMAS C. JONES,		NEPHI J. BATES,
JOHN BOWEN,			JOHN PENMAN,
WM. G. SANDERS,		THOS. BURMINGHAM,
ANDREW JENSEN,		WM. J. JENKINS,
JOHN BERGEN,			THOMAS PORCHER,
JOSEPH H. EVANS,		C. H. GREENWELL,
JAMES E. TWITCHELL,	W.M. H. LEE.


ANOTHER STRONG TESTIMONY.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	After a number of weeks silence it is with 
grateful heart that I can again take my pen to 
give expression to a few of my thoughts, thanks
to Him who suffers us to be stricken and afflicted 
occasionally that we may learn the needful lessons
more fully, and to practice the virtues of patience, 
and endurance, and to say, "In Thee alone I 
trust." A lesson that all must learn sooner or
later, and nought but experience will ever teach
it. That no one may infer from this that I am sad
and desponding, I will say that, though I have
been seriously ailing, and enfeebled in body, hope
has never deserted me, nor the interest which I
have so long felt, in this glorious cause. 
	No one need despair when there are so many
rich blessings laying within their reach, shedding 
forth rays of hope and gladness to cheer the
hearts of all who have a mind to grasp them. Even
the lowliest hovel may become a paradise when
adorned by these treasures one which a gold mine
could not purchase, nor all the Anti-"Mormon" 
crusaders, or judicial powers that the evil one
may send, have the power to rob them of. To such
even the monster death is shorn of its sting. 
Though we as a people are being scourged, and
can look for no clemency from the earthly powers
that be, no community ever had greater cause for 
gratitude for the numerous mercies that are being
bestowed by the hand of a kind indulgent Father, 
in these days of death, and destruction, which is
being dealt out without [----] to the inhabi-


[Column 1]
tants of this once blest and peaceful land, as well
as to all the nations of the earth, bringing de-
vastation and ruin on every side, and the most
apalling distress to all classes, and we know that
this is just the beginning. We cannot take up a
paper that does not tell us of disasters by land and
by sea, and destruction in the most terrible forms.
The tragedies that are being daily enacted by
mobs, "anarchists" and "strikers," etc. And the
latest horror is the tornado that passed over some
of the Western States, from whence we were so
cruelly banished after being treated in the most
brutal manner by fiends in human shape. Even
that part which passed over Ohio on the night of
the 15th, published in the Deseret News of the
17th inst., is enough to curdle the blood in our
own veins. The destruction of lives and property
and the suffering which it has wrought cannot be
estimated. "Trees were uprooted by the acre,
and hundreds of orchards are completely gone,"
and even whole towns are swept away. Two or
three story brick houses were taken up like feath-
ers and dashed to pieces. "Feathers were torn
from chickens. Trees were stripped of their bark,
the ground was plowed up," and the "terrific time
on an express train threw every passenger into a
paroxysm of fear. The sleepers were transformed
into dens of wildly excited men and women." In
Seneca County one man declared that the air was
filled with balls of fire. He saw a strange light.
Others corroborate this story and say that the
light under the dark cloud looked like that from a
large gas well." I have barely touched upon the
scenes described in that one telegram. All these
things we understand to be among the judgments
that were to come upon the earth in the last days,
and which every Latter-day Saint ought to read
and profit by, that they may escape the wrath of
the Almighty, and not be found among those
who know not God, and do not acknowledge His
hand in all things.
	All these things serve to remind us of the past
and of the Prophet's words after we had been so
mercilessly treated in the State of Missouri—not
because of polygamy, but because we differed
from other sects in religious principles, and our
petitions to Congress were unheeded. That if
this nation did not repress those wrongs "the
time would soon come when they would have
mobbing to their hearts content." The Lord
commanded that His servants should importune
at the feet of the judges, the Governors and the
Presidents, which they have done faithfully from
that time to the present. "And if the President
heed them not," He said, "then will the Lord
come out of his hiding place and in his fury vex
the nation. And in his hot displeasure, and in
his fierce anger, in his time, will cut off those
wicked, unfaithful, and unjust stewards, and ap-
point them their portion among hypocrites, and
unbelievers, even in outer darkness, where there
is weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
	Though we are now witnessing His fierce
judgements no true Saint—notwithstanding they
are suffering under the bitter injustice, that is be-
ing done to them by this nation, could gloat over
anothers woes, or wish for them to suffer in re-
taliation. But they pray for those who despite-
fully use them, and are fighting against their Re-
deemer, that their eyes may be opened to their
true condition, and the frightful debt that is ac-
cumulating against them in persecuting an inno-
cent people. For the meek and long suffering
have a sure promise that notwithstanding the
persecutions, which were needful to purge out
iniquities from among them, as no plan would be
untried to overthrow His Kingdom He would
strengthen Zion in the valleys of these mountains
and bring deliverance to His people. Their
wicked snares will take only those whom the
Lord has designed that they should, and every-
thing we see and hear is calculated to increase
our faith, and serves as an assurance that these
whom the world hate are the favored of God.

[Column 2]
What then have we to fear when His arm is out-
stretched in our behalf only to disoby his com-
mands? For He said, "He that seeketh me early
shall find me, and shall not be forsaken. And
after your testimony cometh wrath and indigna-
tion upon the people."
	In the Revelation and Prophecy given through
him in 1832 concerning the war between the
Northern and Southern States, which has been
fulfilled in part, we find the following. "And it shall
come to pass after many days slaves shall rise up
against their masters, who shall be marshalled
and disciplined for war:
	And it shall come to pass also, that the rem-
nants who are left of the land will marhall them-
selves, and shall become exceeding angry and
shall vex the Gentiles with sore vexation.
	And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed,
the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and
with famine, and plague, and earthquakes and
thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid light-
ning also the inhabitants of the earth be made to
feel the wrath and indignation and chastening
hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption
decreed hath made a full end of all nations; that
the cry of the Saints, and of the blood of the
Saints shall cease to come up into the ears of the
Lord of Sabaoth, from the earth, to be avenged of
their enemies.
	Wherefore, stand ye in holy places, and be not
moved until the day of the Lord come; for be-
hold it cometh quickly, saith the Lord. Amen."
						H. M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS UPON GOV. WEST'S 
VISIT TO THE PENITENTIARY. 

	Blessed are the peace-makers, for they shall be called
the children of God. 

	How forcibly these words came to my mind as I 
read of Governor West's visit to the penitentiary. 
He was so sincere and energetic in his attempt to 
make peace between the two parties known as 
Latter-day Saints and Gentiles, or in other words
our people and the Federal officials. 
	Governor West has given his attention to the
laws of his country, and perhaps to that alone. 
Is he blind to the weakness of human nature, and 
the frailty of man when left to himself, without
the aid and inspiration of an all wise Providence, 
who sent His Son with laws to educate and pre-
pare all who will accept His message to come
again into His presence? 
	For twenty-four years I looked at the subject as
Governor West does.	* 	* Since that 
time I have resolved to accept the message sent
us to prepare for a reign of peace, taking the 
laws of Jesus Christ for my guidance, which do 
not in any way conflict with the Constitution and
Declaration of Independence we all love so dear-
ly. It is now forty-four years since I began to 
apply my mind to this rule of action. The first
was like learning the alphabet, and placing
the letters together to make words; the next, our
Savior's law, was like the study of mathematics. 
If you enjoy this study and obtain the spirit of its
author, your mind will become enlarged by it, you
will develop the germ of the Diety, which all pos-
sess to a greater or less extent; then you find you
can solve and understand the designs of our
Father as readily as you can solve the problems of 
arithmetic. Each one who knows the rule can
solve and understand the same alike, if in posses-
sion of the same spirit of truth and intelligence. 
	The joy and satisfaction this gives every lover 
of true principle is incalculable, because of its
divinity. We feel that our course is upward and
onward, and that this theory, practically developed, 
will bring us again into the presence of our Elder
Brother, the Savior of the world, who said in holy
writ, "If you keep my Father's laws, you shall be 
heirs and joint heirs with me."
	How awkward should we feel to be placed in 

[Column 2]
this position, without the same light and intelli-
gence which He, the Savior, has in His posses-
sion. Accordingly, we must apply our minds to 
the same rule of action to obtain the same result. 
It would be childish to suppose anything else; yes, 
worse than children, for they in their purity are
fit for the kingdom of God. 
	How could we, after becoming acquainted with
these laws, and knowing the result of the same, 
lay them aside and do as Judge Zane told Brother
Smith he must—"serve the finite before the Infi-
nite." We serve the Infinite when we do good to 
the finite, for it is written, "He who says he loves
God and hates his brother, is a liar and the truth
is not in him."
	We feel that we are serving God in every good
act we perform, and that His smile is resting upon 
us in approval; we also feel, when we have an eye
single to His glory, that we have the light and
intelligence of His Holy Spirit to guide all our
efforts. With this faith and assurance how could
we give up our religion and again accept the
vague systems of Christendom, who ignore and 
reject so much light and intelligence? No, never!
death itself would be preferable to such a gloomy
picture as this. 
	In my opinion Governor West would do a work
to his saticfaction, and also to all others concerned, 
if he could reconcile the people to observe and
obey Christ's sermon on the Mount, given by 
Jesus, the Savior of the world, which, when kept
in all sincerity of heart, will produce a reign of 
peace on the earth. Let us look at this subject in
the light of reason and common sense, and we 
will not fail to see this is a correct idea. 
								M. E. K.
Logan, May 21st, 1886.


SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	I here produce a few extracts from a letter
written by Father Whitney to his sons Horace
and Orson, then with the pioneers, which he
wrote June 14th, 1847, and directed as fol-
lows:
	Camp of Israel in the West.
MY SONS HORACE AND ORSON:
	I have just started a team for the mountains.
*	*	I intended to have sent two or
three teams and wagons, but the mill dam go-
ing down stream a few days since, I could not
procure bread stuff for more than one wagon,
and that is in charge of Bros. Archibald Hill
and Stillman Pond. They have for you near
two hundred pounds of flour and one small
cheese, say eight or ten pounds, if you need it.
Should you not want all the flour, take as much
of it as will do you and let them keep the
balance, as they are rather scant of bread stuff.
If my team should meet you on your return
you will give Bros. Pond and Hill a list of all
my property which you may have left the
other side of the mountains, and in order that
they may get possession of it, and take care of
the same until I come, and give them all the
instructions you can about matters appertain-
ing to my business, etc., in that country, as
they have gone expressly to attend to my busi-
ness, as also their own. It is a general time
of health in this place, but there are quite a
number of poor on our hands, which makes it
rather hard times; but as we have a large
quantity of grain growing, we hope we shall
be able to do better by them by and by. We
have been hindered in starting a company
early, as anticipated when you left, in conse-
quence of not being able to procure a sup-


[Column 1]

ply of bread stuff sufficient to warrant it, and
some other reasons might be assigned. 
	We have concluded to fit out but one com-
pany to the mountains this season, and it is ex-
pected that it will consist of not less than from
four to five hundred wagons, from the present
calculations, and the most of them will be un-
der the necessity of taking the greater part of
their grain unground. Bro. Eldredge takes a
pair of small mill stones with him, and the
necessary irons, etc., to set a mill in operation 
by horse power or otherwise, in a short time
after his arrival at the place of destination. 
	Your mother has written you at some length, 
she says, and it is therefore unnecessary for me
to touch on any matter except business, but
would say that you have our prayers night and
day for your prosperity in all things, as also all
of your company, that you may prosper and
return safe to us this fall, and I am sanguine
you will. But remember to be prayerful and
show yourselves approved before the Lord, and
heed the counsel of those whom the Lord has
ordained to give counsel, and it shall be well
with you. This from your father, who blesses
you in the name of the Lord. 
	This is confidential, but you can show it to
H. C. K. if you choose. 
		N. K. WHITNEY.
	P. S. Give my good wishes to Bros. Brig-
ham and Heber and all the others; tell them
things are right in the main, and it is a hurry-
ing time, as usual, or I would have written
them; but I suppose their families have written
them fully on all matters. May the Lord
bless you all.	N. K. W.
	Early in October Bro. William Clayton, 
with a few others who had preceded the camp
of pioneers, arrived at Winter Quarters, weary
and worn down by travel, and having been for 
some time destitute of provisions, and depend-
ent solely upon the killing of wild game for
subsistence. They were a sorry looking set, 
and words would fail to express our feelings
when we saw them in such a ragged and for-
lorn condition, and were told that they must
be eight or nine days in advance of the main
company, but every one being interested, they
went to work with a will, the women cooking, 
browning coffee and preparing every good thing
that our limited means would admit of. There
was no rest nor sleep till every thing was 
ready to start, and many a loving message
commenced in the midst of it looking till far
into the night to finish. It had been so long
since there had been any communication be-
tween us, and some of us were in doubt as to
our husbands being with them, as some, we
were told, had gone to California, and the feel-
ings that thrilled our hearts under such vari-
ous and trying circumstances can be better im-
agined than described; but we did not allow
our fears to stand in the way. Every one did 
all in their power, and it was something sur-
prising how quickly two wagons were loaded—
one for father and another for President Young
—with grain and vegetables, all of the latter
that could be taken, or whatever could be
mustered in the way of provisions. I had two
apples, which I packed up carefully with 
bread, cakes and various little parcels—one
apple for Horace and the other for Orson,
though this particular circumstance had
passed from my recollection till reading of it
in my husband's journal with other things re-
ceived from his father, via., Wm. Kimball—
he driving father's team, and George D. Grant
the President's. In a short letter, hastily
written by Sister E. B. Whitney, the present
Editor of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, who acted
as scribe, Mother Whitney expresses herself
as follows:
	"We are all well, and hope and pray you
are, but we have neither flour nor meal, and
have not had any for several days, or we should

[Column 2]

have baked something to send you so we send
you a bag of sea biscuit and a cheese, with a
little coffee and sugar.	*	*	The
greatest comfort I have had in your absence
has been in getting alone to pray for you, that
you might be blessed, and I have always been
blest in so doing. I can say that almost my
very breath has been prayer for yon ever since
you left us, that you might return home in
safety, and nothing hinder or harm you.	*	*
May the Lord bless and preserve you and re-
turn you safe to us, is my constant prayer for
you—be faithful and diligent in prayer.
I will not write any news, for I shall want to
tell you that when you come. I must close, so
good bye.
		YOUR MOTHER. 
	On the morning of the 8th of October we
bade our brethren good bye with a prayer to
Him who had preserved us as within the hol-
low of His hand, to speed them on their way
to the relief of our fathers, husbands and
brethren, and let their lives be precious in His
sight, and strengthen them, and also their
teams, that they might not perish on the
plains, bnt be spared to meet us once more.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

TWENTIETH WARD PRIMARY.
	The Twentieth Ward Primary Association
held their fifth annual meeting April 21st,
1886, Prest. Emma Toone presiding. After
the usual opening exercises, the following pro-
gramme was carried out: Recitation, Hugh
Sainsberry; Recitation, Isabell Romney; Song,
Irene Daynes; Recitation, Elliot Airnet; Reci-
tation, entitled, "Order Rule," by the Associa-
tion; Duet, Mary Smellie and Olive Simmons;
Essay, "Punctuality," Lizzie Prichard; Recita-
tion by four small boys; Song, Ettie Calder;
Dialogue, Levi and Willie Richards; Recita-
tion, Katie Sansome; Duet, Ida and Lennie
Savage; Reading, Edgar Nelsen; Essay, on
"Baptism," by Annie Airnet; Song, Rose
Romney; Dialogue, George Ottinger, Ralph
Cutler and Ellen Hilton; Recitation, Pauline
Held; Organ Solo, Bell May; Recitation, by a
number of small boys and girls; Recitation,
Alice Evans; Questions were then asked by
Miss Alice Phillips and answered by the child-
ren, Song, by the Association. Brief remarks
were then made by Sister Ellen Clawson, Bro.
Dunbar, Sister Presendia Kimball, Bro.
George Romney and Sister Howard. Duet,
by Alice Clowes and Eva Ellis.
	Bro. C. R. Savage said, "I want to offer some
prizes next year; one for the best writing of
any little boy or girl in the meeting, one for
the best drawing and one for the best needle
work. I pray God to bless Sister Toone, all
who assist her, and you little children."
	Sister Wells, Prest. 13th Ward Primary,
and Bros. Richards, Sansome, Nelsen, May,
George Romney, Jr., and Charles Wright ex-
pressed themselves as being highly pleased
with the good order. The last two named
gentlemen had formerly been members of the
Association, and testified to the good they had
derived from attending the meetings.
	Sister Davis, Prest. of 21st Ward Primary,
related an instance showing how to be truly
happy.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. After the
closing hymn, Bro. C. R. Savage pronounced
the benediction, and refreshments were passed
round.
	In the evening the parents and a few of the
friends of the children assembled in the school-
house and had a sociable time together. Af-
ter singing and prayer, the following pro-
gramme was rendered: Speech, Bro. Dunbar;
Song, Miss May Romney; Reading, D. R.
Lyon; Song, John James; Remarks, Sister Toone;
Address, Bro. Geo. Romney; Remarks, O. Sharp.

[Column 2]

Refreshments were then passed round, and
general conversation ensued. Song, Miss
Fannie Savage; Speech, C. R. Savage; Remarks,
Bro. Puzey; Song, Peter Elliot; Recitation,
Geo. Romney; Song, Samuel Allen; Recitation,
C. W. Stayner; Organ Solo; J. J. Daynes;
Speech, Wm. Eddington.
	C. SHARP, Sec.

	BLOOMINGTON.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A few lines from the Y. L. M. I. A. of Bear
Lake Stake will be welcome, no doubt, know-
ing your paper to be an able supporter and re-
presentative of woman's rights and privileges,
as we understand in the fullest and most com-
plete sense of the word.
	There are at this date eleven organizations in
active operation, presided over by Mrs. N. G.
Pugmire, a daughter of the late Charles C.
Rich, who, by her untiring efforts and unflinch-
ing energy to advance the interests of the
young people of this Stake, has won the love
and confidence of all with whom associated.
Her watchword has ever been "come" to all,
and thus her influence has been felt rallying
to the front. There are enrolled 347 members,
with a fair average attendance. We have
ninety-nine volumes of good reading matter,
costing $121. Our Stake receipts amount to
$377.10; disbursements. $280.69, $230.59 of
the amount was donated to the Logan Temple.
We have a stake paper, entitled, "The Literary
Garland," in which each association is repre-
sented in our meetings of Literary Exercises,
held annually.
	Spiritually we are feeling well, although
somewhat isolated, and deprived of the associa-
tions and instructions that they enjoy down in
the other valleys that are more easy of access.
We could but think, when reading the farcical
termination of the Snow Case, before the Su-
preme Court of the United States, in regard to
the infamous rulings of the Utah Court, that
it was in keeping with the general treatment
of the Saints by this boasted grand republic.
But all is well, for God lives, and he will bring
them and the nation, who so persistantly
fight against Him, to the punishment they
merit, and whether it be sooner or later it mat-
ters not to us, as long as we do our duty, and
keep sacred the covenants we have made.
	Last August we were favored with a visit
from Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor and S.
M. Kimball. We hope to see them again ere
long, for they brought with them words of
cheer and comfort, which built us up, and we
felt to thank God that we were associated with
so noble a band of sisters, and from the depth
of our hearts we say, "God bless them; may He
be merciful to them and lengthen out their
days, that they may for many years to come
continue the noble labors they are now en-
gaged in."
	Politically, the horizon looks dark, and, as you
are aware, we are almost helpless, owing to
that imfamous test oath, passed at the setting
of the last Idaho Legislature, depriving all
who have certain religious convictions of the
privilege of casting a vote.
	Coun. Alice M. Rich is still suffering from
acute rheumatism, and although afflicted now
over a year, and unable to travel in the inter-
est of the Stake, as in the past, she feels patient
and resigned, and willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in this affliction as in other
things. I see by the last Deseret News that
you have reached home again, after an absence
of several months, in the interests of the down-
trodden women of Utah.
	L. M. HART, Stake Sec.

	RIVERDALE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Conference was held at


[Column 1]
the residence of Mrs. Bybee, May 13th, 1886, 
there being forty-one members present. After
the usual opening exercises, the minutes of
the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. We next heard the statistical and
financial reports, which showed that the sis-
ters were doing a good work financially as
well as spiritually. We listened to an excel-
lent programme, which gave the sisters great
credit who took part therein. The first was
"The Young Ladies' Instructor," read by the
Editor, Martha Stimpson, which contained
a great many good instructions. One essay
worthy of mention was the one written by
Mary Stimpson upon "Usefulness;" next an
Essay by Nellie Child, following which was a
Dialogue by five members of the Association;
we were next favored with a Song, entitled, 
"Nearer Home," from Jessie McDonald; the
last on the programme was a lecture from the
Bible, by Eliza W. Child. The speaker lec-
tured from the second chapter of the Epistle
of James, stating that we should not think too
much about riches and respect rich persons
and despise the poor, but rather be kind and
merciful to all, and ever strive for a living
faith, such as Abraham had. 
	Prest. Russell: The Lord is pleased with us
when we try to do right, and to attend our meet-
ings while we are blest with health and strength
thought if we would all try to fill our part in
the meetings we would be more able to keep
the Spirit of the Lord with us. Was pleased
to see some of the elder sisters in our midst;
asked the Lord to bless all with His Spirit. 
	Coun. Bybee felt thankful to see so many of
the sisters present, that we might rejoice to-
gether and call down the blessings of the
Lord; felt to say, "God bless the sisters in their
undertakings." The young and new begin-
ners were blessed and would be in trying to fill
their part in the meetings. We should visit
the lonely and try to comfort them in the ab-
sence of parents and friends; asked God to
bless all, that they might speak by the Spirit 
of the Lord. 
	Coun. Bingham was pleased to be among 
the sisters again; felt to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things; asked the Lord to
bless us with His Spirit, that we might continue 
in the good work we had begun. Singing by
the Association, after which Sister McDonald
bore her testimony to the work of God; felt to
uphold all the officers in the Church, and to
continue to do good so as to obtain an exalta-
tion in the kingdom of God. 
	Sister M. Mitchel said she had not premedi-
tated anything to say. The Lord has been
kind and merciful to me in giving me a testi-
mony of this work, which I am happy to bear.
The Spirit of God will be withdrawn from
use if we do not live our religion as we ought
and as we have been taught. Thought it very 
difficult to speak to an audience of Latter-day
Saints, and we needed the Spirit of the Lord. 
	Sister Hannah Child bore a true testimony
to the work of God; felt always to try to do
His will, and asked to be dictated by
His Spirit what to say, both to the old and
to the young. We should heed the prompt-
ings of the Spirit of the Lord; prayed continu-
 ally that she might be able to set a worthy ex-
ample to those who were around her. 
	Sister Annie Bybee said she had a testimony
to bear. Asked the Lord to grant us the de-
sires of our hearts, and to hear and answer
our prayers. We should not go ahead of our
leaders nor their teachings, but heed their
counsels and strive to obey them. 
	Sister Dye had been well pleased with the
[-]rogramme, and felt it had been rendered by 
[-]he Spirit of the Lord. May God enable us
[-]o perform the duties placed upon us.  
	Sister Bingham said she felt to put her trust
[---] the Lord, and asked Him to dictate her
[---]at to say. Had always desired to live hum-

[Column 2]
ble and prayerful, and prayed for wisdom to
guide her. This was one of the greatest bless-
ings God could give his children. We should
not get careless in our duties, nor be negligent, 
for if we are the Lord will punish us by allow-
ing us to suffer persecution. We must try to
prove ourselves worthy of the blessings of God
and to look over each other's weaknesses. We
should try to assist the priesthood in all things
and look after the poor; we have been blessed
of God for our good works, and we must give
Him thanks for his guidance. It is wisdom to
study the welfare of each other; we should
bear with each other and have charity for all. 
Desired to be able to keep the commandments
of God, and be subject to those placed over us. 
	Prest. Russell said, "We have had the Spirit
of the Lord in our midst; had often felt
the Spirit of God in our meetings. If we are
faithful and prayerful we will be blessed in
sickness; we all have weaknesses to overcome, 
but we should put our trust in the Lord. We
need great faith and wisdom in raising our fami-
lies." Exhorted all to try to attend Sunday
School. 
	The officers of the Association were then
presented for approval. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Coun. Bingham. 
			ELIZA W. CHILD, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The wings of turkeys, geese, and chickens are good for
washing and cleaning windows, as they leave no dust or
dirt on the surface of the glass.
	It may not generally be known that if the sauce pan in
which milk is to be boiled be first moistened with water, it
will prevent the milk from burning.
	The Way To Clarify Soup.—Just before the soup boils
the scum that has risen to the top during the process of
heating should be carefully removed. A little cold water
poured in will assist the particles that compose the scum to
rise. After the soup has boiled it should be strained; this
may be repeated; then if the soup is not as clear as you
would like to have it, mix one egg and its broken shell
with a teacupful of cold water, then to this add about a
teacupful of the hot soup, then stir it all into the boiling
soup; let it boil up well, then set the kettle upon the back
part of the stove, and when it is somewhat cool strain it.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,   -   25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c.   "
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		  $1.00  "
     "       Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	      of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25  "
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -  1.50  "

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

 [Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.
[Text on the Left Side of Image] Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!
[Image of a Sewing Machine]
[Text on the Right Side of Image] Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
in the Market 23 Years.
[Text Below Image] Young Brothers,
38 Main Street, Old Constitution Building.
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1865.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT  TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1886.	No. 2.


BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Written by Hannah Cornaby for the celebration of Brig-
	ham Young's Birthday; held in Spanish Fork, June
	[--] 1880.

	Successor, he, to Joseph Smith,
		First in this dispensation,
Whose blood wa shed in Carthage jail—
	A stain upon this nation,
His mantle fell on Brigham Young,
	The chosen one to lead
God's people in these latter days,
	His gathered flock to feed.

The sheep were fed and safely kept,
	Within the Gospel fold,
For wolves were ready to devour
	The young as well as old.
E'en as the Prophet Moses led
	The ancient chosen band,
So Brigham, in these latter days,
	Led Israel to this land.

For more than thirty years was he
	The mouth piece of the Lord;
And thus by revelation taught
	The precepts of His word;
And, Moses like, when full of years,
	He left his labors here;
'Twas but to labor in God's cause,
	Though in another sphere.

The memory of the just is blest,
	It will not pass away,
Though kingdoms crumble into dust
	And nations should decay:
The great and good, the pure and true
	Forever will endure,
As firm as the eternal hills,
	As lasting and as sure.

Since earth's foundations first were laid,
	A men began to be,
Their deeds of worth are handed down
	To live in history.
Each age we know has added some
	As worthy of a name,
Among their fellow men renowned
	With never dying fame.

But few among the favored throng
	Have won a name so great
As he, the Prophet of the Lord,
	Whose birth we celebrate.
A Seer and Revelator wise,
	His mission made him so,
For God was with him to instruct
	And guide His people too.

His mantle on John Taylor fell,
	Who next in order stood;
He, through each trial had been found
	Most loyal, true and good.
God bless our aged President,
	And make his heart rejoice,
May we receive his teachings long,
	Although denied his voice.

All hail! we say, to Brigham Young,
	The day that gave him birth
Should e'er be kept and handed down
	'Mong choicest days of earth.
Children were his especial care,
	'Tis good for them to raise
Their hearts and voices on this day
	In words of love and praise.


[Column 1]

A FORCIBLE PROTEST.

MY DEAR EDITOR:
	Considering it my duty to help maintain the
right of franchise, awarded us by our Legis-
lature, and seeing it endangered by the pas-

[Column 2]

sage of the new Edmunds bill, through  the
Senate, I take the liberty of entering my pro-
test. Claiming that the right of suffrage is a
part of a voter's property, its value is inestim-
able; you can as well make a law to deprive us
of our homes if the right of franchise can be
taken away or imparied. It is a right we high-
ly prize, because it is the right preservative of
all other rights. Why is it that we are to be
deprived of this right? Because we have
dared to vote for an honest government, and
against rapacity and fraud; because we have
dared to vote for our friends—for men that
have borne the burden, and helped to develop
and make the Territory; men who sought to es-
tablish a perfect Union, who strove to insure do-
mestic tranquillity, to promote general welfare
and secure the blessing of justice. And we
say to those who would deny us this right, the
right to vote for men of our choice, to pause
and consider before they are plunged into the
gulf of political disgrace, ignominy and ruin.
	Who ever heard of such disgraceful doings
in courts of justice as we hear of in the courts
of Utah. Our judicial courts are a disgrace
to any nation. Why our judges, and even
deputy marshals, presume to take, or assume
as much authority as the most despotic king
that ever wore the ermin[-], and we are denied
the right of trial by a jury of our peers, but
have test oaths and packed juries.  None are
allowed to sit on a jury that even believe in
the principles of our religion.  We ought to
be able to look to the judicial tribunal for
protection against illegal or unconstitutional
acts;  we ought to have independent judges and
enlightened juries as citadels of popular Liber-
ty, as well as for private justice.  "What we
possess is hardly fit to be called our own, un-
less we feel secure in its possession, and this
security, this feeling of perfect safety cannot
exist under a wicked or even a weak and igno-
rant administration of the law. There is no
happiness, there is no liberty, there is no en-
joyment of life unless a man can say, when he
rises in the morning, I shall be subject to the
decision of no unjust judge to-day."—Webster.
Can we as a community say that we shall be
subject to the decision of no unjust judge to-
day or to-morrow?  No, we do not know, when
we lay down at night, whether we will not be
dragged from our beds before morning to testify
before an unjust judge against our husbands
(which is unconstitutional) and after being in-
sulted, and plyed with questions that are inde-
cent, and which ought to cause the blush of
shame to mantle the brow of any gentleman,
held under bonds for contempt. Can such
things be done with impunity? Oh, no! The
Lord will deal out even-handed justice to those
who have used such despotic and unwarrant-
able power, and have manifested such unhal-
lowed and wanton disregard of their oath of
office. Let them beware! for the wrath of an
offended God will overtake them and cut short
their days of wickedness, for so far can they
go and no further, and although it may look
dark for an oppressed and outraged people,
those who live according to the will of God,
and are humble before Him, there is a bright
future, and they can see the bright sunshine
behind the cloud, and the day of their deliver-
ance is nigh. Although our brethren, and
some of our sisters, free citizens, have been,
and are imprisoned, immured in prisons, count-
ing the slow revolving hours of their captivity,
and spending their nights in prayers and

[Column 3]

dreams of their wives and children, counting
the time when they will again enjoy their so-
ciety, and the blessings of home, they are
happy and contented, for they know that they
have the love and confidence of their families,
the blessing of Almighty God, and the esteem
and respect of all lovers of equal rights and
constitutional Liberty. True heroes! who can
hold up their heads with the emblems of true
nobility, honor, trust and integrity stamped
upon their brows, suffering for the truth, like
unto their Master, and woe be unto those that
fight against God, for they will have their por-
tion in the day of judgment. Jesus says, "In-
asmuch as they persecute you, blessed art
thou, for so did they unto me, and the servant
is not greater than his Master."
	It is said to-day, "Why does not the Lord
take care of His people, if you are the Lord's
people? Why does He not confound your
enemies and prevent His servants from going
to prison." Just so they said in the days of
the Savior: "If Thou art the Son of God
come down from the cross, and we will be-
lieve;"  and they spat upon Him and mocked
Him, and gave Him vinegar to drink, until
He was fain to cry, "Father, if it is possible,
let this cup pass." Then why should we fear
the frowns of men, or why should we murmur?
No, we will not complain, but seek for strength
to enable us to stand firm and true to our in-
tegrity to God and our religion, and as there
is no middle course, let us be found on the
right side.  As we will be held accountable to
God for the use we make of the talents the
Lord has given us, if we hide them under a
bushel, it is our duty to defend our rights and
our religion, and not be ashamed to acknowl-
edge our Father before the world, and to de-
fend every principle of truth revealed to us
for our salvation, and let our walk and con-
duct be such that we can have the approbation
of our Father in heaven; let us nobly take our
part in the great work of the last days. We
have the right to worship God according to our
own convictions, and no one has the right to
say what we shall incorporate in our creed as
our religion. Although Congress may take
the responsibility, they do it in opposition to
the spirit and intent of the Constitution. We
ask the members of the House to stop and con-
sider, and we ask all lovers of constitutional
liberty, equal rights and free governments to
use their influence with the members to vote
against the bill now before the House, as it is
a bill against all the laws of a Republican gov-
ernment, and strikes at the very foundation of
this Republic, and will be a disgrace to the
American people; it is the essence of despot-
ism, and will have a tendency to create discord
and unsettle the union, will effect the nation
at large, and it will cause trouble nearer home
than Utah.
		S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., March, 1886.


JOSEPH SMITH AND CELESTIAL
MARRIAGE.

	The communication from President Joseph
Smith, with the accompanying affidavit of 
William Clayton, which we publish in this
issue, will be interesting to a large number of
our readers. It will tend to clear up in the
minds of those who are not familiar with the
details of the manifestations of the Prophet


[Column 1]

Joseph Smith on the subject of celestial mar-
riage, some apparent discrepancies which are
perfectly harmonious when correctly under-
stood.
	The revelation on celestial marriage pub-
lished in the Doctrine and Covenants, was
given July 12th, 1843. The principles it con-
tains, with further intelligence on the same
subject, were revealed to the Prophet many
years before, but not formulated in writing for
the Church. Acting under instructions from
the Lord, the Prophet had several wives
sealed to him before the date of that revela-
tion, and they are referred to in verse 52.
There are other matters spoken of in the re-
velation that pertained to the time when it
was written, showing that the statement in
the heading, as it appears in the book, is cor-
rect; namely, that the revelation was given on
that date, although the doctrines it contains
were made known and had been acted upbn
under  special instructions previous to that
date.
	Those opponents of plural marriage who
deny that it was taught and practiced by the
Prophet Joseph, in face of testimony enough
to establish any fact beyond the possibility of
rational contradiction, frequently refer to the
utterances of the leaders of the Church in
Nauvoo against the teachings of certain per-
sons on polygamy; and also the denials and
affidavits, of several ladies concerning poly-
gamy and spiritual infeism.  These statements
are cited as evidence that Joseph and Hyrum
Smith were opposed to plural marriage, and
that it was denied by some of the ladies who
afterwards avowed their own marriage to the
Prophet or his brother Hyrum.
	But examination of the history and the
facts will disclose that there is no real contra-
diction between the alleged conflicting state-
ments, nor between the action of Joseph and
Hyrum in regard to polygamy and the doc-
trines laid down in the revelation of July 12th,
1843. Polygamy, in the ordinary and Asiatic
sense of the term, never was and is not now a
tenet of the Latter-day Saints. That which
Joseph and Hyrum denounced and for preach-
ing which without authority an Elder was cut
off the Church in Nauvoo, was altogether
different to the order of celestial marriage in-
cluding a plurality of wives, which forms the
subject of the revelation.
	So with that spiritual wife doctrine which
lustful men attempted to promulgate at that
period. Joseph the Prophet was just as much
opposed to that false doctrine as any one could
be. It was a counterfeit. The true and di-
vine order is another thing. The errors which
those ladies who signed the affidavits declared
were not known to them as doctrines of the
Church were not, are not, and never will be
part of the creed of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. They were con-
scientious in their statements. Joseph and
Hyrum were consistent in their action against
the false doctrines of polygamy and spiritual
infeism, instigated by the devil and advocated
by men who did not comprehend sound doc-
trine nor the purity of the celestial marriage
which God revealed for the holiest of pur-
poses.
	It has been frequently asserted by the ene-
mies of the Church that President John Tay-
lor, in France, publicly denied that the Church
entertained the doctrine of plural marriage.
Investigation for the purpose of learning facts
will show that he did no such thing. Directly
he denied nothing; indirectly he disputed the
assertion that polygamy and certain infamous
doings were part of the creed of the Church.
In answer to the charges he simply read a sec-
tion of the Doctrine and Covenants relating to
the subject of marriage.
	Until the open enunciation of the doctrine
of celestial marriage by the publication of the
revelation on the subject in 1852, no Elder

[Column 2]

was authorized to announce it to the world.
The Almighty has revealed things on many
occasions which were for His servants and not
for the world. Jesus enjoined His disciples on
several occasions to keep to themselves princi-
ples that He made known to them. And His
injunction, "Cast not your pearls before swine,
lest they trample them under their feet and
turn again and rend you," has become as fa-
miliar as a common proverb. In the rise of
the Church the Lord had occasion to admon-
ish his servants in regard to revelations that
were afterwards permitted to be published:
	"I say unto you, hold your peace until I
shall see fit to make all things known unto
the world concerning this matter."
	"And now I say unto you, keep these things
from going abroad into the world until it is ex-
pedient in me."
	"But a commandment I give unto them that,
they shall not boast themselves of these things,
neither speak of them before the world, for
these things are given unto you for your profit-
and your salvation."—(Doc. & Cov.)
Under these instructions Elders had no
right to promulgate anything but that, which
they were authorized to teach. And when as-
sailed by their enemies and accused of practis-
ing things which were really not countenanced
in the Church, they were justified in denying
those imputations and at the same time avoid-
ing the avowal of such doctrines as were not
yet intended for the world. This course which
they have taken when necessary, by command-
ment, is all the ground which their accusers
have for charging, them with falsehood.
	The doctrine of celestial marriage, including
the plurality of wives, was revealed to Joseph
Smith the Prophet by the same power and
from the same source, as all the other revela-
tions contained in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, and they stand or fall together.
The Church was commanded at its inception to
receive the revelations and precepts which God
would manifest through him, and this is one of
them, to the truth of which the heavens have
borne witness at least as much as to the divini-
ty of any others. That Joseph practiced what
he taught and was himself the husband of
several wives in the holy order of celestial
marriage, has been thoroughly authenticated,
and the affidavit of William, Clayton forms
one more strong and important link in a chain
of evidence that is so complete and convincing
as to leave no room for reasonable contro-
versy.
     The world may not receive the glorious doc-
trine of eternal matrimony by which husbands
and wives are made one forever, nor the princi-
ple of plural marriage, which is an essential
part of that doctrine. But those who have
come out of darkness into light, and have
learned how to know the voice of the Good
Shepherd, will see the beauty and divinity of
that comprehensive revelation, and hearken to
the spirit which leads in the way to the con-
tinuation of the lives, wherein are exaltation
and dominion and power in the presence of
God and His Christ throughout the eternal
ages.
	Deseret News, May 20, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.

	MISSIONARY BOY'S LETTER.

DEAR MISS IDA:
*	*	I received the letter,	*	the coun-
sel was good, and just such as we were given
by the brethren of the Twelve.  Send me
another like it, only a great deal longer.  I
have not heard from Milo since we separated
on the 29th ult., but he was to go to Virginia
after visiting his relatives in Kentucky. Leav-


ing him was the next thing to leaving home
and mother.
	The scenery over the D. & R. G. cannot be
surpassed. It is awfully grand! My compan-
ion, James Campbell, of Salt Lake City, and
myself, have been out on two trips, but did
not get an opportunity to preach, our labors
 being confined to private conversation. Some
parts of our field of labor have been canvassed
by the Elders in times past, and in other parts
the people have never seen an Elder. In the
mountain districts, among the poorer classes,
we find some people who are very friendly, and
appear quite willing to investigate the princi-
ples of the Gospel, but the more wealthy, who
are located on the low lands, manifest a total
indifference, and care to have nothing to say to
us after they find out who we are. The day
will come, and that speedily, when they will be
willing to accept the truth, and when they
know not where to find it.
	This is truly a day of gleanings, and the
blood of Israel is hard to find. The people
are bound down by sectarian traditions and
a false Christianity, from which it seems they
cannot extricate themselves. This country is
worn out and unfruitful, and the religion of
the people more barren than the soil, for the
soil does bring forth some fruit, but the fruits
of their religion are evil. We are generally
treated far better by those who make no pro-
fessions of piety. The people are generally
very poor but they give us the best they have.
No one could ask more. Those who possess
more of this world’s goods have no place for
us, or the principles we teach, as a rule. One
night we were hunting lodgings until 9 o’clock,
being passed from one place to another until 
we had been turned away nine times, but by
strong argument, we prevailed on the tenth
one to give us a bed, but we had no supper.
Next morning they gave us breakfast and
seemed quite friendly, but wanted no “Mor-
monism.”
	I do not feel as well here as I do in Utah,
but still I cannot complain much. I have felt
quite cheerful and light-hearted, generally,
and if I can have the faith and prayers of the
Saints in my behalf I shall enjoy my labors.
I have had but one letter from Utah since
leaving, but I learn from Elder Morgan that
matters are getting worse.	*	 *	*
	Ever praying for the welfare of all the
Saints in Zion, and craving an interest in
your faith and prayers, I remain,
	Your true friend and thankful student,
					GEO. W. BAKER.
	May 20, 1886.


PRESIDENT YOUNG'S BIRTHDAY.

	How President Brigham Young’s birthday
was celebrated at Provo City, by the Primary
Associations, June 1st, 1886.
	At 2 p.m. a very large crowd of fair young
juveniles assembled at the Brigham Young
Academy to commemorate the natal day of
President Brigham Young. The hall was
decorated with flowers, and the bust of our late
worthy President was on the stand. A very
interesting programme was carried out by the
children, consisting of songs, recitations, etc.,
after which addresses were made by President
A. K. Smoot, Prof. K. G. Maeser and Sister
A. K. Smoot, giving a characteristic sketch of
President Young’s life. After this. dancing
was participated in until half past six, and all
returned home feeling it was a day long to be
remembered.
	We have not heard from the other wards
yet, but it was decided that it should be uni-
versally celebrated throughout Utah Stake.
				A. K. Smoot, Prest.,
				GRACE SMITH, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

﻿


DO YOU EVER THINK OF ME?

	When the shades of ever are falling
		O'er the blue and lonely sea,
	When the whip-poor-will is calling,
		Do you ever think of me?
 
	When the great church bell is swelling
		Its music o'er the lea,
	When of absent friends you're telling,
		Do you ever think of me?

	When the silver stars are gleaming
		Through the blue immensity,
	When of other days you're dreaming,
		Do you ever think of me?

	And, oh! when the white clouds linger
		In the blue and azure sky,
	When fond fancy's trembling finger
		Like a needle points on high,

	Do you then with sighs remember,
		Hoping in the yet to be—
	How we parted in December,
		And breathe a prayer for me?

	Does the moon light softly glowing
		On shrub and flower and tree,
	Does the sound of waters flowing,
		Bring to you sweet thoughts of me.
							BELLE DALTON.
January 31st, 1886.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

If God will grant the Spirit's aid,
	To write I'll make an effort;
There is so much that might be said
	To edify and comfort—
To my dear sisters I address
	The thoughts that may be given;
I'm sure the Lord delights to bless
	His daughters here in Zion.

I'm sure the Saints of latter days
	Are blest beyond all measure,
Above the rest of Adam's race,
	With Gospel's richest treasure.
What God revealed to Joseph Smith
	Should claim devout attention,
For it embraces all the truth
	That I can think or mention.

First, we repent and are baptized,
	So are our sins forgiven,
And then the Holy Ghost receive—
	Most precious boon from heaven;
God's spirit granted from above
	Doth strengthen good endeavor;
It teaches charity and love,
	And peace and virtue ever.

It teaches us in mortal life
	A gentle, kind behavior;
To carefully avoid all strife,
	And imitate the Savior,
Who's full of wisdom, grace and love,
	And is our Mediator;
He pleads before the throne above
	Our cause with the Creator.

We've various gifts the very same,
	That Jesus said should follow
Those who believed upon His name,
	And in His footsteps follow;
A mighty gift to mortal ones,
	The gift of healing, surely;
We cannot set a price upon,
	It is God's mercy purely.

It is His will that we should claim
	The gifts, which He is granting,
To humbly call upon His name,
	And faith should not be wanting,
That we might reap the rich reward,
	The healing of distresses,
And not forget to praise the Lord
	Whom He so richly blesses.

A gift there is, to Saints most dear,
	The gift that is discerning
Of spirits, that we may beware,
	And know of them concerning,


That we may not be led astray
	By those who are deceivers,
But follow in the narrow way
	Of firm and true believers.

There's many a grace and many a gift
	To Saints on earth are given;
Lord, lead our tongues in purest drift
	To praise the God of heaven;
O may we have, from day to day,
	A greater inclination
To keep in wisdom's narrow way
	In walk and conversation.

Oh, Thou! who know'st our weaknesses,
	Help us in each endeavor
To lead a life of righteousness,
	And worship Thee forever.
So may we triumph in thy might, 
	Thy Spirit guide our speeches,
Be valiant in the cause of right,
	And gain eternal riches.

		MAREN MITCHELL.
Riverdale, June 8, 1886.


A COMPARISON.

	Only a piece of water-soaked wood—yes,
that is all, but shall I tell you what it shows
to me? A morning, dull, cloudy, fierce winds
and fiercer sea; a road, grass-grown and smooth;
a carriage, drawn slowly on, now near the
spray-dashed shore, now lost to sight of sea
and spray, but always with the rude, hoarse
roar of the ocean's voice resounding in our
ears. The place, the Sandwich Isles, which
little mission of easy, happy Saints, has held
more missionaries from dear old Utah than any
other on this big, whole globe, according to its
size.
	That sea—no words could ever tell its match-
less glory, no brush could ever paint its glisten-
ing, rapid, restless grace. How could they
do so, when God it is who speaks to us, weak
finite mortals, through the awful roar, and He
whose finger paints the ever changing hues
and shades on ocean's broad old face.
	The storm had been a furious one, and high
and heavy dashed the surf, and as we rode
along we all were hushed to that slow silence
that falls alike on all who feel themselves so
near to nature's heart-beats. How small, how
infinitely small one weak and puny arm would
be to put between a soul and all eternity in
such a sea! Vast are Thy wonders, O God!
	At last, as mortals do, we broke the spell of
silence and began to talk of all we saw around
us.  The shore was strewn with relics of the
last night's storm. Broken shells and bits of
sponge, with chalky looking corals, and all
along a very network of green and pale pink
sea weeds, and as we wandered on, now pick-
ing up some pretty toy or turning over rub-
bish in search of something rare, my friend
held up to me this rotten piece of wood.  He
brought it, saying it had traveled many a
weary mile on just such waves as now
beat down upon the shore. "'Tis redwood,"
said my friend, "and all the way this tiny chip
has come, from those huge forest trees, that
grow on California's hills." And so I took it;
and as I looked at it, so many curious thoughts
arose unbidden in my mind—how long it had
been cut from off the parent trunk, whose
hand had felled the giant tree, how many
years its glorious crown of green had shaded
some sweet spot of earth.
	Our talk soon flew to other things, and,
after that, we turned our horses homeward.
But in and out of all our chatter, that bit of
wood and its attendant history was dwelling
on my mind. We passed along the road, now
dotted on each side with the natives white-
washed cottages, while here and there a brown
grass hut, that stands among its haouri (civil-
ized) neighbors, with quite an air of low
apology, as if 'twere well ashamed to look
them in the face. And then I thought of that


small block of wood—a fragment from the
parent tree, broke off by some relentless power
and cast, like these poor natives' far away pro-
genitors, from off the parent Nephite stem,
and cast adrift to bear the ocean's moods, and
land at last on these fair, sunny isles, and they,
like it, are soaked and sodden—sodden with
vice and soaked in all the waters of incon-
stancy and lust; and they, like unto it, have
now at last been gathered up by an Almighty
hand, and He is sending here His workmen,
that on them may shed the light of His pure,
Holy Spirit, so drying up the dull waters of
pollution, and with His tools He will mould
and fashion them at last into one of those
clean and chosen vessels, which shall be lifted
up at that last day, saith the Lord God of
Israel!
		HOMESPUN.

S. Y. Gates


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	The way to do good is to be good. There
must be light, then it will shine.—Cannon
Fleming.

	There is nothing so sweet as a duty, and all
the best pleasures of life come in the wake of
duties done.—Jean Ingelow

	God weigheth more with how much love a
man worketh than how much he doeth. He
doeth much that loveth much.—Th omas a Kem
pis.

	While reason is puzzling herself about the
mystery, faith is turning it into her daily
bread, and feeding on it thankfully in her
heart of hearts.—. D F. Huntington

	If we practise goodness, not for the sake of
its own intrinsic excellence, but for the sake
of gaining some advantage by it. we may be
cunning but we are not good.—Cicero.

	The best name by which we can think of
God is Father. It is a loving, deep, sweet,
heart-touching name; for the name of father is,
in its nature; full of inborn sweetness and
comfort.—Luther.

	In eternity it will amount to more to have
given a cup of cold water, with right motives,
to an humble servant of God than to have
been flattered by a whole generation.—Dr.
Cumming.

	The warm sunshine and the gentle zephyr
may melt the glacier which has bid defiance
to the howling tempest; so the voice of kind-
ness will touch the heart which no severity
could subdue.—Herder.

	All that is good,generous, wise,right—what-
ever I deliberately and forever love in others
and myself,—who or what could by any possi-
bility have given it to me but one who first had
it to give?  This is not logic: this is axiom.—
Carlyle

	Trust Him when you cannot trace Him. Do
not try to penetrate the cloud which He brings
over you and to look through it. Rather keep
your eye fixed steadily on the bow that is on
the cloud. The mystery is God’s; the promise
is yours.—Macduff


The defeat of the Home Rule bill in Eng-
land is to Irishmen what the defeat of the
woman suffrage bill in this country is to
women.  In each case the final triumph is
deferred.
	The Woman Suffrage Society of Englewood,
Ill. will celebrate July 4 as 'Foremothers'
Day."  The Rev. Olympia Brown and Mary
Allen West have been engaged as speakers.
The ladies will send refreshments, and an in-
teresting programme has been prepared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	MRS. NEWMAN'S EXTRAVAGANZAS.

	We have had the privilege of perusing the
pamphlet containing the "Notes of a Hearing be-
fore the Committee on Education and Labor,"
United States Senate, May 7th, 1886. The hear-
ing was referred to in the last number of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. It says, first of all,
	"Proposed establishment of a school under the
direction of the Industrial Christian Home Asso-
ciation of Utah, to provide means for the self-
support of the dependent classes in that Terri-
tory, and to aid in the suppression of polygamy
therein." Then follows the Memorial, which sets
forth the arrangements entered into, in detail, and
closes by saying, "The demand for such an insti-
tution is found."
	First. In the anomalous condition of Utah
Territory under Mormon regime.
	Second. In the fact that there is not a single
benevolent institution in the Territory for the de-
pendent classes.
	Moreover, it is hopeless to expect a Mormon
legislature to appropriate funds to meet a condi-
tion of things which the Mormon leaders declare
does not exist, or to establish an institution which
shall contribute towards the disintegration of the
Mormon Church.
	"Hence national obligation is apparent."
	"The principle is fundamental in a republican
form of government to protect its helpless minori-
ties, especially so when these minorities are
women and children.
	"The question of self-support is based in the
solution of the problem of the disruption of poly-
gamous households.
	"It is a well-known fact that there are many who
would voluntarily abandon polygamous relations
if facilities for self support were provided.
	"Furthermore, it is futile to legislate against ex-
isting relations and make no provision for the
terrible exigencies which arise in the execution
of law.
	"Fathers and mothers whose moral nature has
survived the wreck of polygamous life will at
least hesitate to impose upon their children imme-
diate disaster by either voluntary or enforced obe-
dience&nbsp;to national law.
	"Therefore, it is with confidence in that justice
which is the apotheosis of mercy, that we your pe-
titioners, in behalf of those who cannot speak for
themselves, except by their silent appeal to the
nation's God, ask of your honorable body the ap-
propriation of $100,000 to the Industrial Christian
Home Association for the construction and equip-
ment of such an institution as is herein specified.
			Respectfully submitted,
		JEANETTE H. TERRY, Prest.,
					Park City, Utah Territory,
		MARGARET D. ZANE, Vice Prest.,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
		CORNELIA A. PADDOCK, Secretary,
				Salt Lake City, Utah Territory.
	Also signed, George A. Lowe, Ira E. Lyons,

[Column 2]
Hector M. Scott, James M. Darling, George E.
Ellis, Henry W. Lawrence (per Angie F. New-
man, Vice President at Large, Trustees Salt Lake
City.) Testimonials from clergymen and others,
well known as anti-Mormon, are next given, after
which follows the argument.  We had thought to
take it up in full and correct the false statements,
but it would perhaps be a waste of time; there-
fore we will only notice a few glaring errors. In
the first paragraph of her argument she says:
	"I am here in behalf of women whose lips are
sealed by the Priesthood, whose hands are
shackled by their own ballots, of which I can
give proof if necessary; women who are denied
the right of petition by the very men who enfran-
chised them. A notable instance of the right of
petition is when 473 women of Utah petitioned
to the national Congress against the admission of
Utah as a State, and when the names were re-
ported in Utah many of these women, under the
 most severe pressure, were obliged to make public
retraction, and to declare that their signatures
were fraudulently obtained."
	We would very much like to know when this all
happened, if Mrs. Newman, or any of these
trustees, whose names are attached, can give
these particulars definitely; we should be glad to
learn how and when all this occurred, and who
any of these women are who were "obliged to
make public retraction?" In fact, we would like
one single name furnished us. This is all nonsense:
it is impossible to imagine where Mrs. Newman
could have fished up this story.
	In the next paragraph Mrs. Newman says she
has a right to speak in behalf of "motherbood out-
raged and compromised children crying for bread."
There are no children in Utah crying for bread,
nor any lack either of food or clothing; there are
no poor houses or orphan asylums needed for
"Mormon" children, but the same cannot be said
of other States and Territories. She also says; "I
am here because in my veins flows the blood of
the Pilgrim Fathers," and so on. How many
"Mormons" there are who might say the same
thing if that would entitle them to special privileges.
It is utterly impossible in a newspaper article to
take up the argument entire; one can only touch
some particular points, and show, perhaps, a trifle
or two concerning the manner in which she deals
with the subject, and the unfairness with which
she treats women who have expressed decided
views upon plural marriage; women who have
lived in it, and consequently must know more
about it than she possibly can; women as pure and
as noble as any the blessed sun ever shone upon,
women of education, cultivated taste and refine-
ment.
	The lady goes on to say, "The foundation, the
perpetuity of this government is based upon the
subjugation of women. Polygamy, whatever one
says to the contrary, is the initiative and the ulti-
matum. The primal effect of polygamous life is
to build prison walls about its victims, whose pon-
derous gates never swing outward except to crush
the hand that tampers with the locks." This may
be very pretty and sensational, and may move the
hearts of the Committee and of Congress, but it
lacks the vital element of truth, and will not stand
the test of reason, common sense, or the facts,
which are and must be evidence as against sensa-
tional reports or pathetic appeals. She invalidates
her own statement, when she says, in another part
of her argument, how easily divorces are obtained,
but she grossly misrepresents when she says,
"There are scores who have been divorced from
one to ten and fourteen times, of which there is
abundant record." Here is another statement
made which Mrs. Newman should be prepared to
prove. But it is as false as it is cruel. When the
lady makes such assertions as these she should
bring forward the proof, by telling of at least one
instance in which there has been a number of di-
vorces.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Newman says that in the Mass Meeting in
the theatre "the American flag was draped in irony
above the speakers." Have not the Latter-day
Saints as much right to the flag as other citizens?
and they certainly honor it quite as much, and the
liberty, of which it is the symbol, is as dear to
them as to Mrs. Newman, or any one else. She
further adds, "I listened for four hours to a repu-
diation of national sovereignty, a vilification of the
Federal officers, and a vindication of illicit alli-
ances, which made me shiver. The report of that
meeting has been greatly toned down, as my own
notes and the notes of Dr. Jackson, of Fort
Douglas, and others, will amply attest." Then
she adds that she will use their own stenegraphic
notes, that she may not be charged with injustice,
and goes on to make quotations from Dr. Pratt,
Laura Minor and Dr. E. R. Shipp. However, she
proves nothing, but to repeat the slander and
falsehoods that have been going the rounds of
the country for years. Speaking of the number
of wives she declares that "in Utah a patriarch
has ten, fifteen or twenty." Here is another
chance for her to tell who these men are who have
this extra number of wives, as we who live here
do not know of such families. She also asserts
that one half of this people are in the practice of
plural marriage; another false statement. Her in-
formation, according to her argument, is of the
most complete and varied character; she knows
more than any old settler in the country, but what
she affirms exists only in her inflated imagination.
	Does Mrs. Newman fancy that "Mormons"
don't know the deceit, treachery and in-
famy that prevails to an alarming extent in the
world? Congressmen need not go outside the
District of Columbia to find unhappy and unhal-
lowed marriage relations in monogamy, and this
woman, no doubt, knows it well. If Congress
wants to make an appropriation for women to be
educated to earn their own living, the best place
to begin is at the Nation's Capitol, for in Utah
such charitable institutions are not needed, nor
will they be patronized by "Mormons." Not at all.
	After expatiating largely upon a national flag she
brought here from Cincinnati, and, by the way,
the "Mormons" brought the first national flag that
ever was brought here, and planted it on the tops
of the mountains, and had as much pride in see-
ing it wave—aye, more than Mrs. Newman, with
all her boasted patriotism, for to them it did mean
liberty and freedom, and she would destroy the
freedom, happiness and peace of the homes
created under its shelter and protection, she
brings inthe following sensational paragraph, which
she no doubt thinks will stir the feelings of those
sage congressmen to the very centre of their souls.
It reads thus:
	"Gentlemen, I do not make to you a needless
plea, for night after night I have stood on some
table land in that fair valley. I have looked upon
that silvery lake, asleep in the quiet moonlight,
the silent stars keeping their watch in the sky, the
shadow of the granite mountains falling over the
city, and stilling the pulses of my own throbbing
heart, I have heard a wail, long, deep and terrible,
coming up from thousands of hushed voices, from
lips dumb in their cold agony, come sweeping up
to the ear of the Omnipotent, and in its choral
tone. I have heard the refrain of the Kathayan
slave, in the pen at Oung-pen-la. 'My Father, I
cannot die so; I cannot die so. Send some
blessed evangel to open the gates of thy mercy.'
Gentlemen, shall we find in you the 'blessed evan-
gel' of their long vigils?"
	There is much more in a similar strain. Now,
we will tell you what she might have heard if she
did not, instead of the mournful refrain she pic-
tures, the prayers and hymns from a thousand
homes arising in gratitude to God for His favors
and blessings, and interceding with Him to pro-
tect them and their little ones from those, who
under the guise of law, are bringing sorrow, misery


and desolation, ruined homes, blighted hopes, and,
all the attendant evils, cruel and remorseless, that
result from religious persecution.  If Mrs. New-
man has a human heart, if she can feel for those
whose sorrows should make them sacred, especial-
ly so to all their own sex, who possess genuine
womanly tenderness, she must know the torture
the anguish of soul the Edmunds law
is inflicting upon innocent women and child-
ren; and to insult them by asking alms from the
National Congress, to which they themselves are 
appealing through petitions, eloquent and strong, 
with forcible truths for simple justice and a hu-
mane administration of law, is too great an insult
to be borne without remonstrating, protesting and
declaring against such measures.  The tables will
turn by and bye, and the persecutors of this peo-
ple will need aid and assistance far worse than
the "Mormons" need it now.  The relief the
"Mormons" want is justice, and those rights and
liberties guaranteed by that glorious Constitution
of our common country, nothing more. Having
these and the blessing of God upon their efforts 
and endeavors, happiness and prosperity will
abound, and many people will flock hither and 
find peace and security, and oppression and bond-
age will be unknown.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. 
conference of Tooele Stake was held June 12th 
and 13th, in Grantsville, Mrs. M. A. Hunter presid-
ing. Sisters E. Howard and H. M. Whitney of 
this city were in attendance, and give an interesting
report of the proceedings. 
	THE annual meeting of the Sixteenth Ward
Relief Society of this city will be held to-day. 
Notice of these meetings will appear in our next
issue.  The annual meeting of the Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Granger will be held to-day in
the ward house at that place; Sisters M. I. Horne,
B. W. Smith and Nellie Colebrook will attend. 
	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held on Friday, the 25th of June, in 
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms in this
city. It is desirable that there should be a good 
attendance of the officers and members from all
parts of the Stake. The Primary conference will
be held on the Saturday following, June 26th, in 
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall. 
	THE Tucker Edmunds Bill has been reported
by the Judiciary Committee of the House of Repre-
sentatives of the U. S. Congress.  It is harsh
and cruel in its measures with respect to Utah and 
those who respect the liberty of conscience could
scarcely wish for its passage, whatever opposition
they may feel towards "Mormonism."  It is not
very likely to be reached this session, at any rate, 
and before another session of Congress there may 
be great changes in the affairs of the nation. 
	FROM Sister Betsy C. Glover and from Sister
Catherine Woodbury we have received charming
bouquets of choice and fragrant flowers to grace
the editorial table. Many thanks for these beauti-
ful remembrances, which call forth sentiments of 
love and esteem. Flowers are always a fitting
gift, though simple, the modest wild flower carries
as many memories with it as the most highly culti-
vated, exotic, perhaps even more. We also extend
our thanks to Sister Mary Gray for the delicious
cherries sent us, not only this year, but it seems to 
have become an annual token of her affectionate
generosity. It is sweet to be remembered by one's
friends, and trifles often tell more than an elabor-
ate display.


[Column 1]

SOME SOUND REASONING.
	
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER.—In reading the papers one is
struck with the unqualified and groundless ex-
pressions, so frequently falling from the lips, and
flowing from the pens of speakers and writers on
those questions which relate in any manner to the
Latter-day Saints.  I notice a fair sample of this
wholesale, unreasoning declamation against an
unpopular people, in a short letter, recently pub-
lished in the Deseret News, over the signature of
Helen M. Cougar, copied from the "Inter 
Ocean.
	She makes use of the following language:
"every right minded woman in the country wants
polygamy in Utah Stamped out, and the sooner
the better."
	As a woman I claim the right to dispute this
proposition as emphatically as it has heen made.
I am aware how very unpopular it is in the world
to take this position, but America is a great and
a free country and I presume I have the same
right of free speech, and to my opinion, and per-
haps as good authority to sustain my position as
she has.
	The strong prejudice in the mind of this lady,
as in the minds of those of her class, and the
public generally, perhaps, upon this subject, arises
from their education, traditions and the many
other circumstances surrounding them which in-
fluence their thoughts.
	But there are thousands of women "in the coun-
try," not excepting Utah, who have been brought
up under these same traditions and circumstances,
and educated in the same schools of learn-
ing and experience in the world, who through
deeper research and thought on the subject and
more thorough investigation have come to the op-
posite conclusion which warrants my emphatic de-
nial of the charge as above stated.
	The presumption is, and it is a fair presumption
from my standpoint, that the lady who made this
broad assertion has studied the politics of the
country more thoroughly, and has paid more at-
tention to the subject of woman's suffrage than
ever she has done to the subject of plural mar-
riage among the Latter-day Saints, and while I
readily concede to her the right to speak for her
political friends, I doubt her authority as to the
"wants," or desires of "right minded women,"
or upon the question involving the right minded-
ness of women, at all on this subject let her speak
for herself, and for those who hold the same views
that she does, if they do not object, but that this
class will include "every right minded woman in
the country," is a part of her assertion which I
deny.  I claim that intelligent ladies who have
passed through the narrow limits of the views en-
tertained by this lady upon matters of religion,
in all their details, into broader conceptions of
God's law, and who have perhaps studied poli-
tics, equally with herself, but through earnest in-
quiry and investigation, and prayerful study and
reflection have become convinced that plural
marriage, as designed, sanctioned and commanded
and blessed by Almighty God from time im-
memorial, as demonstrated by the Holy Scriptures;
and as practiced by the Latter-day Saints, is
neither criminal nor sinful, will come as near to
being "right minded women," as this "promi-
nent lady" does, or those of her class; and it is my
opinion that there are thousands of these "right
minded women in the country," who do not "want
polygamy in Utah stamped out" nor to hear it
interfered with in the least, either by such bigoted,
presumptuous, arrogant and tyranical men as Sena-
tor Edmunds, the Congress of the United States,
or by the supposed "right-minded women of the
country" who do not understand the Latter-day
Saints nor their religion, and are not authorized
to speak for them.
	Again this lady says:—"polygamy can be

[Column 2]

done away with on constitutional principles."
When the Constitution is silent upon the question
of polygamy," and does not refer to religion at all,
except that "no religious test shall ever be re-
quired as a qualification to any office or public
trust under the United States," and, in its first
amendment, that, "Congress shall make no law re-
specting an establishment of religion or prohibit-
ing the free exercise thereof," it would certainly
be interesting to know how plural marriage in 
Utah, an essential part of the religion of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, "can be done away with on Con-
stitutional principles?"  Yet she further says; "If
men in Congress are incapable of killing this
monster of polygamy, that they have nursed by
their shilly-shallying, lo, these many years, then
let the Loziers take their seats for a time and it
will be done without adding another wrong to the
great wrongs already inflicted." She has an idea
it would seem, that the "great wrongs already in-
flicted," are the failures, from time to time, of
Congress to settle the Mormon question and that
the methods of doing this, or killing the monster
of polygamy "to be adopted by the "Loziers,"
would be speedy, effectual and harmless!
	This can be regarded only as a meaningless
boast or hoax, unless she can show us that the
ruination of our homes, the destruction of peace-
ful and happy families, the unjust and cruel inter-
ference with the sacred rites of religion, by secu-
lar authorities, and the innumerable attendant,
terrible consequences, that must ensue, would not
be as "great" and as infamous wrongs if com-
mitted by the cold blooded, heartless Nero of the
Senate Mr. Edmunds, and a male Congress, who
have already demonstrated, notwithstanding all
their cunning ingenuity and sophistry to gloss over
the ugly fact, how utterly impossible it is to touch
the question of plural marriage in Utah, except by
the passage of cruel, proscriptive, retroactive,
or ex-post-facto and unconstitutional laws, in-
cluding stringent, "religious test" oaths which are
directly forbidden by the Constitution, expunging
the rights of citizens without process of law, also
the violation of sacred contracts, and the disrup-
tion of pure and peaceful communities, and the
plundering of helpless families, and ruining them
by fines imprisonment and costs, inflicted upon
their natural protectors, and attempting the utter
spoliation of an industrious, peaceful, moral, re-
ligious and intelligent people, a people law abid-
ing from the beginning, and still so, in spite of the
illiberal, partial, cruel and unjust laws enacted ex-
clusively against them, and mercilessly and wanton-
ly enforced; the attempted political capture, and
degradation and corruption of one of the most
prosperous, best governed, purest, happiest, and
and blest Territories of the United States in-
volving untold and unspeakable anguish and sor-
row and misery, needlessly—wantonly upon hon-
orable men, innocent women and helpless children. 
Would all these evils become less if committed by 
the "Loziers" temporarily filling the seats of con-
gressmen? Could the women suffragists accom-
plish, under the Constitution, or by constitutional
means, what they have no warrant for doing, nay,
what they are forbidden to do by the constitution,
any more innocently or harmlessly than perfidious
politicians are now trying to do?
	There is but one way for them to do any different-
ly and that would be to wisely withdraw from the
attempt, as they only can do constitutionally, and
leave the great "Mormon problem" to settle itself.
But in the judgement of this lady, polygamy is a
"monster" which must be grappled with and
"killed!"  Thus her inconsistency becomes appar-
ant.  While she opposes interference by con-
gress with the established rights of female suff-
rage in Utah, she soundly berates Congress for
"shilly-shallying, lo for these many years" with
the Religion of the Latter-day Saints, and the
sacred rights of their plural marriage rights
established for long years before there


was any law of Congress making plural marriage
a misdemeanor, and with which constitutionally
Congress had no right to interfere; and because
Congress had not violently and without just cause
or provocation abolished plural marriage which
she regards without reason as a great “monster”
which should be killed.” O consistency! thou
art a jewel!”
	I am, affectionately, your sister in the Gospel.
								J. L. S


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DESERET UNIVERSITY.
CHANCELOR O. F. WHITNEY.
The Hon. Board of Regents, the Faculty and
	Students of the University.

	Ladies and Gentlemen—:I confess that I ap-
pear before you in the role of a speech-maker
on this occasion with a great deal of re-
luctance. The task of addressing an audience
like this is one so new and strange to me that
I naturally shrink from the undertaking. I
feel something like a boat loosed from its
moorings and left to drift wherever the winds
and waves list to carry it.
	But while the experience of this occasion is
entirely new to me, the subject upon which I
suppose it is expected I should say something—
that of education—is one that is near and dear
to my heart. Not because I am a practical
educator, or school teacher. for I am not; nor
because of the office which your legislative
representatives have done me the honor to place
upon me. But because I have a deep and
abiding interest in the great cause of human
advancement, and desire to befriend any and
all agencies having that as their object.
	Before me and around me are some of the
educators of the present and the future. Some
whose hairs are silvered with the frosts of com[-]
ing age, who are growing gray in the service
to which they have devoted the best part of
their lives; others, younger in years and ex-
perience, but active and efficient workers in
the tutelary harness; to these it would become
me to say but little. I was a schoolboy under
Dr. Park, as were also several members of the
present Board of Regents. I prefer to address
the burden of my remarks to another class—
those who are pupils still,or teachers who have
only just passed their novitiate, and are stand-
ing on the threshold of their professional
careers.
	If I say that a great future is opening up
before you, I say it not with the tongue of
flattery, but with the solemn voice of friendship.
Whether you become great to correspond with
that future is another thing entirely, and de-
pends largely upon the uses to which you put
the time allotted you, and the talents with
which you are endowed. These may be many
or few, but they are a sacred trust, a steward-
ship, for which an account must some day be
rendered to the Almighty Giver. It is our
duty to ourselves and society to prepare for
the responsiblities which life imposes, and then
discharge them faithfully and fearlessly as
fast as they come before us. You who have
attended to the first part of this requirement—
that of reparation—have done well, thus far.
It remains to be seen how you will perform the
rest.
	As to what constitutes greatness, opinions
may differ. I shall content myself with cit-
ing the definition given by the greatest Teacher
the world has ever seen—Him who “spake as
never man spake,” before or since. Said He:
“Whosoever will be great among you, let him
be your minister, and whosoever will be chief
among you, let him be your servant.” This,
then, is the pathway to glory and success; to
labor for the welfare of others. Greater is he
who serves, than he who is served and this is

[Column 2]
peculiarly the teacher's mission and oppor-
tunity.
	I hope there is no one here—nor do I believe
there is, who imagines himself or herself per-
fectly educated, and that nothing remains to
be acquired after leaving school.  I remember
hearing a child asked by its teacher—the first
one it had ever had—where it had learned its
letters, as it happened to have mastered the
alphabet at home. "I never did learn ’em,”
the little one replied, "I always knowed ’em,”
it being the child’s supposition that nothing
could be learned out of school! I have found
that some older children are imbued with the
same idea. The mind of man can never
cease to learn. At school we only sharpen and
make keen the weapons we are to use in the
great warfare awaiting us.
	But if it were possible, any time, for us to
comprehend within the scope of our narrow in-
tellectuality all human learning, we need not
suppose that even then we should “know it
all.” We live in a progressive age. The
present eclipses in many things the past, but
it is destined itself to be over shadowed by the
future. As we proceed, “Alps on Alps” will
arise to greet us, and the summit of one at-
tainment will only prove the point look out to
heights still unsurmounted. Much of the so-
called science of to-day may be the recognized
folly of to-morrow, and precious truths now
unknown, despised. or covered with the dust
of neglect, will yet be eagerly sought for and
prized as becomes their worth. “Eye hath not
seen, ear hath not heard, nor hath it entered
into the heart of man to conceive”of the sublime
possibilities locked up within the treasure
house of times to come. The sun of education
has scarcely more than dawned, even upon the
wisest minds. The highest hill tops are but
tipped with the golden splendors of its rising.
What do we dwellers in the valley know? The
windows of our minds should be ever open to
admit the sunlight of knowledge. Never let
conceit or bigotry close the shutters and draw
the blinds.
	There is a brighter day dawning, also for
our University. For many days it has been
passing through the narrows, and at times the
clouds have frowned darkly overhead. But it
will yet emerge out upon the broad ocean of
prosperity, where a clear sky and smooth sail-
ing await it. I feel that I but voice the senti-
ments of all who are here, and thousands more,
when I wish the officers, teachers and students
all, continued success, and long life to the
University of Deseret.

	 GOVERNOR WEST'S ADDRESS.

	Mr. President, Gentlemen of the Board of
Regents and Ladies and Gentlemen:

	I came here this morning to witness these
interesting exercises, not expecting to take any
part whatever in them. I am satisfied, with
you, that I have found much pleasure here and
I think also much profit. Of course in this
institution which is beginning its career of
glory, I feel some pride to know that I am
present on the occasion when it sends forth its
first accredited graduates. I think it is a
privilege which I will remember in long years
to come along with these young gentlemen who
have interested us with their beautiful well
considered addresses—that I with them will
look back to this day as one of honor and one
that I esteem highly. Now I would not have
said a word here except for the very flattering
call that this audience has made, and I hope
you will excuse the stammering manner in
which I speak. I hope that this insitution
will remain long and prosperous to educate the
youth of this land, and send them forth good
citizens, and noble men and women; and point
out lives for them that will bring blessings
 and honor, blessings also to those with whom
they associate, in all the private and public

[Column 3]
walks of life. God bless all efforts for educa-
tion and for improvement and for the rising of
poor humanity to that level that will entitle
them to citizenship in that other and better
world.


A GENTILE LETTER.

		CHICAGO, January 25th 1886.

DEAR AUNT MERCY:

	I need not say that I am always pleased to 
get a letter from you and Mary Jane. At 
first I was thinking of keeping all Mary Jane's
letters in one batch and yours in another, but
on looking it over I find your letters so de-
lightfully mixed that it would be like parting
the Siamese Twins to attempt to separate them,
so I keep them together. I have been just
counting the pages, and I find there are 52
solid pages of reading matter, and as I always
keep them about me I suppose they create a
sphere which instinctively makes me kick at
anything which I may happen to read or hear
against your people. You must not think be-
cause I am silent about it that I fail to read
all the special passages to which you and
cousin direct my attention, whether in the
Book of Mormon or in the Doctrine and
Covenants, but the fact is that my mind is in
just that particular mental state that I cannot
pronounce any definite opinion on them. I 
regret to say that so far failure has attended
my efforts in the direction of putting my
thoughts in some readable form, setting forth
my expressions in connection with my recent
visit to your City, and so I suppose I mu[-]t
give it up as a bad job. As a matter of fac[-]
however, my visit among you has impress[--]
me very favorably as compared with all my
previous notions about your people and be-
lief, and apart from any other consideration.
I am glad that I have had the opportunity of 
remaining for a while in Salt Lake City, as
I have been enabled to use my own eyes and
ears to assist me in forming a judgment as to
what Mormonism really is, and what
kind of people the Mormons are. The
Christian world have made up their minds that
you are all a bad lot, and so that's the end of
it.  Having prejudged your case so emphatic-
ally, it is no wonder that the press studiously 
conceal anything that may happen to be re-
ported in your favor, and no wonder that they
vie with each other in bringing into promi-
nence anything and everything that can possi-
bly be construed as derogatory to your religion,
and thereby pander to the popular prejudice.
     The fact is that there is a great deal about the
Mormon faith that is peculiar, and opposed to
our modern notions of civilization, and which
without sufficient explanation is very apt to
mislead people generally into very wrong con-
clusions.  For instance, the theocratic element 
in your religion lays you open to the charge 
of disloyalty, and I suppose you will admit
that you would all gladly hail the re-establish-
ment of the theocracy  of the olden time
when God was wont to rule his people both in 
temporal as well as in spiritual matters, and
for the matter of that I venture to say that
every sincere Christian, whether Mormon or 
Gentile would rejoice at the advent of Him
of whom it is said that thrones and principali-
ties and dominions are to be made subject to
Him I would be very sorry to say or think
that there was necessarily any disloyalty in in-
dulging in these glorious anticipations. but the
world, blind to spiritual things, is very apt to
associate the expression of such sentiments
with disloyalty,—so it was over 1800 years ago.
and human nature is pretty much the same
now as it was then.  Then again the doctrine
of Plural Marriage is one at which people hold
up their hands in holy horror.  My instincts.


[Column 1]are all in favor of single marriage, but my
short visit to Salt Lake has taught me at least
this one lesson that Mormon polygamy is a
totally different thing from that which is prac-
tised in Eastern countries, with which it is
often confounded, subject as it is to such re-
strictions as must prevent a really immoral
man from entering into it with the sanction of
your Church. There can be no question with
those who sincerely believe the word of God
that it was once [-]ractised with the Divine ap-
proval, but then it is contended that slavery
was likewise a permitted institution, and that 
it is in the order of God's providence that 
both these should be done away with in the
onward progress of society, that in their place
and time they both served a useful purpose,
but that neither of them was intended to be
permanent; and that now society has outgrown
all such conditions. I am not learned enough
to enter into any argument upon this subject,
but I am free to admit that while I was in
your city, I certainly failed to see any of the
terrible effects which the practice of polygamy
is popularly supposed to produce. I
must say that the families which I visited ap-
peared to be very comfortable and happy, and
as far as I could see the greatest harmony
prevailed among them contrary, of course, to
what I was led to expect, as I had been told
that just as inevitably as that 2 and 2 make 4
so polygamy introduces in the family relation-
ship, the element of discord, but judging from
what I saw and heard there was no indication
that this was the case with your people.
	I have had the pleasure of an introduction to
a,few of the "victims" of this terrible evil, but
instead of the ladies observing the prudent
silence which I naturally looked for with re-
gard to this matter, I was surprised to find
that they, one and all expressed themselves
quite unreservedly about it, and in terms of
unqualified approval. The average Gentile,
you know believes that "multiplication is
vexation", but evidently the Mormon is doing
his best to multiply and replenish the waste
places of the earth, and he believes in having
his [-]quiver full of them," and that, too, with
the full concurrence of the Leahs and the
Rachels. It was certainly very novel to me to
hear them style each other "brothers" and
"sisters"; this implies a very close relationship,
and the natural inference is that you feel
something of the same filial affection towards
one another which members of the same family
are supposed to have, and whatever objections
may be urged against your religion this feature
of it is certainly worthy of all praise. Again
I notice that you have the greatest confidence
in the rulers of your Church, believing as you
do that they are guided in the administration
of your affairs by Him who cannot err. Now
I am sure if Christians generally could believe
as you do in this matter they would not only
cease their opposition but gladly enlist them[-]
selves in your ranks, but that is just where
they decidedly differ from you; and in fact do
not hesitate to brand you as a priest ridden
and all that sort of thing. Whatever may be
the truth in regard to this, however, it is clear
to me from the manner in which your rulers
have looked after your temporal interests, that
they are men of remarkable sagacity. In the
first place they could hardly have selected a
more beautiful spot than Salt Lake and its en-
virons, although in the light of recent events
they might have chosen a safer one, but I re-
fer more particularly to the arrangements which
are made to meet the requirements of the emi-
grant, be he poor or otherwise, who perhaps
from a distant land and speaking a different
language comes for the first time to your little
Zion, as apart from the substantial assistance
he may derive from your admirable tithing 
regulations,he receives what to him is of inesti-
mable value the very best advice from men

[Column 2]
competent to give it, as to where and how he
may advantageously locate himself and family,
and is in no danger as men similarly circum-
stanced in the East often are of being defraud-
ed by unprincipled agents. It is further credit-
able to you that you have no paupers among
you, owing, as I understand, to your system of
house to house visitation,whereby the temporal
as well as the spiritual needs of your people
are carefully enquired into and promptly at-
tended to. The fact that industry and economy
are regarded by you as a part of your religion
may also to some extent account for the ab-
sence of this pauper element; of course under
any circumstances it is not to be looked for to
any great extent in a small community like
yours, as compared with more largely popu-
lated cities, but the methods which you adopt
appear to me to be singularly well adapted for
nipping anything of the kind in the bud, and
assuming that you are destined to grow into
a great people, you have only to persist in your
present course, and I do not see how you can
ever be cursed with this evil. It is true that
if you continue to set up what you conceive to
be God's will in opposition to established law
there will be many individual cases of suffer-
ing, but in this matter it appears you are all
pledged to contribute help where help is really
needed. So that after all you are not entirely 
without your good qualities despite the whole-
sale denuncication which is meted out to you
by your enemies,but the fact still remains that
you are Mormons, and that settles the matter
in the eyes of the civilized world. I am sorry
for you, but I suppose it cannot be helped. It
was confidently hoped that Judge Zane would
bring you to your senses, but so far I do not
think he can congratulate himself upon his
success; he was doubtless under the impression
that his pitiless measures would be met with
some sort of compromise on your part, and did
not take into his calculations that what he
wished you to concede was a vital part of
your reliigion.
	And now, dear Aunt, I am sure you will be
tired of this long winded letter, but as I did
not reply to your letter sooner I thought I
would make up for my remissness by sending
you a long epistle.	*	*	*	*	*
			Your affectionate nephew.
						WM. THOMPSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WEST SIDE CACHE VALLEY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—There was a district confer-
ence of the Primaries of Clarkston, Newton
and Trenton held at this place May 22nd, 1886.
We were favored with the presence and good
counsel of Sisters Molen and Burton of the
Presidency of the Primaries, also Sister
Adeline Barber, President of the Relief Society
of this Stake, and Sister Hopukina, from the
Sandwich Islands. Meeting opened with sing-
ing, “Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by John
Jardine. Singing, “We want to see the Tem-
ple.” Coun. Sarah Shumway asked the ques-
tions from the Bible question book, which
were answered in a very creditable manner.
Recitation, Sarah Stewart, of the Clarkston
Primary; Song, Ann Funk, of the Newton
Primary, “Take me back to Home and Mother.”
Sister Hopukina spoke a short time in her na-
tive language. Adam Godfrey of Clarkston
recited verses from the Testament; Mary Bar-
ker of Newton recited verses from the Testa-
ment; Song, Martha Rigby and Minnie Funk,
of Newton; Dialogue, Olive Beck and Minnie
Funk, of Newton. Prest. Elizabeth Griffin
reported the Primary of Newton to be in good 
working condition. Song,  Eliza Barson,
Sylvai Thompson and Agness Shumway, of


Clarkston. Prest. Caroline G. Thompson re-
ported the Primary of Clarkston to be doing
well.  Sadie Shumway spoke a piece—“Not fit
to be kissed;” Recitation, Sarah Jensen and
Jeanie Barker, of Newton. Sister Maud Bur-
ton spoke a short time on the Word of Wisdom.
Recitation, Sarah Ann Jensen, of Clarkston,
“Our Baby.” Bishop John Jardine spoke a 
few minntes. Sister Barber spoke on Temple
duties. Peter Jensen of Newton spoke a piece,
“The Crow;” Agnes Shumway of Clarkston
recited “Ben Fisher;” Sister Hopukina sang a
song;Sister Barker of Newton and Prest. Mary
Griffin of Clarkston each made remarks. Jane
Molen then addressed us; talked on a great
many interesting topics, and all felt to rejoice.
Bishop John Jardine moved that we give the
sisters a vote of thanks for their visit to us.
Prest. Caroline G. Thompson also thanked the
sisters for their visit, and thus passed one of the
best days ever spent on the west side of Cache
Valley. Singing, “Lord dismiss us." Bene-
diction by Coun. K. A. Jensen.
		  Your sister in the Gospel,
				   SUSAN J. JENSEN, Sec.


WOMEN HOME MISSIONARIES.

	Mrs. Mary Freeze, President of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. L.
Crowther, of Logan, left the latter place to
visit the Oneida Stake, with Mrs. Fox, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of that Stake, and
her two Counselors, in behalf of the Relief 
Society. District Conferences were appointed
at Malad, Oxford, Gentile Valley,Mink Creek
and Franklin, at all of which places the
Young Ladies' and Primaries were also met
with. Ten or twelve meetings were held dur-
ing the ten days trip, all of which were
sustained by the priesthood and brethren,
old and young. They drove about one hun-
dred and fifty miles, and some of the roads in
that new country are not the best in the
world. The courtesy of the brethren, who
drove, the generous hospitality of the sisters,
and the gracious welcome and kindly greet-
ings of all will never be forgotton. The
memory of the exercises of the young will
ever be a pleasing one to all who listened; the
clear bird like voices of the boys, girls and
young ladies seemed inspirational, and the
gentle grace with which the calls were re-
sponded to, especially considering they had
not been notified, gives the result of training
of Sabbath schools, Primaries and other or-
ganizations, and places them above praise.
	The teaching of the visiting sisters was re-
ceived with attention and gratitude; but there
is a dark side to the picture; viz., the warfare
made upon us by our enemies. Three of our
brethren left Mink Creek on the same morn-
ing we did, to go to Blackfoot to receive sen-
tence for keeping the laws of God; others
went from Franklin, and though their hearts
must have been torn and bleeding, they
parted with wives and little ones with a forti-
tude born of minds in which God reigns.
	Some of the traveling sisters were also
passing through the fire, and were therefore
well prepared to give sympathy and kind
words of counsel and consolation. Still an-
other sad case was witnessed by them of a girl-
wife, whose condition calls forth the sorrowing
sympathy of all who look upon her sweet sad
face. Through the gross usage she received at
Blackfoot, and the imprisonment of her hus-
band her reason has been entirely dethroned.
He, after six months absence, returned to find
her in this pitiable condition. When the
Lord comes out of his hiding  place to take 
vengeance on the wicked,who would wish to be a 
U. S. Judge?
	On Sunday, the 23rd, Mrs. Presendia Kim[-]
ball, Mrs. Zina Young and Mrs. Zina Y


Williams visited Franklin and all attended
meetings together.
		ELIZABETH L. CROWTHER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S VOICE.
	
	Woman's voice should be heard in defense
of her rights, those of her family, and of all
she holds dear. A true patriotic spirit and
feeling should actuate her to do good in any
and every sphere, though she may be derided
 under the appellation of "female rooster."
There are some of the opposite gender who
would intimidate us and try to make us be-
lieve we do not know anything but to wash,
scrub, make or mend for the whole household.
Do not be daunted, my sisters, in raising your
voices in the cause of truth and justice; we 
have immortal souls, and have a right to think
and act according to our honest convictions
and aspirations. 'Tis woman who moulds and
forms the minds of both men and women, and
that first teaches them to lisp their infant
prayers; who,by her watchful eye, attentive ear
and wordsof advice and caution,leads and guides
for good the rising generation, when father is
away, or too busy to attend, as many give evi-
dence, to such little affairs, as they would
term it, that are woman's duty. A mother has
this weighty, important duty,  besides tending
to outside affairs, when the father is absent, or
should he, through sickness, be incapable of
attending to his business. Mother of sheer
necessity must take hold, not only in her own
affairs, as some are pleased to term it, but she
must also give her mind and strength in the
direction of where bread and butter comes
from, and if a widow, left with several small
children, and no provision made by her hus-
band, in case of such an event, is left to her
own resources to battle with the stern realities
of life. Woman, what would be your lot then
if you knew nothing beyond home duties: if
your thoughts, and the reason with which God
has endowed you, had not many times reverted
in other directions.
	Then exercise your God-given intelligence,
and rank side by side with your partner, and 
help him to see and realize that women have
rights and privileges;exert your energies and in-
fluence in and outside the home circle;maintain
your sense of justice and exercise it; go to the
polls and vote for municipal and other officers,
who are to conduct affairs to which you and 
your children are to be subject; have a voice
in whatever concerns your relative welfare and
the welfare of the community in which you
live.
	Can a settlement or nation be built up with-
out the aid of woman? Verily, no; the man
is not without the woman in the Lord, and 
vice versa.
	Away with such narrow-mindedness that
says woman's voice must not be heard except
at home or trying to lead her children. One
of our leading men of to-day taught in my
hearing, if any one needs language to talk 'tis
woman, to teach, guide and counsel her off-
spring, that by her tongue, good actions and
wise example a noble race of men and women
may spring up, that will learn to govern king-
doms.
     Then, woman, strive to gain an intelligent,
patriotic spirit, that you may diffuse the same
through your household, that those going out
therefrom may not be misinformed, or ignorant,
and know nothing but to eat, drink and sleep.
If there are men who do not know your worth
and position before your Maker, show them
that you sense it, and that it is not out of
a woman's line to comprehend the stateof affairs
by which she is governed. Sisters, let us not
lie dormant and see our brethren and sisters
trampled upon, as it were, and insulted by
self-asserted powers and unjust laws. I rejoice
in the spirit and influence of such women as

[Column 2]
assembled at the theatre in Mass Meeting to
pass resolutions and protest against such un-
lawfulness. Jeers aud uncouth remarks should
not deter us from our duty, when we know, by
our God given agency we are right; shall we
stand by as mere blocks, as though we had no
sense or reason in our natures? No, it does
not meet the end sought, for this is a perverse
generation; you will be happy in the thought
and consciousness of having done your part to-
ward ameliorating the wrongs against this peo-
ple. Can any one possessing the Spirit of 
God stand meekly by and their hearts not be
stirred by such indignities? I say no, no! we
may be learning to govern ourselves, and if
our enemies smite us upon one cheek, turn to
them the other also; but may our hearts ever 
beat in unison with the Spirit of God to dictate
us in the affairs of life, is my prayer.
						   M. A. TILL.
Provo.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mary Anderson is to have her portrait
painted in character, as "Salammbo," by Alma
Tadema.

	Miss Mary F. Eastman will speak on the
Indian Qustion at the coming meeting of the
Progressive Friends, at Longwood, Penn.

	The Queen Regent of Spain will maintain
and educate at her private expense the chil-
dren of those who perished in the recent tor-
nado at Madrid.

	One of the newly-appointed directors of the
People's Bank in Stockholm is a women.

	The publishers of Miss Cleveland's book say
that it has had a larger sale than was se-
cured for Queen Victoria's book in England.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar sailed Saturday May
29, for Ireland to study the Irish question
among the people. She expects to return
about September 2.

	The sixteenth aniversary of Dicken's de-
cease was celebrated at Boffin's Bower (1031
Washington Street,) Boston, June 9.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 25, 1886, as follows:
	Anna Dormitzer, New York, N. Y., Paint
and Brush Bucket.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Alpine, Utah, Elvira Healy, beloved wife of
Hyrum Healy, and daughter of John and Elvira Carson,
born February 28th, 1852; died May 24th, 1886. De-
ceased was an exemplary wife and mother, devoted to her
religion and family. She will be missed by many living
friends. Deceased leaves a husband and four beautiful
little children to mourn her loss.

									MYRA.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of 
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address, DAVID JAMES, Box [---] SALT LAKE CITY.

[Column 2]
"Domestic!"
The Sewing Machine of the Age!
5,000 Now in Use in Utah.

[Vertical Writing on the Left Side]
Light Running! Noiseless! Simple!
Strong! Durable! Reliable! Elegant!

[Sketch of a Sewing Machine]

[Vertical Writing on the Right Side]
Will do Finer or Heavier Work than Any
other Sewing Machine. It has been 
In the Market 23 Years.

Young Brothers,
38 Main Street,	Old Constitution Building,
SALT LAKE CITY,
"Domestic."

ESTABLSIHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1886.		No. 8


THE FARM HOME.

You're weary grown, my girls and boys,
	Of this calm, quiet country life;
You long again for city scenes,
	The busy spirit and its strife;
You miss the lights adown the streets,
	The bands of music, daily news;
Could choice direct us, and not need,
	I, too, that brighter life would choose.

Yet here in grandeur, mountains rise,
	And every month new beauties bring,
From autumn's wealth of richest dyes
	To graceful tints of lovely spring;
And birds that charm and lure thee on;
	And luscious fruits, that few can buy,
While gentle creatures of our own
	Reward our care and please the eye.

The girls, with weary patience, still
	Keep on their way, as women do,
But boys will stop a hundred times
	Some gay-winged creature to pursue;
And when recalled, their flying steps
	Halt all the way through blooming clover—
"O, I'm so tired, I'm almost dead,
	It only needs the pushing over."

But yet the time will come to them,
	It may be many years from now,
When they'll remember with a laugh
	The ills that shadowed childhood's brow;
They'll recollect the walnut trees,
	Whose bower-like branches droop around,
And how they gathered in the fall
	The nuts where leaves o'er spread the ground.

They'll recollect the trees that bore
	The earliest fruit, the latest, too,
Their garden patches, where each one
	Planted just what it pleased them to;
And how they played at hide and seek
	All through the orchard long and wide,
And laughed at bare legs dangling down
	From boughs where some one sat astride.

They'll recollect how once there came—
	When snow was deep and night wind cold,
A man of prayer and prophecy—
	Of hymns he sang and truths he told;
That seemed like legends pure and sweet,
	Yet of the future, not the past;
And how the present, humble poor
	Would end in blessings at the last.

Thanks be to Him for this retreat,
	Where worldly teachers have no place,
And may He guard our humble home
	By His own power and His grace;
Here may God's lessons and His love
	Grow in their souls each year, each day,
Deep rooted trees, that, reaching high,
	No storms can break or tear away.

This spot of earth, so lowly now,
	Within their memory yet will be
The sacred center where drew round
	The visions of futurity.
From missionary fields afar,
	My boys, at times, in thought will turn
To this, the altar of their hearts,
	With deeper love its worth to learn.

And on the silver string of time,
	Mem'ry will gather for my  girls
Souls here they loved and truths they found
	Worth more than gold—more pure than pearls.
And when o'er all these fields so fair
	Ten thousand Saints their dwellings rear,
Not lonely then, I'll see them smile,
	Contented that our home is here.

			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, June [-]0th, 1886.


[Column 1]
	PRINCESS STREET, EDINBURGH

	It is said that Princess Street, Edinburgh, is
the finest in the world, and one can readily be-
lieve it. It is the first one sees, whichever of
the two lines of railroad he may enter the
city by. In olden times the celebrated Castle
Hill, a position almost impregnable, was par-
tially surrounded by a moat, which in later
days was converted into a large canal, or dock.
The Edinburgh then existing was built on the
side of the dock on which the Castle is situated,
and is now known as "Old Edinburgh," as dis-
tinguished from the modern part of this re-
markably beautiful city. On the old side the
buildings were of irregular height, yet built
comparatively together, and followed the shape
of the ground, which rises as it runs toward
the west, and terminates abruptly in a huge
cliff or overhanging the precipice, on the verge of
which is built the walls surrounding the Castle.
As the eye travels from the east to the west,
noting the old fashioned architecture of the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which is still
preserved, with its delightful irregularity and
bold projections intermingled with portions as
deepened in shadow as the other is full with
light, the Castle (towering above on a hill or
cliff whose perpendicular sides are of impreg-
nable rock) fulfills the purpose of a climax,
and is one of sure magnificence and unques-
tioned grandeur. As the buildings have fol-
lowed the line of the old docks, of course they
run nearly east and west. But a small portion
of this once water way is now used as a rail-
way depot, while the remainder has been con-
verted into one of the sweetest and most at-
tractive public gardens the eye could wish to
rest on. These gardens are in breadth perhaps
150 rods or more, with the exception of the
portion used for the railway, and being of an
undulating character, give opportunity for
that pleasing variety which is the charm of
landscape gardening. Running east and west
along the north side of these gardens is Prin-
cess Street, the right side skirting the gardens,
and the north devoted to business places—the
principal hotels, club houses and fashionable
business establishments being located on it.
	Here "New Edinburgh" begins. Going over
to the north side of the gardens, one can either
ascend their grassy slopes, or climb an eleva-
tion in the "old city,” [-]ud, till his heart fills
with pleasure, gaze down o[-] the fair-grounds
and view the new or modern Edinburgh
stretching away for miles beneath his feet,
while from the north, or new side, the bold
front of Castle Hill, and the broken and fan-
tastic architecture of the old city lend a charm
to the intervening gardens, that is inexpressibly
captivating. The view is materially enhanced
because of the absence of anything to break
the prospect. The only buildings between
Princess Street, for the length of the gardens,
and "old Edinburg," are the Academy of De-
signs and the Art Gallery. The rare beauty
of Princess Street is due to this unbroken
view of the old city and to the breadth of
view and unlimited variety of scenery it pre-
sents (from frowning and massive cliffs and
undulating and grassy slopes to the terraced
walks, rural retreats and health distilling foun-
tains embraced within the remarkably limited
area of the gardens) and not because of the
magnificence of the buildings which, (though
they are fairly massive and pleasing to the eye)
adorn it on the north side, and mark the be

[Column 2]
ginning of new Edinburgh. Another feature
which contributes to the beauty of this street
is the superb monument of Sir Walter Scott,
which stands at the north east corner of the
gardens, and looks like an unwearying sentinel,
visible alike from the new and the old side. At
the east end of the street rises the Calton Hill.
On this, and over looking Princess Street,
stands the monument to Nelson. Still further
east, though not so high, but on the same emin-
ence, are the few fluted columns which mark
the spot where Edinburgh began the erection
of a monument to Scotland's greatest lyrist,
Robert Burns. Because, however, of a failure
of her citizens to contribute, and their nig-
gardly refusal to accede to the modest request
of Glasgow (that the Glasgow coat of arms
might be placed on the monument when com-
pleted, conditioned upon her furnishing suffi-
cient means to complete the magnificent work)
it remains as though only commenced, and is
now popularly known os "Scotland's Disgrace."
Still further away is the highest point in the
vicinity, which is also visible from this street,
called "Arthur's Seat." Walking the length
of this rare street, and it is not very long, one
can see that which will delight alike the ad-
mirer of old styles of architecture, as shown
in "Old Edinburgh;" the student of history
whose ancient lore is revealed by the silent
tongue of the old Castle and its scarred and
precipitous foundation; the lover of modern
civilization as displayed in parks and architec-
ture of a more recent date, and those who love
nature in her varied forms. There is no season,
no hour, when this street does not present a
succession of scenes of rare beauty and sublimi-
ty. The gray and rosy dawn, the deepening
twilight, the cloudy hours, the full blaze of the
mid-day sun, or its first rays or fading tints,
the tender glory of the young moon, and the
broader, fuller and purer light of the glowiug
orb of night with its deeper shadows, each re-
veals beauties known only to itself, and in
forms that vary with the changing hours. The
old city with its rugged front looks like another
world in the darkened night, when from out
the numberless windows (which rise higher
and higher above the unfathonable blackness
beneath) the light gleams forth, just as we
might imagine fires, in infinite numbers, burst-
ing through a solid and impregnable wall, so
high that the blue sky and its starry gems
seem to rest upon its serried and broken bat-
tlements. And when the soft haze of linger-
ing eve, mellowed by the tender and loving
glory of a rising moon, reveals but dimly the
outlines, toning down and hiding the deep
scars in the rugged cliff, it seems like some
fair world lifted far up into the azure heavens,
so ethereal and tender that even a breath
might dissolve, yet inaccessinle because of the
solemn darkness beneath. Is it a wonder that
this street should be the unrivalled?
							R. W. S.


THE BISHOP OF DURHAM ON
		WOMEN'S EDUCATION.

	The Bishop of Durham yesterday presented
the prizes to the pupils of the Stockton High
School for Girls, and in the course of an ad-
dress remarked that when he was informed that
sound religious instruction was given in the
school, he decided to accept the invitation to
be present. (Applause.) A man without re-


ligion appeared to him to be a very sorry crea-
tute—indeed, only half a man; but a woman
without religion was a libel on humanity.
(Applause.) The education of women was
becoming every day more important. There
were many reasons for this. First of all,
there was the reason as old as the hills, that
women were the great educators of the human
race. There was another reason,and that was,
that besides their home influence, women
were every day taking a more conspicuous part
in literature—(hear, hear)—and there was one
branch of literature which they had made es-
pecially their own. He referred, of course, to
fiction. Now, there was no greater influence
in morals or religion than the novel or ro-
mance, no greater influence for good or for
evil. And this department of literature, as
he had said, women had made especially their
own. A third reason for the higher education
of women was that avenues of scholastic and
professional life were opening to them in every
direction. Girls' schools of divers grades
were increasing daily, and there could be no
more honorable profession for a lady than that
of training young girls. (Applause.) In 
other ways, too, the work of women was daily
more appreciated. We had our deaconesses
and missionaries, and certainly no persons could
do more useful work for the Church of Christ
than those deaconesses and missionaries. (Ap-
plause) Regarding accomplishments, he had
not a word to say against them in themselves,
It might be a very good thing—he dare say it
was—to train young ladies in music, whether
they had an ear for it or not. (Laughter.) It
was a valuable discipline, no doubt, and per-
haps to a certain extent it might supply the
natural defect. He would not go into the sub-
ject, but what he wished to protest against was
regarding accomplishments as education. His
lordship then presented the prizes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
		WINTER QUARTERS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	As our thoughts and interests were now
centered upon the Pioneers, it may prove in-
teresting to learn of their whereabouts, and
how they were faring about the time of Bro.
Clayton's arrival, with others, at Winter Quar-
ters. The following extracts are from my hus-
band's journal, commencing September the
30th, which day they passed Chimney Rock
and "encamped at five p.m. on the banks of the
river, opposite a French and Indian camp, 
consisting of ten lodges."
	"The man who has charge of this camp is a
Frenchman by the name of Rashaw, who is
hired to kill game for the inhabitants of Fort
John.	*	*	Two Indians visited our
camp this evening. Col. Markham went by
appointment over to the Indian camp to make
some trades with them for the brethren. I
sent by him a horn of powder to sell for the
money. He returned about eight this evening
with the intelligence that the Frenchmen had
proposed if we would stay here to-morrow and
assist them in hunting buffaloes they would
give us half the game that should be killed. 
Accordingly, it was decided to accept of the
offer, and orders were issued this evening that
no man should leave the camp in the morning
without permission of his captain." 
	The morning of the 1st of October he
wrote, "Some ten or twelve Indians passed our
camp and went out hunting.  Brigham, Heber
and several others also went out on horseback
—they returned about 4 p.m.;  had seen quite a 
large herd of buffalo cows, but when they
came to them found George R. Grant chasing

[Column 2]
them so that they could not get a fair shot;
owing to this and Mr. Rashaw with his men
not appearing to assist them in the hunt they
did not secure any game themselves."
	Mr. Rashaw afterwards informed them that
he had instructed the Indians to kill more
than they themselves wanted and give the sur-
plus quantity to our brethren. He speaks of
going to the Indian lodges with George Bil-
lings and John Buchanan, where they "ex-
changed a small quantity of salt, powder, and
a powder horn for considerable tallow and
meat. A number of others made exchanges
of a like nature with the squaws, who visited
the camp during the day." 
	That evening they learned that the Indians 
who went out in the morning had killed about
twenty cows, but whether they would be bene-
fitted by it or not, they had no knowledge.
The same day Commodore Stockton and com-
pany, who were from the Bay of San Francisco, 
came in sight and encamped three or four
miles from there. The morning of the 2nd a
messenger (Col. Little) was dispatched to the
camp of Commodore Stockton to ascertain his
intentions about accompanying them. The
messenger brought the news that he intended
to cross the river and take the way to St. 
Joseph, Mo., as he thought that to be a much
nearer road to the states than the one the
pioneers were pursuing. President Young, 
father and others of the brethren dined with
the Commodore, and the same day some of 
the pioneers "bought a number of horses, and
Dr. Richards one cow, of the Frenchmen."
	"We renewed our journey at 8 a.m., *	*
and encamped on the banks of the river op-
posite the ancient Bluff Ruins, near which N. 
Fairbanks was bitten by a rattlesnake on our
journey out." 
	They traveled very slowly, owing to the de-
lays occasioned by the killing of buffaloes, as
it was considered good policy to lay up a sup-
ply of meat while they had the opportunity, 
most of the camp depending solely upon that
for subsistence; being entirely destitute of 
flour and other provisions. The evening of
the 4th it was thought advisable to raise volun-
teers to go ahead on foot to arrest the progress
of the ox teams. Amasa Lyman with twelve
others volunteered to go on this expedition.  
"A letter was written and signed by the Presi-
dent and Dr. Richards to the captains of the
company ahead, containing instructions for
them to stop and kill buffaloes and dry the
meat till they should come up, that they might
relieve them of some of their wagons, or of
the loads in them. They were well armed and
started before daylight the next morning. The
camp overtook two of them the day following
—John Buchanan and John Crow—the former
had been taken sick, and was obliged to stay
behind. They stated that the rest left there
the night before at eleven o'clock, and were in-
tending to travel all night."
	On the 7th he notes down the following
amusing incident, which occurred soon after
they left their noon halting place. "Brother
Woodruff with his carriage, Dr. Richards, 
Bro. Benson and a number of others, includ-
ing myself, had preceded the wagons about
half a mile, when all at once we noticed, stand
ing by the side of the road, within a few yards
of us, a buffalo bull of rare size. Bro. Ben-
son rode up close to him, but he would not re-
treat an inch; on the contrary, shaking his
head fiercely and elevating his back, he mani
fested evident symptoms of hostility towards
us, and would, no doubt, have made an attack
upon us had we not been so numerous; as it
was he remained firm and immovable as if he
were lord of the soil, and possessed both the
power and inclination to dispute successfully
the passage of the road. We finally caused
him to flee, after the teams came up, by send
ing our dogs after him."

[Column 3]
	The same day he mentions meeting a party
of mountaineers on their way from Independ-
ence, Mo., to Fort John. They had seen the
pioneers from the other side of the river, and
came over for the purpose of holding an inter-
view. "Their leader gave his name and title
as Captain Walker. Their numbers were
eight men. "Captain Walker imparted some
news to us of a general nature, which we were
not before in possession of, concerning the war
between the United States and Mexico; we
learned that after some little cessation it was
now being prosecuted with renewed vigor.	*
He also stated that packet steamers were now
plying regularly between St. Louis and Coun-
cil Bluffs; that we would find plenty of buffalo
for a hundred or more miles, as we passed
along down the Platte River. He himself
intends to proceed as far as Fort Bridger, and
for aught he knows, to Weber's Fork, near the
Salt Lake. A number of letters were written
by different ones to send by him to the valley. 
*	*	After spending about an hour with
Captain Walker and his comrades we bade
them farewell and pursued our journey."
	They encamped at 5 p.m., having made
twelve miles that day. He says the grass here
was comparatively green and high—fuel, buffalo
chips, as usual. Soon after our arrival this
evening our Frenchmen came, bringing with
them a letter which they found in a stick by
the side of the road, near a creek about a mile
below here. This, on being opened, proved to
be from Wm. Clayton. It stated that they
had passed here the 1st of Oct, being six days
ahead of us, and were intending to continue
on till they should arrive at some place where
there is plenty of wood, and there make a
short delay while they should procure an ad-
ditional quantity of buffalo meat, several of
them being short of provisions.	*	*
We also learned that they travelled from fif-
teen to twenty miles a day, and if this be the
case they must be a hundred or more miles in
advance of us.  Appended to the letter were
a few lines from Amasa Lyman, stating his
determination to overtake them, if he had to
follow them to Winter Quarters."
	The morning of the 8th, after proceeding a
mile we saw the stake in which the letter writ-
ten by Wm. Clayton was found. "On one
side of this was inscribed the following:  '12, 
B. Y. and Council—A. L.' The last two letter
are the initials of Amasa Lyman, and were
probably written by him as he and his com-
rades passed along. Here the ox teams had
encamped, and there were evident signs that
they had remained a day or two."
	"A large band of elk made their appearance
upon the brow of the hill to our left. Two or
three brethren went out to get a shot at them, 
but soon returned without success: Two of
our Frenchmen, being mounted on mules, suc-
ceeded in killing one of them." The same
evening he mentions himself and his brother
Orson being quite unwell, owing to their using
so much meat, as they had not tasted of any
other kind of food for three weeks.  He also
wrote, "My pony, continuing to fail rapidly, 
to-night I turned him loose, considering that
it was as well for him to live and be stolen by
the Indians, as to die by starvation among
us."
	This was the day that our brethren started
from Winter Quarters to meet them, and there
was certainly good cause for the anxious fears
which filled our bosoms and stimulated us to
pray without ceasing, not only for the pioneers, 
but that the Lord would speed the brethren on
the way to their rescue.


Miss Alice Fisher, of Terre Haute, will
read the Declaration of Independence at the
Knights of Labor and Trades Unions' Fourth
of July celebration in that city.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Nellie Emmeline, beloved daughter of Manson J. and 
Fanny B. Woodward, departed this life in Atchison, Kan., 
Sunday, 2 a.m., Jan. 31st, 1886, aged twenty-six years and 
ten months.

	Ours is the loss and the sorrow,
		Ours is the grief and the pain,
	Thine the eternal to-morrow, 
		And thine the heavenly gain;
	Ransomed and freed from earth-travail,
		Ever at rest from its strife,
	Beyond temptation and trial,
		Restored through death unto life.

	Though thy form from sight has vanished,
		And the dark grave claimed its own,
	Purer thy spirit's adorning,
		Fairer its heavenly home.
	Angelic voices are calling,
		"Look over the darkness and gloom,
	Behold!  the merciful angel 
		Stands by the unsealed tomb."
							L. M. HEWLIINGS.


[For the EXPONENT.]

	TO BEREAVED FRIENDS.

		BY L. M. HEWLINGS.

Ah, fain in this hour of sorrow
	Would I give thee comfort and cheer, 
For I, too. have passed through deep waters,
	So deep they have brought forth soul-tears;
Still a sweet voice kept me from sinking,
	And banished all doubting and fears. 

But the dark, rough waves of affliction,
	Some bright pearls have cast on time's shore, 
And gems of rich faith that pre-vision
	A land where the storms come no more, 
And a city that hath its foundations, 
	Where sad tears are shed never more,

Trust, then, your beloved with Jesus, 
	Dwell not on the dark cypress shade, 
Nor of only the earthly raiment
	That 'neath it in sorrow was laid;
Look up to the Risen Redeemer, 
	Who triumphed o'er death and the grave. 

Though tenderest ties have been riven,
	Each link from life's golden chain
Bound firm in this earthly home round them, 
	Will there be perfected again, 
And pure as in Youth's early morning, 
	They wait in a land freed from pain. 

Sweet pledges of love have been given, 
	That will solace the lone hearts bereft,
And cheer, as glad sunshine, the dwellings
	Which loved ones in weakness have left—
In sweet infant smiles and caressings, 
	There's balm for the sorrowing breast. 

Dear Omnipotent Father of love!
	Give us strength to say, "It is well,"
And to place our affections above,
	Where the Lord's own ransomed shall dwell,
And in peace the green pastures rove,
	Where never is heard funeral knell.

There's no pain, nor sickness, nor dying,
	There the River of Life flows on,
And flowers never fade nor wither
	In that clime of the "Great Beyond,"
Where the Blessed in shining raiment
	Roam the Evergreen fields of morn.

Atchison, Kan.


[Column1]
		FOREIGN LETTER.

	We left Chicago the 28th of April, and
sailed from New York on the first of May on
the S. S. Servia for Liverpool. We had a 
rough voyage. Five of the sailors were
washed from the rigging on to the main deck
by the gale on the second day out; one was in-
stantly killed; another died some days after,
and all of them were seriously hurt. On ac-

[Column 2]
count of the storm we were two days late in
reaching Liverpool, and owing to that fact we
had the pleasure of seeing Queen Victoria, who
was there to open the International Exposi-
tion, and the first time she had been there for
thirty-five years; she drove past the hotel where
we were staying twice in an open carriage, so
that we had a good view of the "fine old lady;"
she is rather good looking, but dresses very
plainly.
	We went from Liverpool to Manchester, the
great manufacturing city of England, there we
visited the Board of Trade, where the price of
cotton is fixed for the whole world. We also
went to the Court of Assizes and there were the
grey wigs, the gowns and knee breeches worn
by the Judges, the Lawyers and Jury, which 
we only see on the stage at home,all using quill
pens.
	We visited the Town Hall and many
other places in Manchester, and then went on
to London, passing through many towns whose
names were familiar, such as Rugby, where
"Tom Brown" studied and "Arnold" taught.
The country in England is beautiful; all in the
highest state of cultivation. It reminds one
of our parks in America, with an occasional
small ploughed field. We stayed in London
ten days, every moment of whlch was passed
in viewing the wonderful old city. We rode
all over London on the top of "busses." All
the street cars and busses being made with
seats on top, which seem to be the favorite
places. Of course we went to Westminster
Abbey, admired its grandeur, and gazed with 
wonder at the magnificent statues of marble
and bronze, and at the tombs of dead and gone
kings and queens, earls, dukes, etc, also states-
men, poets and historians, many of whose 
names are familiar—such as Grey, Dryden,
Campbell and others of world-wide fame. We
went to the tower and were shown many curi-
ous things in the way of armor and implements
of warfare; also the crown jewels which we
were told were worth fifteen millions of dol-
lars. We were then shown the dungeons, and
the rooms where the unfortunates were im-
prisoned before their execution—in the stone
wall of which were carved many names, among
which was "Jane," carved by Lady Jane Grey,
and others equally familiar. We were shown
the very block and axe used at the execution
with horrible instruments of torture, and so
many other horrible things, I was glad to get
out of the old place.
	We went to St. Paul's Cathedral, the Na-
tional Art Gallery, the British Museum,South
Kensington, the Colonial Exposition, Crystal
Palace, Buckingham Palace, Hyde, St. James
and other parks—the theater, where, by the
way, we were requested to remove our hats, a
good plan, too, I think, for our country to 
adopt. We took a sail up the Thames and
went to many other places too numerous to
mention here. We left London with regret,
going via. Dover & Calais to Paris, and
reached there in the evening. I had never
imagined a city could be made so lovely; every-
thing seems so gay, bright and happy looking.
The streets are wide and clean, with rows of
trees on either side, and every short distance a
little park and a beautiful fountain or statue,
with lovely parks and drives.—We staid eight
days, which, to me, were like so many days in
fairy land. We went to Versailles, the
Louvre, the Tomb of Napoleon, Cluny Palace,
Notre Dame and many other noted places, be-
sides spending about half of each day in driv-
ing, during which time we were constantly
seeing something new and beautiful. At night
we went to theatres or walked about the streets,
where, it seemed to me, all Paris must be
from eight o'clock until one and two in the 
morning. The Grand Opera House is said to
be the finest in the world, and I can readily 
believe it. 
	We left Paris for Cologne, stayed there over

[Column 3]
night, and drove through the town in the early
morning, then took a boat on the Rhine for
Mayence. You know we read and are
told much of the beauties of the Rhine, but
"the half was never told." Its numerous old
castles built so many, many years ago, a few
of which are now occupied, but most of them
in ruins, built high up among the hills and
mountains, that border this historical river;
clean, quiet little towns in the valleys, while
every available foot of ground on the moun-
tains is covered with grape vines, all terraced
to keep it from sliding. These places are en-
deared to us all in song or romance, such as
the Lonely Rock, on which the very spot was
pointed out to us where the maiden sat and
sung and combed her hair with the golden
comb, and Bingen which we passed, and thought
of "the soldier who lay dying at Algiers,"
Apollonaris, where all the water of that name
drank in America comes from, etc,. etc. From
Magence we came to "Frankfort on the Main,"
which is an interesting old town, dating back
to the days of Charlemagne, or about 790. We 
are now at Hamburg, where we will remain
some little time, then go through Switzerland,
then take a boat on the Danube for Vienna,
etc.
							E. S. S.
	Hotel Bellerna, Hamburg, June 10, 1886.


ETHICS OF WOMAN'S BEST.

	Let every woman who finds her vital forces 
failing, who is growing nervous, as well as al-
ways weary, whose chief longing is for rest of
mind and body, who begins to feel that life is
not worth the living, stop now and here. Cut
off all expenditure of effort that is not an ab-
solute necessity, and curtail that necessity as
much as possible. I do not mean that you
should give up your worthy aims and purposes,
but be sure that you can devote yourself to
them safely.
	Remember this: It is as important that 
you should keep a reserve of physical power
on hand for future draughts, as that you
should provide in a financial way for sickness,
accident, and declining years.
	So long as youth lasts you do not greatly 
feel this exhaustion of the physical forces—
that is, your powers of recuperation are greater
—yet every time you draw upon your strength
to excess, you are obliged to go deeper and
deeper into your vital resources in order to
make repairs. And you never do get quite
back to the old place, even though you are not
conscious at the time of the fact. You find
after a while that a night's sleep does not
make you as good as new again, after "over-
doing," but it takes another day of rest and
night of slumber to enable you to get back
to your usual vigor.
	You cannot help it? I know it is true of 
some of you, that there are duties so absolute
in their demands that you are compelled to
do them as long as you are able to bear the
strain, but by care and thoughtful precaution,
the effort in performing these can be greatly
lessened.
	Social ambition in some cases—the fear of 
not doing as your neighbor does—a false idea
of duty in others, a desire to accomplish much
that would be pleasant to be able to do, the
inability to say no to demands made upon
time and energies, all of these things, singly
or together, cause women to apply the lash
when they find their physical powers lagging,
and on they go until they fall down in their 
tracks.—Emily Bouton.


The new Woman's Hospital Building at
Chicago was opened a few days ago.


20						WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one  year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKE CITY,				JULY 1, 1886.


[Column 1]
		THE "OLD FOLKS."

MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I know you love the beautiful. Having myself
enjoyed the pleasure of being indentified with
and as one of the "Old Folks" in the excursion
on the 29th ultimo, I wish to offer a few sugges-
tions on that subject, thro' the EXPONENT, if you
have room to spare for cursory matter.
	I think it has long been a settled opinion that
youth is the season for beauty,in the face of which
it might seem preposterous to talk of beauty in
old age. Did you ever witness it?
	In the course of the day, before referred to, a
a very impressive scene of beauty was presented
before us. Did you intently view the assemblage of
"Old Folks" seated in the Bowery in American
Fork to which the generous Bishop of that locali-
ty had most kindly invited us?—I did, and with-
out the least fear of contradiction, I say it was
beautiful.
	I wish it well understood that I never seek an
elevation above, neither do I wish to be placed
below, but always like to be on a level with my
good brothers and sister. On this occasion, per-
haps some might think it intrusive in me, but it
was not my fault, for I actually was forced upon
the Platform which the good people of American
Fork had erected for the convenience of our
indefatigable, capacious-hearted Committee, where
I could overlook that large assembly.
	After having been pressed into the honorable,
elevated position, I felt determined to make the 
most of it; and, foregoing what evidently would
be considered etiquette for an aged lady, (i e. to
avoid the appearance of boldness by maintaining
a sitting posture,) I actually stood and gazed, and
the more I gazed, the more I was induced to do
so; and what did I see? A beautiful assembly
of "Old Folks," but not in any possible signifi-
cance, a representative of the “Sleeping Beauty”
—those beautiful "Old Folks" were wide awake
and seemed to have plenty of oil in their lamps.
As I looked upon them, I well knew that many
of them had several times passed through the
fire, but not to “Moloch”—it was the fire of perse-
cution, a portion of the legacy which our Savior
bequeathed to those who would follow Him.
	I know that many of those whose faces ex-
pressed integrity and firmness, had in times gone
by, drank freely of the cup of sorrow from the
merciless hand of persecution—had from time to 
time been homeless and destitute—had journeyed
over trackless wastes to this Mountain recess,
then the veriest personification of barrenness and
desolation which never would, and never could
have been redeemed from its sterility,and utilized,
by any other people than such as were before
me, whose indomitable courage, nerved by un-
swerving faith and trust in the living God, which 
inspired them with more than mortal strength to
contend with adverse circumstances and draw
forth subsistence from unpropitious elements.

[Column 2]
Now that same desert blossoms as the rose.
	I well knew that many of those aged veterans
who elicited my admiration, yes, those beautiful
"Old Folks," when reasoning from analogy in
recalling recollections of our past history, and by
the unerring spirit of prophecy, anticipate that
the furnace which is now kindled in Zion, will be
heated to its utmost capacity. They see the spoil-
ers of our peace, and opposers of the rights of
conscience and free exercise of religion, (which
is dearer to every true Latter-day Saint than
mortal life—and for which they have heretofore
suffered so much) now in our midst, plying their
sacrilegious vocation; and with all this vividly be-
fore these "Old Folks," how happy they appeared,
and how beautiful!
	I truly think I have seldom, if ever, seen beauty
in a more interesting form. Nearly every face
beamed with joy and gladness, being lighted up
by that Spirit which is the genuine promoter of
the highest and grandest type of beauty.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City July 2nd.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM.

“And this we call a loss! O selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O we of little faith! 
Let us look round some argument to borrow
Why we in patience should await the morrow,
	That surely must succeed this night of death.,"

“Ay, look upon this dreary, desert path, 
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn; 
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we mourn."

	On Friday evening, June 18, 1886, Sister Louisa
F. Wells breathed her last at ten minutes to nine
o'clock. She died peacefully and without a strug-
gle, in her own home, surrounded by her children
and members of her fond and loving family. She
was the beloved wife of President Daniel H. 
Wells, who is necessarily absent from home
on account of religious persecution. The sorrow-
ful intelligence of her death was sent across the
sea to him by cablegram, and an answer, express-
ing his sympathy with the family, and especially
the children of the deceased, was received the
following day. The illness with which Sister
Wells was afflicted was a painful one, and she
had borne for several months with great patience
and fortitude, the severe and trying ordeals of
pain and suffering which could only be temporarily
alleviated from time to time. 
	Early in the month of February, 1885, Sister Wells
went to England to join her husband, and while
there, her health gradually failing, she concluded 
to return, and in November last she came home, 
though no serious consequences were anticipated; 
in fact it was thought careful nursing and tender
care, together with the invigorating mountain air, 
would soon restore her to her usual health. 
	The funeral services were held on Sunday, June
20th, at four o'clock p.m., at her late residence,
and were conducted by Bishop Millen Atwood. 
An immense concourse of people assembled to
pay their last respects to the honored dead, and
many very beautiful floral offerings and tributes of
love and friendship were laid upon the elegant
casket, that contained the mortal remains of the
departed. 
	The services began with singing by a quartette
consisting of Mesdames Agnes Olsen Thomas
and Vilate C. Young, and Messrs H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, Mr. C. Burton playing the ac-
companiment. Opening hymn feelingly rendered—
		"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb." 
Apostle H. J. Grant offered a consoling prayer,
and the choir sang,
		"Farewell, all earthly honors,
		I bid you all adieu;" 
with the chorus, "There is sweet rest in heaven."

[Column 2]
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, who had known Sister
Wells from his childhood, delivered an eloquent
and impressive discourse, in which he spoke affec-
tionately of her many virtues and integrity of
character, and exhorted her children to emulate
her example and follow in her footsteps, and ap-
pealed to all to keep the commandments of God
and be faithful and true, as she had been. At the
close of his remarks the choir sang, 
		“Rest on the hillside, rest!" 
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop At-
wood.
	The final leave taking of the beloved one by 
her relatives, and especially her sons and daugh-
ters, was most affecting. It was almost impossible 
to induce them to take the last long farewell.
	All the pall-bearers were nephews of Sister
Wells, and as they bore her forth from the home
she had graced so long as wife and mother, every
one instinctively remembered the husband and
father so far away, who was not permitted to
soothe her dying moments, or administer conso-
lation to his grief-stricken children. In the numer-
ous events transpiring, there are many incidents
that will reflect great discredit upon the men who,
in their mistaken zeal to enforce laws made
specially to punish "Mormons," have broken up
families, separated husbands and wives and
ruined many homes, but we leave them in His
hands,Who doeth all things well. 
	A very long procession followed the deceased 
to the cemetary, where prayer was offered and 
the grave dedicated by Bishop John Q. Cannon. 
	"Aunt Louisa," the name by which Sister Wells
was best known throughout Utah, was a woman
of intense sympathy, and the most generous im-
pulses. Her hospitality was proverbial and un-
bounded and the many hundreds to whom she
has ministered comfort and help, and who have
from time to time been welcomed and entertained
by her, will miss her ever cordial greetings and
remember her with loving appreciation. As wife
and mother, Sister Wells shone brightest—gentle,
tender, noble and devoted, and as a friend to the
needy and friendless, and voluntary nurse to the
sick, her sympathy and generosity were ever en-
listed; she gave generously, and never spared her-
self trouble or inconvenience when she thought
duty or affection called her to act, or that large
charity that feels the woes and pains of others,
even though they be strangers. 
	Louisa Free Wells was the daughter of Abra-
ham and Betsy Wells, and was born in Fayette-
ville, Illinois, August 9th, 1824. As a child she
manifested undaunted courage and strength of
character, which forcibly displayed itself during
the times of the Missouri persecutions, in which
she participated while very young. She also
shared in the exodus from Nauvoo, enduring
much fatigue, hardship and exposure. Crossing
the plains from the Missouri river to the valley 
she drove an ox team, often yoking and unyoking 
the cattle herself, besides performing other labori-
ous duties and nursing the sick at night. During
this journey she became acquainted with Daniel 
H. Wells, to whom she was united in marriage in
February, 1849. She has been the mother of 
eight children, four sons and four daughters,
seven of whom are now living to mourn her irre-
parable loss. 
	For those who remain we feel the most sincere 
sympathy—hnsband, children, grandchildren, 
brother, sisters and friends, but we realize she has
gone to rest, and there are many to meet and wel-
come her in the spirit world, whom she will re-
joice to see, and those who prove faithful will
meet her again, where there will be no more pain
or sorrow forever more.
	"We will do likewise; death hath made no breach 
		In love and sympathy, in hope and trust! 
	No outward sign or sound our ears can reach;
	But there’s an inward spiritual speech
		That greets us still, though mortal tongues be dust."


"It bids us do the work that they laid down—
	Take up the song where they broke off the strain;
So journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
	And our lost loved ones will be found again."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	"Hear the mellow wedding bells,
		Golden bells!
	What a world of happiness their harmony foretells!
	Through the balmy air of night
	How they ring out their delight!
	From the molten golden notes,
		And all in tune,
	What a liquid ditty floats
	To the turtle-dove that listens while she gloats
		On the moon!"

	The half century of married life seldom passes
and leaves both bride and bridegroom in posses-
sion of life, health and all the faculties. This,
however, is the case with Brother and Sis-
ter Nathan Tanner who celebrated the
fiftieth anniversary of their wedding day
at the residence of F. S. Richards
of this city, whose wife is their daughter.
The affair was a brilliant success and Mr. and
Mrs. Richards deserve great credit for the pleasure
conferred upon the guests as well as the honor to
the aged couple expressed in such a fitting manner
as this golden celebration. Mr. and Mrs. Tanner
are still, notwithstanding their age, a very hand-
some couple and one could scarcely believe they
had seen so many years of active service in this
workaday world. The party was an interesting
one in many respects, and especially so in the con-
geniality of feeling manifested among the "old
friends and true," of the happy pair. There were
represented among the guests one Apostle, three
or four Bishops, people who had been associated
in Kirtland, numbering twelve, of those in Misouri,
fourteen, in Nauvoo, twenty-three. There were
also three brethren who had been members of
Zion's Camp, and two of the Mormon Battalion. It
is seldom that in a gathering of this kind one
finds so many of the Saints of early days, whose
lives have been more or less interwoven with each
other in the history at that period.
	The bride and groom are not only large, erect
and fine looking, but were dressed in excellent
taste. The gray dress of the bride was of some
soft material that hung gracefully about her
slender figure, and the fine white tulle she wore
about her neck fell to the waist in a most becom-
ing style. The other ladies present were also
handsomely attired, and some of them wore ex-
quisite old lace, as well as possessing many genu-
ine attractions to charm the eye and ear. Apostle
F. S. Richards and wife, Judge Snow and wife,
Bates Nobles and wife, Sisters Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball,
Bathsheba W. Smith, the widow of Amasa Ly-
man, and other distinguished people honored the
occasion by their presence. The large and elegant
ly furnished parlors were well filled with the com-
pany which had gathered from Montana, Idaho,
California, and Wyoming as well as Utah. Ele-
gant and costly presents were also sent from a
distance and many were the sincere congratula-
tions and hearty wishes for continued happiness
and prosperity.
	At six p.m. bride and groom led the way to the
way to the dining room where a sumptuous dinner
awaited the guests. Apostle F. D. Richards
pronounced the blessing and a general conversa-
tion was kept up, every one evidently heartily en-
joying the delicious and tempting viands set be-
fore them. The table was profusely and artistical-
ly ornamented with choice and fragrant flowers,
and in the center was an elaborate wedding cake,
at the side of which were the figures 1836, 1886,
and at the very top of the ornament that decorated

[Column 2]
it were two doves typical of the love and happi-
ness of the lifetime of the happy past, as well
as the auspicious future of the aged couple. There
was also a very handsome bride's cake with a
verse on it which ran thns.
	Full fifty years have passed away,
		Their hands and hearts yet true in love.
	For their Diamond time, we trust and pray,
		Happy as this their Golden Day.
	Some of the china used at the dinner was half
a century old and some even more; there were
also gold teaspoons sent as wedding presents
from a long distance. Many were the toasts of-
fered in which all present heartily joined and the
feeling was one of unity and love, and a desire
that these two who had begun life together and
succeeded in rearing a large family here, might
participate in all the great blessings and secure
to themselves and their posterity eternal lives and
inheritances in the celestial kingdom. While
dinner was being served sweet music lent
enchantment to the hour and nothing seemed
wanting to add to the enjoyment of the unique
occasion.
	During the evening there was singing and
music at intervals, and Mrs. Mattie Cannon read
a poem composed for the occasion, which elicited
considerable applause, as well as the songs and
instrumental music. Another feature of the oc-
casion was the guests writing their names and a
sentiment or expressive wish in an autograph
album to be preserved as a souvenir of the Gold-
en Wedding.


[Column 1]
		﻿TRUTHFUL REASONING.

	Integrity to principle and moral courage are the
greatest incentives to honor and greatness and
when these exist in the human breast they lead
to noble ends. When an individual is convinced
of any known truth and cannot be turned aside
from a duty, they will win a prize and a name
above their fellows. The Servants of God who
have been deprived of their liberty for the Gos-
pel’s sake, will receive their reward from Him
that called them to do His work, and will have
that peace of mind that the world can neither
give or take away. They will not pander to com-
mon things, to go with the multitude to destruc-
tion, but they cling to truth and the right, which
always has its opposers, for truth contradicts error
which prevails in the main, because sin is stalking
rampant through the land, and has its votaries,
who never blush at corruption and vice, but are
horrified at a system of reform, that aims to turn
the sinner from the error of his ways, and better
his condition in this life and the next. To serve
Him who rules above, instead of serving the
powers of darkness.
	God, our Heavenly Father is the great law
giver or ruler over this planet. He has declared
himself Lord of lords and King of kings. He
at various periods of time has dethroned kings
and mighty governments, and wrought marvelous
changes in the destinies of nations. God has
chosen agents to usher in His dispensations and
decrees; but He is just, and before He takes an
action to accomplish His purposes He holds out
offers of mercy and salvation, and pleads with
His children for many years. It is now over 50
years since He sent out this proclamation by His
Elders: “Repent of all your sins and be baptised
in water for the remission of sins,in the name of
Jesus Christ.” By those He has authorized
through the Holy Priesthood, to become members
of His Church, “No man can take this honor to
himself but must be called of God as was Aaron,”
Under this head no one can be deceived, for
there will be one Lord,one faith and one baptism.
These Elders have power to bestow the Holy
Ghost, and it leads the receiver info all truth,
shows them things past, present, and to come.

[Column 2]
	Every member of the Church can know for him-
self or herself,if he sought for it in humble prayer.
God has set up His Kingdom on the earth, in the
last dispensation of the fulness of time; and He
will gather His elect from all parts of the earth,
and the honest in heart will hear the good Shep-
herd’s voice and be gathered into His fold, await-
ing His coming for He said unto John, “Surely I
come quickly.” In St. Mark chapter 13, com-
mencing at the 24th verse. He speaks of His
coming, after all the trouble had come upon the
Jews, and says He is like a man taking a far
journey and He commanded them to watch. “And
what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch.” This
was two thousand years ago, nearly; is it not
high time to watch, lest He come in a time we
think not, and we are not prepared to go into the
marriage supper of the Lamb? “For as a snare
shall it come on all them that dwell on the face
of the whole earth.” And again it reads “The
kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms
of our Lord, and of His Christ; and He shall
reign forever and ever.” And it was said unto
John, thou must prophesy again before many
peoples, and nations and tongues and kings.”
In another place it reads “And I saw another
angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the Ever-
lasting Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth and to every nation and kindred and
tongue and people.” John was on the Isle of
Patmos at this time and he had to prophesy, be-
fore many people.
	If the true gospel has continued to be preached,
why this angel sent? And why have all sects 
and creeds differed from the Gospel of Christ as
He preached it? When the woman anointed
Him, He said: “Verily I say unto you, whereso-
ever this Gospel shall be preached in the whole
world, it shall be told as a memorial of her—
that is that same gospel unchanged and unmuti-
lated.
	Joseph Smith was told that the true gospel was
not on the earth, but he should be instructed so
that he should know the true gospel and he was
visited from time to time by heavenly
messengers, and the true gospel was im-
parted to this young man, and at the
minor age of 17 years he commenced
to receive a  knowledge of things, that had a
bearing on the present and future time, that no
mortal power can hinder or set aside. The
prophet of the last days, has and will accomplish
more through his knowledge of events that has
and will transpire, in the building up of God’s
Kingdom preparatory to the Savior’s coming and
the final destruction of the wicked,than any other
prophet that has lived on the earth. He taught
principles that had been hid for many generations,
and were brought to light through the Gospel.
The foundation being laid by prophets and pa-
triarchs of old through whose lineage came the
legitimate offspring and favored ones of God’s
Kingdom. Christ was of this lineage, and in the
language of Mary, “He hath holpen His servant
Israel in remembrance of His mercy; as He
speaks to our fathers, to Abraham and to his seed
forever. Who are Abraham’s seed? they who do
the works of Abraham. What, God make
promises to a man with more than one wife and
concerning the Savior of the world, that He
should come through what the world considers
illegitimate offspring, and criminal parentage? I
should think, they would read their Bibles with
holy horror. And the angel said to Mary, she
should have a son. “He shall be great, and shall
be called the son of the Highest; and the Lord
God shall give unto Him the throne of His father
David; “And he shall reign over the house of
Jacob forever; and of His Kingdom there shall
be no end.” What, our Savior associate with
polygamists like David and Jacob? Surely our
righteous judges would put such men into prison
and deprive them of their rights and liberty, if


they had lived in our day? For now they strain
at gnats and swallow camels. Such people follow 
vile practices,drinking,gambling and all the vices
that are popular. 
	The sin of the "Mormons" is summed up in a
man doing what just men did in olden times to
build up a New Jerusalem, and they expect to see
the names of the twelve sons of Jacob on the gates
of that holy city, and all those who oppose plural
marriage will not want to enter there and will not
be permitted to enter in. This covenant of marriage
is again established between God and His people
to fulfil His law. They who are married in this
sacred covenant will have a progression of end-
less lives, and will be married in the Lord, and
such unions let no man put asunder, “And I
heard the number of them which were sealed,and
there were sealed a hundred and forty and four
thousand of all the tribes of the children of
Israel.” To each tribe twelve thousand. These
were redeemed from among men being the first
fruits unto God and to the Lamb." Now, He
has given a command to the Latter-day Saints to
raise up a righteous seed unto Him which will be
the same, born under the same covenant and law
of marriage. And all who are faithful to their cove-
nants, will enter in through the gates of the holy
city.
	One who is proud of the name, plural wife. 
						M. A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			SANPETE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Sanpete
Stake Relief Society, held at Wales, June
12th, 1886. Opening services offered. Minutes
of last conference read. Verbal reports given
by presidents of different branches.
	Counselor Sarah Petersen said the sisters of
Ephraim were in a thriving condition, and
were busily engaged in making cheese for the
Temple, and are raising a little money for
Bro. Kemp's family; who is now in prison in
Detroit, Michigan. Spoke on the storage of
grain; hoped we would take care of the wheat 
we have and keep it in good condition. Ad-
vised the sisters to subscribe for the EXPON-
ENT.
	Coun. E. Allred felt pleased to meet in a 
conference capacity; thought the sisters of San-
pete were trying to live their religion; said, "It
behooves us to live faithful, that we may be 
able to pass through the persecutions that are
being heaped upon us.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde had been interested in
the remarks made by the sisters, and bore her
testimony to the truth of plural marriage. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith taught it to her but she 
opposed it at first, and it seemed impossible
for her to embrace it. She prayed to God to
reveal it to her if it was right, and He gave
her a testimony that it was. Felt that this
was a glorious work that we were engaged in.
She afterwards spoke in tongues, and the inter-
pretation was given by Sister Casto: "The
Lord has in store far higher blessings than the
persecutions, if we are only faithful. Prepare
yourselves, that you may be able to work in 
the Temple of God for your dead friends.
You presidents of Relief Society should watch
over your flocks and pray for the brethren who 
have been cast into prison and those who are 
in exile, that the Spirit of God may be with 
them."
	Bishop Reese testified that this was the work
of God, and that His Spirit had been in our 
midst. Bishop Farnsworth spoke of the in-
structions that had been given, and if we 
would carry them into effect they would be of 
benefit unto us. Spoke of the sisters making
carpet for the Temple.
	Conference adjourned to meet at Fairview,

[Column 2]
September 11th, 1886. Choir sang Doxology.
Benediction by Henry Reese.
	There are 1,677 members in Sanpete Stake
Relief Society, and on hand in cash, $1043 34;
property, valued at $3,882.40; real estate,
valued at $7,978.26.
		MARY A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.
		NORAH ROBINSON, Ass't Sec.

		RICHMOND PRIMARY.
	The seventh annual meeting of the Rich-
mond Primary Association, held June 1st,
1886, at two p.m. There were present, Sisters
Jane E. Molen, Mattie Hansen, Maud Burton,
of the P.A. of the Stake, and Margaret Young,
of Salt Lake City, and Martha Williams of
Smithfield, besides several other visitors, and
the ward authorities, Sister Myra Merrill, Prest.
of the Relief Society, and a great many pa-
rents of the children.
	After the opening exercises, minutes of the 
sixth annual meeting were read and approved,
also the financial and statistical reports of the
past year. The officers for the ensuing year
were presented by Bishop Wm. L. Skidmore
as follows: Mary Allsop, President; Mary
Monson and Maggie W. Thompson Counselors;
Satie J. Petty, Secretary; Jane Hyer, Assistant
Secretary; Byrdie Harrison, Treasurer; Libbie
A. Merrill, Organist. All were unanimously 
sustained. The programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, addresses, etc., was very well
rendered.
	Sister Margaret Young addressed the child-
ren, gave good instructions and spoke in 
tongues, interpreted by Sister Mattie Hansen;
it was an address to the children.
	Sister Mattie Hansen next addressed the
children; counseled them to be obedient, keep
good order and not to bang their hair.
	Sister Maud Burton was the next speaker;
was pleased to see so many children, especially
so many boys. Counseled them to improve
their time and attend their meetings.
	Sister Martha Williams was pleased to meet
with us, said we should be good to the poor,
and not be proud, we should keep the word of
wisdom. Sister Hannah Brower read a few
lines that she composed about the Primary
quilt.
	Prest. Jane E. Molen was pleased to meet
with us said our primaries are to strengthen
our minds in spiritual things; asked God's
blessings to be with us. We come 
to these meetings to learn the principles of the
Gospel.
	Bishop Wm. S. Skidmore gave many good
instructions: "Let us endeavor to be good, be
prayerful, and obedient to your parents, love
your brothers and sisters, be punctual to your
meetings. Emma Osmond and Nellie Nibley
presented Sister Allsop with a present, accom-
panied with an appropriate address.
	The statistical and financial report of the
Richmond Primary Association, beginning
June 1st, 1885, and ending June 1st, 1886, was 
read:
	Number of officers, 7; number of members,
210; Total, officers and members, 217; average
attendance, 95; meetings held, 49; cash remain-
ing in treasury from year previous, $8.25; re-
ceived from members during year, $6.52; total,
$14,77. Disbursments: Primary banner, $1.
35; writing material, $1; cards, $5.12; calico,
batting, thread and needles for quilt, $3.90;
total expense, $11.37; cash on hand, $3.40;
property, $11.50.
			SATIE J. PETTY, Secretary,
			JANE HYER, Ass't Sec.


[Column 1]
		INTERESTING MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the
woman’s organizations of this city was held in
the usual place (Fourteenth Ward) Saturday,

[Column 2]
May 28th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
After singing, prayer, etc., and minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted, minutes
of P. A. of the 10th, 5th, 20th, 21st and 16th
wards were read.
	Prest. Horne made opening remarks, in
which she referred to her recent visit to the
Logan Temple, and the work she had done for
those who were dead, and some of her child-
ren, and how it had rejoiced her heart.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, who had recently returned
from the east made a brief report of her visit,
and spoke of her conversations with Miss
Cleveland, also of the Memorial which had
been presented to the President and to Con-
gress, both in the Senate and House. In her
remarks she urged the sisters to seek for wis-
dom and the Spirit of the Lord; thought the
women of Zion had better opportunities for
development than any others in the world.
The Gospel itself was more elevating to the
human mind than the education of the world.
She also felt much good might be done if we
would all take an interest in sending abroad
papers and books that explain our doctrines;
that although, perhaps, many here at home
thought very little of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, yet outside, when it was said "Mormon"
women had a paper of their own, in which
they gave free expression to their views and
opinions upon all subjects, including the doc-
trines of the Church, woman’s suffrage and
everything of interest to the home and family,
it was considered quite a power, and proof
that they were not enslaved and down-trodden,
for the very fact of their publishing a paper
was in itself testimony to the contrary.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, who had been
away for some time, made an eloquent appeal
to the sisters, touching many important matters,
especially in relation to the training of child-
ren and the management of young people to
preserve them in the Gospel; felt we should
live near to the Lord and cultivate faith and
devote our energies to the building up of the
kingdom of God. Urged the sisters to remem-
ber the work for the dead, and not neglect
that duty, or they would regret it perhaps
when there was not the same opportunity; felt
there was no greater work than for the dead.
Felt that our sisters who had a knowledge of
the human system, who had made a study of
these things should impart information to the
young.
	Prest. Horne spoke of the action taken by
Governor West in visiting the Penitentiary;
thought he did it for the best;said it is the
same now as it was in the days of old. They
were jealous of Daniel's wisdom, and jealousy
is the cause of a great many things in this age
of the world; thought we needed much of the
Spirit of God. Singing. Benediction by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

	Minutes of Saturday meeting, June 11th,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Besides the usual
exercises and minutes, there were minutes read
from Y. L. of the 20th, 7th, and 4th wards,
and the P. A. of the 5th, 20th and 4th wards.
	Prest. Horne addressed the meeting upon
the events transpiring at the present time;
thought we should draw nearer together and
make us feel as one, for we have much to meet
in the future. “If all are not tried now they
will be, for we have all got to go through the
furnace.” Mentioned an incident which she
had heard related in fast meeting, showing
that our faith should never waver. “We
ought to be on the watch tower, for Satan is
tempting us, and we must say, ‘Get thee be-
hind me, Satan.' Let us do the best we can
each day, and if we have done any wrong
thing, let us do it no more. We can live near
unto the Lord to-day, and nearer to-morrow, 
and so the adversary will have no hold on us.
We are coming to a great crisis, and the Gos-


pel is being more thoroughly taught to the
Gentiles; so that they may understand it more
clearly. Our time of rejoicing is in the near
future, let us be humble and faithful, that we 
may be among the chosen ones.
	Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson had been on a mis-
sion to Washington, and while there, in ob-
serving what was transpiring around her, had
realized keenly that the ancient prophecies 
were being fulfilled; said, "No power of man
can alter this work, for God's hand is in it, 
and the unseen hosts of eternity are working
for us. Had a long conversation with Gov.
West previous to his coming here. One of
the questions he asked me was, why could we
not have a new revelation, and settle all this
disturbance?" I told him they were not so 
plentiful that you can get them to buy;
another person said he was going to come and
bring us a new revelation, which would have 
the desired effect." In reply the Dr. said she
did not think he was near enough to God to 
have a revelation, but if it had the same
stamp as ours had we might give it a hearing.
Told us of what she had said concerning the 
celestial law, "and if we go back to history we
will find that we are not the only ones who 
have been persecuted for believing what they
thought right." Made mention of the Ed-
munds Bill; thought it worse in its present
form than what it was before it was amended.
"We will be allowed to live and work, but not
to hold any office. We are in the same posi-
tion as the Israelites were because they were 
not keeping God's commandments and walking
in his ways, they were put in bondage; but we 
know that the end is near, and there is not 
one but will be tried to the very uttermost. 
		Said Brother F. D. Richards bore
a faithful testimony in the Supreme Court in 
regard to plural marriage, and made many
other remarks upon the work she had been en-
gaged in.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball remembered the time
when she was in Washington, in taking with
Mrs. Babbitt, whom many of us knew was
there some time with her husband, she told
her "the nearer you come to those great men 
the smaller they appeared;" they think they are 
wise, but they do not have the Spirit of God.
"It has been remarked, we are in the position 
of the Israelites, if so, we have got to come to 
the very bottom of the ladder, and it behooves
us to nourish and strengthen the germ of
faith that is in us. We are aiming to rise to a 
higher sphere, and if we lose our light we are
in a deplorable situation. God will help us if 
we try to help ourselves. He has a battle axe 
prepared for His people.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said we have no need to 
feel discouraged unless we do wrong ourselves;
always have our lamps burning brightly, that
we may be prepared for the future.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said she had met with
quite a number of associations in different 
places since she had met with us here; thought
the sisters were waking up, and especially the
Y. L. A. they are improving greatly; thought 
every one of our young girls should be mem-
bers of these associations, and if we teach 
them correct principles they will abide by
them, we ought to be very careful what
company they keep, they should be taught the
evil of mixing with those who are not of us.
Prayed that we might discharge every duty. 
Singing. Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SISTERS' VISIT IN ST. GEORGE
			STAKE.

SISTER E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Knowing the interest you
take in all that pertains to the Latter-day
work, I thought a few lines from St. George
would not be out of place.


On Friday morning, May 18th, the Stake 
President, Anna L. Ivins, with her Counselors,
Mary B. Eyring and A. C. Woodbury, left St.
George to visit the western settlements of this
Stake in the interest of the Relief Society and
Primary Associations.
	On the 19th we held meeting with the good
people of Pine Valley, and had a very good
time. We then went on to Pinto, and held
meeting in the evening. On the 20th, after
meeting with the Primary, we traveled to
Hebron and held meeting, but, as the people
scatter out in the summer to look after their
cows, it leaves very few to attend meeting. We
traveled to Bishop Terry's ranch, where we
were very kindly entertained. On the 21st
we went to Clover Valley, twenty-five miles,
and put up with Bro. Lyman Woods and his
pleasant family, and the hearty welcome we re-
ceived made us feel that they appreciated the
sisters' visit. It is near three years since we
visited them, as there are so few living there,
but we had a very good meeting, and on the
22nd we proceeded on to Panacca, where we
were royally entertained by Bishop M. L. Lee.
On the 23rd we met with the Sabbath School,
as the Primary had been discontinued on ac-
count of the sickness of the President and her
Counselors. We urged the necessity of keep-
ing up the meetings. Panacca is proverbial
for its many beautiful children. In the after-
noon we met with the Relief Society; we had
but a small meeting owing to the notice not
having been received in time. On the 24th
we returned to Bishop Terry's ranch and
stayed all night. The 25th we reached
Hamblin in time for meeting at 2 p.m.; we also
met with the Primary. Great credit is due
Sister Mary Westover for the interest she has
taken in the children. It is hard to keep
meetings up in these small settlements. We
were advised not to try to cross the Clara River,
as it was high, so, on the 26th, we returned
home, having traveled 220 miles, and hope we
have done some good in urging the Saints to
their duty.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main,
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
					A. C. WOODBURY.


A TRIFLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been reading the number of the EX-
PONENT for May 15th; it is replete with soul-
inspiring sentiments.  Upon perusing "Wash-
ington Jottings" and "Our Little Paper," I
felt to exclaim, "God bless the editor for her 
untiring and persevering energy while abroad;
I know she is doing much good in disseminat-
ing the principles of our most holy religion, be-
sides giving so much time and thought to our 
valuable little EXPONENT." It filled my
heart with thankfulness to read the spirited
items from her pen, so brightly, yet so ably
portrayed.  I am truly gratified with her
efforts and our other good sisters' in trying to 
be heard, that prejudice may be removed, and
the falsehoods circulated about us as a people
be refuted, and justice, in part, at least, be
granted. The women of Utah should be 
heard to be known, and our testimonies borne
to the world, that none may be left without an 
excuse, for we are not the down-trodden women
supposed; we are liberty loving, and willing to 
assert our rights. The free use of the ballot
will ever represent our honest convictions; we 
are brave and honest; and will vote which way 
our consciences speak—loyal, noble-minded
women, who, it may be seen, are not daunted,
when we know our cause is just and clear—
who have endured much hardship and stood 
persecutions under adverse and aggravated cir-
cumstances, and the same righteous spirit is in


them to-day. I feel to sense the times in 
which we live and the important events
transpiring, which all bespeak to me the latter
days. I am proud of my religion and its
principles; all are pure, ennobling and exalting
to those who live righteously before the Lord.
My chief desire is to live faithful and true, and 
may God grant me strength to stand unwaver-
ing and unflinching every trial and test He
may see fit I shall pass through, is the prayer of 
		Your sister in the covenant,
						M. A. TILL.


HAND-PAINTED STRAWS AND
			BONNETS.

	"Amongst the many novelties of this sea-
son," says a writer in The Queen, "are the
hand-painted straw hats and bonnets. These
are totally dissimilar from the colored straw
attained by dyeing the plait, and also from the
mixtures produced by introducing colored
straw into the plait. The supply of the oclors
by hand which is made after the bonnets are
blocked creates an effect unattainable by any
other process. The dyer can impart to straw
almost any strongly defined color, but he is in-
capable of endowing it with neutral tints. It
is to the successful blending of these indefin-
able shades that the hand-painted bonnets owe
their success and beauty. The producers do
not design to replace the ordinary garniture of
the headdress, but to make the foundation of
the latter harmonize in tints and general effect 
with the fancy materials worn for costumes,
and to let the painted design be subordinate
to the trimming. While dye removes brillancy 
from straw, the process of hand-painting im-
parts it. In many instances the shades of
color supplied are in a kind of marbling or
mosaic, without any special design. In others
bright flecks of color alternate with the shades
of the straw. All these tinted bonnets and
hats are made waterproof, so that the beauty
of the shading may incur no risk either from
damp or rain. The process is no a lengthy
one; the decoration is applied to hats and bon-
nets of all shapes, and they can be quickly
painted to order. A special hat of the Gains-
borough type bids fair to become popular, and
many other models will doubtless harmonize
successfully with the varied costumes of this
season.


RUSSIAN LADY DOCTORS.

	However slowly Civilization may travel in 
the land of the Czar, there is at any rate one
thing in which Russia is further advanced than
most European countries, and this is the open-
ing of the learned professions to women. Par-
ticularly anxious is the Government to make 
the study of medicine as easy as possible to 
women, and there, appears io to be a real demand
for female medicos all over the country. The
Government h[--] now resolved to admit the
schools of medicine for women among the 
number of high constitutional schools with a 
fixed organization and the right to give di-
plomas. A project for the organization is now 
before the Minister of Education. The muni-
cipal council of St. Petersburg, considering
that it is incumbent on the Government, and 
not on the town, to take this institution under
its protection, has proposed a joint arrange-
ment, by which the town  undertakes to pay
annually the sum of 15,000 roubles toward
the maintenance of the institution, the pro-
[---]g of a house for the installation of lec-
ture rooms, museums, etc., and by extending
the right to female students to pursue their
practical studies in all the St. Petersburg hos-
pitals on the condition that the professors are 
chosen from among the physicians of these


hospitals. Thus the material position of the
medical faculty for women is safe, headquar-
ters, money, and hospitals being provided.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	The poet Whittier recently wrote to his life-
long friend, Edwin Thompson: "The long, hard
winter has left me very poorly in health. I 
am glad to see that thy pen is still busy. As
for myself I dread to touch pen and paper."
	The new English dictionary, of which Pro-
fessor Whitney, of Yale, is editor-in-chief will
be the most comprehensive book in existence.
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars will
have been spent on it before the types are in
order.
	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland, sister of the
President of the United States, has concluded
arrangements by which she will take up her
residence in Chicago, to become the editor of
Literary Life, a magazine devoted, as its name
indicates, to belle letters. 
	Mrs. Rosa Hartwick Thorpe, author of the
poem, "Curfew Must Not Ring To-night," is 
collecting a number of her later verses and
ballads for publication in book form. The
most important poem will be entitled "Remem-
ber the Alamo," as yet unpublished. 
	Judge David Davis died at his home in 
Bloomington, Ill., on Saturday morning, June
26th. He had been in failing health for several
months past, and it was known that the end
of his life was near. Judge Davis had for
many years occupied an important position in 
national politics. He was ex officio vice presi-
dent of the United States during General
Arthur's occupancy of the presidential chair, 
made vacant by the untimely death, at the
hands of an assassin, of President Garfield. He
was an able statesman, a profound jurist, and
a man of sterling uprightness of character. 
His death is the nation's loss.


OBSTETRICS.

	Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp has been practically
teaching obstetrics in Fillmore for the past 
year. She recently brought her class to Salt 
Lake for examination. Those who passed suc-
cessfully were Mrs. Mary Bishop of Deseret, 
Mrs. Jessie Huntsman of Fillmore, Miss Lil-
lian Black of Kanosh. The examining board
were Doctors Richards and Bower. Mrs.
Shipp expects to teach another class in Fil-
more this coming winter.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Salt increases the heat of water in boiling potatoes.
	Half a cupful of vinegar in the water will make an old
fowl cook quickly.
	Grease may be removed from marble by a paste made of
whiting and benzine, and whiting and chloride of lime,
spread upon marble and left to dry in the sun, will remove
stains if not too deep.
     Orange Jam.—Weigh the oranges before peeling, and use
a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit.  Take the peel from
half of the oranges, grate it, and add the sugar.  Open
the oranges, and be very particular to get out the seeds and
white strings.  Add the sugar and peel, with a little water,
and boil the whole about twenty minutes.
	Tin canned goods, when opened, should be immediate
ly transferred to glass or earthenware receptacles.  Recent
investigations show that cases of poisoning from eating
canned goods have arisen from the acid of the canned food
attacking the solder of the tins, and sometimes from de-
composition accelerated by an electrical action between
the solder and the iron of the tin.  Never leave canned
fruits, meats, or fish in opened tin cans.
	The Horseback Cure.—There is a saying among the
Russians that a man who is fond of his horse will not grow


old early. The Arab and the Cossack are examples of the
truth of the proverb. They generally live long; enjoy ro-
bnst health, and have no use for liver pads and blue pills.
That vigorous octogenarian, David Dudley Field, tells us
that he attributes his remarkable vitality to the habit of 
horseback riding, and, if the truth were known, it would
doubtless appear that our sturdiest old men are those who
have been fond of the saddle. The taste for equestrian
sports and exercise which has lately made such progress
in this country is therefore, a hopeful and healthful sign.
It is not a mere freak of fashion, but a development in the 
direction of rational enjoyment and an assurance that the
rising generation will be less of an indoor and more of an
outdoor people. It means less headache hereafter, better
appetites, stronger lungs, rosier cheeks, brighter eyes,
sounder sleep, happier spirits, and a total oblivion of that
organ which, according to Sidney Smith, keeps men a great
deal lower than the angels—the liver.


ORIGINAL RECIPES.

	Fruit, to jelly easily, must be barely ripe. Grapes will
not jelly if they are quite ripe.
	Green Corn Pudding.—One dozen ears sweet corn,
grated; add two tablespoons sugar, a little salt and one egg
well beaten; stir well together and bake an hour. To be
eaten with fresh butter or cream.
	Apple Jam.—Ten pounds brown sugar, boiled and
clarified; add ten pounds good sour apples, chopped fine,
the grated peel of two or three lemons, and a few pieces of
white ginger. Boil 'til the apples look clear and tender.
	Gooseberry Catsup.—Eight pounds gooseberries full
grown, but green, four pounds brown sugar, one pint
cider vinegar, three lemons, sliced, two dozen cloves,
ground. Boil four hours, and strain through colander and
bottle. A delicious relish with roast duck or chicken.
	An excellent and easy method of sealing jellies and pre-
serves and one I can vouch for, is to take thin brown
paper, such as fine dry goods are wrapped in at the stores,
cut somewhat larger than the size of the jar, dip in new
milk and paste over the top. It will dry as tight as a drum
head and is perfectly air tight. I have had no mould on
my jellies and preserves since I used this method, and it
is so simple a child can execute it.
	Swett Pickled Peaches.—Eight pounds peaches, four
pounds sugar, one pint cider vinegar, one dozen cloves,
whole, one dozen allspice, whole, one dozen cinnamon
sticks. Method. Make syrup with sugar, vinegar and
spices, except cloves; peel peaches (cling stones preferred)
and stick a clove in each end. When the syrup is clear
boil the peaches till you can run a straw easily through
them; take them out and let the syrup boil twenty minutes
longer, and pour over fruit; boil the syrup for a few mo-
ments for three mornings and pour over the fruit, then
seal up for winter use.	
					MY TIS.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 

	To the memory of our beloved Sister Ann Stewart,
who departed this life, May 26th, 1886, at her residence in 
Provo City, after long suffering with cancer, which she
bore with Christian fortitude and patience, expressing her
resignation to the will of the Lord. 
	Our beloved sister was born in Dalkeith, in the year
1825: was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ in 1845 
and emigrated to Utah, with her husband and two child-
ren, with the hand cart company in 1856, enduring many
hardships for the sake of her religion. 
	Now, therefore, We the members of the Relief Society 
wish to express the honor and respect entertained by us for 
her as a wise counselor and a true friend, who faithfully
held the office of Secretary of the Relief Society for many
years; as one of the first Teachers, and as Counselor to the
President of the Primary Association, in all of which posi-
tions she labored with love and intelligence, qualities that
she ever exercised for the good of her associates, and of 
her family who always dutifully regarded her wishes; 
and
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and her readiness
at all times to give a helping hand and use her best abilities
for the furtherance of the Latter day Work and in expound
ing and manifesting her devotion to its principles. There-
fore, be it
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her beloved
[--]ildren and friends; and, further, be it


Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Society, and that copies be sent to The En-
quirer, to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to the bereaved
family.
				CAROLINE M. JOHNSON, Prest.
				JANE P. JONES,
				M. A. TILL,			Committee.
				SOPHIA MEACHAM,


F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing finger icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing finger icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing finger icon] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306.
SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Mi[--]es' and In-
ant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stree[-].


Elizabeth Pugh

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 16.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1887.		No. 4.


PEACEABLE FRUIT.

"Never the less afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
	righteousness.”—Hebrews 12: 11.

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
		For this dark and suffering night?
   	Father, what shall Thine "afterward" be?
   	Hast Thou a morning joy for me,
		And a new and joyous light?

	What shall Thine "afterward” be, O Lord,
		For the moan that I cannot stay?
	Wilt Thou turn it to some new song of praise,
	Sweeter than sorrowless hearts could raise,
		When the night hath passed away?

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
		For this helplessness of pain?
	A clearer view of my home above,
	Of my Father's strength and my Father's love?
		Shall this be my lasting gain?

	What shall Thine “afterward” be, O Lord, 
		How long must Thy child endure?
	Thou knowest !  'tis well that I know it not !
	Thine "afterward" cometh; I can not tell what,
		But I know that Thy word is sure.

	What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord?
		I wonder and wait to see;
	(While to Thy chastening hand I bow)
	What "peaceable fruit" may be ripening now,
		Ripening fast for me?—Selected
									M. R. J.


ENDURANCE.

How much the heart may bear and yet not break.
	How much the flesh may suffer and not die;
I question much if any pain or ache
	Of soul or body brings the end more nigh.
		Death chooses his own time; till that is worn
		All evils may be borne.

We shrink and shudder at the surgeon's knife,
	Each nerve recoiling from the cruel steel,
Whose edge seemed searching for the quivering life;
	Yet to our sense the bitter pangs reveal
		That still, although the trembling flesh be torn,
		This, also, can be borne.

We see a sorrow rising in our way,
	And try to fly from the approaching ill;
We seek some small escape—we weep and pray—
	But when the blow falls, then our hearts are still;
		Not that the pain is of its sharpness shorn,
		But that it can be borne.

We wind our life about another life,
	We hold it closer, dearer than our own.
Anon it faints and falls in deadly strife,
	Leaving us stunned and stricken and alone;
		But oh! we do not die with those we mourn—
		This also, can be borne.

Behold! we live through all things—famine, thirst,
	Bereavement, pain! all grief and misery,
All woe and sorrow; life inflicts its worst
	On soul and body, but we cannot die,
		Though we be sick and tired, and faint and worn;
		Lo! all things can be borne.
			
					ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[Column 1]
		A FEW THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
	I feel quite guilty in neglecting to write for
our paper for so long a time. It has not been
because I had not a desire to help maintain

[Column 2]
our paper, the rights of the women of Utah,
or the principles of the Gospel. I am fully
aware of the necessity there is of every one be-
ing alive to their duties, and it is the duty of
every one who bears the name of Latter-day
Saint, to show their faith by their works, and
always be willing to use the talents the Lord
has given them for the benefit of the cause of
truth.
	We are living in a momentous time of the
world’s history, and we cannot shut our eyes to
the fact that the end is fast approaching a con-
summation. The events that are taking place
day by day, demonstrate beyond a doubt, that
the Lord is working out His designs in His own
way; and the question with us is, “Are we pre-
pared? Have we oil in our lamps? Do we
realize the magnitude of the responsibility rest-
ing upon us as Saints? Do we keep up with
the spirit of the times, or are we asleep, using
our time, energy, and talents in folly and
fashion?” The exigency of the times calls for
all the energies of the Saints to be concentrated
upon their religion, and the maintenance of
what few rights we have left.
	The rulers of the nation have seen fit to de-
prive us of the right of FRANCHISE, because we
did not fulfill their expectations in catering to
their ideas, but used our right, as free born
women should, for the establishment of pure
principles, of equal rights, of a virtuous com-
munity, and the selection of men for office that
would secure to us these heaven-born principles.
They preferred no charge against us, but took
from  us  this right without giving us the
chance to defend ourselves, the right perserva-
tive of all other rights. because of our opinions.
And will we submit? Yes, under protest, leav-
ing our cause in the Almighty ruler’s hand,
knowing He will deal out justice and equity
to all. We claim that it is unconstitutional;
we claim that we have a right to our belief
untramelled.
	The Constitution plainly states that “the
FRANCHIS﻿E once given cannot be taken away;”
it becomes our property, a part of our posses-
sions, and the loss of it deprives us of what
was our own individually. One must prove a
person guilty of treason before he or she can
constitutionally be deprived of this right.  And
in what does treason consist? “In levying war,
or giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the
United states.” Senators and statesmen of a
great nation must be terrible cowards to be
afraid that the women of Utah would “levy
war against the United Stales.” Oh, consist-
ency, thou art a jewel!
	We find, by referring to the law, that all
persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and that no
law shall be made to deprive them of life,
liberty or property, or the equal protection of
the law.” What a falling away from the spirit
and design of the Constitution! We revere
that sacred document as heaven born; we be-
lieve the men that formed it were inspired of
God to do just what they did, and we will
teach our sons and daughters to love it, to de-
fend it, and let freedom and equal rights be
their watchword. We will teach them that
every man and woman are born free and equal;
that God, the Father of their spirits, made
them free; that the Constitution makes them
free, and that the Gospel makes them free, and
that they are the slaves of no faction, but inde-

[Column 3]
pendent, with the right to worship God in the
way that he marks out.
	How like  to olden times is the present.
Then it was a band of pilgrims flying from the
arbitrary rule of the Stuarts—a band of hum-
ble and peaceable religionists flying from cause-
less oppression! It was conscience attempting
to escape from arbitrary despotism, a Robinson,
a Brewster, leading of a little band from their
native soil to find a shelter in an unknown land,
where they could enjoy religious freedom. How
like to the little band of Saints who left their
homes in the east, driven from state to state,
until they were driven beyond the confines of
the United States, and when, after surmounting
untold difficulties, braving a thousand dangers,
and suffering the pangs of hunger and sickness,
they found a home in these mountains, and
with their love of liberty unfurled the stars
and stripes to the breeze, and pledged their
lives, their honor, their all to defend it. What
a noble band! when they had suffered so much
at the hands of the nation, left their loved ones
in unmarked graves on the plains, their young
children, men and maidens, grey haired fathers
and mothers deprived of their homes and pos-
sessions, and driven at the point of the gun in-
to the wilderness to find a home, yet they cling
to the old flag.
	And now when we have made the valley to
blossom as the rose, and this barren waste a
fruitful field, they would take our all.  We,
like the Pilgrim Fathers, put our trust in our
Father, the Supreme Ruler, knowing He will
defend our rights and deal out justice and
equity to all. We know that God lives, and
that He has revealed Himself to man in this
day, and we know we have seen His power
made manifest, and make bold to declare it to
all nations, and if we obey His laws we shall
be saved at the last day; we have proved it to
be true, and though men may deride and scoff,
yet we still know that it is the power of God
unto salvation to all that believe, and con-
demnation to those who reject it.
	Praying for the success of our paper, the
EXPONENT of the rights of the women of
Utah, I am,
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	A. Bronson Alcott will spend the summer
with his daughter, Mrs. Pratt, at Melrose,
Mass. He is no longer able to hold a pen, and
does all his work by dictation.

	In the Exhibition of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London, of the paintings and sculp-
tures over 1,900 in number, 242 are the works 
of women. It is only fifteen years,since women
artists were admitted to the Royal Academy.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe emphatically
denies the story which is circulating to the ef-
fect that she could never have written “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin” if she had known the colored
people as she knows them now; after a resi-
dence at the South.

	Lillian Whiting says “The time is almost
gone by for the discussion of whether women
want or do not want the ballot. They will
have it whether they desire it or not. And
the true wisdom is to study to find how to use


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF THE GODDESS OF 
LIBERTY. 

		BY MISS EMMA JANE NIELD. 

	Ladies and Gentlemen: My first acknowledg-
ment must be to these kind young friends who
have honored me with this important position, 
and I desire to assure them that I appreciate
 highly this evidence of their friendship and
goodwill, and I trust that I may have the op-
portunity of proving my gratitude by laboring
for their advancement. I represent to-day
one of the fundamental principles and most
glorious truths ever established on earth. 
Liberty is the chief corner stone upon which
every nation rests, and when once assailed or
destroyed, the whole fabric will totter and fall. 
	Liberty! The word sounds as melodious
music in the ears of an oppressed people. Lib-
erty! eagerly cried the Israelitish slaves in 
Egypt; and a Moses came forth to deliver them. 
Liberty! cried the Jewish slaves in Babylon, 
and a Nehemiah arose to lead them back to 
their country. Liberty! exclaimed the op-
pressed Jews, and the tyrant Herod was de-
throned. Liberty! pleaded the soul-bound
Catholics of Germany, and a Luther boldly
defied the popish power and broke the bonds 
of superstition. Liberty! the over-taxed and 
down-trodden Protestants of England, a Crom-
well arose and the tyrant king was beheaded 
	Liberty! glorious liberty! for thee rivers of  
blood have flowed and millions of lives have
been sacrificed at thy shrine. 
	One hundred and ten years ago to-day a na
tion was born and the Goddess of Liberty was 
enthroned. The banner of Freedom was un-
furled in response to the appeal of patriotic
men whose hearts ached at the sufferings of 
the people under the galling yoke of despotism. 
	Patrick Henry echoed the sentiments of the
colonists when he exlaimed, "Give me liberty
or give me death!"
	The memorable document was signed. 
	The aged veteran in the steeple bared his
arm and caused the ringing peals of the bell
to speak to an excited and enthusiastic multi-
tude the death-knell of oppression and the
grand truth that the people were free. 
	We commemorate to-day that glorious even. 
To-day from the surging Atlantie to the placid
Pacific, from the snow-capped hills of the
Canadas, to the orange groves of the Floridas, 
the eloquence of America's orators is recount-
ing the Republic's glorious achievements and
her future destiny. 
	But here in Utah, the Goddess of Liberty
bows her head with humility and shame for
alas! her fair name is sullied and the flag of 
freedom trails in the dust. Religious liberty
has been taken from her people and while the
voices of America's freemen are heard from
the penitentiaries we mourn for our Nation's 
weal and our National honor.
	Columbia! thy prestige is departing, thy sun
is slowly setting. 
	Martyred Standing, Berry and Gibbs wi-
ness to thy degradation. 
	Imprisoned Snow, Clawson and others wit-
ness to thy dishonor. 
	The departed glory of Babylon, Greece and
Rome [---] t[-] thee beacon lights of warning
and if disregarded, thou also "will be
weighed in the balances and found wanting."
	Again we exclaim, "O say, does the star-
spangled banner still wave o'er the land of the 
free and the home of the brave?"
	But the glorious Republic shall yet be res-
cued from the power of the demagogue and
Utah's true-born sons shall raise aloft freedom's 
banner and proclaim true liberty and freedom
to her people. 
	Then will the goddess of Liberty reign su-
preme.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The 29th quarterly conference of the Relief 
Societies of Box Elder Stake convened June 
the 8th 1886, in Brigham City. After the
opening exercises  minutes of the previous
Conference were read and accepted. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow expressed her pleasure 
in meeting so many in conference,exhorted the
sisters to be prayerful and press onward in the 
cause of truth, regretted the absence of sister 
Zina D. Young. 
	Counselor O. Widerborg knew that all felt
thankful for the privilege of meeting 
together in peace. Reported favorable of the
Scandinavian sisters. Felt a determination 
to live her religion. Prayed the Lord to bless 
all with understanding and strength to per-
form their duties. Sister Perry read a very
interesting vision. Sister Keller reported 
Mantua Ward, Sister Hubbard, Willard, 
Sister Albertson, Bear River City, Sister
Anderson, Third Ward, Brigham City, Sister 
Mary E. Snow, 2nd Ward, Brigham City, Sis-
ter Watkins 4th Ward Brigham City Sister
Perry Three Mile Creek. 
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer, 
Counselor Susannah P. Booth addressed the
assembly: referred to the vision that had been
read and how strengthening such things were,
realized the great responsibilities resting upon
the Relief Society, we should be charitable
and assist the poor. Spoke of the duties of the
teachers. 
	Prest. Elmina S. Taylor thought the mem-
bers present, indicated that we were desirous
to do right.  Said we are all aiming at one
thing, "celestial glory;" we have no hopes in
any one else but God our Heavenly Father. 
There is yet much for us to endure before the
end comes, and all will be tried as keenly as
they can endure. Spoke of the beauty and
usefulness of these organizations, it draws us
together closer, we learn to know each other, 
to love each others good qualities, it brings out
the talents the Lord has given us and it has
in many cases been a source of comfort and 
consolation to sisters who have been down-cast
and afflicted. We should guard our tongues, 
guard ourselves in our daily lives. We should 
be honest, upright and pray continually for 
strength to be faithful. We should strive to
do some good deed every day, prayed the
choicest blessings of God on all present, that
all might prove faithful. 
	Supt. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Minnie J. Snow,
spoke on the responsibilities of mothers with
regard to the education of their daughters. 
	Sister Harding, Sister Wixom, Sister Owens
each made excellent remarks touching upon
various subjects and urging the sisters to keep
the commandments of God. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said: we are in a school, 
we want to have wisdom to do right under all
circumstances. Gave excellent instructions
to the Presidents Counselors and teachers of
both the Relief Society and Young Ladies
Association. Said we want to cultivate a
spirit of discernment. 
	Conference adjourned for three months with
singing and benediction.
	E. D. M.


WOMEN'S WAGES IN AMERICA.

	The State of New York, following in the 
wake of Massachusetts, has commenced to
collect and publish annually a mass of valu-
able information respecting labor.  The prac-
tice of the Bureau is to make an investigation
of one or more special subjects within the scope
of its legal inquiry, and last year it took up
as a subject for investigation Working women:


their wages, and home condition.” Setting
out with the determination to take evidence
from none but representative manufacturers
and mechanics, the Commissioner has been
able to collect much trustworthy evidence, and
he gives elaborate tables bearing directly upon
the question of women’s wages. It appears
that for the making of clothing the following
prices are paid by a large representative firm:
Overcoat, 6s 2d; pea jacket, 3s 9d; cotton
trousers,1s; wollen trousers, 1s 6d; vests, ls 5d
to 1s 8d. At dressmaking wages are 4s 2d per
day; work from 8 a.m. till 6 p.m. Many
women, however, are employed in large stores,
who receive as much as from £3 10s to £8 per
week; but these, of course, are superintendents
or specially skillful workwomen. Many sew-
ing women told the Commissioner that by
piece-work they can make from 20s to 28s per
week. Ordinary wages for housework in pri-
vate families, are £2 10s per month; cham-
bermaids, £3; cooks, £3 10s to £7. It need
hardly be added that there are a great number 
of working women in these different occupa-
tions who earn less than the figures given
above; they represent the average.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. H. M. T. Cutler has just published a
book entitled “Phillipia.” It is an interesting
woman’s rights book.

	An old woman of threescore and three-
quarters, living in Centralia, Ill., has secured
the contract for carrying the mails from the
railroad station to the postoffice at five dollars
a month.
 
	Mrs. Gladstone attended a Liberal meeting
at Mile End, London, July 2nd. In response
to deafening applause she made a short speech
of thanks, and read a message from her hus-
band, wishing success to the Liberal candidate
for that district.

	A correspondent of the N. Y. Tribune says
that fourteen of the seventy-six U. S. Senators
chew tobacco, and fifty-eight use it in one form
or another. Also, that of the 325 members of
the House, only a few abstain wholly from to-
bacco. The senators who do not use it are
Aldrich, Blair, Colquit, Dawes, Dolph, Hoar,
Jones of Nevada, McMillan, Miller, Mitchell
of Oregon, Morgan, Pike, Plumb, Van Wyck,
Teller and Payne. To this list of members we
take the liberty to add the name of the Utah
Delegate, John T. Caine.

	Mrs. Gladstone encourages industry and
thrift among the cottagers around her, and
gives them personal assistance in the cultiva-
tion of trees and flowers. Among the charit-
able institutions founded by her is the Indus-
trial School for Boys at Clapham.  To one
whom she had helped and who wishes to do 
some service for her in return, Mrs. Gladstone
said: “Do something for somebody else. A 
kind word, a bit of practical advice, a helping
hand, even if there is not much in it, will al-
ways be doing something for me. And more
than that, my child, it will be doing something
for yourself and something for God.”


Patents have been granted, to women, during
the week ending June 29, 1886, as follows:

	Laura E. Crosby, Oakland City, Ind., Burg-
lar Alarm.
	
	Minnie Dobson, New York, N.Y., Banjo-
frame.
	Harriet H. Hoge, Butte City, Montana,
Machine for stitching and smoothing em-
broidered and other fabrica


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REMEMBRANCE.

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When, fresh in the dawning light, 
He springs from his bed of slumber,
	Prepared for the brief day’s flight?
Will he think of the morning greeting,
	The smile, the blessing, the kiss,
The happy home-talk and the children—
	Will he think of them only to miss?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When gone to his school or his play,
When, over his bright head is flitting
	The hours of youth's happy day?
Will he think of the rides we have taken
	Through meadow and field all alone,
Our quiet talk, drifting from flowers
	Up even to God’s holy throne?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When down the orb of the day,
Soft twilight is drawing her eyelids
	And folding her labors away,
Will he think of the romps in the garden,
	The swing ’neath the old apple tree,
Will he think of the prayers he has offered
	So oft at his fond mother's knee?

Will my boy remember his mother,
	When into his youthful ears
Is poured the soft voice of the tempter—
	Will he then remember her tears
When invited to smoke or drink liquor,
	Or passing some bright gambling den,
And companions persuade him to enter,
	Will my darling remember me then?

Oh, let him forget me at evening,
	Or during the day’s busy hours,
While reading, or romping, or singing,
	Or riding ’neath sweet country bowers,
Forget me in joy or in sorrow,
	But always remember me when
Assailed by the pleadings of Satan,
	My darling, remember me then!
							HOMESPUN.
[handwritten text on the right side] Susan J. Gates


[Column 1]
SOME SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.

A YOUNG MISSIONARY'S REPLY TO A LETTER.

	"I shall undertake to reply first to that por-
tion of your letter which struck me most
forcibly; namely, regarding your becoming a
Sister of Mercy. Will you explain why it is
necessary for you to join this order to do good!
You say you believe any belief pleasing to
God if it be but sincere. Had you studied
the Bible, which is the accepted word of God
among civilized people, you never would have
intimated that sincerity of worship is all that
God desires, and no sane Bible believer dare
advance such a theory. The Bible declares
that "God is a spirit, and they, that worship 
Him must worship Him in spirit, that is, in
sincerity and in truth." Your good sense will
tell you that, as all professed Christian denomi-
nations differ in their views regarding the wor-
ship of God, they must all be wrong in some
particular (all save one at any rate), and in
being wrong they do not meet the Bible de-
mand for worship—to worship God in truth;
and if the Bible is true, it is fully as essential
to worship in truth as in sincerity. Admitting,
however, for argument sake, that you are right,
and that earnestness of purpose is all that is
necessary. why then is it essential for
you to join a Catholic institution in order
to serve God in the way you mention? Cannot
you be sincere without becoming a Catholic?
Cannot you be merciful without taking the
vows of a Sister of Mercy. Cannot you have
a fixed purpose without thus binding yourself
for life? No Catholic will ever tell you that to
be sincere is all that is essential to well-doing
in the sight of God. They understand clearly,
however far we may think them astray in
other respects, that sincerity, to be effective,
must be associated with truth. Should you
put your idea into execution, admitting that
all else were congenial and satisfactory, to my

[Column 2]
mind would only be limiting your power to do
good, for your work, as a Sister of Mercy in 
the Catholic Church, would be almost, if not
entirely, confined to those of the Catholic
faith, and you declare you have no choice in
regard to forms of worship. You may enter-
tain the idea that the vow could be kept the
easier by associating yourself with this order.
It may be true, but I see no good reason why
it should be so. The vow is made to God, if
made at all. It is between Him and the maker,
and not between the Catholic Church and the
one who offers it; and it is God who sustains
those that seek to serve Him, not those of a
given faith or of our own way of thinking.
My earnest, my most earnest advice is that you
will take no step which (if you should change
 your mind later) may deprive you of your
freedom of action, or give you cause for regret
in after years. I can tell you, there are far
greater and more important commandments
than that of perpetual maidenhood, or being
merciful in a given line. Those who join this
society never know the glory of womanhood,
and they place themselves in a position which
prevents them from fulfilling the first and 
greatest commandment. Not every woman
can be a Florence Nightingale, nor a Grace
Darling; but the world is full of golden oppor-
tunities for the exercise of genuine Christian
and true womanly virtues, and as a rule women
do not need to leave their homes to find abun-
dant opportunities for the exercise of all the
virtues with which they are blessed. I have
no word to speak against the women who nobly
sacrifice their lives in the desire to assuage the
miseries of their fellow creatures, but I cannot
avoid the belief that they have made a mistake
as to the best manner of accomplishing this
result, when they join such orders; and the ex-
ception is rare where they could not have done
better had they left themselves free. It is said
of John Howard, that he probably assuaged
more human misery than any mere man that
ever lived, and yet he belonged to no organiza-
tion that I have heard of. A broad humanity
and a boundless sympathy for the suffering and
misery of his fellows, led him to devote a life
—and a noble life it was—to the mitigation of
prison horros and to alleviating suffering
caused by the dreadful ravages of pestilential
diseases. He was sustained by an unfaltering
trust in God, and it is not known that it took
any special vows or oaths on his part to make 
him the most successful worker among his fel-
lows in recent times. I have yet to learn that 
the good accomplished by Nightingale, Darling,
and the host of women whose names are bright
and glowing spots in the histories of all times,
was due to any vows they made, save to God
alone, or to their association with others for a 
given purpose. Not by any means that organiza-
tion is not valuable and effective—but that
the good you or any other individual may do,
is the result of a personal determination, aided
by a divine power, which flows from the al-
wise and infinitely powerful Creator, and not
from any special organization.
	The sphere of woman is boundless, and it is
always where she herself may be. The soul
of a true woman is like the sweet perfume of
a flower. We do not see the odor; it is voice-
less, and yet if we but come within the circle
of its unseen power, its pervading and persua-
sive perfume gladdens the heart, and as we
drink it in, there is insensibly awakened a ris-
ing pulse of thanksgiving; and a broader, a 
truer and a deeper love for the human race is
its offspring. It is exactly so with the invisible
influence of a good and a pure woman, and
she leaves an elevating and ennobling impres-
sion upon all who come within the radius of
her subtle power. This is the perfume of her
soul. But this takes time. It is not the 
flower of a moment—not the product of a 
good, but fleeting resolve - it is a plant of slow
growth. This power is the result of patient

[Column 3]
and untiring cultivation—and this cultivation
always begins at home. It is idle for you to
talk of sacrificing a young, lovely, and what
might be a life full of grace and of noble ex-
ample, when you are unable to deny yourself
the trifling follies which are so common to
those of your years. The idea is preposterous.
There are still deeper reasons why you should
abandon the idea, if you really entertain it,
but as these are purely of a religious nature,
and you will not care to go into such a sub-
ject. I need not refer to them.
	There is, however, a very serious subject in
your letter to which I do wish to refer—your
complaint of constant unrest. Do you not
understand that there can be for none of us
rest this side the grave, whatever may be
in store for us on the other side? Yours is a 
very common distress among young people of
both sexes, and the advice is equally applicable
to all. It is not rest that you need, it is occu-
pation. You would not feel that eternal long-
ing, that craving for an indefinite something,
which you attempt to call rest, if you only
had some good, wholesome employment. The
true woman learns early that life is not given
for rest, nor for the gratification of personal
desires. Its purpose is infinitely nobler and
grander—it is to do something for the good of
others, that we may thereby be blest ourselves.
A wise woman also understands that happiness
comes from within and not from without. And
there can be no happiness where there is no
consciousness that we have been the means of
blessing others. Her own heart is a woman's 
well-spring of joy, and when that heart teaches
her she has done her duty well, then, and
only then, is she truly happy. The conscious-
ness of duty, well performed, is a spring of
perennial freshness, and its store of the waters
of joy increases with the growing hours. If
you do just as you should do at home; if you
make those about you happier than they were,
have you not done something worth accom-
plishing? And it is not so hard a task when
we look at it fairly. Would you not be hap-
per for it? How can we expect to have the 
great patience with strangers which mercy de-
mands when we have neither the heart nor the
patience to strive to make our acquaintances,
and those who should be still dearer, happy?
How can we expect rest, or peace, or satisfac-
tion for the longings of the heart, when there
is an ever present consciousness—vague though
it may be—that golden opportunities are flying
past untouched, that the duty of the hour is
not even attempted? Charity and mercy truly
should begin at home. Were all women merci-
ful and charitable at home and among their
friends—working in quiet, undemonstrative
ways, yet with unshaken purpose—I am in-
clined to believe there would be little need for
such organizations as Sisters of Mercy or of
Charity. Cannot you find plenty to do among
those you know? We crave too much for the
applause of mankind, and not enough for the
approbation of a pure and earnest heart. We
are not satisfied with the quiet, the tender, the
modest wreath which adorns the brow of the
patient and cheerful worker at home; but if we
could taste the rapture such feel in being
decked with this simple emblem, if we only
knew the joy of a woman in the pure and con-
fiding smile she herself has made to light up
the face of another, we would envy her, I am
sure. It is to her what sunlight is to the bird,
water to the parched ground, what the smile
of this fair world is to one who has been bereft
of sight. If we labor for such a reward, the
rest we need is assured. This is "Heartsease"—
a flower that blooms, nowhere but in the con-
genial soil of duty, warmed by affection, and its
perfume is the only happiness we can know. It
is the joy within—the joy of an approving heart,
to which riches and power can add nothing, and
which neither poverty nor the frowns of the
haughty can diminish."	R. W. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JULY 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION
CRITICISED. 
	The readers of the EXPONENT will see that 
several pages are filled with Mrs. Angie F. New-
man’s petition to Congress, in which she makes a
specialty of abusing and traducing the “Mor-
mons.” One wonders what claims the Gentiles of
Utah could make upon the government if they had
not this adverse “Mormon” material, which they
manufacture wholesale, to use,to turn the scale in 
their favor. But no cause can stand long or be
permanently successful which is propped up with
falsehood. Every person who reads Mrs. New-
man’s petition can see how false is the ground she
takes, and her reasoning is all from false premises. 
She wants Congress to believe she knows “Mor-
mon” women and their needs better than they do
themselves. She speaks of her knowledge of fe-
male suffrage in Utah, when it is well known she
lives in Nebraska, and most of her knowledge is
second hand, and gained from such authority as
Mrs. Paddock’s and Mrs. Froiseth’s sensational 
novels and the works written by apostates. It is 
idle for such people to talk of what the women of
Utah ought, or ought not to have; the women of
Utah are the best judges for themselves on their
own subject, and being free agents, and also large-
ly native-born American citizens known something
about the privileges they are entitled to, and, hav-
ing rightful possession of the ballot are prepared
to protest emphatically against disfranchisement, 
and indignantly against the interference of Mrs. 
Newman and her clique, who make capital in
Washington by their malicious and cruel attacks
upon “Mormons” and their institutions. 
	Possibly if Mrs. Newman had crossed the plains
in ox teams, and toiled and suffered privation, 
hunger and hardship such as many hundreds of
“Mormon” women have, she might set up a claim
in Congress on her own account; but to go there
and speak of the stronghold of Churches and
ecclesiastical governments is something more than
absurd in women, who are collecting funds under
false pretences to bolster up a Church whose re-
sources are failing to supply the demand and fur-
nish salaries for ministers and teachers. There
can be no objection to appropriations by Congress
to assist in building “Industrial Homes,” but the
“Mormon” women do object to begging on their
account. They are abundantly able to plead their
own cause before Congress, if it were necessary, 
and they would not need to go there and abuse
“Gentile” women to get a hearing. The entangle-
ments  and  environments  of  the Mormon
Church which Mrs. Newman refers  to
are all a MYTH, and if any doubt exists 
in the minds of members of Congress, there is 
abundant testimony to repudiate her statements. 
There are not women enough here to fill the situa-
tions already open to them, and as to the capabili-
ties and the efficiency of domestic help, let one 
sit and listen to the conversation of the women of
the East about help, and one need not be long in 
concluding that “Industrial Training Schools”are

[Column 2] 
needed there. If Mrs. Newman thinks that the
young girls who leave England, Scandinavia, Ger-
many or Switzerland, for the sake of gathering to
Zion, will fall into the snare she has laid to decoy 
them from the truth of the Gospel she is vainly
deceiving herself. 
	The Methodists who are asking for this appro-
priation  have been here in Utah for years,
and have established schools here, and employed
teachers to fill these positions, and held out in-
ducements to the children of the Latter-day Saints
to come to them and so on, and how many have
they succeeded in getting? Here and there one 
or two or three children of some one who had 
either lost the faith or never had any to lose. 
There are district schools in Utah, and no need 
whatever for the people of the East to be taxed to 
educate the children of either “Mormons” or
Gentiles in Utah. 
	But it is useless to waste words on Mrs. New-
man’s petition, because it is so flimsy, b[--]ng utter-
ly erroneous; there is scarcely a thread of truth 
to hold the whole thin spun fabric together. She
talks of the nineteen wives of Brigham Young,
and then his spiritual wives and his daughters, as
though this had anything to do with her getting
an appropriation, or with the misuse of woman’s
suffrage. No woman could vote who was not a
citizen in her own right, either natural born or
legally married to a natural born or naturalized
citizen, and it was quite a common occurrence for 
women to be naturalized as well as men. 
	The polished shafts of Error may strike at
Truth in the most skillful manner and with
venomed darts may even pierce and wound her, 
but they will be broken, and though she be
stamped upon, she cannot be stamped out, and
Truth will triumph in the contest, though the vic-
tory be hard won. Falsehood may flourish and
its victims may suffer persecution in consequence,
but eternal principles must stand, and those who
proclaim them know, that
	 “Who speaks the Truth stabs Falsehood to the heart.”
		To be Continued.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have on hand minutes of the Woman’s
Conference of Tooele, Utah, Maricopa and Salt
Lake Stake, but on account of publishing Mrs.
Newman’s petition we had not space for them in.
this issue.

	WE find it impossible to more than touch upon
Mrs. Newman’s petition to Congress. The con-
tradictions to her mis-statements and errors will
furnish material for articles from the pens of many
of the sisters as well as more editorial matter.

	THE August election draws near, and we trust
women voters will not be remiss in casting in their
ballots, but practically demonstrate their apprecia-
tion of the franchise, and not only by voting on
election day, but by attending their Primaries in
their respective localities.

	CORRECTIONS: In the article “In Memoriam,”
where it reads Benediction by Bishop Atwood it
should be Bishop Clawson. In alluding to the
parents as Abraham and Betsy Wells, read Ab-
salom and Betsy Free; and in Original Recipes,
read ounces, instead of dozens, for all spices
mentioned. In the article “Princess Street Edin-
burgh”, for dock, read loch.

	ENCYCLOPEDIA: The American Encyclopedia
of Practical Knowledge illustrated is being can-
vassed for in Utah Territory. H.S.Reeves is agent
for it,and it seems likely to become very popular,
and, judging from its contents, it cannot fail to be
useful in the family and home. It is particularly
well adapted to farmers, to stock raisers and all 
that class of people. It contains general and


definite information on building houses, barns and
cellars, and in reference to the treatment of all do-
mestic animals, also fish and fowls, trees, grafting,
fruits, also forests, and on the subject of grain.
The information is quite varied and elaborate.
Many other subjects, and in fact, it would seem
all connected with the ordinary vocations of life
in America are treated upon and classified in such
a way that any person can turn to the page readily,
and at any time or in any emergency get reliable
authority to act upon. It is certainly a valuable
work to put into the hands of the people, and can-
not fail, we think, to give satisfaction. Such a
book must be of great benefit to people living in
isolated places where advice is not so easily ob-
tained at a moment's notice. In examining the
work there seems nothing lacking to make it com-
plete in every particular pertaining to every day
life and in practical experience, so far as book
knowledge will help one's efforts and energies.


IN EXPLANATION.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Knowing they are not designed for publication, 
I take the responsibility of complying with your
request, and send you for the EXPONENT a copy 
of one of a series of descriptive letters addressed 
to his family by my brother in the  Utah Peni-
tentiary.  Without the preceding one, of which 
I have not the copy, the opening of this letter 
seems abrupt.  The style adopted is amusing. 
							E. R. S. S. 
	   ONE OF A SERIES OF LETTES.
	   UTAH PENITENTIARY, May 13, 1886.

TO MY FAMILY:
	Having now washed and arranged our toilets 
according to our tastes and abilities, we wait
breakfast, our anxieties graded by the relative 
demands of our appetites.  The event watched 
for, at length, is announced, when, as though by 
magic, one hundred and fifty occupants, young
and old of various nationalities, pour from their
sleeping tenements, marshall  instantly into two 
columns converging at a point adjoining the Din-
ing Hall entrance. 
	We describe the scene as now it probably
would appear to an observer.  It will be seen that 
this Picture possesses many phases oddly made 
up of strange mixtures of things, quite opposite
in their natures, which viewed as a whole, are
singularly striking, and on account of its peculiari-
ties has attracted the attention of many persons
in quest of originalities, or such as minister to a 
lively imagination or to supply material for philo-
sophical,  moral,   or   religious   contemplation.
Therefore it is not uncommon on these occasions,
to notice crowds of enthusiasts posted upon the 
walls surrounding our Establishment, gazing down
upon our dual ranks, displaying in their varying 
countenances a curious combination of emotion
and sentiment such as astonishment, sympathy, ad-
miration, sorrow, profound respect, risibility, etc.,
etc.
	The first aspect which strikes the beholder, is 
the ineffectual struggle to assume a correct, mili-
tary attitude, the failure of which unfortunately 
shows that  the  manoeuvre has resulted in 
the   formation   of   an   awkward  squad;
doubtless  awakening  feelings  of  the  ludic-
rous.  Many,  far   the   greater  number of 
these files are noticed as possessing intelligent
and attractive countenances, indicating a high
state of intellectual, moral and religious culture,
impressing the observer with feelings of interest, 
and sentiments of profound respect. Another 
curious feature in this Exhibit, appears in the
grotesque colors aud arrangement of our costumes,
consisting of two broad rings artistically arranged 
so they run horizontally around pants vests, and 
sacque coat, at equal distances from one another


The one ring, a coal glossy black the other a 
pure snowy white following each other alternate-
ly as before described.
     When the eye of a visitor catches this grotesque
point in the scene, and we notice the effects, hav-
ing long cultivated the feeling of forgiveness, we
pardon his ill breeding, and wretched lack of
ettiquette, when discovering him in convulsions
of laughter.
     Another distinguished feature (this I have a 
a pride in mentioning) is, the peculiar air of dig-
nity, stately, noble bearing, and majestic mien of
the greater portion of this body of men, apparent-
ly born to lead and control.
     Well, having said so much, we are now pre-
pared to march our serpentine columns, not to the
gory field of conflict to cut the enemy to pieces,
but into a Dining Hall to attack and consume the
refreshments gratiutously furnished.
     The tables are primitive in make, and seem-
ingly very antique, and benches for seats may be
described in the same words.  Tin plates, tin-
cups, and spoons constitute the furniture of the
tables, apparently of ancient manufacture as
though they might have been employed, perhaps,
in the service of the Antideluvians.  Knives and
forks do not appear in this quarter, except in a 
few solitary instances where they are found com-
bined in the reduced form of pocket knives.
     Coffee, meat, potatoes and bread, all in gener-
ous quantities, grace the tables at our morning
refreshments.  At noonday, meat and bread, and
a light soup occasionally.  Supper is made up of
tea and bread.
     Strange though it may appear, yet facts show
that many of our Gentlemen postively fatten, and
some even achieve corpulency on this simple and
primitive diet.  Of course, to be successful in
such attainments of our physical condition and
generous proportions, as a rule, one must possess
a healthy constitution with a naturally aggressive
appetite, combined with a clear conscience.
     Speaking of myself as I aspire but to the main-
tenance of the latter quality, therefore when I
emerge hence, my present figure, I fancy, will not
have assumed those physical distinctions-
   Every Sabbath religious services are held in
the dining hall, by Clergymen of various sects in
the city, each in their turn.  We have a magnifi-
cent Choir made up of Convicts who assist at these
services, except at the "Mormon" meetings which
are served by invited singers.  The Chorister is
a "Mormon" convicted of cohabitation, the or-
ganist, a non-"Mormon" for some crime or misde-
meanor; others for various crimes.  Notwithstand-
ing this seemingly drawback of respectability, its 
a splendid choir, discoursing, spirited and charm-
ing music, all too, in an artistical style almost
above criticism.
     It is curious though, and highly amusing, to see
this prison Choir, their heads and faces clean 
shaven, their grotesque costumes, attired as per-
formers at a Circus, or actors in a comic scene,
earnestly engaged as important factors in these
solemn and Divine ceremonies.
     At first thought, on taking in this scene, one is
liable to be led to the ridiculous belief that the
Stage and Pulpit, at last having harmonized their
differences, have met and embraced, each in its
own way and style, the one, in its habiliments of
mournfulness and deepest feelings of piety and
solemnity, the other in its fanciful, burlesque cos-
tume, and frolicsome and frisky mood.  The mis-
take however is a bad one, and easily corrected
by observing the appearance, and character of the
audience, one third of which are noticed as "Mor-
mons" convicted of living with their wives, the
balance serving sentence for various crimes and
misdemeanors all wearing the garb of convicts;
these services being designed to reform, and make
them consistent and better Christians.
						LORENZO SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OUT IN THE COUNTRY.

DEAR AUNT EM:
I have just been watching a glorious sunrise.
Some rather heavy, dark clouds looming up in
the north west and east, seemed to tip a little to
the right, as if on purpose to show us their "silver
linings" which were indeed beautiful.
	The scene reminded me of the clouds still
hovering over our people; and I felt comforted
in thinking that according with the morning pros-
pect in our political horizon, "behind the clouds
is the sun still shining," whether its ways are ap-
parent to mortal eyes or not.  The clouds parted
while I watched, and grew thinner and paler as
they drifted away, which I took as a good omen.
	This little settlement is established in one of
the cosy nooks in the tops of the mountains.
We have been here for more than two weeks, and,
in many respects, have greatly enjoyed our visit.
	I have attended fast meeting, Relief Society
meeting and the Sunday services; have been to
an old-fashioned quilting, and out visiting three
afternoons; and withal have found that the most
friendly feelings exist, so far as I am able to
judge, between all the families of the neighbor-
hood.  Not a sentence of backbiting, or even
gossipy rumor have I heard uttered.  Every one
seems to understand his or her own business, and
to have nothing to do but attend to it.  In this,
as also in some other respects, many of our older
and larger settlements might pattern after this
one with profit.  Another excellent item is, the
Word of Wisdom seems to be very generally ob-
served here, which renders a more agreeable at-
mosphere than is usually found in this wonderful
age of civilization and reform.  Only think of
passing a whole fortnight without once being
nauseated by disgusting tobacco fumes.  Such has
been my happy lot; and in this regard, it would
be my choice to dwell in such a locality as this
forever.
	Bishop George Coleman and his wife, Sister
Jane, seem to be especially adapted to lead in
this little community; and in all things, both of a
spiritual and temporal nature, mutual improvement
is the order of the day.
	The Bishop and his family being old and valued
friends of ours, we naturally feel quite at home
in the ward.
	This small neat valley is almost entirely sur-
rounded by high hills or low mountains; the
scenery is picturesque, a blending of loveliness
and grandeur.
	The people talk of having a "Twenty-fourth of
July celebration." If they do, it will likely be
quite an interesting occasion, as the union which
exists here, is sure to make almost any movement
successful.  Next Saturday and Sunday a con-
ference is to be held at Fish Lake.  Some of the
folks are going from this place, but we are not.
	We begin to talk of starting home, but are un-
decided how soon we shall do so.  You may hear
from me again before I see you, but for the present
accept love and adieus.
								LULA.


SENSIBLE IDEAS. 

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Having a little leisure time I thought I would
address a few lines to the EXPONENT. We have
a Relief Society organized here, presided over by
Sister Hannah LeFevre, and though few in num-
bers, we consider it a pleasure as well as a duty
to meet together in the interest of Woman’s rights
and privileges, to exchange ideas and sentiments,
and thus cultivate our minds and enlarge our
abilities. We are somewhat isolated consequent-
ly are deprived of many associations, and instruc-
tions enjoyed by those more favorably situated.
We take the EXPONENT and learn from it, the


spirit of the times, and the advancement of 
woman, and are deeply interested in the instruc-
tion it  contains.  On the 4th of June we were
favored with a visit from President Crosby and
wife, Sister Myers and Sister Clarke of Panguitch 
in the interest of the Relief Society, which we
very much appreciated. 
	We held a meeting and received valuable in-
struction and felt encouraged to fulfill our duties
better in the future.  We have been rather dilatory
in the past.  We labor under disadvantages main-
ly arising from the distance we live apart.  The
majority of us have large families and the con-
sequent duties engross the most of our time, hav-
ing our clothing neat but plain, our food simple 
but wholesome, and appetizing, we would be en-
abled to spare a little time in which to devote to
intellectual pleasures it is necessary that we read
good books and periodicals in order that we keep
pace with the times in which we live, and by so
doing it will implant in our hearts a higher stand-
ard of life, and furnish food for pleasant thoughts
and we will go to our labors feeling rested and re-
freshed; and it will create a desire for that which 
is beautifying and ennobling.  I think we were
created for a nobler purpose than spending our
entire time in common drudgery.  I do not pro-
pose to neglect home comforts, but on the con-
trary consider home should be made the most at-
tractive place for children and parents, but, at the
same time, think our whole duty is not fulfilled it
we do not cultivate our intelligence and become fa-
miliar with the current events of the day, and
learn what is going on in the great world around
us.  It will give children a higher estimate of pa-
rents, consequently they will have more influence 
over them.  Wishing you every success in the
work in which you are engaged, I remain, 
			Yours respectfully. 
		 				SUSIE TEBBS, 
				Secretary of Relief Society.
   Tebbsdale, Utah, July 1st, 1886.


THE POET.

		BY IDA A. AHLBORN.

He was haunted night and day
	By a spirit clad in white,
That no exorcist could lay.

So he wrote a magic rhyme,
	Gave the subtle spirit form,
Sent it forth to war with Time.

He is freed, but this is done.
	Now the spirit in the song 
Haunts a thousand for the one.
						—Traveller.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Every one has a cure for sore throat, but simple remedies
appear to be most effectual.  A gargle of salt and water
is used by many, but a little alum and honey dissolved in
sage tea is better.  Cloths wrung out of hot water and
applied to the neck, changing as often as they begin to
cool, have potency for removing inflamation more than
anything we have ever tried.  This should be kept up for a
number of hours; during the evening is usually the most
convenient time for applying the remedy. 

   Ice Cream.—Dissolve five teaspoonfuls of corn starch or
arrowroot in a teacupful of milk.  Add to it the whites of
three eggs well frothed, and the yelk of one well beaten.
Sweeten with loaf sugar, and boil half a gallon of new milk.
As soon as it begins to boil, pour it in small quantities over
the mixture of eggs and starch until about half the milk is
taken from the kettle.  Then pour all back into the kettle,
and stir it a few minutes.  After it cools, add one quart of
rich cream; flavor to your taste, and freeze the cream.


Mrs. Garfield is said to be worth between
$300,000 and $400,000.  Her income is esti-
mated at $20,000 a year.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	Mr. Edmunds presented the following peti-
tion of Mrs. Angie F. Newman:

To the honorable the Senate and House of Rep-
	resentatives of the Forty-ninth Congress:

	GENTLEMEN: The undersigned respectfully
represents that on the 6th of March, 1886, 2,-
000 Mormon women assembled in mass meeting
in Salt Lake City to protest against the inva-
sion of their rights by Federal interference.
The spirit of protest crystalized in the appoint-
ment of a committee to memorialize the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States in the
form of a "Declaration of grievances" of the
people of Utah.
	Said committee drafted the memorial, pro-
ceeded to Washington. and presented it to the
national Congress.
	It has been read in your hearing.
	The following preamble and resolutions are
embodied therein: 
	Whereas, the rights and liberties of women are placed
in jeopardy by the present cruel and inhuman proceedings
in the Utah courts, and in the contemplated measure in
Congress to deprive the women voters in Utah of the elec-
tive franchise: Therefore, be it
	Resolved by the women of Utah in mass meeting assem-
bled, That the suffrage originally conferred upon us as a 
political privilege has become a vested right by possession
and usage for fifteen years, and that we protest against be-
ing deprived of that right without process of law, and for
no other reason  than that we do not vote to suit our politi-
cal opponents.

	These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment.
	There are Gentile women in Utah Territory.
On this basis of civil equality their "protest"
should have equal consideration from your
honorable body.
	As an eye witness of the ceremonies at the
Theatre meeting; as a long and close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah; having
definite personal knowledge of the Gentile
sentiment touching this question; as a member
of the committee who drafted and circulated
the petitions (mentioned in the following) ask-
ing the repeal of the act conferring the elective
franchise upon the women of Utah, the under-
signed, in defense of the great principles of
civil equity, respectfully submits the following
memorial, asking the passage of section 7 of the
Edmunds bill, now pending in the national
Congress.
	All law, human or divine, is the exponent
of sovereignty.
	The duty of individual or national recog-
nition of or obedience to law is measured by
the nature of that sovereignty.
	Divine law is unconditional. From it there
is no appeal.
	Human law may be only a synonym of des-
potism; the arbitrary edicts of rulers the very
antonyms of justice. The very elements of
revolution sometimes inhere in civil enact-
ments.
	Under a republican form of government the
people are the sovereignty. When, therefore,
the will of the people crystallizes at the bal-
lot box its mandate is supreme.
	Liberty's urn is a safe repository of law.
	Section 7 of the Edmunds bill, now in the 
hands of the House Judiciary, Committee
reads:

	It shall not be lawful for any female to vote at any elec-
tion hereafter held in the Territory of Utah for any public
purpose whatsoever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect, and any and every act of the 
governor and legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah
providing for or allowing the registration or voting by fe-
males is hereby annulled.

	This attempt to repeal the Territorial act
which confers the franchise upon the women
of the Territory of Utah has been interpreted

[Column 2]
by its opponents as a subversion of the great
principles of civil equality—as retrogresion
in politics—as formulating civil disabilities on
the basis of religious belief.
	This construction, however, is a perversion
of facts, and can only be entertained by those
who have studied the problem outside the
Territory. The test of given principles, under
a disparity of conditions, must yield unex-
pected results. The civil polity of Utah Terri-
tory is unrepublican. It was framed by a 
people anti-American in sentiment and hostile
in purpose;a people unfamiliar with the genius,
of republican institutions; fresh from the des-
potisms of the Old World; saturated with its
spirit; whose initial and final intent is the es-
tablishment of a theocracy within the Repub-
lic; who, claiming its immunities while ignor-
ing its supremacy, borrow only so much of
its constitutional forms as best conserve their
independence; who locating the "kingdom to
come" in the fastnesses of the mountains, ce-
ment its foundation stones with an ecclesias-
ticism unknown in the annals of history.
Thrones and shrines were builded, crowns worn,
and oblations offered, ere the eye of the nation
caught the smoke of its incense. 
	Railroads are great civilizers. The snort of
the engine is the bugle note of progress. In
1869 the Union Pacific laid its last cable.
The tramp of the on-coming millions began
to echo along the canyons. A new civllization
began to creep into the valleys. The Moun-
tains of Utah, with their threads of silver
and dust of gold, called with a hundred
tongues "Come," and they came—loyal men,
men fresh from the victory of battle, from the
sacred atmosphere of Christian homes. They
came to stay.
	The pulse of national life began to be felt
in Zion. The hierarchy must resist its throb.
The national Government had blundered in
making its chief governor of the Territory, a 
man whose dictum in civil or ecclesiasti-
cal circles was absolute, whose slightest com-
mand was emphasized by a "Thus saith the
Lord" With intuitions which amounted to
prescience, this dictator foreshadowed the dis-
solution of church rule in civil administration
through the influx of Gentile residents and
the ballot in the hands of American citizens.
Diplomatic in action, resourceful in methods,
holding the keys of power, spiritual and tem-
poral, this magnetic brain evolved defensive
measures which were executed with celerity
and precision.
	The most audacious of these measures was
the proscription placed upon the mining inter-
ests. As often as the Gentiles opened the
mines, as often as Brigham Young went out
with a band of benighted dupes, and
under the light of the stars closed the mines
with imposing ceremonies and pronounced ana-
themas upon the adventurers. This failing, the
"shot-gun policy" was adopted. The com-
manding general at Fort Douglas was obliged 
to detail soldiers to protect the men engaged
in working the mines, for several successive
seasons. Still the miners multiplied.
	In October, 1869, Mr. E. L. T. Harrison, edi-
tor of the Utah (Mormon) Magazine, ventured
to publish an article advocating the mining in-
terests. Immediately the recalcitrant editor,
together with the publisher, Mr. W. S. Godbe,
who had endorsed the article, were summoned
before the high council to answer for violation
of the decrees of the infallible priesthood
George Q. Cannon conducted the trial. To
the test questions, "Do you believe President
Young has the right to dictate to you in all
things, temporal and spiritual?" a negative an-
swer was returned, for which both gentlemen
were excommunicated from the church. By
virtue of the same high authority the legisla-
ture passed laws taxing heavily the products
of the miners. Nothing daunted, capitalists

[Column 3]
and prospectors multiplied. The wily de-
ceiver then evoluted from his narrow soul the
magnanimous scheme of enfranchising the
women. The Mormon legislature passed the
bill. The Gentile miners were mostly un-
married men, or had left their families in the
East. Every Mormon citizen thus had
his civil power extended in correspondence
with his numerous alliances.
	Thus a man with half a dozen wives would
now have half a dozen votes besides his own.
"Brigham Young would have nineteen for his
nineteen wives, to say nothing of his daughters,
and the whole army of spiritual wives he might
produce."
	To the intelligent discussion of the justice
of this franchise it is necessary (1) to examine
the statute on which it is based: (2) to enquire
who were the law-making power; (3) to 
determine if statute itself is in harmony with
organic law.
	The act conferring upon women the elective
franchise, approved February 12, 1870, reads:

	Every woman of the age of twenty-one years, who has
resided in this Territory six months next preceding any
general or special election, born or naturalized in the United 
States, or who is the wife, widow, or the daughter of a
native-born or naturalized citizen of the United States,
shall be entitled to vote at any election in this Territory.

	Class legislation is hereby established, the
fundamental principle of republicanism vio-
lated, and the statute thereby made void.
	The qualifications of the male voter as fixed
by the Territorial legislature are as follows:
	First. If native born, he shall be six
months resident in the Territory. If foreign
born, he shall be a naturalized citizen, five
years resident in the country. He shall be
twenty-one years of age. He shall be a tax-
payer.
	No qualifications are defined for the female
voter except such as are overruled by the dis-
junctive "or"—"or who is the wife, widow, or 
daughter of a native-born or naturalized
citizen."
	It would puzzle an astute registrar of elec-
tions to discover who is thereby debarred the
exercise of the franchise.
	The woman or girl who is not the wife,
widow, or daughter of somebody might justly
be denominated "anomalous."  The naturali-
 zation provision was of no weight, as proven
in the immediate results which followed the
passage of the Edmunds bill. Under its regis-
tration clause aliens are required to produce
their papers of citizenship. In the two weeks,
preceding the first election thereafter, two
thousand (2,000)aliens most of whom had
habitually voted their wives and daughters as
well, were naturalized in the two district courts
of Ogden and Salt Lake City. The inequali-
ty of the statute and its license of power is
seen in its application to emigrants. The
trains freighted with recruits for Zion, which
arrived a day or two preceding elections, were
met at the depot by church officials. The
emigrants were taken to the tithing head-
quarters. Women and girls were then and
there selected by aspirants for sealing orders,
taken to the endowment house, and the mar-
riage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native-born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship [-]till upon their
clothing, were full-fleged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements. Furthermore, the commit-
tees of the Emigration Fund Company desig-
nated the localities where newcomers should
find homes.
	In case of a doubtful election at a given
point, re-enforcements were dispatched thither
from the new colony. Mrs. Fanny Stenhouse, who
is the most gifted woman over identified with the


[Column 1]
Mormon church, whose statements are as re-
liable as truth itself, enunciates the spirit of 
this franchise act in these words: 
	I have often seen one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages and sizes. They 
were going to the polls and their vote would be one. 
Many have voted two or three times. Men christened
their mules, conferring upon them the names of men, and
made them vote also. 
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn, and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot-
box. 
	"It is easy to see," says Mrs. Stenhouse, (by these meth-ods) "how the influence of the priesthood has been exerted
and the women themselves have been made the instruments
for riveting still more firmly their own fetters." 
	Judge Emerson, of Utah, in 1882, in a test
case said: 
	All regulations upon the subject (elective franchise) must
be uniforn and impartial. Any provisions which should
impose upon a particular class of citizens conditions and
requirements not required of all others is void. 
	Judge Twiss, of the same court, says: 
	Any construction of the statutes that would give one
class of persons the right of voting upon easier and differ-
ent terms than those given to another class would make an
inequality in the laws odious to every sense of justice and
every principle of republican government. Such statutes
would be monstrous and an offense to a government of
equal and just laws. 
	Yet here we find unnaturalized, non-tax-pay-
ing, minor females using the ballot. If the
daughter of a naturalized (?) citizen may vote, 
why not the son? If a minor, non tax-paying
girl may vote, why not the boy? Thus it is
seen that the daughter votes on the basis of
the eligibility of the father! Such is the
nature of the statute, under any just construc-
tion, void at the beginning. 
	We have seen that the "free and independ-
ent State of Desert" had been organized in
1850. During the lifetime of Brigham Young,
"on the day succeeding the adjournment of
the Territorial legislature, he, in the character
of governor of Desert, convened the same
body as a State legislature, and the business
of the State was then and there transacted."—
[Madame La Tour p. 344.] This State legis-
lature sat in judgment on the acts of the Ter-
ritorial legislature, confirming or repealing, as
the interests of the Mormon church dictated. 
This action was final. Nearly every member
of this Territorial or "State" legislature was a 
Mormon high priest, and was the possessor
of from two to seven wives. 
	Brigham Young had nineteen wives and an
indefinite list of daughters. 
	Such was the law-making power! 
	The postulate is easily sustained, that the
elective franchise was never legally conferred
upon the women of Utah. They were never
eufranchised by the Federal Government, or 
by any branch of it, or by its representatives. 
They were enfranchised by a church organiza-
tion in which the authority of the Federal
Government was not recognized even as a
factor. They were enfranchised for church
ends alone—to make the church impregnable
to outward attack, independent and hostile in
civil attitude. 
	To recognize the act is to recognize the su-
premacy of the church in civil administration. 
As proof we quote the following from Bishop
Lunt, of the Mormon Church, as published in
the San Francisco Chronicle: 
	Our vote is solid and will always remain so. It will be
thrown where the most good will be accomplished for the
church. The women of Utah vote, and they never desert
the colors of the Church; they vote for the tried friends of
the church. You can imagine the results which wisdom 
may bring about, with the assistance of a church organiza-

[Column 2]
tion like ours.  In some great political crisis the two pres-
ent political parties will bid for our support. Utah will be
admitted as a polygamous State, and the other Territories
we have peacefully subju[---]ed will be admitted also. We
will then hold the balance of power, and will dictate to the
country. We possess the ability to turn the political scale
in any particular community we desire. 
	This is the real animus of the movement.
This theory is made self-evident in the fact
that the same body of men who passed the
act of 1870 legislated away the right of dower
—an infamous scheme to give the husband the
leverage of power over the first wife. If she
refuses to give the husband a second, he in re-
taliation may will the property to the second, 
or the tenth, and the first wife be left penniless. 
	Oh! boasted magnanimity of the Mormon
hierarchy touching the civil status of woman! 
"Oh! Liberty, what deeds are done in thy
name!"
	Again, the Territories are the nation's de-
pendencies. We may term the States the na-
tion's children, the Territories are its minors 
still under subjection. The Territories have
no acquired sovereignty. 
	The organic act by which a Territorial gov-
ernment for Utah is established is the national
character of organization. The powers of the
legislative assembly are strictly defined and
limited by said act. Section 6 reads: 
	The legislative power of said Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation consistent with the Con-
stitution of the United States and the provisions of this act,
All the laws passed by the legislative assembly and governor
snal be submitted to the Congress of the United States, 
and if disapproved shall be null and of no effect. 
	Section 5 limits the rights of citizenship to
"the free white male inhabitant," and confers
upon the legislative assembly the right of de-
fining the qualifications of voters, "provided,
the right of suffrage shall be exercised only
by citizens of the United States." 
	Therefore, the enfranchisement of the women
of Utah is in contravention of the organic act,
and is a repudiation of national supremacy. 
It has been so interpreted by the highest legal 
authority of the Territory. After the passage
of the Edmunds bill it was held by the judges
of the courts that registration could be denied
women on the basis of the invalidity of the
Territorial statute. The Utah Commission
were asked to so declare. But while listening
to the argument the Commission declined to
act. 
	Under these conditions, to construe the re-
peal of said statute as a violation of "vested
rights," is to subordinate the national Govern-
ment to a Church corporation. But it is
claimed that justice is met in the provision of
the Edmunds bill of 1882, which disfranchises
polygamists. The Edmunds bill, in effect,
corrected the abuses of the ballot by requiring
registration, by defining the age and date of
residence.
	Polygamists were disfranchsed; then the re
lations could be established—then the Mormon 
conscience repudiated perjury—then evasion
could not be sustained. The Mormons sent
circulars to their people declaring that
daughters of eligible fathers and the first
wives and widows of polygamists were entitled
to vote. The Commission were compelled to
make definite ruling on each point. After the
test of years it is found that the cohesion of
the Mormou Church has not been invaded by
the execution of this law, nor its spirit of re-
sistance to national authority restrained. What
then?  Shall the United States compromise
with this quasi sovereignty under the specious
plea of "vested rights." 
	The franchise is first a privilege conferred. 
It becomes a "right" by possession. "It can-
not be taken away except by revolution." 
This is a truism in political science under gen-
eral conditions. The parties enfranchised,
holding within themselves, by their own ballot, 

[Column 3]
the power to retain said franchise. If the
law-makers are false to their constituency and
attempt forceful withdrawal,revolution follows,
and an election of representatives who will
sustain the constituency may be had. Eng-
land and America are constantly extending
suffrage to new classes. They can add to the
list, but cannot withdraw. Not because the
ballot is a primal right. It is a privilege con-
ferred. But in its exercise inheres the power
to perpetuate itself. This is true in all the
States of this Union by virtue of State
sovereignty. 	
	A city government, however, might grant
municipal suffrage to women and the next 
legislature could pass a law prohibiting the ex-
ercise of the franchise in municipalities. The
city's power of self government is delegated
power. Exactly such is the status of the Terri-
tory. Moreover, if Congress had endorsed the
action of the Territorial legislature, Congress
has power to repeal its own action within the
limits of the National Constitution. The
Constitution of the United States has never
been amended so as to put the ballot in the
hands of women. Herein truth is stranger
than fiction! 
	The next argument of the opponents of re-
peal is—
	If you disfranchise the women why not disfranchise the
men?
	An interrogation is not a reason. It is not logic.
It is subterfuge in absence of argument. The
disfranchisement of the men is not equally just. 
The men were enfranchised by National 
authority and in consonance with constitution-
al provision. The women by an alien church
organization, which renders no allegiance to
the Government. Is it political wisdom to dis-
franchise the men? 
	The administration of a Republican govern-
ment is in the hands of the people. The authori-
ty must rest somewhere. The responsibility must 
be met by somebody. The question is simply that
of the practicability of the dissolution of the
local government. The Gentile sentiment in 
Utah favors such dissolution. Gentile
voters are willing to be disfranchised, that
civil order may be elvolved out of civil chaos.
	The Gentile policy to effect such result is
that of a legislative commission. 
	There is but one serious argument against it
—the probably transfer of Mormon political
representation to adjacent Territories, where,
in such event, the battle must be fought again. 
The disfranchisement of the women makes
possible the admission of the Gentile civil ele-
ment on an equality with the Mormon element;
gives the loyal Gentile the civil status of the
disloyal Mormon. It is claimed that this has
been accomplished already in the disfranchise-
ment of the polygamists. I deny it. Mormonism
and polygamy are in collusion. Polygamists
control the elections. The priesthood select
the candidates, and no man is put upon the
ticket, either for legislative or municipal office, 
who is not pledged to support "the divine
order." A "scratched" ticket is unknown.
At least two polygamous wives are members of
the Territorial central committee. 
	Said Dr. Ellen Ferguson, one of the Mor-
mon memorialists, at the theatre meeting at
which the Congressional memorial was drafted: 
	The ballot in the hands of the Mormon women is a
mighty power, and our enemies know it. When we raise
our voices to protest, it will be well for the Government to
listen. 
	With this "mighty power" in local politics,
county and municipal officers are entirely
Mormon. 
	The Territorial legislature had its first Gen-
tile member this year, sent from Park City, and
a bill passed both houses to redistrict the Terri-
tory in order to avert such calamities in
future. 
	Laws controlling municipal elections are


[Column 1]
such that the aldermen are placed on the gener-
al list. Thus no Gentile ward can elect a 
Gentile member of the city council. 
	Withdraw this "mighty power" in elections—
of 12,000 female votes—and very soon county
and municipal Gentile officers could be elected
and Gentile representatives chosen for the
legislature, This would be the immediate re-
sult in Ogden. Is the need of such representa-
tion commensurate with the cost? Judge ye. 
Under the Utah statutes no sexual crime is 
punishable save "rape," which law was evident-
ly framed for the Gentiles. Chastity has no
protection. The Mormon legislature, sitting
since the organization of the Territory, has
never framed a statute touching incest, seduc-
tion, adultery, bigamy, or polygamy, save once. 
That was inadvertently done through a hasty
adoption of the California code, and it was re-
pealed at the next session. 
	The legislature of the past winter convened
during the excitement of the Hampton conspir-
acy. This conspiracy was a carefully con-
structed Mormon plot to blacken the character
of Gentile residents; to arrest and punish vic-
tims under assumed municipal (Mormon) au-
thority. For the execution of this dastardly
outrage, lewd women were imported, at Mor-
mon expense; their rooms furnished by the
Mormons, and arranged so that witnesses could 
be secreted. Scores of letters were addressed 
to Gentiles, inviting them to call on important 
business. The names of two hundred Gentiles
were put upon the "black list." The scheme
was thwarted by Judge Zane's ruling that
municipal courts had no jurisdiction. 
	Public sentiment, thus intensified, demanded
Territorial laws. The one Genlile member in-
troduced a bill which should punish any viola-
tor Mormon or Gentile. The legislature scarce-
ly wished to incur the odium of repudiation. 
They attempted to defeat the measure by in-
troducing a disgraceful substitute which pun-
ished "unmarried men who should debauch un-
married women."
	A bill passed both houses, which amended
the Ogden charter by delegating power to 
the municipality to punish sexual crimes un-
touched by general statute. This was the ini-
tial step towards granting to all incorporated
cities the power to deal with such offenses. 
Why? If the legislature enacted such statutes, 
Mormons as well as Gentiles would be subject
to arrest. The city officials.are Mormon. If 
cities had exclusive jurisdiction, Gentiles alone
would be made to feel the penalty of violation. 
Moreover, under the Mormon Church regime
Mormons are amenable only to church rule; 
are tried in ecclesiastical courts, and sentenced
by the bishops to suffer church, not civil, penal-
ties. Governor Murray, always loyal and
heroic in action in vetoing the Ogden charter
bill, used this language: 
	While lust can blight the whole Territory without finding
any rebuke at the hands of the legislature, the attempt to 
confer power on a municipal corporation to punish local
transgressions against morality in the indefinite, inadequate, 
and inoperative way done in this bill cannot have my sanc-
tion. 
	Again, polygamy, even under United States
law, is rarely punished, as convictions are only
obtained under the "unlawful cohabitation" 
clause, with Judge Zane's ruling that "holding
out to the world as wives" constitutes the of-
fense. Why? The Utah statutes are silent on 
the subject of marriage. No marriage licenses, 
no certificates of marriage, no civil records of
marriage, are required. Marriage ceremonies
are performed in the endowment house, wit-
nessed only by Mormons. The statute of limi-
tation cuts off prosecution in three years, i. e.,
it is a crime to live in polygamy the first 
three years; it is a virtue thereafter. Laws for 
the supression of sexual crimes can only be
enacted when Gentile representation predomin-
ates in the legislature,and can only be executed 

[Column 2]
when the city and county officials are Ameri-
can citizens, not alien theorists. It is urged 
that the ballot of the Gentile women is as po-
tent as that of the Mormon women. The cen-
ters of Gentile representation are the mining
districts. Most of the miners are unmarried
men, or men who have left their families in the
East. The vote of the Mormon women nulli-
fies Gentile political power in these districts. 
Gentile women rarely vote in any part of the 
Territory. First, because their ballot signifies
nothing; it is labor lost. Second, the general
exercise of the ballot in the Territory is such
a travesty upon all that is sacred to woman
that Christian motherhood refuses to be com-
promised  by  recognition of the nefarious
scheme. Where, then, is the argument against
the passage of section 7 of the pending Ed-
munds bill? In the adverse sentiment of the
advocates of universal suffrage in the States? 
The sentiment of even this class of distinguished
women is not altogether adverse. "The Wo-
man's Home Missionary Society" of the Me-
thodist Episcopal Church, of which Mrs. 
Rutherford B. Hayes is the president, with
such ladies as Mrs. Governor Foraker, of 
Ohio, Mrs. Bishops Walden, Warren, Wiley, 
and Andrews, and many others of recognized
ability and social power, members of its execu-
tive committee, at its national session in Oct., 
1883, passed, without a dissenting voice, the
following resolution:
	Resolved, That a committee be appointed to confer with
the civil and religious authorities at Salt Lake City, and
make careful investigation of the relation of the ballot in 
the hands of the women of Utah to Territorial legislation, 
to Congressional representation at the national capital, and,
above all, to its power to perpetuate the religious bondage
and domestic slavery of the women so enfranchised: and if 
they shall find the facts to warrant, they shall draft peti-
tions to be circulated for signatures, which shall be pre-
sented to the Congressional committee at Washington, ask-
ing for the disfranchisement of the women of Utah, or for
a radical change of the whole form of government. 
	In pursuance of the resolution, the following
committee was appointed: Rev. T. C. Iliff. su-
perintendent of Methodist missions in Utah; 
Judge Boreman of the Lalt Lake bar; Mrs. 
Paddock, of Salt Lake, author of many books; 
and Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska. 
Mrs. Newman went immediately to Utah. The
committee then faithfully complied with every
specification of the resolution as to conference
and investigation. In harmony with the judg-
ment of Federal officers and ecclesiastical au-
thorities, the petition was drafted by the com-
mittee and circulated by the W. H. M. S.
	Just as the petition emerged from the press
in Salt Lake City, a dinner was given to Rev. 
Joseph Cook, of Boston, at the house of Mrs. 
Paddock, of the committee, at which were
present Federal and ecclesiastical authorities
who had endorsed the movement. Its scope
and purpose were the theme of discussion. 
Mrs. Newman offered the distinguished guest a 
copy of the petition. Upon examination he
exclaimed, "Excellent, excellent! I will sign it
and inclose it in a letter to Senator Edmunds."
Such is the estimate of those who have studied
the Mormon problem within the Territory. 
Individual and official signatures of organized
bodies of Christian women were obtained, re-
presenting 250,000 women in the States. 
	On the 16th of June, 1884, these petitions
were read in the United States Senate by Sena-
tor Hoar. Congress adjourned before the bill 
passed the House. Many of these 250,000 
women have been champions of equal suffrage
from the rostrum and in the press for many
years.
	Such is enlightened Christian sentiment—
sentiment which holds the sanctity of Christian
marriage and the protection of virtue as at
least co-equal with civil liberty. It is, we be-
lieve, only a misapprehension of the fact terse-
ly expressed in convention by the lamented 

[Column 3]
Bishop Wiley, "that woman suffrage in Utah
only means woman's suffering," which has led
any true woman to advocate its sustentation. 
The franchise conferred by a theocracy, exer-
cised under its dominance, made to conserve its
power, to perpetuate polygamous life, and to 
clothe lawlessness with authority, is not the
franchise of a Christian republic. Let the
act be repealed in the grant of a legislative
commission, otherwise in the passage of sec-
tion 7 of the Edmunds bill, for righteousness' 
sake, for humanity's sake, and in defense of 
liberty protected by law, the only liberty un-
der the flag. 	MRS. ANGIE F. NEWMAN. 
	S. Mis. 122—2.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.						
﻿


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[picture of hand pointing] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[picture of hand pointing] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[picture of hand pointing] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 308. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[picture of hand pointing] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBINS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes:
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1886.					NO. 5.


THE STEPPING STONE IS SACRIFICE.

Dedicated to our brethren in prison and to all who suffer
	for conscience sake.
	 	Lo, verily "He doth not sleep
		   Who keepeth Isr'al night and day;
		A rich reward they yet shall reap
		   Who serve him always, come what may.

		Fools will deride and laugh to scorn
		   The righteous, when the wicked rule,
		But never are the just forlorn,
		   Though tutor'd in Affliction's school.

		"Elijah's God," who speaks by fire,
		   From seething depths or lurid skies,
		His own with patience doth inspire—
		   In patience compensation lies.

		And wherefore should the faithful shout
		   For God to show His strength and power;
		To shift Eternal plans about,
		   And hasten heaven's appointed hour.

		No less than this the wise expect—
		   To wrestle for the promised crown—
		To share the fate of God's Elect,
		   Even from "righteous Abel" down.

		Oh, not on "flowery beds of ease"
		   Do Saints or heroes mount the skies
		To heaven's supreme felicities—
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice!

		"Through tribulation," even so
		   The King of Glory led the way;
		"Perfect, indeed, through suffering," lo,
		   Our "Intercessor" lives to-day.

		Surely He counteth ev'ry tear—
		   In whom the pure of heart rejoice,
		And yet shall boastful scorners fear
		   The thunders of Jehovah's voice!

		Friends may accuse and men abuse
		   The just, and bid them bow the knee—
		Our God His own good time will choose
		   To set His captive children free.

		"Elijah's God!" to Thee we cry!
		   But not in dread and not in doubt,
		Though Zion's foes should multiply,
		   Thy power will bring her safely out.

		Assured Thou hearest just complaints,
		   Father, in faith on Thee we call;
		Soothe and support Thy suffering Saints,
		   Who even now are held in thrall.
	
		Behold thy people in the dust;
		   Consider all who kiss the rod;
		Strengthen the souls who in Thee trust,
		   Thou mighty one! "Elijah's God!"

		Lord, grant us grace to run "the race"—
		   Cowards can never win the prize;
		To joys in store for evermore,
		   The Stepping Stone is Sacrifice.

						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[column 1]
	ST. JOHN’S DAY IN CONSTANTI-
				NOPLE.

	“Get up and see what has happened to our
street during the night,"  said my companion,
when he arose this morning.  These dogs,
thought I, that had disturbed my slumbers so
often during the night, have been committing
some depredations.  I was mistaken.  It is St.
John’s Day, and the street was decorated from
one end to the other by flags suspended from
ropes, which had been stretched across the
street.  It was a pretty sight to behold almost
every national flag gently unfolding itself to

[column 2]
the breeze, and especially interesting was it to
see suspended near our window the stars and
stripes—emblems of liberty—our national flag.
It was the only American one to be seen, and
its place so near our window made it doubly
attractive.  All was preparatory to a grand
procession of the Roman Catholics in honor of
the day.
     At an early hour crowds thronged about.
People gathered from different parts of the
city at the houses of their friends and acquaint-
ances to view from the balconies and windows
the procession, which was to take place at four
in the afternoon, but was an hour late.  The
spectators came to be looked at, too, and the
elegant costumes of fashionable society in Con-
stantinople played an important part on the
occasion.  The manner, though, in which the
Christian ladies had painted their faces showed
less skill than that of the Turkish beauties;
but I think the Christian methods of ornament-
ing the arms and ears with jewelry more taste-
ful than those of the Arab ladies, who wear
rings in the nose.  All day long the people
have been crowding the windows and balconies
to see and be seen.  The gentlemen appeared
mostly in American style, many with their hair
parted in the middle and plastered down with
grease.  It might be said, we were envious be-
cause our hair would not part in the middle, or
because we did'nt have any to part.  Be that
as it may, we assumed the role of spectators,
and took the liberty to criticise what did not
suit our tastes and prejudices in that curious
life one sees for the first time when he enters
the ORIENT.  I always thought it bad taste for
a man to part his hair in the middle unless he
was pretty and had small feet.  There was a
light breeze, which made it favorable for pass-
ing the day in gossip. 
	At the appointed hour the street was packed.
The music from the brass band first gave the
signal of the approach of the procession, then
the ladies with their baskets full of rose leaves
stood ready to shower them upon the heads of
the priests.  The first to make their appearance
were the little children, girls about six years
old, who led the march in two single files, about
ten feet apart.  Between the files, and distant
a hundred feet from each other, were little
girls, scarcely able to walk, carrying an an-
chor, a cross, or a picture of some patron saint.
Banners, representing scenes in the life of
Christ and His Apostles, were numerous. After
the little girls dressed in white came the
orphans of the Jesuit schools.  What excited
our curiosity next were a dozen young ladies
under training for their calling as nuns; on
this occasion they were partly veiled.  Then
came the nuns and after them the priests, many
of whom struck a religious attitude, by throw-
ing their heads back, looking up to heaven
and holding their hands folded across the
breast.  One carried a carved figure represent-
ing the Savior with His bleeding wounds; but
the multitude was awakened to its greatest in-
terest when the bishop, an aged man, beneath
a silk canopy, carried by four men, made his
appearance.  His flowing silk robes were
carried by two small boys following a little be-
hind and on each side.  And now the air was
filled with rose leaves, gently falling upon the
canopy and heads of the priests who accom-
panied the bishop, a glimpse of whose face the
multitude tried to catch behind a golden sphere
he carried in his hands, and from which radiat.
ing disks represented the illuminations of

[column 3]
godliness.  A smile, however, crossed the
faces of many of the spectators when the band
started up a German Air—Du bist verruckt
mein kind—“Thou art crazy, my child.”
	There was much pomp and a grand display.
The street is now deserted, and when we had
taken a last glimpse of the priests’ shaved
heads glistening in the sunlight as they disap-
peared, we drew our heads back through our 
windows and began to discuss the curious fea-
tures of a Roman Catholic procession on St.
John's Day.  The Jesuits, who were recently
driven out of France, are strongly represented
here.  A strange comment—Christians driven
out of a Christian land find an asylum among
the Mohammedans, who are more tolerant to-
ward Christians than Christians are toward
one another. The Turks have always offered
protection to religious refugees from Christian
Europe.
	Constantinople, June 27, 1886.


THOUOHTS ON MEETING OLD
			FRIENDS.

	While thinking upon our little gathering to-
night, I stopped to ask myself the question,
"By what power are we thus drawn together?
What was the motive of our beloved hostess
in bidding us welcome to her hospitality, and
what the motive of us, her chosen friends, in 
yielding a hearty response?  Surely selfishness
was not the motive power that incited to ac-
tion in the first case—methinks it has all been
wrought by the law of kindness, by the sweet
spirit of friendship, which ever seeks to bless,
and in turn is capable of appreciating bless-
ings when bestowed.
	We have met, not to enrich ourselves finan-
cially—some are weary of this labor, and seek
rest—but we all desire to enrich the spirit and 
satisfy the craving of our social natures, which,
according to the design of our Creator, occu-
pies so large a space in the formation of hu-
man character, and which, if undeveloped or
neglected, robs mankind of much happiness,
and also deprives him of great power to create
happiness for others.  Therefore, I esteem it a 
duty we owe each other—to meet often, not
merely with the desire to be entertained—the
very thought is born of selfishness, but to en-
tertain, to make others for a time forget the 
cares and trials which daily and hourly oppress
them, to lift them into a more elevated and 
cheerful atmosphere, where they may feel re-
freshed and renewed.  Thus we lift ourselves,
and by concealing whatever may be our special
thorn in the flesh, we forget that one exists,
and often, by the power of association, we
learn how to lay many of our burdens down,
and in their place we carry away more ex-
tended views and new ideas to assist us in our
srtuggles through life.  Samuel Smiles says,
"A life exclusively occupied in affairs of busi-
ness insensibly tends to narrow and harden the 
character.  It is mainly occupied with self,
watching for advantages and guarding against
sharp practices on the part of others.  Thus
the character unconsciously tends to grow sus-
picious and ungenerous."
	While this may be true regarding a business
life, which usually falls to the lot of man, the 
sphere usually occupied by women, that of the 
home and family, tends in another direction;
not to harden the character, for there is so
much in woman's lot constantly requiring ac-
tive sympathy and tenderness, but it tends to a


contraction of mind power, to weariness and
discontent of spirit by its monotony and in-
creasing physical toil, and the mental powers
in time become dwarfed, and aside from that
particular species of intelligence requisite in
controling home affairs, she becomes powerless
to act successfully, and much of the power
and intelligence with which she is endowed
lies dormant, which, according to God's
economy is all wrong. Intelligence, wisdom, 
talents and various other gifts and graces be-
stowed upon woman were never intended to
waste their sweetness and power upon the 
desert air. And in social life what would so-
ciety be without the exquisite social qualities
of woman? Like dancing without music, like
Nature devoid of bird, song and flowers. 
	So woman's social nature should never be 
neglected; and we, above all women, should
never allow our reunions to descend into
mere gossiping associations, but each should
polish up her store of gifts and graces 
for the purpose of benefiting others, seek-
ing always for the inspiration of God's 
Holy Spirit to descend like the gentle
dews of heaven upon all our efforts, that
each and all may truly be refreshed, and also
be reminded that our association here is but
typical of that which we are destined to enjoy
in the eternal worlds. 
	LILLIE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS. 

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 

(Continued.) 

	Saturday, the 9th. At Sunset they en-
camped on the banks of "Junction Bluff
Fork," and the grass there being better than
any they had lately seen, it was deemed ex-
pedient to remain there the greater part of
the day, in order to give their horses a chance
to recruit themselves. Here he mentions
their having quite a heavy rain storm the en-
suing morning. They pursued their journey
"at 8 a. m. Proceeding a mile, and forded
a small stream, near which in a stick by the
side of the road was found a few lines from
Amasa Lyman stating that they had left here
on Saturday morning last, and that the night
before they had gone to the bluffs to procure
a supply of meat that they got along rather
slow, not making over between 15 or 20 miles
per day, but were all well and in tolerably
good spirits. Near here we noticed that the
ox teams had encamped, from appearances, 
some 4 or 5 days since. It is the opinion of
most of the brethren that Amasa and his com-
rades are not now more than 30 or 40 miles
ahead of us, and if the ox teams do not 
stop, the brethren weak and faint from living
entirely on meat, must necessarily give up the
chase." This day's journey brought them in
sight of a large cluster of trees. He says: 
	"It is quite cheering to us to come once
more in sight of, and to travel along near the
timber, after being so long debarred of that
privilege."
	Four buffaloes were killed that day and
brought into camp on horses. And another
was killed the next day and brought to camp 
in Brother Woodruff's carriage. The day
following, Wednesday the 13th, after travel-
ing 16 miles they discovered two or three
large herds of buffalo coming down to the
water a little in advance of them. Two
brethren went out and each shot a cow and a
number were sent to assist in skinning them. 
"They were gone until ten o'clock, when they
returned—Orson bringing in quite a supply of
the fattest meat we have seen in some time" 
	On Saturday the 16th they overtook "Amasa
Lyman and his comrades, with the exception 

[Column 2]
of two viz. Stephen H. Goddard and Father
Kellogg. These had left them on Tuesday
last determined yet to overtake the ox teams.
*	*	The brethren all looked considera-
bly fatigued with their travels and were glad 
once more to meet with us. We have but
slight hopes of overtaking the ox teams." *
*	*	Two of the Frenchmen came in
this evening, bringing on their mules part of
two cows that they had killed. 
	"Father Chamberlain broke the iron axle 
tree of his wagon while descending a steep
bank when we forded "Buffalo Creek." 
	"Sunday the 17th. There being few if any
buffalo to be seen below here, and a number
of our horses having given out, it was de-
termined to remain in the vicinity a day or
two, while we could procure some meat and
also recruit the failing strength of our animals. 
Accordingly this morning two captains viz. 
Luke Johnson and John Brown were appointed 
to superintend the hunting expedition to be
undertaken to-day in pursuit of buffaloes. 
Each of them chose their own men and started
out on foot about 9 o'clock a.m.	*	*
About noon a number of wagons were sent out
to bring in buffaloes in case the hunters should 
succeed in killing any." 
	Monday the 18th. Fine cool weather. 
Thomas Woolsy was sent out this morning to
tell the hunters to come in to-night with what
game they had killed, that we might proceed
on our way. We started on at 10 a.m., pro-
ceeding three miles we met a company of
horsemen from Winter Quarters, whose names
are as follows:—
	Hosea Stout, George Grant, G. I. Potter, 
William Kimball, Jacob Frazier, George W. 
Langley, W. I. Earl. W. Miles, W. Martin-
dale, Wm. Huntington, Freeman H. Calkins,
James W. Cummings, S. S. Thornton, Levi
Heikerson, James H. Glines, Chancy Whit-
ney." 
	They had been eleven days coming—had
met the ox teams near the ford of the Loop 
Fork who intended to go on without stopping. 
"With the horsemen came S. H. Goddard, 
Ezekiel Kellogg and Jackson Reddin, the lat-
ter was with Wm. Clayton when he left the
valley. Orson and myself received a letter 
from mother, and myself one stating that they
were all well,etc.'	*	*	After spend-
ing a little time in conversation with the
brethren we went on and encamped at half
past three p.m., having come 10 miles to-day." 
One of those who went out in pursuit of
buffalo brought word that they had secured
enough meat to load the wagons. Further-
more that as "he was returning he saw a large
body of Indians across the river some five or
six miles distant. It was therefore deemed ex-
pedient to send for the brethren to come in to-
night. Accordingly a little after dark Hosea
Stout, Wilber Earl, J. Redden, J. Mathews,
Wm. Huntington, and Wm. Martindale started
out on a horseback for that purpose." 
	"Tuesday the 19th. We remained to-day
encamped. This forenoon Brother Heber, 
Wm. H. Kimball and three or four others
went over the river in pursuit of a large herd
of buffaloes that had lately made their appear-
ance in the vicinity, They returned this
afternoon with a cow." That evening the
hunters who went out on Sunday returned
with those who were sent in pursuit of them. 
"They brought in three wagons which were
loaded down with nine buffalo cows in very
good condition. Hosea Stout and his com-
rades did not find them until this morning. I
stood on guard to-night the 1st and Orson the
last watch. The wolves again to-night enter-
tained us at a distance with one of their 
agreeable (?) concerts." 
	This was their first buffalo-hunt. Much of 
their meat was cut in strips and dried without
any salt after the Indian custom, which they

[Column 3]
called "jerked" meat. Nothing of this is men-
tioned in the journal but I heard it described,
and also ate some of it, which was very palat-
able, though it would be very hard to be tied
to that alone, as they were until they received
the supplies from Winter Quarters. 
	For a time, after the provisions had ran so
low that they had to depend on the killing of
wild game, for subsistence, they indulged once
a week—Sunday—in a thin porridge made of
flour and water. After living so much on meat
it seemed to create an appetite for tobacco,
some who had never previously cared for it
were now eager to get it. The scarcity of the
article made it so valuable that the boys would
make one cud serve them a number of times, 
and they would lay it away carefully as a most
choice morsal. After every other source had
failed, and being in a great strait, my husband,
knowing that Brother Benson kept the weed
for doctoring horses, went and asked him for
a little, which he gave him, and when asked
what the charge was, he was told that he could
return the favor when they got home by com-
ing to his house and singing some songs for
him. This was not written down but was related
to me verbally. 
	Wednesday the 21st he wrote that the camp
was able to move considerably faster than they
had hitherto done in consequence of their rein-
forcement of horses from Winter Quarters. 
He also speaks of the weather being cold, 
cloudy and windy. They continued their
journey "at 9 a.m., proceeding fifteen miles
without making any halt. We encamped at 3 
p.m. in the bed of the river, which was dry
here, between Grand Island and the main 
shore.	*	*	This was one of the best 
camp grounds we had had for some time, se-
cured as we were on every side from the howl-
ing blasts that swept fiercely across the open
prairie.	*	*	The Frenchmen re-
ported this evening that they had discovered
traces of an Indian camp and moccasin tracks
of no older date than last night; therefore, the
brethren were cautioned to watch closely their
horses." On saturday they reached the "Loop 
Fork of Platte River" at three p.m. and en-
camped on its banks,
	"Sunday the 24th, clear weather, though
extremely cold and windy. Two wagons made
several attempts to cross the river this a.m.,
which all proved ineffectual on account of the
high winds and quicksand giving way beneath
the horses feet. One or two horsemen while
urging their horses across the stream, were
thrown from their backs, on account of their
stumbling and sinking in the sand; it was 
therefore decided to defer fording the river 
until to-morrow when the wind might cease
and we have a better chance for crossing." In
the morning there being but little wind stir-
ring they crossed the river, but men had pre-
viously been sent ahead to stake out a track for
them to follow, which, he says after a few of the
wagons had passed over became quite firm. 
We were obliged, however, to double teams,
and in some cases a number of men were
obliged to accompany the wagons, wading in
the water to assist them through. Brother
Kimball and myself both did this and were
quite chilled through, the water being ex-
tremely cold, though not very high. 
	That evening, by counsel, several of the
men "went ahead on horseback to Winter
Quarters to apprise the folks that we were
close by, to allay the anxiety that they might
feel at our prolonged absence from home." 
Amasa Lyman and four others of the pioneers, 
were the messengers and two of the French-
men also accompanied them. 
	My husband speaks of writing a letter for
"Brother Heber to his wife Vilate encourag-
ing her to be of good cheer etc., for we should
be with them in about a week."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WAS I DREAMING? 

In the groves by the meadows, 
The music—I there listened to—
When Faries danced in the moonlight haze. 
The night breeze sighed,
The Zephyrs whispered,
And stillness grew while I listened.
Thanks, ye gods! that I can recall it. 

It beckoned me deeper and deeper
Into its sacred realm; when it ceased,
Its departing resonance, leaving me in a longing,
A want, but in which I dreamed,
Oh, so  happy! until I awoke. 
The blindfolding removed? 
I beheld! Angels! That vision! 

Should I try to describe it? No. 
Ye eternal gods! accept my thanks! 
It was you who re-awakened in my soul
Celestial memories, from heavenly abodes,
Reviving in me eternal love, 
Glimpses of that glory, 
In which I once dwelt with you. 

I spoke to them. They awoke,
Strange, as from another world. 
I beheld—I lived, as it were, a lifetime of joy,
In which I seemed to ripen into manhood. 
Vestals from heavenly mansions
Stood before me, of unsurpassed beauty; 
We were permitted to enter the Temple of God. 

There again I heard the music, as of yore, 
And memories sweet my soul enjoyed; 
I was entranced in that heavenly mood, 
Recalled from celestial childhood. 
A veil was between us,
It being removed,
I saw them again—my wives. 
								H. M.


THE THOUGHTS OF GOD

				BY FRANCES RIDLEY HAVERGAL, 

		They say there is a hollow safe and still, 
	A point of coolness and repose
Within the centre of a flame, where life might dwell 
Unharmed and unconsumed, as in a luminous shell, 
	Which the bright walls of fire enclose
		In breachless splendor, barrier that no foes
			Could pass at will

		There is a point of rest
	At the great centre of the cyclone's force,
	A silence at its secret source; 
		A little child might slumber undistressed,
Without a ruffle of one fairy curl, 
In that strange central calm amid the mighty whirl. 

		So, in the centre of these thoughts of God, 
	Cyclones of power, consuming glory fire,—
		As we fall overawed
	Upon our faces, and are lifted higher
	By His great gentleness, and carried nigher
		Than unredeemed angels, till we stand
		Even in the hollow of His hand—
	Nay, more! we lean upon His breast—
	There, there we find a point of perfect rest
		And glorious safety; there we see
	His thoughts to usward, thoughts of peace
	That stoop in tenderest love; that still increase
With increase of our need; that never change,
	That never fail, or falter, or forget. 

		O pity infinite! 
		O royal mercy free! 
	O gentle climax of the depth and height
Of God's most precious thoughts, most wonderful, most
		strange! 
	"For I am poor and needy, yet
	The Lord Himself, Jehovah, thinketh upon me!"


HENRIETTA'S VISIT.

		BY EMILY B. SPENCER

	A tall, slender, dark-eyed girl communed
with herself one fair, bright morning.
	"I will go and see Margaret to-day; it is a
long time since I have visited her."
	They had grown up together, eating their


supper of milk and porridge on each other's 
doorsteps, as they fancied, for their houses
joined. But in later years Margaret's father
had moved away to a small village near Edin-
burgh, and the two girls, now grown, scarcely
met. 
	"Don't go," seemed whispered authoritatively
in Henrietta's ear, "Don't go!" "I will," she
answered to herself, "Margaret is going to be
married." "Don't go," again came the silent
voice, "they are horrible Mormons." Within
her mind a struggle commenced. One still 
small voice said, "Go, and you will always re-
joice." The opposite spirit whispered, "Stay
at home, or you will be scoffed at for visiting
there." 
	Again and again came the pleading voice of
"Courage!" and as often came the warning
voice of "Don't go!" Which was best? Un-
known to her, her future destiny for time and
all eternity lay in that decision. 
	She seemed bound by an invisible power,
but with an effort she roused herself, and giv-
ing a final decision, "I will go," arose and be-
gan to get ready for the pleasant morning walk
with a light and happy heart. Briskly she set
out, and with joy swelling in her heart arrived 
at her beloved Margaret's home. 
	The two girls talked of the past, the present
and the future, and when Hennrietta asked
what the Mormons believed in, Margaret's
father arose, placed his chair before him and
commenced expounding the first principles of
Mormonism, faith, repentance and baptism; 
that everything was done by faith; if we had
no faith we would cease to work or exert our-
selves to obtain anything; that faith healed the
sick—faith performed wonders. Repentance
of all misdeeds and forsaking the same. Bap.
tism for the remission of sins, to be baptized
and buried under the water, symbolical of the 
burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ, which
is essential, which is the only door, the only
entrance to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, which is the only true
church, the only one that He acknowledges.
And for all of his argument he quoted Scrip-
ture, showing that this present Church was 
identically in doctrine the same as that estab-
lished in former days by Christ.
	A new light dawned upon her mind, a new
joy pervaded her heart. "It is true! it is true!" 
she exclaimed. It was because of the truth
that the conflict had been so hard in the morn-
ing, and there was a power to try and stay her
from going. 
	It was the truth that she heard, the truth
that she loved, and the truth that she believed. 
	[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S MEETING AT AMERICAN
FORK.

	A special meeting of the Relief Society was
held in the meeting house of American Fork
Thursday, July 15th, President Mary S. Hind-
ley presiding. Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells of this city were present by invi-
tation. Bishop Bromley, his Counselors and
other brethren, also officers of the Relief So-
ciety, occupied seats upon the platform.
	Sister Eliza, whose name is familiar to this
people as a leader among the sisters, addressed
the meeting both in the morning and afternoon
sessions. Her great age and venerable appear-
ance, her stately and dignified manner, her
choice language and clear and concise method
of expression,together with her long and varied
experience in the Church all combine to give
weight and emphasis to her wise counsel and
earnest exhortation, and on this occasion, par-
ticularly, her words could not fail to make a
deep and lasting impression upon all who were
privileged to see and hear her, for her dis-
course was even more than ordinarily eloquent
and prophetic.


Bishop Bromley spoke a short time at the
close of the morning meeting. He made an
eloquent and forcible appeal to the sisters and
mothers in regard to the position they occupied
and their duties to the young and rising genera-
tion, and complimented the members of the
Relief Society on the efficiency of their labors,
which he seemed fully to appreciate and com-
prehend. He alluded feelingly to his recent 
indictment and probable imprisonment for liv-
ing his religion and obeying a divine com-
mandment, and spoke with great firmness and
courage of his convictions, and in reference to
the situation of affairs in Utah at the present 
time. Many interesting remarks were made
by other sisters calculated to strengthen, bless
and encourage the Saints. The speakers were
Sisters Mary John, of Provo; Elizabeth Brown, 
of Pleasant Grove; Rebecca Standring, Lehi; 
Margaret McCullough, Alpine; and E. B. 
Wells, Salt Lake City. President Hindley
and Counselor Crompton made closing remarks, 
expressing their enjoyment in the testimonies 
that had been borne by those who had spoken, 
and thought that the exercises throughout were
calculated to inspire to renewed dilligence and
faithfulness. An excellent spirit characterized 
the entire proceedings. The meeting closed
with singing, "The spirit of God like a fire is 
burning." Benediction by Bishop Bromley.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Santa Fe. N. M., is to have a monument to
Helen Hunt Jackson of the most fitting kind, 
viz., a Ramona school for Indian girls. She
pleaded for those who are unable to plead for
themselves. 
	In Memphis, Tenn., girls and women are
employed to make a certain grade of jeans 
pants for $1.25 a dozen, and some as low as
$1 a dozen. Shirts that retail for $2.50 are
made by women for eight cents each. Carpet-
sewers, who work about four months in the
year, get from seventy-five cents to $1 a day
of twelve and often fifteen hours. 
	A lady correspondent, writing from Paris,
announces that at a recent wedding in that
city the bride's veil fell to below the waist, and
the orange blossoms, instead of being placed
inside, were on the outside of the veil. The
effect is described as much of an improvement. 
The veil can be gathered around the face
closely, and gives an air of modesty and reverie 
suitable to a woman on the most important
day of her life. The difference does not seem
very great, but before the mandates of Paris
fashions all well-dressed ladies bow. 
	There died a few days ago, at Geneva, a lady
named Elise Darier, who, though her life had
been neither noteworthy nor eventful, was re-
markable as being the last surviving Gene-
voise born under the old republic, and who
could remember its conquest by the French di-
rectory. When the French troops took pos-
session of the city in 1798, Elise Darier was
six years old, and the event made such an im-
pression on her mind that she never forgot it. 
In 1800 she saw General Bonaparte at Coppet, 
as he rode through the village in a post chaise
on his way to join the army of Italy, sur-
rounded by a brilliant staff and a guard of
Mamelukes. When a little older she danced
at a ball given by Mme. de Stael, and in 1814
at another, given by the city of Geneva to the
Austrian General Bubna, after the defeat and
withdrawal of the French army of occupation. 
As Mlle. Darrier had an excellent memory,
and retained her faculties unimpared to the last
day of her long life, she was regarded in
Geneva as an almost historic character, and
enjoyed general respect as the sole surviving
link with an eventful past.	Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
				SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 

SALT LAKY CITY,	-	AUGUST 1, 1886


[Column 1]
	MRS. NEWMAN'S PETITION AGAIN.

	Mrs. Newman reflects somewhat upon the Utah
Commission, it seems to us, because they have
not been severe enough in their dealings with the
"Mormon" people to meet her approbation. She
says, "After the passage of the Edmunds bill, it
was held by the judges of the courts that registra-
tion could be denied women on the basis of the
invalidity of the Territorial statute. The Utah
Commission were asked to so declare. But while
listening to the argument the commission declined
to act." There is no doubt but that if it had been
possible at any time for the ballot to be taken from
"Mormon" women with any show of legality
whatever, it would have been done. The cases
before the courts in 1879 and 1882 prove plain
enough the fact that the law giving the women of
Utah the ballot was valid, and for that very reason
it could not be taken from them without due pro
cess of law.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Shall the United States
compromise with this quasi-sovereignty under
the specious plea of vested rights." First she
wants to blame the Utah Commission for not push-
ing this matter to the extreme, and then the
United States for a lack of severity. Surely a few
"Mormon" womens' votes are a dreadful annoy-
ance to Mrs. Newman. She says Gentile women
do not care to vote. She says, "The men were
enfranchised by national authority, and in conson-
ance with constitutional provision, the women by
an alien church organization, whieh renders no
allegiance to the government." The women of
Utah had the ballot given to them in the same
way as the women of Wyoming by the legislature
of the Territory and signed by the Governor.
Would Mrs. Newman say the women of Wyoming
and Washington Territories were not entitled to
the ballot? If "Mormon" men are legal voters it
was their vote that elected the Legislature, and
being thus elected, why had they not the right to
pass laws? and if other laws, then why not a law
to confer the elective franchise on women? Mrs.
Newman tells Congress to withdraw this mighty
power in elections—of 12,000 female votes—and
very soon county and municipal Gentile officers
could be elected, and Gentile representatives
chosen for the legislature. Mrs. Newman wants
men to vote, all classes of men in Utah except
that class now already disfranchised. The
drunkard, the gambler, the saloon keeper, those
who would use their utmost influence to destroy
the youth of the land by the sale and use of ardent
spirits and other vile practices of various kinds;
she, a refined and educated woman, would take
the votes from "Mormon" women to throw the
balance of power in favor of those who would 
support such practices. She mourns, as it were,
that the Gentile element is not more strongly rep-
resented, and thinks by substracting 12,000
votes that very soon the Gentile vote will have an
equal proportion, or balance of power. Does she
know what class of Gentiles predominate in the
mining districts, and what fearful consequences
might result from giving them the balance of

[Column 2]
power? She certainly cannot know! Why would
she want sin and crime to abound where purity
and virtue are now the real and true superior in-
fluences? She says the miners are men without
families, or those who have left their families in
the east. Does she realize all that this implies?
Men without families, men who have only self to
think of, who are absorbed in human pleasures?
Men who do not care to build up the country
while here in Utah, or to make homes such as
exercise a refining influence upon the inmates.
Men who pass their days and months in camps,
without the society of gentle, tender, pure woman;
one need not repeat the story of mining camp-life,
nor tell how votes are bought and sold; suffice it
to say, sound principles do not control their votes.
It would be a fearful thing for the Territory of
Utah if the ballot were taken from women to give
such men the balance of power. Those who
know the facts are well aware what the conse-
quences would be. There are Gentile women in
Utah, who do protest against woman's disfranchise-
ment, women of brains and of means; they may
be the exception, and they are not rabid anti-Mor
mons, but they are women of culture and training,
and they know and appreciate the advantages of
political equality and are not willing to have the
right wrested from them after having enjoyed it so
long. But what right has Mrs. Newman or any
other person or class of persons to interfere with
the ballot in the hands of the legal voters of the
women of Utah, who have never even been ac-
cused of disobeying any law, human or divine,
whether they are "Mormons" or Gentiles? The
enforcement of the Edmunds Law upon those
whom the law considers offenders, has already
caused sorrow and hardship enough. It is this
cruel disrupting of families and severing the ten-
derest ties, that is causing women's hearts to
break and filling the land with desolation and
mourning. We say to Mrs. Newman, and to all
such persons, consider your work, for by these
things you will be judged: by a higher court than
the Supreme Court of the United States; these
acts are written in the books that are kept by the
recording angels, and you will have to meet them;
the tears, the sorrow, the cruel separations, the
sickness and death of many in consequence of
these persecutions, will be charged to those who
have wrought this cruel work. Are you prepared
for the consequences? Tender women deprived
of the love, companionship and support of the
husband; little ones left without a father's care;
are there not enough suffering women in the world
and fatherless children?
	O let not these things be laid at your door, but
cease to persecute the Saints, and turn your at-
tention to some noble work in the cause of hu-
manity. Help those who are weak and erring;
"Mormon" women do not need you, they are strong
in the Lord, who is all powerful, and their faith
will not fail, for they know their cause is just and
will yet triumph. We wish no evil to any, but
say to all the principles we are now defend-
ing will be maintained, for they are eternal. There
is no fear in the heart of a true Saint, but strength
and courage and firmness for the right and the
truth, and those who are for this people are more
than those who are against them, for the innumer-
able hosts of heaven are arrayed on the side of
those who are seeking to establish correct princi-
ples and social purity, and no great work has ever
been accomplished without suffering and sacrifice.
Our Savior suffered most of all, and if we would
be like Him we also must endure trials and perse-
cutions until our Father says it is enough, and
"God will protect us in doing what's right."


EDITORIAL NOTE.

	ON account of publishing so much of the pro-
ceedings at the Tabernacle on Pioneer day, there
is not room for other matter on hand.  Brief re-


ports of meetings we had attended in the 19th
Ward of this city and in Sandy; also conferences
at Kaysville and Provo, some interesting items
connected with the G. A. R. visitors, and other
things that help to make variety, are crowded out.
We have also articles from Mrs. M. A. M. Pratt
and Mrs. P. C. Young in answer to Mrs. Angie
F. Newman's statements about “Mormon”women,
their condition, their votes and so forth, that will
be given next issue.


PIONEER DAY.

IN THE LARGE TABERNACLE.

	The large tabernacle in this city was well filled,
galleries included, with people on Saturday July
24th, the occasion being the anniversary of the
entrance of the pioneers thirty-nine years ago.
The stands were draped in mourning for the absent
ones who are in exile and in prison for conscience
sake. Over the stand of the First Presidency
were conspicuously placed appropriate mottoes.

	“The First Presidency: In exile for Conscience Sake.”

	“Of the Twelve Apostles and Counselors: Those not
here are in jeopardy, in prison, and in foreign lands, be-
cause they prefer to obey God rather than man.”

	“The Presidency of the Stake: Having tasted of the
vengeance of their enemies, and felt their cruel disregard
of law, their labors and visits are like the Angels', seen
only by those who have faith.”

	“Of the Presiding Bishopric: Those who are absent
choose to be wanderers in their own land in preference to
being victims to those who have selected them for ruin.”

   On the top of the front of the organ in large
gilt letters were the words,

	“In God we put our Trust,”

and below,	

	Under the Everlasting Covenant God will and must be
glorified.”

	Beesley’s martial band and the Sunday School
Union band furnished appropriate music. Super-
intendents of Sunday Schools, High Councilors,
Bishops and others,including three of the original
pioneers, occupied the platform, Bishops Lorenzo
D. Young, Millen Atwood and Elder S. Turnbow
Elder John C. Cutler, Assistant Superintendent,
presided.  Elder McIntire had charge of the
children singing. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.,
children singing “Marching Homeward.” Prayer
by Bishop M. Atwood. Song by the children,
“Beautiful Zion.” Music by the S. S. Union
band, “Passing under the Rod.”
	Pioneer address by Bishop O. F. Whitney,who
is a son of H. K. Whitney, one of the Pioneers
(now deceased).
	My Brethren and Sisters: In addressing a few
words to this vast congregation, I shall not at-
tempt to dazzle your minds by a display of oratory.
Even were it in my power I should not deem it
proper on this occasion. I prefer, rather, to have
my words remembered and made use of, to have
them understood by all, and sink, like good seed
npon fertile soil, into the hearts of my hearers, to
bring forth the fruits of life and salvation under
the blessing of God’s Holy Spirit, to His name’s
honor and glory.
	Among our noblest heroes and heroines whom
history has made immortal, are those brave men
and women who have, in different ages of the
world,refused to surrender their sacred convictions
and be untrue to the dictates of their con-
sciences—the voice of God in the human heart
and have left home and country, often despoiled
of their possessions, and have taken their lives
in their hands, bid adieu to their native land, with
all the associations and ties of kindred and affec-
tion, and have gone forth to seek out a new land
where, they might enjoy the rights of conscience


[Column 1]
unmolested, and worship the God of their fathers
in His own appointed way. Such were the chil-
dren of Israel in ancient times, who, led by the
Prophet Moses, shook off the shackles of Egyp-
tian bondage and went forth into the willderness
to worship God according to His command. Such,
also, were the pilgrims of New England who, in
the 17th centuary of the Christian era, fled from
the tyranny of the old world and planted them-
selves on the western shores of the Atlantic;
where, with their descendants, they were instru-
mental in the hands of Providence in establishing
the great government under which we are now
living; in founding a nation whose broad wings of
protection overshadow the oppressed, the tram-
pled on and distressed of all nations, and which
furnishes an asylum, a place of refuge for the
weary exiles of every land. Such also were the
pioneers of Utah who, nine and thirty years ago,
emerged from yonder mountain gorge, into this
then silent and desert valley,and lifted the ensign
of liberty, the flag of our country, and unfurled
its glorious folds from the summit of yon lofty
peak. 
	Living as we do amid the results of their labors,
plucking the fruit from the tree of their planting,
crossing with safety and in ease the chasms they
bridged, and rejoicing even in the midst of sorrow,
in the blessings bequeathed by heaven as the re-
ward of their courage and industry, we can only
conceive to a very limited extent the greatness of
their toils and sacrifices—sacrifices made willing-
ly and labors that were performed patiently from
year to year, that we, their children, and posterity
in general, might enjoy the rich blessings which
their valor, their self-denial and industry have
handed down to us. Utah to-day is the garden of
the interior west. Thirty-nine years ago it was a
wilderness, a desolation, scorched by the sun, and
trodden by the roving red man, whose food con-
sisted in part of wild roots dug from the ground,
reptiles that crawled and hissed and rattled among
the hot rocks of the plain, and the crickets and
grasshoppers that noisily chirped upon the moun-
tain sides. Their music was the scream of eagles,
the melancholy howl of the wolf and the coyote,
the voice of the distant torrent mingling with the
twitter of the mountain bird. Then it was the
heat of the Great American desert; now it blooms
with orchards, farms and vineyards,is dotted with
cities and hamlets, the homes of a peaceable,
prosperous, and (were it not that the cruel hand
of persecution has fastened upon their throats) a
a happy people. We can not realize, I say, the
greatness of the labors and sacrifices that were
necessary to cause this wilderness to bloom, as it
now does, like the garden of the Lord; we can
not conceive of the toils and trials through which
our fathers and mothers passed in order to es-
tablish in this chosen land their children’s feet,
and perpetuate those glorious principles which
are destined to redeem and happify the world.
When the pioneers approached this desolate valley
they were met by an old mountaineer. Colonel
Bridger, who, on learning of their intention to
settle in the valley of Great Salt Lake, exclaimed
in tones of mingled pity and derision. "I will
give a thousand dollars for the first bushel of
wheat you raise in that valley." This will serve
to show, in spite of the envious detractions of
small-souled bigots who fain would lessen the
glory of the pioneers, and the honor due to that
God who so signally preserved and miraculously
delivered them, the amount of labor, courage and
perserverance necessary to redeem this desert
land and make it blossom in its present fragrance
and beauty.
	And who were those pioneers, those founders
of Utah, whose children and associates I have
the honor of addressing? They were exiles for
conscience’ sake, banished from the confines of
civilization, driven forth from a land of Christian
churches by mobs led on and inspired by Chris-

[Column 2]
tian priests, for daring to have opinions of their
own and worship, in their own way the God of
their fathers in a land of religious liberty; thrust
forth from the homes their industry had won,com-
pelled to cross the frozen Mississippi on the ice
in the month of February, leaving their bloody
footprints on the ice of the river and upon its frozen
shores. Starving and naked, stripped of all their
possessions, they refused either to die, to become
discouraged, relinquish their sacred rights, or to
lose for one moment, their faith in their sublime
and glorious destiny. Leaving their burning
city and ravaged fields in the hands of their mer-
ciless oppressors with their wives and little ones
clustered around them, dying by scores as the re-
sult of the inhuman treatment to which they had
been subjected, they drew their shattered rem-
nants out upon the bleak and trackless prairie. A
journey of 1,500 miles, over frozen rivers and
barren plains,a journey marked mile after mile by
the graves of their aged parents, their delicate
wives and tender little ones, brought them to the
Rocky Mountains, and on the Twenty-fourth of
July, 1847, thirty-nine years ago, this day, their
wagons rolled down yonder slope and encamped
upon this silent plain.
	I would have these children remember the
works of their noble fathers and heroic mothers.
I would have them remember the lineage through
which they have come, and strive before God and
the world to be worthy of that lineage. Descended
from Israel of old, who shook off the bondage of
Egypt preferring the wilderness, with its freedom,
to civilization with its chains; the children, too
many of them, of the Pilgrims who came across
the mighty deep from the tyranny of the old world
and laid the foundation upon this chosen land of
the great government under which we live; I
would have them remember, also, that they are
the sons and daughters of patriots, whose hearts
burn and whose blood tingles with the spirit and
genius of liberty; that their fathers and mothers,
even when driven, outcast and exiled for the sake
of their religion, the free exercise of which is
guaranteed under the constitution of our country,
fleeing from the civilization which had refused to
protect them, that they still remained true and
loyal to the principles of liberty. Thirty-nine
years ago, day after to-morrow, they ascended
yonder peak and lifted the ensign of freedom
upon Mexican soil, thereby signifying not only
their loyalty to the country which had thrust
them from its borders, but their determination to
stand by the principles of truth and liberty, to
maintain the palladium of equal rights, the aegis
of protection to the out-cast of all nations.
	This, my young brethren and sisters, fore-
shadowed your destiny, the destiny of the chil-
dren of the pioneers; for the same great prophet
who predicted that the Latter-day Saints would
be driven westward, and become a mighty people
in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, also de-
clared that the time would come when their sons
and daughters would rescue the constitution and
the flag; the glorious stars and stripes, the flag
of freedom, which symbolizes by its stars the
glory and success, and by its stripes the sufferings
and trials of our brave ancestors—that the chil-
dren of this people would rescue them from the
hands of traitors and tyrants who would trample
them in the mire. Remember, therefore, your
destiny and the great things expected of you.
You are not the enemies of this land of liberty;
you are not the foes of freedom; you are not
traitors to your country; you are the sons and
daughters of free men and free women, of patriots
and prophets, pilgrims and pioneers, and it de-
volves upon you to be worthy of your noble
lineage, and lift the standard of liberty and truth
to all the world. God bless you and help you to
realize this destiny is my earnest prayer, in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Tabernacle choir, then sung “Might with the

[Column 3]
Right;” Organ Solo “Commemoration March,”
Prof. J. J. Daynes;  Duet, “Sunset” Mrs. Julia
Silverwood and Miss A. Vincent. Elder R. R.
Irvine read in a very clear voice and in an im-
pressive manner a sentiment from the pen of
Zion’s poetess-laureate Eliza R. Snow Smith.

		  PAST AND PRESENT
	"When the wicked rule the people mourn."

	Verily, verily, is the truth of this saying verified
in these mountain vales. How strikingly appro-
priate to our present condition, the emblems of
sorrow and mourning, in the celebration of this
auspicious day—the opening day when this
American Desert, which had slept for many ages
and generations, was awakened from its deadly
slumber to be robed in all the beauty and loveli-
ness of cultivated nature, produced by the hand
of arduous toil, of a people peeled and driven.
	But God was with us, and His Blessings gave
efficacy to the labor of our hands.
	The country which banished us is the land of
my birth, and the time has been when I was
proud to call it my own. Then it was a beacon
of light to nations afar—an asylum for the home-
less and the oppressed of all peoples. Then its
statesmen were men with souls—not greedy for
gain, but devoted to the interests of humanity,and
holding national honor dearer than life. Then
its courts—its seats of justice and Congress halls,
were receptacles of trust, honor and confidence.
Civil and religious liberty were guaranteed to all,
and bequeathed to coming generations by the
sacred and glorious Constitution inspired by the
Almighty.
	Such was my country, and then my heart
swelled with pride that I was an American citizen.
But now, alas! I am forced to exclaim, “How are
the mighty fallen?’ Where are the Washingtons,
the Adamses, and the Jeffersons of the other day?
Beneath our sheltering flag, Joseph Smith my be-
loved husband, the choice of my heart and the
crown of my life—a Prophet of the living God,
and by Him appointed to open the last dispensa-
tion—an innocent man, guilty of no crime, was
cruelly assassinated in Carthage, Illinois, while
under the plighted protection of the governor of
that State. And now his blood and that of his
brother Hyrum, who was murdered at the same
time, cries for vengeance from the gronnd. The
mantle of protection was thrown around the
assassins, the foul perpetrators of that horrid
deed, and not one move has been made to bring
them to justice, and that crime now rests on
our national escutcheon.
	But God did not look with indifference on that
atrocious deed, and He does not forget its perpe-
trators—as far as known, not one of them has
died a natural death. The horrid wail has been
wafted on the breeze of maggots holding carni-
vals in their flesh, until, although in horrible fear
of what awaited them beyond, they earnestly
prayed for death. God, the avenger of unrecom-
pensed guilt, will surely mete out justice in His
own time. Justice will claim its own. 
	In these once peaceful, happy vales, where
from every saintly dwelling the songs of praise
and thannksgiving ascended on the morning and
evening breeze, when the right to worship God
according to the dictates of conscience was un-
restrained, when domestic peace and happiness
were unmolested, this ever memorable day was
crowned with gaiety, innocent mirth, rejoicing
and thanksgiving. Fathers and mothers, parents
and children were happy in each others’ society.
Now, where are the fathers? Some of them to
evade the merciless hand of persecution are vol-
untary exiles in foreign countries. Many of them
are wasting their time and energies in the dreary
confines of loathsome prisons in our own land—a
land of boasted freedom and equal rights.
	Our leaders, whose genial presence was wont
to cheer us, and whose wise counsels, emanations


[Column 1]
from God, were as the Polar star, are no longer
in our midst—wives and children are left without
their natural protectors; and all this for conscince'
sake. The blessings of home, "sweet home,"
the foundation of all natural greatness, and grand
incentive to all that is desirable, elevating, and
ennobling in human life, are now being wrested
from us by unscrupulous government officials.
The very people who opened up a path in the 
desert—who, by unparalelled toil and privation
have, through the blessing of God made this, the
once dreary and desolate region, to blossom as
the rose, until it has excited the envy and greed
of the spoilers of our peace and prosperity, are
now being robbed of those constitutional rights
and liberties guaranteed to American citizens by
our forefathers. 
	In my lone widowhood I have had one dear
brother—one of my father's family, with whom I
have often taken sweet counsel. Where is he
now?  Incarcerated in prison—like a felon con-
fined within grated bars, and clad in a felon's suit.
What has he done? He has held sacred and in-
violate all constitutional laws of our country, and
the unconstitutional one he has fully obeyed.
Then why in prison? Persecution has driven
him there. The highest judicial court in these so
called United States—the court of last resort, to
which he appealed, acknowledged its imbecility—
it is powerless in melting out justice to the Latter-
day Saints, and my brother has no alternative.
	Under the circumstances which now surround
us, the sable drapery—the insignia of mourning
becomes the occasion."
	Singing, "Beautiful Day" by the children. The
Articles of Faith of the Latter-day Saints
were then recited by forty-two boys and girls; Ad-
dress by Elder B. H. Roberts,

"DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIBERTY AND 
BONDAGE."

My Brethren and Sisters:
	We have met on this occasion to bear witness
to the world that we hold in sacred remembrance
the entrance of the Pioneers into this region.
	The story of that very remarkable journey of
the pioneers across those dreary plains between
the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains and the
Mississippi river, together with the arrival of the
Pioneers in these mountains and the results grow-
ing out of their labors have already been related
by a son of one of that noble few who took part
in laying the foundation of this commonwealth in
this valley, a thousand miles and more from the
frontier of the United States. That story was
briefly but eloquently told.
	It has been my fortune to travel con-
siderably through a number of the
United States, and invariably have I
noticed that the old settlers, the Pioneers, were
held in very high esteem by communities that
grew up around the district of country where they
first settled. It is eminently proper that the
pioneers of any land should be held in honor, for
I know of no labor that is more noble in its
character than that which is performed by those
brave men who go out into the wilderness, erect
their rude cabins, break up the virgin soil, and
who say to the elements by which they are sur-
rounded, "Yield me up a livelihood; under God I
am king here!" Their self-denial in leaving the
luxuries of civilization for the toils and hsrdships
of pioneer life should knit them to our hearts in
bands of steel. If the doctrine that Socrates enun-
ciated is true, that "he who causes two spears
of grass to grow where only one grew before," is
a benefactor of mankind, how much more are
these pioneers benefactors of mankind, who laid
the foundation of States and empires, and made
it possible for the crowded communities of the
East to find homes in God's sunshine, where
health and plenty and peace crown the labors of
their hands.

[Column 2]
	Humble their lot; yet theirs the race
		When Liberty sent forth her cry,
	Who thronged in conflict's deadliest place.
		To fight—to bleed—to die!
	Who cumbered Bunker's heights of red,
		By hope through weary years were led,
	And witnessed Yorktown's sun
		Blaze on a nations' banner's spread
	A nation's freedom won—
	My friends, they were pioneers as well as pa-
triots.
	Utah in the past has not been found wanting in
paying honor to her pioneers. As the great wheel 
of time has brought to us the anniversary of the
entrance of our Pioneers into this valley, we have
welcomed it with praise and thanksgiving to the
Giver of all good; with the roar of cannon, with
songs of joy, and every demonstration of gladness.
The exercises of to-day however are of a different
character from those that have been customary
in the past. The music is solemn, the drum is
muffled, and in the decorations of this hall are
the emblems of mourning. Why is that? Be-
cause, forsooth, in this land whose prosperity was
founded by the toil and labors of the Pioneers,
we find the silver haired men that used to crown
these platforms are not with us. They are driven 
from the homes that they builded by their own
toil, they are absent from the families that they
love.  What for?  The crimes they have com-
mitted?  No; but you read why it is in the motto
that is printed upon that arch (pointing to an arch
over the stand): "Exiled for conscience' sake."
It is written elsewhere too, (indicating another
motto on the stand): "Those not here are in
jeaopardy, in prison and in foreign lands, because
they prefer to obey God rather than man." (In-
dicating another): "Those who are absent choose
to be wanderers in their own land, in preference
to being the victims of those who have selected
them for their ruin." These mottoes all tell us
the reason why the Pioneers are absent from us;
and under these circmstances, would it be fitting
for us to celebrate Pioneers' Day as we usually do,
with the Pioneers absent—in exile? Nay, we
would rather have around us the emblems of
mourning, because of the injustice that has been
heaped upon their devoted hands. We prefer to
place ourselves in harmony with the divine injunc-
tion, "Weep with those who have cause to weep,
and rejoice with those who have cause to re-
joice;" and, when the clouds have been swept
away, as they will be, when our silvery-haired
pioneers shall be able to take their place in our 
midst for one I feel like saying then, and not till
then, shall the voice of rejoicing be heard on
Pioneer Day.
	Let us pause for a few moments just to enquire
what our enemies are trying to accomplish. These
pioneers in years past married our mothers; and,
under God's law, in the holy bonds of matrimony,
they begot the children that now throng this vast
hall. Our enemies demand that the wives that
they then took shall be banished from the house-
holds of these men. They demand that they
shall be degraded from the honored station of
wifehood; that a brand of infamy shall be placed
upon their offspring, and they nobly refuse to ac-
cept such terms of accommodation as these. They
say to those who desire them to yield, that this is
part of their religion. The answer comes from
our enemies that it is not religion—it is a crime.
We ask, who gives them authority to step between
this people and their God, and dictate to them
what shall be their religion. If it is not theirs, it
is ours; nevertheless, we propose to be true to
our fathers and our mothers.
	Let our enemies look over the history of the
past. Surely they have read history to little profit
if by force they hope to crush out the religious
sentiments and convictions of the human heart.
Why, during the reign of Mary, Queen of Eng-
land, the daughter of Henry the Eighth by his
wife Catherine, you remember a persecution was

[Column 3]
waged against the Protestants in her kingdom, and
during the five years of her reign 277 were tied to
the stake and burned to death. Fifty-five of these
were women; four of them were children. But
did this awful persecution crush out the convic-
tions of religion in the hearts of those people?
No. In spite of the faggot and the flame, their 
faith rose triumphant over all the persecutions,
and they established their religious system of
worship which led to the granting of religious
liberty to all English subjects, and we in America
have inherited the fruits of their achievement.
With this lesson of history before them, can our
enemies hope to crush the conviction of our
hearts? With a united voice we tell them no;
they can not; it will not be done.
	Here will we hold: We love the institutions of
this great Republic, and hold them dear; we be-
lieve it to be our destiny yet to rescue that instru-
ment, the Constitution, from the hands of those
who would destroy it. We will remain true to
those principles that have been bequeathed to us
by the fathers of the Republic. But we will not
surrender the convictions of our hearts, or be un-
true to our parents, or untrue to our God—we re-
fuse to make that sacrifice; and, as that motto
reads (pointing to the motto) "Under the Ever-
lasting Covenant, God must and will be glorified."
	(The S. S. children repeated in concert the fol-
lowing prayer:
	Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name. We, the children of Thy people, call upon
Thee in solemn prayer. To-day we celebrate the
advent of the Pioneers into this valley. We ac-
knowledge Thy hand in leading them thither. We
praise Thee for the changes that have been
wrought since their coming. The wilderness has
been turned into fruitful fields; waters have sprung
forth in the desert; and orchards and gardens and
pleasant homes through Thy blessing upon honest
toil, now beautify the land which was then a bar-
ren waste. Plenty smiles on every hand and
peace flows like a gentle stream. Schools and
assembly halls, tabernacles and temples have been
reared for our benefit, and the voice of inspiration 
has guided us in the path of light and life. We
thank Thee for all thy mercies; for Prophets and
Apostles, for revelations and counsels, for parents
and teachers, for thy Holy Spirit, for gifts and 
blessings without number. Yet, Oh Lord, we
mourn the absence of our leaders. Because of
ignorance and iniquity Thy righteous laws are op-
posed, and those who proclaim them by Thine
authority are shut up in prison or driven into exile.
We pray for their deliverance. Fond hearts are 
filled with sadness, the places of loving husbands
and fathers are vacant. We beseech Thee to com-
fort and bless them and all who suffer for the
truth's sake. May the trials through which Thy
people are passing tend to purify Zion, divide the 
righteous from the wicked, hold up the standard
of the Gospel to the world and glorify Thy Name
in the earth. Have mercy upon those who bring
trouble upon Thy people, that they may see their
errors and repent. But may their wicked schemes
fall and their wrath be made to praise Thee. Help
us to be good and true, to walk in the path of the
just, to follow the footsteps of our faithful parents
and to grow up in purity and in honor before Thee.
Bless the Pioneers and their posterity for ever.
Soften the hearts of the rulers of this nation, that
they may do justice to Thy people. Let Thy light
shine! Come to the help of Thy Zion! Glorify
Thy name in the triumph of Thy truth in all the
world! Prepare us for every trial! Give us power
over all evil! We worship and adore Thee as
our Father, our King, and our God. We conse-
crate our lives to Thy service forever, and ask all
and dedicate all to Thee in the name of Jesus
Christ, Thy Son, our Redeemer. Amen.)
	The Tabernacle choir rendered the part song,
"Now pray we Deseret."
	Sentiment—Jno. C. Cutler, Presidents, Apos-


tles, High Priests, Seventies, Elders and Bishops
Pioneers, in laying the foundation of a great com-
monwealth, and in rearing the glorious fabric of
civil and religious liberty, which has made Utah
the glory of our common country, ye are absent 
from us on the anniversary of this memorable day, 
not for wrongs done to God or man, but because
your virtues contrast so resplendently with the
baseness of the conduct of those who persecute 
you. Ye stand as a living rebuke to the wicked-
ness of this generation. No wonder, then, that
men in power would destroy  you or immure you
from the light of day in prisons and penitentiaries.
We are thankful to our God for giving us such 
leaders, and we ask Him for strength and courage
to emulate your glorious examples. 
	Music by S. S. Union Band, "Nearer, my God,
to Thee," Song by the children, "Hope of
Israel." Music, Beesley's Band, "Dead March 
in Saul." Benediction by Bishop L. D. Young.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Maricopa Stake convened in the
Society Hall, Mesa City, June 17th, 1886, at
1 p.m., Coun. Susan Savage presiding. There
were present a majority of the officers of the
Stake, also a number of the brethren.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the minutes of the March Confer-
ence were read and accepted. The reports
from the different branches were very favorable,
all being represented with the exception of
Tempe, Coun. Adelade Allen representing the
Mesa Ward, Prest. Lizzie McDonald the Lehi
Ward, and Prest. Ann Klienman, the Almy
Ward.
	A number of the sisters were then called
upon, who spoke briefly, rejoicing in the glori-
ous work we are engaged in, and expressing a
desire to remain faithful to all the principles
of the Gospel.
	Coun. Susan Savage spoke of the various
duties required at our hands to retain a name
and standing with the Saints of the Most High.
Spoke in a forcible manner of the necessity of
complying with the word of wisdom, quoting
from the revelation, showing that it was
adapted to the capacity of all who may or can
be called Saints. "Let us obey these laws, that
we may be enabled to rebuke the power of the
destroyer when he visits our households, for
without we do there is no promise." Gave some
good instructions in regard to the rearing of
children
	Bro. Charles Robson said, "Sister Savage
has preached us a good sermon on the Word of
Wisdom;" felt to bear testimony to its truth-
fulness, also the benefits to be derived from a
faithful observance of it. "The Lord has
warned us, and unless we heed the warnings we
shall have to suffer the consequences." Thought
the sisters were doing a good work. You should
counsel and advise with each other, and use an
influence for good over your husbands and
children." Felt to rejoice in the integrity
shown by our brethren, who were being perse-
cuted for their religion, choosing rather to
suffer bonds and imprisonment than to forsake
one principle of their holy religion.
	Bro. James Allen and A. F. Stewart followed
with encouraging remarks, endorsing the in-
structions which had been given by the brethren
and sisters; felt that the spirit of the Lord had
been poured out in rich abundance.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Savage, con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"God moves in a mysterious way." Benedic-
tion by C. I. Robson.
		SARAH M. POMEROY, Sec.

[Column 2]

BEAR LAKE SRAKE.

	Minutes of Y. L. conference of Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Idaho, July 18th, 1886,
at 10 a.m., Prest M. E. Pugmire presiding.
Singing, "Thou dear, redeeming, dying Lamb."
Opening prayer by Bishop Hunt. Singing,
"All hail the glorious day. The Roll was
called, showing a fair representation. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved.
	Prest. Pugmire then called for verbal re-
ports, and the following associations were re-
presented: St. Charles, Sarah A. Allred;
Garden City, Amy E. Cook; Lake Town, Mrs.
Willis; Randolph, Elizabeth South; Blooming-
ton, Mary Patterson; Montpelier, Bianca Os-
borne; Woodruff, Paris 1st Ward, Paris 2nd
Ward, and Ovid not represented. The statisti-
cal and financial report for six months, end-
ing June 30th, 1886, was read showing an in-
crease of members and a fair condition of
finances.
	Coun. Amy E. Cook. Spoke encourag-
ingly, laying before them the duties and
responsibilities that rest upon each and every
member, in order to advance the association
they belong to. Admonished the sisters to
live so that they could accept every principle
advanced, for we were not taught anything but
that which was pure, elevating, and calculated
to make us good and wise. The opposition
with which we were contending would prove
who would bear the cross and wear the crown;
that a life of integrity, faith and good works
will entitle them to. We should be kind when
we felt to rebuke, and not resort to coercive
measures.
	Bro. Folstead then addressed the conference,
taking for his text, "Was woman's mission in-
ferior to man's?" showing the responsibility
that rests upon the mother, and the necessity
of the proper exercise of that authority which
a mother should wield in her family; as there
was no position on earth more important than
that of motherhood, was she fulfilling her duty
as the layer of the foundation stone of the great
temple of humanity? She should be good,
wise and learned, for they are the first teachers
of the young, and should be a perfect example
of honesty, uprightness and virtue, as any little
dereliction from the straight line of truth will
be copied. "Try to exercise a spirit of for-
bearance however tedious the enquiries may
seem, and teach them how to become good
housekeepers and desirable companions in life,
and that virtue is above prize.
	Sister L. M. Rich was much impressed with
the timely remarks of the speaker, who had
preceeded her, and hoped they would make
a lasting impression; thought too much import-
ance could not be attached to the subject laid
before us. Several cases had come under her
observation while in Salt Lake City, not long
since, where girls, through contaminating in-
fluences and the machinations of evil and de-
signing men, had been brought to dishonor and
shame. Thought that a calico dress and a
pure heart free from guile was far preferable
to the finest apparel, gotten at the sacrifice of
virtue and honor; and also they realize when
too late, and would give all to be back among
friends and associates of the past. "We should
seek each day for the Spirit of God to dictate
our movements, and that will prove a shield
and protection at all times." Felt to thank
our Heavenly Father for the peaceable surround-
ings and the blessings we are daily recipients
of.
	Singing, "Blessed are the people," etc.
Benediction by Vincent Pugmire.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference was held in the
14th Ward Hall, June 25th, 1886. On the
stand were Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Mrs. B.

[Column 3]

W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and the Secretary,
Mrs. E. Howard. After singing and prayer
and roll called, minutes of the last conference
were read and accepted. First Ward reported
by Prest. Steele; Second, Coun. McGregor;
Third, Coun. Smith; Sixth, Prest. Fullmer;
Seventh, Coun. Woodbury; Nineth, Prest. S.
E. Groo; Tenth, Coun. Harrison; Eleventh,
Prest. McMaster; Twelfth, Prest. Druce;
Thirteenth, Coun. L. A. Wells; Fourteenth,
Coun. M. W. Wilcox; Fifteenth, Coun. R.
Jones; Sixteenth, Prest. Reid; Seventeenth,
Prest. B. W. Smith; Nineteenth, Coun. Neal;
Twentieth, Coun. Barton; Twenty-first, Coun.
Davis; Hot Springs, Prest. Fulsom; Big Cot-
tonwood, Prest. Howard; South Jordan, Prest.
Holt; Brighton, Prest. Hazon; Riverton, a
Coun.; Sandy, Coun. Wilson; Granger, Prest.
Porter.
	Prest. Horne made some closing remasks.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, Prest. Horne addressed the sisters upon
their duties in the Society, and the care and
training of children, observing the Sabbath
day, and spoke upon the storing of grain for
a day of famine.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark, of Farmington, spoke
upon our spiritual needs, and her disapproval
of the Saints following after the fashions of
Babylon, the power of the evil one, the neces-
sity of obeying the commandments of God,
also upon the work in the Temples for the
living and the dead.
	Mrs. Presendia L. Kimball made a very im-
pressive speech, in which she spoke upon
charity and humility, the comforting of others,
and exhorted the daughters of Zion not to
follow after the fashions of Babylon, and to
attend the meetings, partake of the sacra-
ment, etc.
	Dr. Ferguson said, "Our enemies are trying
to deprive us of the blessings we now enjoy;
the time has come when we will have to be a
light unto ourselves; our leaders are away from
us; and the time may come when we will have
no one to counsel with, therefore we should
use the privileges we have to good advantage.
Here our enemies have nothing else to do but
think of how they can pervert the laws to our
detriment, but in the world we are looked upon
as the down-trodden women of Utah.	*	*
In Washington there is immense wealth and
grandeur, and there is extreme poverty and
distress; 7000 poor are languishingly in want
of the comforts of life.	*	*	*	*
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the memberships
now due to the Deseret Hospital, and also re-
ferred to the Society donations, also earnestly
advised the sisters in the Relief Society to look
after the poor, the needy and the suffering,
that they might not come under condemnation
by neglecting their duty to them.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "Those who preside
over the different branches are absolutely re-
quired to report at our conferences, by either
the president, a counselor, teacher or member;
some one will have to see to this duty. We
have many energetic sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, and we are required to represent our-
selves; we will see the day when we will be
glad that our names were enrolled in the So-
ciety; we ought to be interested in the Y. L.
M. I. A., visit the meetings and help the young
girls in their duties, and encourage them by
our presence."
	Prest. Horne thought we should have two
days for meetings, "for we do want more
spiritual food for our improvement. We in-
tend now to hold our conference on Thursday,
so the Y. L. can hold theirs on Friday and the
Primary on Saturday." She spoke of her call
upon Gov. West; said he listened to her polite-
ly; said, "We explained to him our brethren
could not break their covenants. He seemed


quite interested when we told him our posi-
tion. Our enemies are accomplishing the pur-
poses of God; let us stand to what we profess;
we want to be on the Lord's side." Hoped we
might have the Spirit of God in our homes.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Glory to God on high," etc. Bene-
diction by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MISCELLANEOUS.

	Helen Hunt Jackson always declared she
dreamed her poems—did not compose them
herself.
	Every duty well done adds to the moral and
spiritual stature. Each opportunity eagerly
grasped and used is the key to larger privil-
eges.
	We celebrate nobler obsequies to those we
love by drying the tears of others than by
shedding our own; and the fairest funeral
wreath we can hang on their tomb is not so
fair as a fruit-offering of good deeds.
	No girl, whether from the lowest or the high-
est position, is fit to become a wife, a mistress
of the home, who has not been carefully edu
cated in all the accomplishments and details of-
the kitchen.
	The effect on the health of women produced
by sixteen hours per day of cooking, dish-
washing, sewing, sweeping, baby-tending, and
the numerous other labors that constitute the
sum and substance of housekeeping has never
disturbed the digestion or conscience of men.
They are concerned about the health of those 
women only who enter remunerative occupa-
tions for "higher education."—Indianapolis
Sentinel.
	Courtesy is due to others.  It is helpful to
others. Treat even a base man with respect,
and he will make at least one desperate effort
to be respectable. Courtesy is an appeal to
the nobler and better nature of others to
which that nature responds. It is due to our-
selves. It is the crowning grace of culture,
the stamp of perfection upon character, the
badge of the perfect gentleman, the fragrance
of the flower of womanhood when full blown.
	Most girls, almost from babyhood, if per-
mitted to be with their mothers in the kitchen,
love to see the work done, particularly the
cooking; and nothing delights them more than
to be allowed to attempt to make some simple
article themselves. This early play will not 
be forgotten. Girls that grow up under such
training or indulgence will have no fear of the
real care when it comes to them as a duty.
	Avoid the scolding tone. A tired mother
may find it hard to do this; but it is she who
will get most good by observing the rule. The 
tone of scolding tells upon the throat, just
where a woman who is not over-strong is apt to
feel the ache of extreme fatigue. The child-
ren, too, who are great imitators, will be sure
to catch the scolding tone, and will talk to 
their dolls, to one another, and by-and-by to
their own children, very much as their own
mothers are now talking to them.
	Never let your honest conviction be laughed
down. You can no more exercise your reason
if you live in constant dread of ridicule than
you can enjoy life if you live in constant fear
of death. If you think it right to differ from
the times, and make a point of morals, do it—
not for insolence, but seriously and gravely, as
if a man carried a big soul of his own in his
bosom, and did not wait till it was breathed
into him by the breath of fashion. Be true to
your conviction, and in the end you will not
only be respected by the world, but have the
approval of your conscience.

[Column 2]
	In Garfield County, Nebraska, there are
377 single men and only 68 unmarried
women.
	Miss Gladstone writes in a letter to a friend:
"Papa regrets the results of the elections, of
course, but he is not at all disconcerted. He
is quite happy, and is at this moment reading
'Dante' under a tree."


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 6, 1886, as follows:
	Elizabeth J. Cole, Milwaukee, Wis. Frame
for making rugs.
	Susan O. Grover, Granville, Ohio, Coffin at-
tachment.
	Lizzie McKeogh, Pittsburg, Pa., Foot-pad
for machine treadles.
	Ida H. Westgate, Worcester, Mass., Dress-
protector and stiffener.


[Column 1]
	SPECIAL NOTICE. 

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless. 
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order, 
	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, 
	President. 

[Column 2]
F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrate LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries 
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	To the memory of Mary Bronson, Secretary of the Re-
lief Society of Wasatch Stake, who departed this life on
the 9th of February, 1886.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His divine providence
has called away our beloved sister, Mary Bronson, after a 
long life of usefulness spent in His kingdom here upon the
earth.
	Resolved, That while we feel to bow to His most holy
will, we miss our sister in our association, and her wise,
motherly counsel in our circle of loved ones.
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society of
Wasatch Stake, will hold her memory sacred, and strive in
our lives to follow her example, who was always ready
to perform her duty as Secretary in this stake.
	Resolved, also, That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to
the bereaved husband and family in the loss of a kind and
affectionate wife and mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
upon record, a copy sent to the bereaved family and to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					EMMA BROWN, President.
					SARAH ALEXANDER,
					MARY DAYBELL, Counselors.


OBITUARY.

	Christena Swenson Funk was born July 10th, 1834, in 
Sweden; joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in Copenhagen, Denmark, 1853; emigrated to Utah
in 1863.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the members of the Relief Society of
Newton, Cache Valley Stake of Zion; do hereby pay our
humble tribute of love and esteem to the memory of Sister
Christena Swenson Funk, who was called from our associa-
tion by death on the 12th of May, 1886.
	Through our acquaintance was numbered by months
rather than years, a love and respect has been engendered
that is seldom acquired through an intercourse of many
years.
	Sister Funk was a quiet and unassuming neighbor and a
true Saint. She labored energetically and perseveringly
as a teacher in the Relief Society, where her name was en-
rolled, in connection with ours, for about eighteen months.
	The terrible cancer had already seized its victim when
she first came into our midst, which she did to accompany
her husband in an act of duty to God; he, Bro. Funk, hav-
ing been called to the Bishopric of Newton.


Her malady rapidly, but surely increased in severity, un-
til our dear sister was confined to her bed, and for some 
six months her sufferings were very agonizing.  Her great-
est regret seemed to be that she was curtailed in her labors
of love among her sisters, and in the performance of her
household duties.  In the midst of all she humbly acknowl-
edged the dealings of an alwise Providence.
	Resolved, also, That we extend to her loving husband,
our worthy Bishop, as also to the other members of the
family circle, where sorrow's dart hath rudely pierced, our
heart-felt sympathies.
	And we pray that their stricken hearts may be solaced in
their hour of affliction by the Holy Comforter.

			SUSAN BARBER President,
			ELIZABETH GRIFFIN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1886.	NO. 6.


RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO MRS.
			MARTHA NICHOLS

Of the New York Relief corps, who expressed herself in
	terms of deep sorrow at the prospect of there being
	within the sound of her voice "some woman patiently 
awaiting deliverance from her bondage."

There cometh a cry from the daughters of Utah,
	From women whose sorrows now stand at your door;
So kindly you've offered your loving protection,
	Oh, give them their rights and they'll ask nothing more.

The right to be honored as wives and as mothers,
	The right to protection in honor and truth;
The right they would crave as a boon above others,
	The right to the husbands and homes of their youth.

Then lest you should break down the bulwarks of freedom,
	And scatter the ashes on liberty's shrine,
Oh, give to the people what God has decreed them,
	The right of obedience to law that's divine.

Will you give them a right to a representation,
	The right to a voice where their cause may be heard,
The right of redress from the head of the nation—
	Award them the justice of one loving word?

They have spoken in love, they have spoken in patience,
	They have spoken in words that were tender and true;
They have spoken in actions of silent endurance,
	In love and esteem they are speaking to you.

Is your spirit oppressed with the chains of their bondage?
	Then into your heart they would earnestly plead;
Their husbands are wronged and their substance is squan-
		dered,
	Oh, say, will your voice for their woes intercede?

There are mothers we know, who are loving and tender,
	And wives whose devotion is loyal and true;
If woman should ask for a voice to defend her,
	We ask if that voice would be centered in you?

There are women whose hearts would resist the oppressor,
	Would sacrifice much for the objects they love;
To your sympathy seeking from wrongs to redress her,
	With kindest intentions your loyalty prove.

And give to the women, the "downtrod" of Zion,
	The right to stand forth in their honor and worth,
The husbands they love, and the sons they rely on,
	These gifts they would prize as the highest on earth.

				MARY J. TANNER.


[Column 1]

THE G. A. R. IN SAN FRANCISCO.

SOME THEATRICAL NOTES.

	We left the house about 9.30 a.m , the time
advertised for forming the procession, and
walked down to Van Ness Avenue—the finest
avenue, I think, in the city; it is so very wide
and has most beautiful residences.	*	*
The procession was very long, and much the
same from beginning to end, but withal quite
interesting. It was headed by the soldiers
from Presidio; I could not help noticing how
poorly drilled they seemed to be; their lines
were dreadfully uneven, and their behavior
anything but soldier-like. They laughed and
talked and turned around to look at the spec-
tators, and carried their guns in different ways,
and in all were much behind the company at
Fort Douglas when undergoing simple dress-
parade, and then compared with the German
forces, as I have seen them drill in Munich
and other cities, they seemed to lack every
thing belonging to the military. I wondered
if the veterans were not displeased with them,
and felt that with such disorderly soldiers the
Union would have a poor show for gaining

[Column 2]

victories, and I also thought, more than ever,
that Europeans were justified in ridiculing the
American army as they do. This is really not
exaggeration; I was astonished to see so little
order among the troops.
	The different banners carried by the de-
partments of the G. A. R. were very beautiful
and artistic, and each brought to mind some
thrilling event of the war. The march of the
veterans was quite touching, and they were
greeted with cheers, hats raised and handker-
chiefs waved as they passed along. Gen.
Logan was cheered more than any one else,
which surely must have been a great mistake,
that is if Col. Jones was among them; but you
see, as the "Salt Lake Herald" stated, he did
not wear a badge with his name on, and I al-
most fear the Californians were as ignorant as
the Utah people, but for fear he might take it
hard if he were not greeted joyously, Belle
and I waved our 'kerchiefs and smiled inces-
santly; I hope he saw us, for we can smile if we
do belong to the much-hated "Mormons," and
we smile whenever we think of poor Col. Jones,
who was treated so meanly by our citizens.
	There were very few colored men in the pro-
cession, but those few received loud and hearty
cheering, but the most interesting part of the
procession were the lines of aged men tenderly
and carefully carrying the old, faded and
tattered flags, that had done their service in
the war, and are now held among the greatest
treasures of the Union. The music was fine,
and all in all I believe it was a grand success,
though the city decorations are not so fine as
many expected they would be.
	Monday evening we all went to the Palace
to hear the band play and catch a glimpse of
the "Great Logan," in neither were we success-
ful, for the Gen. drove out of the court as
we walked in, and the band followed, but we
made a pleasant call on Mrs. Eldredge, and
had quite a nice time watching the great
throng of "fashionable women and brave men,"
to quote Gov. West, the fashionable must here
be substituted for beautiful—promenade the
splendidly lighted corridors.
	We saw Modjeska at the Baldwin in
"Mary Stuart;" she is, as ever, the most grace-
ful and perfect actress of her day.  Her voice
is soft and full, her accent slightly broken, her
costumes most exquisite, and above all, her
subject and fine elocution renders her the most
fascinating and charming "Mary Stuart" I
have ever seen, even though her face may not
be as beautiful as the most fair queen of Scot-
land.
	Last night we were all at the Bush Street
Theatre to see Margaret Mather's Juliet.
Most of the parts were very poorly sustained,
but Miss Mather was really very fine, though
nothing to compare with Adelaide Neilson.
		ANNIE.
	Annie U. [---]


[Column 1]
﻿REASONING ON MRS. NEWNAN'S
	STATEMENTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading Mrs. Newman's petition, my
heart is filled with indignation at the falsehood
and injustice of her accusations. Many of her
statements are so ludicrous that I scarcely
know whether to laugh or get angry. Taken
as a whole it is hardly worth our notice, but
when we reflect that the world is ever ready to
believe, without reflection, the many wild and

[Column 2]
unreasonable things said of us, no matter how
absurd or ridiculous they may appear, I feel
that we ought not to pass it by in silence.
   Her position in regard to Brigham Young
is somewhat anomalous as is that taken
throughout, and when I undertake to define
her statements I find myself at a loss to gather
her meaning.
   I had always supposed that suffrage was
conferred on woman at the instigation of non-
Mormons. They said the women of Utah
were slaves; give them the suffrage and they
would soon throw off their shackles. But men
had confidence in the true and loyal hearts
that had stood by them in weal and woe. They
knew that woman would not be false to the
instincts of her nature, and sell the rights and
liberties of her friends and protectors. And
for what? For less than a mess of pottage.
	These men whom we sustain are our fathers,
our husbands and our sons. We stood side by
side with them in the struggle for subsistence,
when this Territory was a barren, desert wilder-
ness, when the howling wolves and the half
starved Indian tribes, who scarce bore the sem-
blance of humanity, were the only creatures
that could subsist in this barren and forbidding
region.
	We stood by them in a boasted land of free-
dom, while fiends in human shape murdered 
and plundered and sent us forth beneath the
chilling frosts of winter and the burning suns
of summer, homeless, friendless, hungry and
weary, battling with the necessities of hu-
manity, and bearing the scorn of the world.
And then because our natural intelligence
prompts us to follow the first law of nature, 
which is self-preservation, she taunts us with 
being slaves. If we are slaves, let us serve the
masters we love and who love us; bondage on 
such terms is tolerable.
	What does she offer us in exchange for our
chains?  She would brand us as harlots and
our children bastards, and then offer us the
poor, pitiful pity of the world. We know it,
and have felt it; God help us, we want it no
more! Brigham Young was not governor of
Utah when the suffrage was conferred on
woman, neither was he when the railroad
came here. She says truly that railroads are
great civilizers. The snort of the engine is the
bugle note of progress. We looked upon it as
such, and rejoiced that the highway of com-
merce was open at our doors. We rejoiced,
too, that people of intelligence could come
among us and see for themselves that we were
misrepresented and traduced. The spirit of
progress and the cultivation of the arts and
sciences would give the rising generation the
opportunities their intelligence demanded.
	When they built the highway across the
continent they found us a simple, a virtuous
and a progressive people, laboring to convert
this mountain region into homes, and making 
it attractive by the hum of industry and the
spirit of contentment. Driven from the con-
fines of civilization, we made [--] OASIS in the
desert, encouraged agriculture and manufac-
tures, made it possible for people to pass over
the highway to the land of gold. What was
there to encourage the settlement of these
valleys? What was there to sustain us in the
battle with hunger, privation and despair?
Faith in the God of Israel alone could do it.
A mining population would have starved; a
gold excitement would have ruined the county.
It takes wealth to open mines, and that we did


[Column 1]
not have. Our leaders were wise enough to
see and understand it, and bade us toil on, for
the soil alone could yield us support. In unity
was our strength, our hope, our safety, and by
unity we have accomplished one of the great-
est achievements of the nineteenth century,
and made it possible for the nation to build a 
road across the continent.
	Wherever a colony planted its footsteps and
erected a few huts to shelter them from the
inclemency of the seasons, there their feeble
efforts have been put forth to foster education,
and some man or woman possessing a knowl-
edge of books or a faculty for imparting in-
struction was employed to teach the children
the rudiments of education in the winter,
while the older boys labored in the field during
the summer months, yet the younger ones
were in school. One of the first requirements
of every settlement, after a few houses were
built for family use, was to build a house,
primitive it might be, but still it was a house,
where the children were iustructed through
the week in such branches of education as their
circumstances required, or could obtain, and on
Sunday it was used to instruct the Elders and
the people in the principles of the Gospel, and
to encourage them in the hope that God had
not yet forsaken them.
	Yes, strange though it may seem, to speak
of the mercies of a risen Redeemer, and rejoice
in the love that could lay down His life to
bring us back to the fold of God. We were 
called the offscouring of the world and the 
scum of creation, but such a conglomerate
could never have subsisted here. Intelligence
and heroism guided by an overruling Provi-
dence alone could make it possible to colonize
and cultivate these valleys.
	"The bugle note of progress sounded by the
snort of the engine," brought also the fester-
ing corruption of civilization, the rottenness
that is striking at the nation's core. The
damning argies of intemperance and debauch-
ery are condoned as the "common weakness of
humanity," and we are powerless to prevent it.
Must we stand by and see our sons led to ruin,
our daughters disgraced,cast aside and forsaken,
when some fairer fond one claims the fancy of
their seducers.  We are taunted as slaves, be-
cause we join heart and hand to protect our-
selves from the spoiler.
	The ballot in the hands of American citizens!
Are we not American citizens, and who should
hold the ballot if not those whose highest in-
terests are in the welfare of the country. She
quotes the act conferring suffrage on woman,
which reads:
	"Every woman of the age of twenty-one
years, who has resided in this Territory six
months next preceeding any general or special
election, born or naturalized in the United
States, or who is the wife, widow or daughter of
a native born or naturalized citizen of the
United States, shall be entitled to vote at any
election in this Territory." She says the
woman or girl that is not the wife, widow or
daughter of somebody is "anomolous." It
does not follow that every woman or girl is the
wife, widow or daughter of a native born or 
naturalized citizen.
	Under the law, as will be seen, women who
had not been six months in the Territory
could not vote or be registered. Every voter
must be registered. In order to register a 
woman must take oath that she is a native
born or naturalized citizen, over twenty-one
years;of age also that she has resided six months 
in the precinct in which she wishes to vote, and
no person can vote whose name is not on the
register list. If the proper requirements were
not complied with the election would be con-
tested.
	In the face of this she makes the assertion
that in two weeks preceding the first election
after the Edmunds law, two thousand aliens,
most of whom had habitually voted, their

[Column 2]
wives and children, as well, were naturalized
in the two district courts of Ogden and Salt
Lake City. She says, "The trains freighted
with recruits for Zion, which arrived a day or
two preceding elections were met at the depot
by Church officials. The emigrants were taken
to tithing headquarters." I believe that is a 
common custom, as they must be taken some-
where until homes are found for them. But
she further says, "Women and girls were then
and there selected by aspirants for sealing
orders, taken to the endowment house and the
marriage ceremony performed. On the morrow
these wives of "native born or naturalized
citizens," wholly ignorant of our language or
laws, or the significance of the franchise, with
the odor of the emigrant ship still upon their
clothing, were full fledged voters, and deposited
their ballots in full conformity with the statu-
tory requirements."
	In face of the law which she has quoted
this seems a strange statement, and, to put it
mildly, there must be a mistake somewhere. I
cannot reconcile my mind to such contradic-
tory assertions, especially as the Edmunds law
reads that a woman must not live with a man
who cohabits with more than one woman, and
the Commission adds, "in the marriage rela-
tion."
	This would seem to complicate things still
more. She says, "In case of a doubtful elec-
tion at a given point, re-enforcements were dis-
patched there from the new colony." Query;
Were they kept six months in the weak pre-
cinct previous to the election and properly
registered there. This would cause consider-
able inconvenience, and if their names were
not on the register the judges of election, who
are many of them non-Mormons, would be
obliged to refuse their vote, or the election 
would be contested.
	She quotes from Mrs. Stenhouse, whose
statements, she says, "are as reliable as truth
itself:" "I have often seen," says Mrs. Sten-
house, "one solitary man driving into the city
a whole wagon load of women of all ages
and sizes. They were going to the polls, and
their vote would be one." That is all right if
it is the right one, but that depends on who is
to be pleased. I wonder if the solitary man
was afraid of so many women. She further
says, "Many have voted two or three times."
There must have been something wrong in the
register, and as registrars were almost univer-
sally non-Mormons we cannot think that "men
christened their mules, conferring upon them
the names of men, and made them vote too."
While I would not for the world dispute the
lady's word, I cannot but think that the mules
must have had most excellent training. It
reflects, too, small credit on the judges and
clerks that they should not know mules from
men. Just imagine his muleship walking up
to the table and handing--no posting. Will
the good lady be kind enough to tell us just
how a mule would deposit his ballot, and if 
any of those present were endangered by his
heels?
	"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and the
deceased had been represented at the ballot
box."
	The Mormon Church can afford to let peo-
ple use their own common sense sometimes in
regard to what they believe. Why did she
not say that the dead themselves came there
to vote. The Mormon Church would not have
 disputed it. It is well known by all who vote
 that persons must hand in their own ballots,
and give their names.
	If Mrs. Newman had ever voted she would
not be so extravagant on the subject. She re-
flects no great honor on the heads of the nation,

[Column 3]
when she presents them with such a conglomer-
ate of ignorance and misrepresentation.
	My article is already so long I must pass
over many things I would like to say, but
hope they will be taken up aud discussed by
some abler pen than mine.
					MARY J. TANNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT GATHERING AT UNION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A number of the officers and members of 
the Relief Society and also the Young Ladies'
Association met at the residence of Sister
Mary A. Smart, to show our respect to her in
the shape of a surprise party, on Friday, July
9th.  While she was visiting at her step son's,
J. Z. Smart, the people gathered at her house
in her absence, and had the tables spread with
a sumptuous dinner.  When all was in readi-
ness she was sent for.  When she entered the
house she was completely overcome to see so 
many present, and she could not find words to 
express the gratitude and joy she felt on the
occasion.  There were present in all ninety
persons, and after all had partaken of a bounte-
ous repast, the afternoon was pleasantly spent.
There was a programme gotten up for the oc-
casion by the young ladies.  An address com-
posed was read by the Assistant Secretary,
S. A. Forbush, showing the esteem in which
Sister Smart is held by her sisters for her dili-
gence in her office as Secretary of the Relief
Society of this ward; after which Prest. Rich-
ards and Coun. Ann Griffiths and others con-
gratulated her, made many suitable remarks,
and presented her with numerous presents,
and also $17 in cash, in behalf of the two as-
sociations, Sister Smart being a live member of
the Y. L. A.
	Sister Smart expressed her gratitude to all
present for the good will and esteem shown her
to-day by the sisters and some of the brethren,
which she very much appreciated; felt that
she had had the prayers and confidence of the
Saints all through the sickness in her family,
five of her children being prostrated with the
typhoid fever.  She felt to acknowledge that
the hand of the Lord had been over them for
good, for had she been called upon to part
with some of them in the absence of her hus-
band, who is in exile, she felt the trial would
have been severe.  Felt grateful for the honor
and respect shown her, and made many other
excellent remarks, after which the time was
taken up with songs, recitations and remarks
from several of the teachers of the R. S. and
others present.  After spending several hours
very pleasantly, all returned to their homes,
feeling it would be a day long to be remem-
bered.
	S. A. FORBUSH, Ass't Secretary.


Patents have been granted to women, during
the week ending July 13, 1886, as follows:
     Mary E. Cole, Letts, Iowa, Sash-fastener.
     Sophia M. Fein, Cincinnatti, O., Doormat.
     Lizzie Hopkinson, Frankfort, Ind., Com-
bined embroidery-frame, easel, work-table and
desk.
     Lavenia D. Jones, Lafayette, Ind., Steam-
cooking utensil.
     Maria R. McClintock, Abbyville, Va., Coin-
holder.
     Katy Rumetsch, San Francisco, Cal., Key-
hole guard.
     Ellen D. Starr, Chittenango, N. Y, Ap-
pliance for setting writing copies.
     Isabella Yonart, Troy, O., Pastry board.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A LOVE SONG. 

O love, he said, if I might win
	Thy hand to clasp in mine alway,
O sweet the joy and strong my hopes,
	Though rough or hard should be life's way;
Thine eye should never miss my smile.
	Thy heart should never grieve a wrong,
Like light and warmth our lives should blend,
	Our language, one sweet, sacret song.

O words so sweet, how could they fail;
	They woke love's answer in her heart,
They made her present joyous, and
	Grew of her very life a part.
For her they lit the taper pure,
	That never dies while life endures,
And e'en became the star of hope
	That still her troubled heart assures.

For him, they died upon his lips
	As floweret's odors pass away.
But e'en as spring returning, wakes
	The flowers that sleep through winter's day;
O answer, by thy smile of love
	O lover! her true heart again,
And keep the vow that angels heard,
	For she is faithful now as then.

Fulfil thy troth, man may not break 
	So sacred bond at idle will,
Lest she a Saint in heaven stand
	Confronting thee and loving still! 
How shall thy changeful mind reply
	Her steadfast truth thou didst implore, 
For thou must meet it there and then, 
	Nor turn away, or falter more. 

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
	OPINIONS ABOUT VOTING.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	In reading the petition of Mrs. Angie F.
Newman, lately presented to the Honorable
Senate and House of Representatives in Con-
gress assembled, I was much struck with the
inaccuracy and falsehoods of which it is com-
posed; and it is a matter of astonishment to me
that a lady with the opportunities and intelli-
gence of Mrs. Newman should know so little
of  a subject upon which she professes herself
to be posted. Being myself one of the two
thousand who assembled in mass meeting to
protest against the invasion of our dearest and 
most sacred rights—I felt that it was eminently
proper that we should meet and protest; and 
whenever an effort is being made to rob us of 
that which is dearer than life—our liberty—
we will ever be found emphatically protesting
against such injustice.
	Mrs. Newman says, "Having a definite per-
sonal knowledge"—I am glad she added "of 
the Gentile sentiment touching this question"—
because had she made these assertions of herself
it would have been something worse than igno-
rance.
	Mrs. Newman claims to be a close observer
of the effect of female suffrage in Utah, yet
she admits that Gentile women rarely vote,
and it is from them she obtains her informa-
tion. Strange that they should affect to des-
pise the right of FRANCHISE, when so many
noble women are laboring so hard to attain it.
And because they do not choose to make use
of the ballot, when they have it to right their
wrongs, if they have any, is that any reason
why our rights should be taken away? Sup-
posing a party of men should refuse or neglect
to vote because some one else had the privilege,
would it be of any use for them to ask for 
legislation to take away the rights of others
who made a better use of it? I think not.
They would only be laughed at for their pains,
if not considered fit subjects for a lunatic
asylum, especially if they were found guilty of 
such consumnate nonsense as is to be found in
the petition of Mrs. Angie F. Newman grave-

[Column 2]
ly presented by Mr. Edmunds to the Honor-
able Senate and House of Representatives.
We are at the defiance of the world to prove
that the genealogies of the dead, the unborn
and the deceased have ever been represented
at the ballot box. It is simply too absurd for
people with good sense to pay any attention to.
We should much like to know,if any one can tell
us, when these women voted two or three times,
to which Mrs. Stenhouse refers and Mrs. New-
man quotes, that the solitary man was driving
in the wagon, and what their names were, man,
women, wagon and all. Creatures of the im-
aginatiou.
	I also am a close observer of the effect of
woman suffrage in Utah, and I positively affirm
that I have never known an instance of the
kind to take place; we have no occasion to re-
sort to trickery, we have always been the peo-
ple. Then those mules she speaks of, when
were they christened, and who performed the
ceremony? We do not believe in christening.
It must have been a curious sight to see them
vote; I wonder how they managed it. I have
 read of Balaam's ass speaking with a man's 
voice, but to see an educated mule vote would
be enough to consign the ass to the oblivion he
deserves. Surely the great law makers of our
beloved country are too wise to attach any im-
portance to such BOSH! Having exercised the
right of franchise for the last fifteen years, I
am in a situation to speak from personal knowl-
edge; I have voted for whom I pleased, and no
one has ever interfered with my rights in this
matter. It is a well known fact that the ballot
in Utah is secret, and there is no way to pre-
vent anyone voting as she chooses. Who ever
asserts the contrary makes a statement that is
not true. Dear to the heart of the women of
Utah is the right of suffrage, a right they will
ever use for the good of man and for the ele-
vation of our sister woman. Let Mrs. New-
man get all the appropriations from Congress
she can; let her spend her money where she
will; nobody will dispute her right to do so,
but let her learn to practice the grace of
charity, and respect the rights of others, for
she must know for "all these things she will be
brought to judgement."
				PHEBE C. YOUNG.


﻿ANNUAL REUNION.

	The meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
19th Ward was held at the ward meeting
house on Tuesday, July 20th, 1886. At six
p.m. a bounteous repast was served to all the
members and invited guests, in the wing of
the building. Three long tables were hand-
somely set and adorned with fragrant flowers.
All the delicacies of the season were there in
profusion, and the happy faces of the young
people added the greatest attraction to the oc-
casion. Meeting commenced about a quarter
to eight, and the large hall was well filled with
young people. On the stand, the President,
Mrs. Mary E. Irvine and her Counselors,
Bishop Watson, Elders Bywater and Fliesh-
man, and Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. B. Wells,
M. A. Freeze and Nellie Colebrook, Miss
Louie Wells, Mrs. Mc.Murrin and Mrs. Royal
B. Young, also Mrs. Ann Player, Counselor in
the Relief Society of that ward. A very ex-
cellent programme was rendered. The read-
ing of a manuscript paper was included, en-
titled, "The Progressive Journal." One article
in the paper was a correspondence between
Miss Emma Brown and Miss Ella Nebaker,
upon the subject of plural marriage. It con-
tained some strong points, and showed the
serious thought of the girls on the subject. A
biographical sketch of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith was given verbally by Miss May Ridges,
which was very well done, and made a pleas-
ing variety. The singing by the girls was
another interesting feature of the evening's


exercises. Several of the sisters made suitable
and instructive remarks, encouraging the girls
to persevere, and urging them to be true to
principle and pure in thought, word and deed.
Bishop Watson spoke very feelingly, and in a 
spirit of kindliness gave the girls such advice
as a tender father would give to his own
daughters.
	Prest. Irvine made a few closing remarks,
manifesting the utmost interest in the spiritual
advancement of her precious charge. She is
well qualified to preside, and has succeeded in
gaining the love and esteem of the members of 
the association, and can therefore exercise a
greater influence for good. An excellent
spirit prevailed throughout the meeting.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The highest exercise of charity is charity to
the uncharitable.—John S. Buckminster.
	Faith is the root of all good works; a root
that produces nothing is dead—Bishop Wil-
son.
	I know no such thing as genius; genius is
nothing but labor and diligence.—W. Hogarth.
	Life and blessing will attend the man who
observes the Sabbath.  The Sabbath of rest is
a continued lesson to him to turn his eye from
all created objects, and look to that heavenly
rest into which God is entered, and which is
promised to man.—J. Milner.
	God loves to see His creatures happy; our
lawful delight is His: they know not God that
think to please Him with making themselves
miserable. The idolators thought it a fit
service for Baal to cut and lance themselves;
never any holy man looked for thanks from
the true God by wronging himself.—R. Hall.
	Children hunger perpetually for new ideas.
They will learn with pleasure from the lips of
parents what they deem it drudgery to study
in books; and, even if they have the misfortune
to be deprived of many educational advantages,
they will grow up intelligent if they enjoy in
childhood the privilege of listening daily to
the conversation of intelligent people. A
silent home is a dull place for young people—
a place from which they will escape if they can.
How much useful information, on the other
hand, is often given in pleasant conversation,
and what unconscious, but excellent mental
training is lively, social argument!—Ex.
	In the presence of a great sorrow, all petty
troubles disappear; but we are too ready to
take some cherished misery to our bosom, and
to pet it there. Very often it is the child of
our fancy; and forgetful of the many means of
happiness which lie within our reach, we in-
dulge this spoiled child of ours until it mas-
ters us. We shut the door against cheerful-
ness and surround ourselves with gloom. The
habit gives a coloring to our life. We grow
querulous, moody and unsympathetic. Our
conversation becomes full of regrets. We are
harsh in our judgment of others. We are un-
sociable, and think everybody else is so. We
make our breast a store house of pain, which
we inflict upon ourselves as well as others.
This disposition is encouraged by selfishness;
indeed, it is, for the most part selfishness un-
mingled without any admixture of sympathy
or consideration for the feelings of those about
us.—Smiles.


﻿The last Legislature of Washington Terri-
tory passed one act that has the approval of
all humane and decent people, viz.: requiring
that an insane woman en route to the asylum
must be accompanied by a woman attendant.
—New Northwest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

SOME SALIENT POINTS.

	There are some very grave points atissue in the
"Mormon question," that it would be well for
Congress and the public generally, and in fact all
those who are uninformed upon this popular
theme to carefully consider ere they pronounce
judgment, lest, peradventure, they needlessly dis-
tress the innocent, and thereby bring condemna-
tion upon themselves, for they must be aware of
the Savior's words, "What measure ye mete it
shall be measured unto you again."
	First, consider the peculiarly trying circumstan-
ces under which this people left the borders of
civilization and migrated to the Rocky Mountain
region, a journey unparelleled in this age of the
world.  The perils, hardships, sickness and death
which marked the way, of which the most thrill-
ing narratives that ever touched the human heart
might be written.
	Second, the trials and difficulties endured by
the people, including women and children in the
early days of the settlement of these valleys,when
scarcity of food and clothing, combined with the
dangers to be encountered among Indians and
wild beasts made every day eventful in the history
of the people and the country.
	The incidents pertaining to the journeyings and
the sojournings of this people from the time they
left their homes in Nauvoo, until Salt Lake City
was founded and the desert lands subdued and
made fruitful, can never be written as they trans-
pired, and the bearing they have had upon the
hearts of the people it is impossible to tell.
	Third, the generation born and reared amidst
these peculiar conditions, which have stamped
themselves indelibly upon the character of the
children now grown to manhood and womanhood,
is another potent factor in the "Mormon" question,
and it may truthfully be said of them as of the
early New Englanders, "A new order of man-
hood appeared shaped by the dangers and diffi-
culties of the time." Certain it is that children
were born, and it is very awkward, at least at this
late date, to declare they had no right to be born, 
and having been born, and with characteristics as
strong and marked as the mountains that over-
shadow the valleys they love so well, with the re-
ligious elements of their natures so fully developed
and inheriting the settled convictions of the parents,
whose self-sacrifice is now an acknowledged fact,
are they not entitled to life, liberty and the bless-
ings of this free government? Are usurpers and
adventurers to take away their place and rights
of inheritance, socially and politically? Are they
to be disfranchised because of the religious senti-
ments of their parents, which has descended to
them as a right of dower and has become en-
grafted into their very lives?
	Fourth, what of the wives and mothers, who,
having obeyed the most sacred impulses of their
nature, the yearning for maternity, have entered
into conjugal relations, implicitly believing that
Congress could not legislate against a marriage
solemnized by a religious ceremony; and after
having spent all the best years of their lives in 

[Column 2]

domestic happiness with the father of their child-
ren, are, by the special laws made for "Mor-
mons," debarred of every privilege, of association
with the husband, except a bare support.
These women love their husbands as truly and as
loyally as any other women,and we say it fearlessly,
they are honorable, upright and God-fearing, judge
them ye who dare.
	But this is not all, there are young women (who
have our tenderest sympathy) the mothers of small
children, who have not passed through all the
stages of persecution that some older ones have
done, whose lives are only just begun, as it were,
who have entered into solemn and eternal coven-
ants, and whose hearts are bound up in the hus-
band's affection and devotion, even though others
have equal rights with themselves; these ties are
being severed with impunity by the cruel law made
to punish "Mormons;" these young and beautiful
women, these honored wives and devoted mothers,
are given no legal, no moral, no social status in
the discussions upon these questions. What will
be the condition of these heart-broken, suffering,
defenceless women? The husband is either in
prison, or he has left the country to avoid imprison-
ment, or he is under indictment, or in anticipation
of it, and is totally unable to give such attention
to his family as is positively necessary and morally
binding upon him, because of "the law." The
mother must care for and train the children ex-
clusively, while her own heart is being tortured
and her most tender feelings outraged, what will
be the consequences of such conditions upon
these young mothers and their offspring? And
who is to be accountable?
	One of the great writers of our time has said,
"All but felons have their legal rights;" these
people are not felons, and moreover, in the face
of all the world we affirm that a plural wife is not
a polygamist; and yet upon the wife does the
penalty of the Edmunds law fall heaviest.
	Can the Congress of the United States afford
to push these extreme and harsh measures, until
they have had every phase of this question ex-
amined thoroughly by honest, competent and un-
prejudiced persons?
	We appeal to the mothers in this fair land of free-
dom and religious liberty, who want good laws
and self-protection for their own sons and daugh-
ters whom they love so tenderly, to remember that
"Mormon" mothers have hearts as tender and true
as their own,and we ask them to pause ere they pro-
nounce judgment upon men and women who, for 
a religious principle they hold to be divine, have en-
tered into sacred and holy covenants,that are bind-
ing upon them for time and all eternity.
	Is there not sin enough in the world already,
without ruthlessly entering into the sacred sanctu-
ary of happy homes and breaking human hearts,
rending asunder that which God has joined to-
gether, the indissoluble ties of marital companion-
ship?
	These are a few plain statements, not embel-
lished, and they come from one who knows where-
of she speaks, one who loves the land of her
birth, and would not have its record soiled with
such outrages upon women and children as are
now being perpetrated upon those who are power-
less in the hands of wicked and unjust men, who
think all measures justifiable because their vic-
tims are "Mormons."
	Fathers and mothers,husband and wives, states-
men and philanthropists, as you expect justice at
that tribunal where we must all one day stand
upon our own merits, to be judged of the deeds
done in the body, mark well how you deal with
this oppressed and persecuted people, and espe-
cially with the young and inexperienced, and re-
member, it is for the practice of their religious
convictions that they are now arraigned and
brought before the courts—convictions as firm as
those which caused our forefathers to leave home
and native land, and seek shelter and refuge in an
unknown and unexplored wilderness.


ONE OF A SERIES OF LETTERS.

	UTAH PENITENTIARY July 1st, 1886.
TO MY FAMILY:
	Sometime has passed since I wrote you, and I
am something at a loss where to begin or what
would prove most interesting.
	There are some scenes in prison experience, oc-
curing now and then, which may be anything but
agreeable, yet even here, we find no cloud so per-
fectly enveloped in blackness, but it may bear a
bright and silver lining; no picture so dark and
sombre, but has some redeeming feature, some
bright and beautiful point which may be seen here
and there when very closely observed. This ob-
servation is truly applicable to us in our experi-
rence of prison life. I will relate some incidents
embracing the opposites—light and shade—seen
in the picture of life in the Utah Penitentiary. In
the first place I will mention an interesting occur-
rence which happened on the 20th of last month,
at an ovation given in honor of Brother Henry
Gale, on his liberation from the Penitentiary, hav-
ing served his term of imprisonment. The follow-
ing minutes describe the circumstance:
	In room No. 3 in the presence of some fifty-two
persons, at the conclusion of a short speech by
Brother Henry Gale, Brother Lorenzo Snow pre-
sented him a beautiful cane in the following
language:

MR. CHAIRMAN:
	"With your permission and that of this respect-
able and intelligent assembly, I beg the privilege
of addressing a few words to our esteemed friend
and fellow prisoner, Brother Henry Gale, and
presenting him a small present in behalf of his
many numerous friends whom I now have the
honor of representing.
	"This pretty cane, Brother Gale, which I here
hold in my hand, and which I have been author-
ized, by your friends to give you at this time, is a
substantial hickory stick, braided over with hair
in a very artistical and beautiful style, also em-
bracing the initials of your name.
	"I am requested to say that this beautiful
souvenir is given you in consideration of your
highly approved course of conduct, your quiet,
peaceable, uncomplaining, unaccusing spirit, your
amiable disposition manifested not only during
your severe and protracted illness, but during the
whole period of your incarceration; and we now
present this momento expressive of our kind feel-
ings and high esteem, together with the fond hope
that your health will so continue to improve, that
only a little time will elapse before you can dis-
pense with this cane as a support, and carry it
only as an ornament, out of respect to its donors,
like a young man in his prime and full bloom of
life."
		 HERBERT J. FOULGER, Sec.

	Many of our fellow prisoners and associates,
outside of the marriage relation, are suffering for
crimes of different shades, from the stealing of a
calf to that of the terrible crime of murdering
their fellow man. Some of these, and even the
last mentioned, who have been convicted of the
hightest crimes known to man, have shown that
they still possess some good and redeeming quali-
ties; one and all have exhibited kindness and re-
spect towards myself and the brethren. In some
cases, at least, their punishment seems severe and
cruel in the extreme. I listen now and then to a
few of their unhappy tales, which awaken feelings
of interest, sorrow and sympathy. One, a man of
some thirty years of age, while wandering in the
mountains, and in distress for food, killed a calf,
for which he was arrested, convicted and sen-
tenced to seven years imprisonment. An Indian
boy poisoned a man for having murdered his
father, and although he declares himself justified
in committing the act, the poor fellow is now serv-


ing sentence of perpetual life-imprisonment. A
young man has been sentenced for five years in
the Penitentiary for stealing a colt which he de-
clares was his own property.
	Now and then some scenes occur within these
gloomy precincts which, to say the least, are
rather sad and painful to witness. They general-
ly happen at the first interview between the hus-
band, wife and children. On first seeing the fond
husband and father issuing from his prison through
the ponderous iron grated door, his head closely
shaven, attired in convict garb, then and there
too often are heard the sighs of pain and anguish,
and bitter tears are seen coursing down the
cheeks of the grief-stricken wife and sorrowing
children.
	An incident is told that, the father on retiring
into the prison, at the close of an interview with
his family, while passing through the door, his
child cried out in a pleading voice, "Oh, papa!
come back, come with us, do come home with ma,
now, wont you pa?"
	Another instance: A little boy and his mother
standing upon the walls of our prison yard, while
looking down into the enclosure; suddenly the
little fellow espied his father, and spreading out
his little arms, cried out in the most beseeching
tones, "Oh, pa, come up here, O do come to me!"
It is quite easy to imagine and appreciate in such 
cases, the feelings of parents, by anybody not de-
void of sensibility.
	It is not uncommon,to see women come upon
the walls, stand a few moments gazing down upon 
the imprisoned inmates, then quickly depart with 
eyes overflowing with tears. One woman when 
looking from the walls, and first seeing her hus-
band dressed like a convict, fainted away, and had 
to be cared for by the Warden. Too many simi-
lar scenes, which occur here, could be told, but 
the above is sufficient to illustrate this class of 
prison experience. 
	While taking my accustomed exercise around
over the hard, beaten gravel path, lying along side
my prison walls, nine rounds of which are equal 
to a mile, I am not unfrequently reminded of the 
caged animals I have noticed in a menagerie, ever
tramping to and fro around the iron bars and 
wooden cage. However, there are some interest-
ing points in this enclosure, from which we secure 
fine views of the mountain summits, some clothed 
in their lively and beautiful vesture of charming 
green, while others are seen mantled and glisten-
ing in the sun's sparkling light of the pure, the 
white, the beautiful snow. As we gaze with 
rapturous delight upon the lovely scene, so grand 
and picturesque, we forget for the moment that 
we are convicts, torn from our families; our sacred 
liberties and divine rights wrenched from us by 
the fierce, unrelenting hand of cruel oppression.
But as we turn from this lovely and enchanting 
scene, we are quickly reminded of our situation,
as our eyes rest upon the dark and sombre walls, 
by which we are environed, and gaze upon the
iron bars of our prison, and away aloft we notice 
our Guards upon the watch towers, or treading to 
and fro upon the walls, armed with loaded guns,
while at the same time our ears are saluted with 
the heavy and clanging sounds of the ball and 
chain dragging wearily along the gravelly ground;
and then again when we notice ourselves dressed 
as convicts, we are brought to a full sense of our 
strange and peculiar condition. And yet, we feel 
that we are innocent of crime; that our motives 
have been pure, and consciences clear, and that 
during many long and weary years we have sacri-
ficed the enjoyment of love and happy homes, of 
loving wives and children, often jeopardizing our 
lives in order to engage in awakening people sit-
ting in darkness, from their sleep of death, and 
point them to the way of life, to our Father God, 
to the fountain of intelligence, to everlasting 
peace and exaltation. And notwithstanding we 
have been thrust into prison by the will and sanc-

[Column 2]
tion of the people in whose interests we have 
made many of these sacrifices, suffered these de-
privations, yet our intentions are still to labor for 
their good, and we feel that we cannot do it more 
successfully in any other way than we are now do-
ing, therefore we accept this class of Gospel 
labor, resignedly and cheerfully, knowing that the 
eyes of the world, of angels, the eyes of God,and 
the heavenly host are upon us; and the attention 
of the wicked, Lucifer and his host of evil spirits 
likewise are directed toward us, and they fear and 
tremble in view of the results from the maintain-
ance of our integrity, devotion and fixed resolu-
tion to honor our God, our holy religion, and 
priesthood, notwithstanding the forbidding pros-
pect of life long imprisonment. 
	Says the Prophet Isiah, "How beautiful upon 
the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth 
good tidings; that publisheth peace; that bringeth 
good tidings of good; that publisheth salvation; 
that saith unto Zion, thy God reigneth." And I 
will add: How beautiful to contemplate our 
Elders of Israel, in the Penitentiary of Utah; in 
the prison at Boise, Detroit and Michigan; 
though suffering a lingering martyrdom, yet smil-
ing in their sufferings, and rejoicing that they are 
accounted worthy to be thus persecuted, as were 
the ancient Saints for religious belief, for the love 
of God and testimony of Jesus. 
	There is one important sentiment entertained 
by our brethren here, regarding which, I believe 
there are no exceptions; I often hear it expressed,
viz., "That our confinement, as it regards our-
selves personally, we care not a fig; it is only our
families—their anxieties, and the inconveniences 
they suffer, that we care for, and which gives us 
uneasiness."
	I certainly feel proud of my noble associates;
High Priests, Seventies, of their devotion and 
heroism; willing martyrs for the glory of God; 
and I pray earnestly that I may be strengthened 
in heart and mind to accomplish my share of this 
peculiar Gospel labor, magnify my Apostolic 
Priesthood, and fail in no particular of doing 
whatever is required for promoting and sustaining 
the purposes of our Heavenly Father, in the in-
terest of His Church and people. 
			LORENZO SNOW.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

REMARKS AND STATEMENTS AN-
SWERED AND REFUTED,

As made by Mrs. Newman to the Senate Commit-
	tee of the United States, to procure means for
	anti-Mormon women, who are not of us, but
	have withdrawn from the Church of Jesus
	Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

	I am a plural wife of the late Honorable Orson
Pratt, and know the situation and affairs of my
family better than women abroad, having been
connected with the family alluded to since the
year 1845. I became acquainted with Mr. and
Mrs. Pratt in Nauvoo, and she gave me many
pressing invitations to visit her, and talked to me
freely on the principle of plural marriage, and it
seemed to be in full accord with her feelings that
I should accept Mr. Pratt as a husband. I be-
lieved the principle to be of divine origin, and in
its saving folds I enlisted for time and all eternity,
and if I am faithful to my husband and to my
covenants I shall go into his presence, and that
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and all the holy
throng; of this I have no doubt.
	From the time Mr. Pratt took other wives, Mrs.
Pratt, the first, never knew want. The people
were driven out of Nauvoo in 1846; his other
wives lived with Mrs. Pratt and waited on her
through the journey to Winter Quarters, and
while there she was supplied with a barrel of
sugar, fine flour, hams and other necessaries, and
had her own carriage to ride there in. In 1847
Mr. Pratt came with the pioneers to this valley.
In 1848 Mr. and Mrs. Pratt went to England, and

[Column 2]

she took her children with her, and while there
her children were sent to a high school, and her
son Orson studied music, and is now a teacher
and professor. While there Mr. Pratt made con-
siderable means selling his publications. They
returned in three years to Salt Lake.
	Mr. Pratt was not worth $150,000, as Mrs.
Newman stated before the Senate Committee,
when he come to Utah, nor the twentieth part of
that amount. He had purchased everything to
make Mrs. Pratt and family comfortable—a piano
for Orson Jr. to play on, Brussels carpet, china
ware and furniture to correspond, and hired help
to wait on her hand and foot.
	When Johnson's army came here, and the
Church moved south, she said she loathed the
things she had around her, so plentiful had this
"fiend of a husband" provided for this "woman
of rare exceptional type," and this informer of
falsehoods about her husband, who was ever kind
and indulgent, only too much so, was her trouble. 
Mrs. Pratt always had his means to control, and
I should think a blush of shame would mantle her
cheeks, when she sees such romantic stuff in pub-
lic print as this Mrs. Newman hashed up to men
at the head of the nation—to Senators. I would
much rather "transfer a little yeast for flour" than
such adominable trash as Joseph Cook of Boston
receives on the Mormon question. As for this
Industrial Home, true Latter-day Saints have no
need of it; our time is all occupied; we do not
receive our support from our too much Christian
interferers. We positively will not accept proffered
aid at the hands of avowed enemies to God's law
and to His kingdom, that He has declared with
His own voice, He will set up and usher in the
fulness of times in this last dispensation. We
have a knowledge of these things, and no power
on earth can turn us aside. As for Mrs. Pratt
wanting to tear out the bricks out of the walls,
his other wives never lived in a brick house, and
she would have had to walk one mile to tear out
adobies from the walls of some of his other
wives' houses, and also thirty-five miles into the
country, as some of his family lived there on a
farm, and not many years after we came here, Mr.
and Mrs. Pratt moved south some 400 miles, to
St. George, with her family alone. Mr. Pratt was
devoted to the Gospel which he had embraced;
he went on a great many missions. He crossed
the sea sixteen times to carry the message of life
and salvation to other nations, and was faithful in
good works to the end of his days, as his writings
now show and testify of, and will give the lie to
his "fiendish actions;" he was also temperate in
all things, and a man of unselfish motives.
	It seems to displease our opposers that we vote
unitedly. When our candidate is a good man we
cast our vote for him. We are well acquainted
with his daily life, and if this man possess the
Spirit of the Lord, it makes him still the better.
Our motto is, "In God we put our trust." "United
we stand, divided we fall."
	We will just suppose a case. Suppose we try
to get into Mrs. N's peck measure; we would
stand head and body above it; we can't crouch in-
to so small a compass. And now if the world's 
people and the Christian women of the Methodist
Church have appropriation money to give to
women like Mrs. Pratt, who has several thousand 
dollars out at interest for her support, and leave
their own starving poor to suffer—mothers in their
own cities, towns and villiages under the influence
of liquor, starving children clinging to their torn
skirts, young girls, once fair and innocent, ruined
by unprincipled men, that gloat over their down-
fall, while they can move in fashionabale society.
among these very charitable ladies in the east—
why do so, but don't credit it to the relief of the
"dependent wives of the polygamists in Utah," for
none such will respond. Your state of society
we repudiate. We hold dear the virtue of our 
sons and daughters. The mothers of this com-


munity teach their sons that if they destroy the
character and fair name of the female sex they are
the greatest transgressors, and they lose their
good name and standing in the society of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Why? Because man should be
woman's protector, and not her seducer. We are
now so surrounded by Gentile influence and out-
siders that we are afraid to trust our daughters
outside of home, or our children on the streets,
for now they often get insulted by men that are
not taught to walk in virtue's paths; now we have
to bar our doors against thieves. For many
years after we settled here we had no fear of the
seducer or thief. We left our doors and windows
open and walked through the streets in perfect
safety. No one was idle; all found employment.
To bring a barren waste into as high a state of
cultivation as our defamers find it, cost years of
toil and hard labor to its first settlers. Now men
and women with dilated eyes are ready to take
our hard earned blessings and appropriate it to
themselves. If there are persons who want to
leave Utah let their friends east fix them up a
home there among their own class. I should
think these wise Senators would wonder why
these righteous (?) people want so much to gather
to Utah and get our hard earned means into their
fingers. If they told the truth about us they
would not be so anxious to come here and live;
but they know where to feather their own nests.
They think by throwing dust into the eyes of
those who make the laws, that they will give them,
the minority, the full control of all moneys, and
they can persecute the majority to their soul's
hated content. "May not the Christian men and
women, may not the Federal officers be trusted
with $100,000?" For what? To sink this Territory
into debt, to live in their luxury and ease, to get
the power in their own hands, to tax the whole
people to support Gentile institutions, that the
people would not patronize. Could these hungey,
greedy creatures go into any other community
than Utah's people and be so barefaced? No;
they would not dare do as they do here. If we
were as mean as they say we are, we then could
not come up to their standard for meanness; we
do not try to rob them of their rights. It they
do not like us, will they please to stay the other
side of the great mountains and let us alone. The
government could well afford to give us Utah, for
we have earned it, and this people, they will find,
will be as "loyal" as any of her subjects. They
might afford to treat us as well as they do the
Indians, as long as they think we are not
fit to live among white folks. Let all these
fault finders have a place away from Utah. There
is plenty of barren waste country between Utah
and California. This is the view I take of the
"Mormon" question, and this is a good way to
solve it; let us alone to mind our own business.
We got along all right before they came here; we
made roads and bridges and improved the Terri-
tory without their help, and before railroads, min-
ing operations and moneyed men came here, and
if this raiding business was put an end to the
Territory would progress and build up much faster
and would be freer from crime. The law as it is
construed gives license to bad men and lets the
guilty go free.
	M. A. M. P.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		IN MEMORIAM. 

	DIED, at Georgetown, Idaho, August 1st, 1886, 
while on a visit to her sister, Mrs. Fretwell, of
congestive chills, Mrs. Rhoda M. Carrington of
Salt Lake City, in the sixty-second year of her
age. 
	"In my Father's house are many mansions, were it not 
so, I would have told you." 
	"And He will wipe away the tears, for there is no sorrow
there." 
	Sister Carrington has been a faithful and active 
member of the Relief Society of the 17th Ward 

[Column 2]
from its organization, nearly nineteen years ago. 
She was one of the Board of Appraisers and a
Counselor to Mrs. Julia Pack, President of the
Visiting Committee. All these duties she faith-
fully discharged to the day of her death. 
	She was always thoughtful of and generous to
the poor, and gave freely of her means. Her
counsel was, "Let us look diligently after the poor
that their cries may not ascend against us." She
has borne many faithful testimonies of the truth
of the Gospel, and was desirous to be humble and
faithful to the end of her life. 
	Her death was unexpected to many, but we, 
with whom she was associated, could see how fast
she falled, and many times she has wept and asked
us to pray for her, for her trouble seemed more
than she could bear. As her friends, we assured
her that the Lord still loved her, and would over-
rule all her sorrows and troubles for her good. 
And in her death we feel that Father has been
merciful to her, in that He has taken her from this
weary world to a higher and better one. 
	She was the mother of fifteen children, nine of
whom have preceded her to the spirit world, 
three sons and three daughters remaining to 
mourn her loss. Often, in speaking of the
treasures she had laid away, she has said, "Thank
the Lord I have nine saved; I am sure of
those."
	In fancy I can see her with her nine darlings
around her, some of them babies all go glad that
mother has come to them at last, and can imagine
her joy now, in the labor to care for them, and
after a while to see them attain the full stature of
manhood and womanhood, one of the glorious
works of the millenium. What joy can be greater
than hers to-day? What reward more glorious
than that to which she is entitled? 
	A faithful wife, a fond mother, a true friend, 
what more can be said of a daughter of Eve? 
Yet her loving heart will yearn after those loved 
ones she has left here, and her happiness will be
complete only when they shall be re-united with
her.
	O then, each one knowing the love she bore
you, live so that the love of God will fill your
hearts, and that each setting sun you can think of
some kind word spoken, or some good deed done. 
May her children all live that not one jewel shall
be lost from her crown of motherhood; so that
she can thank God that all her treasures are
saved. 
	She was kind to her friends in affliction. She
came to me when that dreaded disease, nearly al-
ways fatal, took my baby from me, the first one
lost from the home nest. I always think of her 
kindness and cheerful words, though to me all 
was darkness and night. Her last acts were those
of love, nursing her friends, and standing by them, 
while the destroyer, blighted their hopes and
robbed them of a darling. 
	Her funeral was held at the family residence,
August 5th, 1886. Apostle J. H. Smith bore an 
excellent testimony to her faithfulness and worth, 
as also did Bishops Kesler and Tingey. The
choir rendered, "Rest on the hillside." A large
number of friends followed her remains to their 
last rest. Bro. Rodney Badger dedicated the
spot, and we left all that was mortal of Sister
Carrington to await the resurrection of the just. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
Salt Lake City, Aug. 11, 1886.


[Column 1]

SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT
WINTER QUARTERS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Concluded.)

	Tuesday the 26th, rather cold and cloudy 
weather. We arose early this morning and
[-]ot started at sunrise. Proceeding 9 miles

[Column 2]

we forded a large tributary of the "Loop Fork,"
about eight rods in width, ascending a hill we
now passed the old Pawnee village, opposite
our old fording place. Going a mile further
we passed a missionary station, consisting
of five or six buildings, that had been built
since we were here before.
	It was now entirely deserted, the Sioux hav-
ing paid it a visit about the last of June when
they tore down the fences enclosing the houses,
demolished the doors, stove in the heads of
flour barrels, and scattered their contents on
the ground and destroyed other property in
divers ways.	*	*	After leaving this
behind we went on a mile further and en-
camped at 2 p.m. near the Old Missionary
station where we encamped on our journey out
having come thirteen miles to-day. In an ad-
jacent cornfield we put our horses where we
gleaned considerable corn that had not been
gathered. Some of the brethren also got
quite a quantity to eat; near the field there was
quite a large patch of oats, which our Ameri-
can horses devoured quite greedily, though the
Indian horses did not care so much about it.
To-day Brother Kimball let me have his
Prince horse to work before my wagon in the
place of John Buchanan's."
	The rest of the journey they found nothing
but cottonwood for their horses to feed upon
and in some places a scarcity of that.
	Friday evening near their camp ground
they found a "liberty pole" raised by P. P.
Pratt, and John Taylor on this journey out.
	Saturday the 30th, after traveling 12 miles
they came to the "Elk Horn River," which
they forded, and "after proceeding a mile
down the stream they encamped at 2 p.m. on
its banks in a large grove of cottonwood hav-
ing come about 13 miles that day. "This
steam was very high so that we were
obliged to elevate our wagon beds before cross-
ing it. Immediately after we were encamped
the brethren were called together in the centre
of the ring, where President Young said that
he wished to know who wanted to go ahead
to Winter Quarters to-night, and if there were
any such to arise; none, however, did. An ex-
pression was then taken whether we should
all remain in a body, horsemen and all, and
go into town together or otherwise; which re-
sulted in the affirmation. President Young
and Brother Kimball then spoke briefly, stat-
ing that they were satisfied with the conduct
of the Pioneers during the journey of the past
season, and soon after we were dismissed with
the injunction to provide plenty of cottonwood
for our horses during the night.
	They arrived home early the evening follow-
ing, Sunday, October 31st. When within a
mile or so of Winter Quarters "a halt was
called, the company was drawn up in order,
and addressed by President Young who then
dismissed the pioneer camp with his blessing."
Many of the brethren and sisters went out to
meet them. They drove into town in order
and the streets were lined with men, women
and children to welcome them "home again."
	When we saw them safe back our joy was
equal to our sorrows. We could doubly real-
ize why the Lord had so moved upon us to fast
and pray, uniting our faith as one in their be-
half, as well as for ourselves during their ab-
sence; and that it had been nothing less than
miraculous that so many were preserved to
meet again, saying nothing of the prosperity
which had attended us. Many of our people
had previously turned their attention to the
manufacturing of various articles, such as
willow baskets, washboards, half bushels, etc.
which they sold to help themselves to a living
and preparing for their journey the coming
spring.
	No picture of despair had been visible, nor
were there any doubts entertained of the ac-
complishment of the journey laying before us,


and the building up of Zion in the valleys of
the Rocky Mountains. The hand of God had
been visible in every trial and to those who
sought Him He was ever near.
	I will now say to my kind friends and all
who have taken an interest in the historical
sketches which I have gathered up that the
changes which have come to me since I began
this pleasant duty, the increase of care and
responsibilities thrown upon me through the
death of my husband, with various duties
which require my attention, I must resign this
one at least at the present, as I find it difficult
to devote the amount of time and thought
which it requires and attend to the tasks in-
cumbent upon me. But I do so with the hope
that it will be taken up by some one of our
sisters who has more time at her command, as
well as ability to do it justice. There are many
unwritten incidents which could be related
with profit, and prove interesting reading to
those who pioneered across the barren, track-
less wastes of the Great American Desert to
these once lone and dreary vales of the Rocky
Mountains, as well as scores who are not of
that number and even many strangers would
enjoy reading of those early scenes among the
"Mormons." Had I not received this assur-
ance from different quarters in these valleys as
well as from outsiders, accompanied with urg-
ent requests to continue these sketches, I should
have long since yielded to private feelings and
discontinued them. I mention this as a stimu-
lus to prompt others to write and give to the
world the benefit of their travels and experi-
ence with this people, who are so grossly mis-
understood and misjudged by the world gener-
ally. For every one of us have a mission upon
this earth, and it is only the willing hands and
hearts, and those who will sacrifice self to the
good of others that will gain an everlasting
triumph, and be crowned to reign throughout
the glorious eternities to come.
	As a closing testimony that a supreme power
preserved this people though they seemed for-
saken and driven out into the wilderness, I
extract one or two paragraphs from a letter
addressed by the Presidency at Winter Quar-
ters to "Elder Hyde, Pratt and Taylor" then
on a mission to England. The following lit-
tle incident occurred in Lee County, Iowa,
while the Saints were encamped, and many
laying sick and destitute on the shore of the
Mississippi in the month of September 1846,
and seemingly starvation staring them in the
face. Flocks of quails "lit upon their wagons
and on their beds, and upon their empty
tables, and the ground within their reach,
which the Saints caught with their hands un-
til they were satisfied and their breakfast and
dinner was full."
	"Not only the Saints saw this but the world.
A steam boat was passing during part of the
time, within six rods and the passengers mar-
veled at the sight, others in the camp, not of us,
wondered also. The occurrence continued
through the day and followed the camp when
they started from the river."
	Tell this to the nations of the earth! tell it to
the kings and nobles and the great ones!! tell
ye this to those who believe that God who fed 
the children of Israel in the wilderness in the
days of Moses, that they may know that there
is a God in these last days and that His peo-
ple are as dear to him now as they were in
those days, and that he will feed them, when
the power of the oppressor is unbearable, and
he is acknowledged God of the whole earth,
and every tongue confesses that Jesus is the
Christ."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

	DAVIS STAKE. 

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake was held at Kaysville, 

[Column 2]
July 30th, Sister Susan Grant presiding. 
Meeting commenced at 10 o'clock. Singing, 
"O God be praised." Prayer by Sister Sarah
B. Layton. Singing, "May we who know the
joyful sound." There were present from Salt
Lake City, Sisters E. Howard and E. B. Wells. 
The minutes of the previous conference were
read and accepted. The reports from the
different branches of the Relief Society were
also read. Prest. Susan Grant said that she
with her counselors had visited all the different
branches in the Stake; gave a very satisfactory
report of each branch. 
	Sister E. B. Wells then gave us a brief ac-
count of some of the things she saw while in
the East, and at New York and Washington
in particular; also exhorted the sisters to be
diligent in teaching their children the princi-
ples of the Gospel. 
	Sister Mary S. Clark expressed her thanks
for the privilege of meeting once more in the
capacity of a conference; urged the sisters to
seek for the Spirit of God and live in a way to
claim His blessing. Meeting adjourned until
2 p.m. Benediction by Prest. Susan Grant. 
	Meeting convened again at 2 p.m. After 
the opening exercises, Sister E. Howard, Coun.
Lucinda Brown and E. B. Wells addressed
the sisters. Spoke at some length upon mothers
governing their children, and also to try and
induce our daughters to dress in a manner
that would be conducive to health. 
	Conference adjourned for three months. 
Singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is 
burning." Benediction by Phebe Atkinson.
			RHODA HINMAN, 
	Secretary Davis Stake R. S. 

	BEAR LAKE STAKE. 

	Minutes of the Sixteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, held in St. Charles, July 17th and
18th, 1886, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
Saturday, 10 a.m. Singing, "Improve the
shining moments." Prayer by Elder Wm. M.
Allred. Singing, "Marching Homeward." 
Roll called for Stake officers and presidents of
Relief Society. 
	Prest. Lindsay was very happy to meet with
the sisters in conference, and to see so many
present; also felt thankful for the good health 
of the people, and for our favorable surround-
ings. The Presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society, who were present, each
reported her respective society.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings said, "This is the
place to give and receive instructions." Was
sorry to find so many presidents absent. "If 
they cannot attend they should send some one,
or a written report." Advised all to refrain
from speaking evil of their neighbors, and
avoid everything of an unbecoming nature
that would lower us in the sight of God. 
	Prest. Annie Laker said, "We enjoy great
privileges, and can do much good if we are 
willing. Each one should attend to the work
asigned her. We must labor diligently if we
desire the blessings in store for the faithful. 
Mothers need the assistance of the Almighty in
rearing their children in His fear." 
	The statistical and financial report was read
by the Secretary, after which Prest. Lindsay
spoke at some length on the duties of presi-
dents of R. S. Was pleased to learn that the
sisters had stored so much grain. "We should
work unitedly for the advancement of God's 
work. Let us learn our duties and then de-
vote our energies to the performance of
them." Choir sang, "Beautiful Day." Bene-
diction by Elder B. H. Allred.
	Sunday, July 18th, 1886, 2 p.m., Prest. J. 
P. Lindsay presiding. Choir sang, "To Thee, 
O God, do we approach," etc. Prayer by
Elder Wm. M. Allred. Singing, "If human 
kindness meets return," etc. The sacrament
was administered, after which Prest. Lindsay

[Column 3]
said she was pleased to behold so many cheer-
ful faces, they were so near and dear to her. 
"It is quite a task for those sisters who are ad-
vanced in years to take upon themselves the
public duties and responsibilities that have
fallen to their lot, but God can strengthen us
for all our duties and aid us by His mighty
power. The presidents of R. S. are requested
by Prest. Budge to use their influence in get-
ting what means they can to assist in build-
ing the Stake Tabernacle." 
	Sister Nancy E. Pugmire said, "It is our
duty to attend our meetings, that we may be
instructed in our various duties. Purity and
virtue will bring happiness." Spoke of Solo-
mon and his testimony, after having enjoyed
the riches of this world; he said, "All is vanity
and vexation of spirit." 
	Mrs. Dr. Gray who came recommended by
Prest. Budge, was introduced to the audience. 
	Coun. L. M. Hart spoke of our responsibili-
ties as Latter-day Saints. "We should be 
kind and charitable to each other. Try to
live to enjoy the Spirit of God. We should 
not procrastinate our duties, but rather per-
form them to-day." 
	Bishop J. A. Hunt was gratified with the
conference. "One object of the R. S. is to be
a help to the bishops. The sisters should pay
their tithing and use their influence with the
brethren to pay theirs, then they can claim the
blessings promised to tithe-payers." 
	Prest. Lindsay thanked the Bishop and all
who had assisted in making the house so com-
fortable; also the choir for their sweet music. 
Recommended Dr. Gray. 
	Conference adjourned for six months. Choir
sang, "Rejoice, rejoice in the Lord." Benedic-
tion by Bishop J. A. Hunt. 
	ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec., 
	NANCY HUNT, Ass't Sec. 

	UTAH STAKE. 

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, June 25th, 1886,
Prest. Mary John presiding, assisted by her
Counselors, Emily G. Cluff and Marilla M.
Daniels. Conference opened with the usual
exercises. Minutes of former conference read
and approved. 
	Prest. Mary John felt pleased to meet again 
in a conference capacity under so favorable
circumstances. Exhorted the sisters to a faith-
fulness of their duties, and to cultivate the
spirit of the Lord continually to enable them
to discharge every duty placed upon them. 
	The presidents of the different branches of
the Relief Society of Utah County gave 
verbal reports of the several branches over
which they presided. 
	Sister Hyde gave an encouraging report of
the Sanpete Stake Relief Society. 
	Sister Rachel Grant said, "We are passing
through many trials; let us cultivate the Spirit
of the Lord to enable us to pass through these
trials. Make it a study to put from us all
that is displeasing in the sight of our Heaven-
ly Father." She had been blessed in striving
to perform her duties. "Let us respond to the
calls made upon us, however weak we may
feel. Seek to have charity towards one
another." Bore a strong testimony to the
truth of celestial marriage, etc. 
	Sister E. B. Wells, the next speaker, had
seen considerable of the ways of the world. 
Spoke of the sad condition existing therein, 
and of the degeneration in its midst. Had an
interview with Miss Cleveland; explained the
principles of our faith to her; spoke at length
of the principle of plural marriage. "We 
are a blest people, an independent people in
many ways." Referred to the manufacturing
of our own silk, and thereby carrying out the
counsels that have been given, etc, Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p.m.


Afternoon session opened with the usual
exercises. A written report of the treasurer
of the silk association was read. This organiza-
tion has been a very active one; the late Presi-
dent, Mrs. H. A. Beebe (now deceased) was an
untiring laborer in this interest. At present
the association has no president, but the sisters
are anxious to continue their efforts in silk
culture. Sister Agnes Douglas, of Payson,
made some appropriate remarks on the subject.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who had recently
returned from the Sandwich Islands
gave an interesting account of her trip, and of
the manner in which meetings were conducted
among the natives, and other matters connected
with their life on the Islands.
	Remarks were made by Sister B. J. Sim-
mons of Payson, which were good and instruc-
tive, and by Sister E. B. Wells. Father
Graves also made remarks in the silk interests.
	Prest, Mary John felt we had had a good
time. "The Spirit of the Lord has been with
us." Desired that an interest be taken in re-
gard to silk raising. "I pray that the blessing
of the Lord may rest upon us. There are
bright days ahead for the Latter-day Saints."
After singing, "Lord, dismiss us with Thy
blessing," conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Anna K. Smoot.
		JANE P. JONES, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TWO MEETINGS AT SANDY.

	On Tuesday morning, July 26th, Sisters M.
I. Horne, B. W. Smith and E. B. Wells visited
Sandy, to attend the sisters' meetings.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society
was held at 10 a.m., Mrs. Wilhelmina Olsen
presiding. Minutes and report for the year
were read and accepted. The meeting was
addressed by Sisters Smith, Wells and Horne
on the various duties of the sisters, and the
condition of affairs at the present time. Prest.
Olsen made some appropriate remarks, and
Bishop Holman addressed the meeting for a
few minutes, expressing his interest in the pro-
ceedings. Benediction by the Bishop.
	In the afternoon the children assembled in
the Primary Association, and after some very
sweet singing, and prayer, the following pro-
gramme was given:
	Bro. James Brown and daughters, a song;
Recitation, William Lewis; Recitation, Rachel
Brown; Recitation, Dora Castle; Recitation,
Lottie Castle; Select Reading, Mary Alsop;
Song, Emma Bowen; Recitation, Annie Oster-
mann; Recitation, Betsey Geltea; Dialogue,
Dora Castle and Nettie Labrum; Recitation,
Elizabeth Brown; Recitation, Robert Scott;
Song, Bro. Brown and daughters.  After this
the sisters from the city addressed the child-
ren.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Upon her ascension to the throne, Queen
Victoria appointed a Hebrew, Sir Moses Monte-
fiore, as sheriff of London, and now at the
beginning of the fiftieth year of her reign,
another, Alderman Isaacs, has been appointed
to the same office.
	The Youngstown (Ohio) Telegram makes
the following comment on the minority report
of the Judiciary Committee of the United
States House of Representatives, recently
made by Judge Taylor, of Ohio: "Judge
Taylor has formerly indicated to Congress and
the country that he is in favor of woman suff-
rage. The position he takes is creditable to
his intelligence, and entirely consistent with
the breadth and equity that characterize his
views upon all public questions.	*	*
It is a clean, strong, public issue, deserving of
consideration by every friend of progress. The


women who are unceasingly working for the
privilege of the ballot are pure, highminded
reformers, almost all of whom are prominently
identified with other movements having for
their object the social and moral welfare of hu-
manity. The men who from time to time de-
clare themselves in sympathy with the cause
are among the finest-grained in public affairs.
There is no honest reason why women should
not be accorded the franchise. The petty
tyranny which deprives them of it is a relic of
barbarism."


[Column 1]
SPECIAL NOTICE. 

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless. 
Be definite in the financial statements. 
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order,
		MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE,
							President. 

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct. 
conference. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20. 
			LOUIE M. WELLS, 
		Sec. Central Board Y. L. M. I. A. 

[Column 2]
F. Auerbach & Bro. 
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[pointing hand icon] CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[pointing hand icon] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
[pointing hand icon] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT
LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
[pointing hand icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Street.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The juice of a lemon in a glass of sweetened hot water
is an excellent remedy for colds.
	At the carver's place spread a white napkin, the point to-
ward the middle of the table, to protect the cloth from
splashes of gravy.
	When putting glycerine on chapped hands, first wash
them thoroughly in soap and water, and when not quite
dry, rub them in the glycerine. This process will be
found much better than the old one.
	Cottage Pudding.—One egg, one half cupful of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea-
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, one pint of flour, and a little
salt. Flavor the sauce with lemon.
	Apple Tapioca Pudding.—One large cupful of tapioca,
three pints of cold water, one cupful of sugar, one tea-
spoonful of extract of lemon, three pints of pared and
quartered apples. Wash the tapioca, and put it to soak in
cold water. Three hours will do, but it is better to soak it
over night. Cook the tapioca from twenty to thirty
minutes; then add the seasoning and apples. Turn it into
a buttered dish, and bake it one hour and a quarter. Let
the pudding stand in a cool room half an hour before
serving.
	Green Gooseberry Jam.—For three pounds of goose-
berries use three and one half pounds of sugar. Pick off
the stalks and buds from the berries; bruise them lightly;
put them into the preserving pan and boil them quickly for
eight or ten minutes, stirring all the time; add the sugar to
the fruit, and boil it briskly for three quarters of an hour,
carefully removing the scum as it rises. When done, put
it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, and secure it close-
ly down with paper moistened with the white of an egg.


OBITUARY.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of
another of our beloved sisters here at West Portage,
Hannah John, wife of James John, of Portage, and
daughter of Jacob and Mary Abbot. She departed this
life on Saturday, July 31st, 1886. The illness which
proved fatal was child-bed fever. She was the mother of
fourteen children. Eight and her husband are still living
She embraced the Gospel in 1857 in her childhood. She
died as she had lived, a true Latter-day Saint, full of faith


in the holy priesthood. She was true to her Father in
heaven, true to her husband and children, and true to her
religion.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society, re-
spected and beloved by all her friends and associates. Her
conduct was always of an exemplary character, which de-
notes the true Christian. May it be our happy portion,
when called to pass behind the vail, like her, to look for-
ward with the hope of a glorious resurrection in the king-
kom of our God.

	So, rest in peace, dear sister,
		With our Father dwell awhile;
	When our work on earth is finished
		Greet us with thy holy smile.

	ELIZA A. HALL, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1886.	NO. 7.


THOU AND I.

Ere first my mortal being dawned
	Like coming daylight's faintest light,
When gazing on Thy footstool here,
	Like one slow wand'ring through the night,
O was earth's welcome shadowed with
	The memory of heaven's good bye,
Was this first breath weighed with regret
	Of parting betwixt Thou and I?

Thou gavest me Thy blessing and
	Thy guardian care (veiled from my sight,)
And, as a child who plays alone,
	Its mother's care forgetteth quite;
I passed through scenes of pleasure, 'til
	Long time had passed and shades were nigh,
And started, now a child no more—
	Changing life's smiling for its sigh.

To learn, through jar and shock of wrong,
	What else were never understood,
Through lightning's darts and thunder's voice
	The blessed rain fall's mission good;
And when fierce winds, that swathe us 'round,
	Sweep earth beneath and fill the sky,
Then wrapped in fear, to feel the arm—
	The bond of trust twixt Thou and I.

With famished lips, or wrung with pain,
	Or saddest wronged by trait'rous friends,
When death hath lifted up our own,
	And helpless woe o'er all extends,
O then we learn the lesson long
	Thy Son learned ere He bowed to die;
Stronger and nearer draws the bond,
	My Father, betwixt Thou and I.

The richest joys that life hath known,
	Have wearied us or paled away,
Pain for their loss was longer lived
	As darkness, than the fairest day;
Yet, thanks for hours of bliss that shone
	Across our summer day and sky,
They held to view in lesser like
	The perfect joy reserved on high.

Though chaos and its voices rise
	In endless roll through echoing air,
Thine eye votes every glance to Thee,
	Thou hearest e'en the whispered prayer.
O triumph thrill this fettered frame!
	The rack and wheel bring nearer by—
The clasp of death, the only spell
	That rends the veil twixt Thou and I.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Aug. 13, 1886.


[Column 1]

AN IDEAL HOME.

	I believe there is to be found in the homes
of the Latter-day Saints more purity, virtue
love, affection and a greater exercise of all the
divine principles, than can be found in the
homes of any other people on earth. And yet,
my observation has led me to believe that some
of our homes are not by any means what they
should be.
	As long as sin is allowed to exist at home,
there is no hope of raising society to that high
standard of perfection that is talked and writ-
ten upon by so many,—"home, home, sweet,
sweet home." It should be the heart's dearest
sanctuary. Every member of its holy circle
should lend his or her influence to make it an
Eden, a refuge from sin,and the contaminating
influences that abound in the world.
	Without the combined efforts of the family
it cannot be made what it should be. But the

[Column 2]

greatest responsibility rests upon the mother.
To her is given the sacred charge. God has
entrusted her to perform that sacred labor—
the molding of minds. We may praise her
in truth, for her tenderness, affection, devotion
and unbounded love for her offspring, and yet
she often fails to do her duty by them, simply
because she does not know what it is. Most
mothers realize to some extent the weight of
the responsibilities resting upon them, but
many do not sense it one tenth part as much
as they should; home and family ties should
not be neglected for anything else this world
affords. If mothers knew the glory, joy and
satisfaction they will receive if they train the
precious souls entrusted to their care in a way
that will enable them to gain eternal life and
a full salvation, they would indeed be en-
couraged. They would not look around for an
occupation that would bring brighter glories;
for them there is no nobler work. Let woman
understand her domestic duties and perform
them well, and she calls down the blessings of
heaven; but she too often fails to comprehend
the object of her creation. Girls, too many of
them, marry without giving the responsibilities
of their future lives a single thought, suppos-
ing all women capable of filling the offices of
married life. They are apt to think it re-
quires but little knowledge and an inferior in-
tellect to perform such duties; but every mother
should be highly educated and refined. She
should seek for knowledge from the best of
books, and adopt the best plans she can learn
of for the welfare of the little realm called
home, over which she is queen. Her most
anxious care and increasing watchfulness is
called forth while her children are young, for
impressions made then are lasting, and the
little tender ones, before their minds are some-
what matured or developed, are incapable of
taking care of themselves, and should not be
trusted from the mother's side, unless she
knows the company they are in, and knows it
to be fit for her child to mingle with, for it
will certainly influence them either for good or
for evil.
	Now is the time for all those elevating and
ennobling principles to be instilled into their
pure minds. And when they are older your
careful training will begin to show itself in the
way of the devoted love of a sister to her
brother, a brother's protecting care for a sister,
sisters clinging to each other in love and affec-
tion, brothers preferring the charms of home
to those offered elsewhere.
	In my ideal home, the home I believe it is
possible for all true parents and children to
make for themselves, I see no bad examples
set by the father, such as rough, uncouth ac-
tions and language, a violation of the word of
wisdom, Sabbath breaking, or profanity, but I
see a character who seems to understand that
he should be a light, a guiding star, whose
luster must not be dimmed by evil deeds, but
made brighter by noble ones, shedding forth
shining rays, and lighting the path of those
whom God has entrusted to his protection.
The mother is gentle, yet firm, kind, yet not
too indulgent, but ever loving and self-sacrific-
ing to those dear ones who form a part of her
very existence.
	The younger children, whose hearts know
nothing but happiness, look up to the older
ones in confidence, following their worthy ex-
amples and emulating their goodness. All

[Column 3]

have been taught to be industrious, cleanly
and orderly, to control their passions, lest they
do or say something that would wound the
hearts of those it is their destiny to live and
associate with daily.
	I know just such homes, and there is a spirit
of peace and contentment felt there that truly
reminds one of that home called heaven, which
I believe the inmates of my ideal home will
reach.	M. A. T.
	Smithfield, August 11, 1886.


PREJUDICE BLIND TO FACTS. 

	STILL WE WILL PROTEST. 

	The enemies of the Latter-day Saints will
persist in keeping them continually in the at-
titude of defense. We are not an aggressive
people; most gladly would we walk in the
quiet paths of peace and improvement, but
the attacks constantly made upon our people, 
practices and religious institutions compels us
to defend them against the most bitter and un-
just assaults from all quarters. 
	Were we really the vile and abominable peo-
ple that our enemies would have us appear—
why is not the truth, plain, indisputable truth, 
sufficient to arouse a nation's hatred without
the everlasting resort to the manufacture of
malicious lies by the wholesale. The women
of Utah had not recovered from the shock of
disgust and indignation occasioned by reading
a living abomination, called by Mrs. Angie F. 
Newman of Nebraska, "A petition to Congress
to deprive the women of Utah of the right of
franchise," in which she displays the most in-
tense hatred and ignorance of the subject
which she essays to handle with such eloquence
—her charges are a burning insult to thousands
of her sex, as intelligent, virtuous and noble
women as ever graced this fair earth, and for 
the second time I felt it my duty to refute her
malicious misrepresentations, but ere I began 
the task. the visit of the G. A. R. to Salt Lake
City, and some of the speeches made at the
Pavilion has furnished other demands for the
women of Zion to defend themselves against
another volley of cruel indignities and vile 
insults, proving that the efforts of such works 
as Mrs. Newman's have not been in vain, and 
the most unjust prejudice has found fruitful
soil in the hearts of ignorant and thoughtless
people who apparently have been made willing
victims of falsehood and deception. That
people at a distance should be deceived by so
many false and unscrupulous teachers, is not
amazing, but that such people as fill the ranks
of the G. A. R., professing the principles of
Christianity, and representing the patriotism of
this great nation should come here to the capi-
tol of our Territory and display their ill-gotten 
information and entire ignorance of the people
and situation is truly marvelous. 
	They talked about liberating the "slaves," 
the women—" Mormon" women, of course. 
Until the "Mormon" women acknowledge this
position and assume the attitude of slaves, 
pleading deliverance, such sentiments are a
gross insult to our womanhood, and we de-
cidedly resent it. We have not been trained to
ignobly submit to insult from man, having
always been treated with the greatest respect 
and deference by the brotherhood of this
Church, and we will not quietly submit to in-


[Column 1]
dignities offered under the guise of patriotic
gallantry.
	I was born on the once barren soil of Salt
Lake City, a child of freedom, proud of my
birth right, trained to freedom of thought,
freedom of speech and liberty of action con-
sistent with the rights of others. Some of my
earliest recollections are of the celebrations of
Independence day, when I learned to love the
Stars and Stripes and honor the Constitution,
which guaranteed to all "life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness, and to every creed the 
right to worship God according to the dictates
of conscience." These ideas are indelibly
stamped upon my soul, and I emphatically
deny ever being taught disloyalty to the govern-
ment of the United States.
	And from the principles of the Gospel as
taught by Jesus Christ in former days and
again established on earth through Joseph
Smith in this dispensation, I have received ex-
tended views on the rights and privileges of
woman, and I know that the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims the
greatest freedom and broadest charity for
woman. She is regarded as man's equal, and
his duty to protect, honor and cherish her is
clearly defined.
	Let those who would learn of the true status
of woman in this Church, throw away all no-
tions obtained from the ravings of anti-Mor-
mon zealots. Let reason govern all your in-
vestigations, and make a memoranda of a few
facts, furnished by the people upon whose
cause you are to sit in judgment.
	The women of this Church are charged with
being slaves. In face of the fact that she has
an equal vote in all ecclesiastical affairs, which
prevents the possibility of tyranny from the
Church, she still holds the right of suffrage
(despite the determined efforts of our pre-
tended emancipators to wrest it from us,) and
as the ballot is secret, political despotism is a 
myth. Again, women have perfect freedom
of speech, and are thoroughly organized and
trained in public speaking. I don't think
there is a community on earth where women
have greater privileges in this respect.  Then
she has full liberty of the press; the columns
of every newspaper are at her service, and
women even publish a paper, in which every
woman is urged to express her views and senti-
ments on all subjects.
	Women have on several occasions embraced
the privilege of holding mass meetings, when
thousands of women throughout the Territory
have assembled and emphatically protested
against the wrong, injustice and oppression—
not of men holding the priesthood, or any
Church measure, but against the national de-
fenders and protectors of women (?) They
have drawn up memorials, framed protests and
sent intelligent, educated ladies to represent
them at the capitol of the nation, besides sign-
ing petitions in the usual order, with 50,000
signatures. Are these the acts and privileges
of slaves? Let common sense answer. I will
go farther, and state that we have other rights,
which the Gospel and the Constitution have
conferred upon us. Each woman has the
right to the love, care and protection of the
husband of her choice, embracing the right to
fulfill the first great law of her being, to be-
come an honorable wife and mother. Where
is there a community of women more blest?
We have the right to hold land in our own
title, and pay taxes on it, too, but not as many
others, without representation. We have the
right to accept any proposal of marriage, also the
perfect right to refuse, and girls are not driven
to Zion like dumb brutes and married by the
dozen to men in authority. Nothing but fic-
tion will sustain such statements.
	Mrs. Nichols, of the Relief Corps, invited
the oppressed women of Utah to come to New 
York and they should receive help, for there she

[Column 2]
had every right that any woman ought to have;
personally speaking perhaps she has, but can
she say this truthfully of thousands of her
sex? We know she cannot. Many of the
Saints have been rescued from the bondage,
grinding poverty and sins of New York and
other American cities, and they know that
their present condition is infinitely improved
in these pleasant vales; besides, we are a read-
ing community. Were the statistics of New
York never published we might have a little
better opinion of society there. They record
30,000 prostitutes, and as many so-called "sur-
plus women"—(a libel on the economy of her
Creator.)
	By the time Mrs. Nichols and her philan-
thropic sisters have reclaimed and provided
for all there, and the thousands of homeless,
neglected, half-starved and over-worked child-
ren besides, she may consistently come to the
rescue of "Mormon" women. In the meantime
we will enjoy our perfect freedom, our happy
homes, noble husbands, our bright, healthy,
well-cared-for children, and pray for deliver-
ance from outside tyranny and oppression.
					A PLURAL WIFE.
	Aug. 9, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER. 

MRS. HANNAH T. KING: 
	Dear Madame:—In looking over my old
numbers of the Exponent, I find an article
written by you upon the biography of Alice
and Phoebe Cary; and I had written a sketch
concerning our gifted Ohio girls recently in
the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette, and was so
surprised and pleased upon coming across
your article yesterday, the EXPONENT was
of June 15th, 1880. On the 24th of last
October, one of the loveliest Autumn days,
a real poem, or grand painting, as I remem-
ber it now, we, my husband, children and my-
self visited the birthplace and girlhood home
of the Cary sisters.	*	*	You can
imagine my feelings, mingled pleasure and
pain, as I stood upon the very spot where "the 
brown house, low and small," had once been
the "Clover nook" so dear to the hearts of the
sisters. A flock of chattering blackbirds
flew over our heads and swallows dipped near
the ground, close by just as they did years ago
when the "mother, blue-eyed and beautiful" 
watched her children playing in the door yard. 
	I was born and have always lived within a
few miles of the place; my relatives and the
Cary sisters have associated and intermarried; 
yet this was my first visit to the place. Hop-
ing you will be pleased with this letter and so
forth, I remain
			Very respectfully, 
						E. S. D.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS. 
	
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, writing from Bir-
mingham, Eng., to the Inter-Ocean, expresses
great satisfaction in the English middle-classes.
She gives a vivid description of the degraded
position of the women and children in the
manufacturing districts. 

	A regulation as old as the French Academy
of Sciences has just been broken in Paris.
Women have hitherto been excluded from the
sittings of the Academy, but at the meeting of
June 28 the interdiction was raised in favor of
Mlle. Sophie Kowlewska, Professor of Mathe-
matics at the University of Stockholm, and
daughter of the eminent paleontologist. Ad-
miral Jurien de la Graviere, who presided,
welcomed her in graceful terms, and said that
her presence should be a cause of pride and
pleasure, not only to the mathematicians pres-
ent,but to the whole Academy. As she entered,
all the members rose to salute her.  She took

[Column 2]
her place between Gen. Fave and M. Chevreul.
—Scientific American.

	Miss Elizabeth H. Denio, Professor of Ger-
man and Lecturer on the History of Art at
Wellesley College, has made a fine German
translation of Ramona, by “H. H.” The
translation is published in Leipzie, and is
done intelligently, and with a keener apprecia-
tion of the author’s delicate vein than could
be hoped for from a translator less favorably
placed.

	The Twelfth Parliament of Queen Victoria
which opened on Thursday, August 5th, is
likely to prove even more friendly to the cause
of women, than that which closed its brief
space of existence last June. The first thing
of note is that for the first time in the history
of the Women’s Suffrage Movement, its friends
number an actual majoriy in the House
amounting to 344: equivalent to a majority of
14. The next point for encouragement is the
marked diminution from defeat, retirement, or
other causes, of the opponents of the measure,
only about 136 having been returned, the
opinions of the remainder are still unknown,
and it may be confidently hoped that many
additional friends will be secured. 
   At the opening of the last Parliament, the
number of known friends was 314, and the
second reading of the Women’s Suffrage Bill
was carried without a division.  We may,
therefore, hope for a still greater measure of
success during next session.	
   On August 5th, the day when Parliament
opened, a deputation from the principal Com-
mittees waited on Mr. Woodall with a request
that he would re-introduce the Parliamentary
Franchise (extension to women) Bill in the
ensuing session.—Ex.

	A Lady LL. D.—The President of Smith
College Northampton, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
has just forwarded to Miss Amelia B. Edwards,
the gratifying intelligence that his college has
conferred on her the honorary degree of LL.
D., adding that this is the first occasion on
which an American college has conferred that
degree on a woman.  We may add that it is
the first time that any woman in Her Majes-
ty’s dominions has received the distinction.
	The Royal Irish University, which last year
conferred the honorary degree of Doctor of
Music on the Princess of Wales, set a preced-
ent for conferring an honorary degree on a
lady.  But if we would seek a precedent for the
special degree of the Doctor of Laws, we shall
have to go back to the days when the Univer-
sity of Bologna admitted ladies as professors
of the learned sciences in the 13th and 14th
centuries.
	We heartily congratulate Miss Edwards on
this recognition of her services to learning.
Miss Edwards’ name is doubtless familiar to
many of our readers as the author of “Bar-
bara’s History,” "A Thousand Miles up the
Nile,” and many other writings; but it may be
less generally known that she is the indefat-
igable secretary of the Egyptian Exploration
Fund, a member of the British Archaeological
Society, and of the Society for Promoting Hel-
lenic Studies.  Miss Edwards is also a Vice-
President of the West of England Society for
Women’s suffrage.—Ex.


Patents have been issued to women during 
the week ending August 3, 1886, as follows:
	Louisa Cappiani, New York, N. Y. Sheet-
music case. 
	Ellen Dillon, Sioux City, Iowa, Flat-iron 
Heater.
	Ella N, Gaillard,New York, N. Y., Musical 
Watch. 
	Mary J. Holt, San Francisco, Cal., Portable 
Book-holder. 
	Fanny K. Marsh, Bloomsburg, Pa., Dust-pan


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


I AM WEARY. 

I am weary of the sin
	Of the pain, the care, the woe, 
That increasing come to greet me, 
	As the years that ebb and flow. 

Weary of the boasted pleasures, 
	Lurking 'mid the wild world's throng, 
Where the only queen is fashion,
	And the only law is wrong. 

Weary of the false ambition
	With the low, deceitful shoals, 
Overhung with crowns' of greatness,
	That have wrecked so many souis.

But through life's fleeting journey
	May we never, never know
Of the wondrous "Balm of Gilead,"
	Healing hearts of pain and woe. 

Far beyond there is a haven, 
	Golden sunset! peaceful, blest;—
Where the soul long tried and weary, 
	Seeks at last eternal rest. 
					ANONYMOUS.


ENDLESS LIFE. 

	Glad earth, I love thee; 
Like Gems I cherish every sparkling hour; 
The fields around me and the skies above me,
The whistering zephyr and the answering flower,
	Restore my waning power. 
	
	I count each season, 
While from life's mountain-top around I gaze, 
As one more gift of God, a precious reason 
For orisons of prayer and chants of praise
	Through all my blessed days. 

	But on the morrow
When light shall fade and life-blood cease to flow, 
I shall resign thee with no shade of sorrow, 
And smile but one farewell before I go
	From realms that mortals know. 

	Then onward flying
From tangled paths that I shall tread no more,
My soul, heaven's clearer sunrise soon descrying,
Renewed and freed, shall reach another shore,
	With endless life before. 
	BY JULIA NOYES STICKNEY. 
Groveland, Mass.


EMILY BRONTE'S LAST LINES.


	No coward soul is mine,
No trembler in the world's storm-troubled sphere;
	I see heaven's glories shine,
And faith shines equal, arming me from fear.


	O God, within my breats,
Almighty, ever present Deity!
	Life, that in me has rest,
As I—undying life—have power in thee.

	Vain are the thousand creeds
That move men's hearts: unutterably vain;
	Worthless as withered weeds,
Or idlest froth amide the boundless main.

	To waken doubt in one,
Holding so fast by thine infinity,
	So surely anchored on
That steadfast rock of immortality.

	With wide-embracing love
Thy spirit animates eternal years.
	Pervades and broods above,
Changes, sustains, dissolves, creates and rears.

	Though earth and man were gone,
And suns and universes ceased to be,
	And thou wert left alone,
Every existence would exist in thee.

	There is no room for Death.
No atom that his might could render void:
	Thou—thou art Being, Breath;
And what thou art may never be destroyed.


[Column 1]
	AN EMPHATIC PROTEST

EDITOR EXPONENT
	DEAR SISTER:—I will try to give you a few
of my thoughts and ideas upon Mrs. A. F.
Newman’s petition. I shall not attempt to de-
scribe my feelings while reading it; perhaps
they can better be imagined; by the majority
of my sisters who have read the article, than
described by me, for I am sure it can not be
read by any lover of truth or fair dealing, or
one at all acquainted with the situation, with
any thing less than, feelings of amazement and
indignation. She respectfully represents that
on the 6th of March, 1886, two thousand Mor-
mon women assembled in mass meeting in 
Salt Lake City, to protest against the invasion 
of their rights by Federal interference, etc.
Quoting a preamble and resolutions, she adds
"These resolutions are the expression of Mor-
mon sentiment." In this I am sure she tells 
the truth, for I am firmly convinced that to 
the two thousand women that attended the 
mass meeting might be added the names of 
many thousands more who were not there, but 
whose hearts and sympathies were with them 
on that day, and responede to the sentiments 
there expressed. 
	In speaking of President Brigham Young, 
in connection with this matter, she says,
"The wily deceiver then evoulted from his
narrow soul, the magnanimous scheme of en-
franchising the women." Now, if my memory 
does not fail me, it was from the "narrow 
souls" of our Gentile friends that this mag-
nanimous scheme was evolved. They
clamored for the right of franchise to be con-
ferred upon the Mormon women, that by their 
votes they might free themselves from priestly 
bondage; but for some unaccountable reason
the Mormon women don't want to get out of 
bondage "worth a cent," to use a slang phrase.
They, like the balance of mankind generally,
rather like their friends better than their ene-
mies, and for that reason they vote for their 
friends; moreover they believe they have the 
right and the sense to know who their friends
are better than their enemies can tell them.
She says, "The civil polity of Utah Territory
is unrepublican; it was framed by a people 
anti-American in sentiment and hostile in pur-
pose; a people unfamiliar with the genius of 
republican institutions, fresh from the despot-
isms of the old world." 
	Now, I had thought that our leaders, (who,
according to Mrs. Newman, are the real law-
makers,) were, with very few exceptions,native
born Americans, and loved and revered her 
institutions, and were taught that that sacred 
instrument, the Constiution was a God given 
instrument, and whose fathers had fought, bled, 
and some of them died in defense of the 
same. 
	I have been educated (and my father has 
for many years been one of those who helped 
to make and administer the local laws) in the 
belief that this American Governmnet is the 
most liberal, grand and glorious government 
under the whole heavens. Why, does it not 
open its doors to the oppressed of all nations? 
And we claim the righ to differ in our opinions 
from some other people, if we cannot see that 
a small parcel of ignorant, ungodly, bigoted 
fanatics, called Federal officials and their Echo's
constitute the U.S. Government. True, they 
are its representatives, but if I had more faith 
in them I should have less in the government.
She further says, quoting Mrs, Steuhouse,
"I have often seen one solitary man driving 
into the city a whole wagon load of women, of 
all ages and sizes. They were going to the 
polls, and their votes would be one." Well, she 
might, if she watched for it, see the same sight 
in every ward in the city. The brethren get 
out their teams and carry the aged and infirm 
to the polls, and let the men and the robust

[Column 2]
 women walk, as they are perfectly willing to 
do, if they are in the line of their duty; and 
there is no law that I know of against a man 
carrying women of all sizes and ages; from 
twenty one years up as high as we can count.
She did not say there were any children.
"Again and again has it been charged in the
public prints of Utah, by eye witnesses, and 
unrefuted by the Mormon Church, that the 
genealogies of the dead, the unborn and de-
ceased had been represented at the ballot box,"
Some of the "public prints" in Utah will 
charge the Mormon people with anything, no 
matter how ridiculous, and otherwise, sane peo-
ple will roll it under their tongues as a sweet
morsel. As to the "Mormon" Church" refut-
ing such slanders, it is here on other business,
and I think, with the help of God, is abundant-
ly able to carry it on. Why, I feel somewhat 
lowered myself in undertaking to notice them;
and if I did not think there were some honor-
able people left left in the world, I would not 
do so. 
	I have not noticed all the falsehoods which
are embodied in her "petition," for I expect 
this article is already lengthy enough to tre-
pass on space that might be occupied by those 
who are better posted on this matter than my-
self; but I do feel like adding my protest to 
that of my sisters, (as I was not in Salt Lake 
 City at the time of holding the mass meeting,)
against being deprived of the right of fan-
chise, which we have exercised for many years,
and which we have never abused; I also pro-
test against the outrageous, infamous false-
hoods which are sent out broadcast to the 
world from this city, concerning the condition 
of Mormon women, by those who know better. 
I would say to such falsifers, for your own, if 
not for humanity's sake, pause! If you can-
not do good, cease to do evil and persecute an 
innocent people, before the wrath and indigna-
tion of an offended God, who takes care of His 
people, overtakes you to your utter destruction,
except you repent. When the cries of the 
wives and the little ones of those whom you 
have caused to be hunted, persecuted, exiled 
and imprisoned for conscience' sake, shall as-
cend to the ears of Him "who heareth even 
the ravens when they cry," and who has said,
"Not a hair of our head shall fall to the 
ground unnoticed," and do not the wrongs of 
the many fair daughters of our common father,
God, cry aloud from every city in the Union 
for vengeance on their seducers from the path 
of virtue? Aye, and the tears of broken 
hearted wives, who cannot trust their husbands
and God-will hear the cries of His daughters 
and avenge their wrongs. And in my humble 
opinion it would better become those ladies 
who are seeking to get legislation against the 
people of God, to go home and do all that lies 
in their power to ameliorate the condition of 
suffering humanity around thier own doorsteps. 
We were happy until they came among us,and 
we will be happy when they leave, or learn 
the Mormon creed, "Mind your own business." 
	RUTH.
Salt Lalt City, Aug. 10, 1886.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	If a man is faithful to truth, truth will be
faithful to him.  He need have no fears.  His
success is a question of time.—Prof. Phelps.

     When you have learned to submit, to do
faithfully, patiently, duty that is most distaste-
ful to you, God may permit you to do the work
you like.—Prof. Riddle. 

   The best of a book is not the thought which
it contains, but the thought it suggests, just as
the charm of music dwells not in the the tones,
but in the echoes of our hearts.—Holmes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,  				SEPTEMBER 1, 1886.


HERE AND THERE.

	These are times fraught with the deepest inter-
est to the Latter-day Saints.  Every day furnishes
some fresh incident worthy of record in the annals
of their history.  Surely the Lord is hastening
his work in his time, for one event crowds so
quickly upon another that it is scarcely possible
to give each separate occurrence its proper
place in the hurry and bustle of chronicling things
as they transpire.  The newspaper reporter mnst
be more than ordinarily active to keep up with the
chapter of accidents and matters of a similar
character that transpire daily in the midst of this
moderate-sized inland city.  When we look around
over the United States and elsewhere abroad, and
consider the condition of the world and the won-
derful events transpiring from time to time, of
which we only learn a few; what then?  Every
person who believes in the prophecies of the Holy
Scripture must be more or less gravely impressed
by the “signs of the times,” and feel that there is
a power at work among the nations, above the
comprehension of finite beings. Latter-day Saints
know, or ought to know something about what
these marvelous and wonderful events portend,
and knowing and understanding as they do, should
seek continually for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with them, that they may be able to stand in the
day of trial, the test of integrity that will be re-
quired of each one, who has entered into holy
covenants to keep the commandments of God.
     It is not a time for vanity, folly or nonsense, and
yet how careless and indifferent many are in their
daily walk and conversation.  It is not expected
that young people will be restricted from healthful
amusements, or reasonable enjoyment; this peo-
ple have always sought to fnrnish places of recrea-
tion where the young folks could meet together in
theatres, parties, concerts, etc., and partake of all
innocent pastimes such as are good for the body
and the mind.  Parents have met with children
and children with parents, and good order has
been preserved and prayers offered, and the good
spirit that Saints cultivate when they are following
in the paths of duty and of righteousness, always
sheds its benign influence upon such social gather-
ings.  Excess in pleasure-seeking will inevitably
lead to dangerous results sooner or later; and
where there is a tendency to over-indulgence, the
wisest course would be to stop and let one’s rea-
son and judgment have time to act; the mind may
become so accustomed to excitement that when
over-wrought it refuses to be passive, and the
spirit of unrest takes possession of the person
and great unhappiness is often the consequence.
Young people frequently grow reckless with too
much pleasure and do and say things that are not
consistent, and without thought, not having had
perhaps in many instances proper training, that
under another influence they would not be per-
suaded to do upon any account.  They tire, so to
speak, of everything that is tame, and complain
of ennui, when wholesome exercise in the way of
actual work is what they most need, and would
be the best antidote for restlessness.

[column 2]
	It seems strange that Latter-day Saints should be
"lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God;" but it
is the spirit of the world, and it has obtained a foot-
hold here in Zion that this people would once have 
thought impossible.  It is high time some restrain-
ing influence should be brought to bear, to awaken
the young people to their true condition and their
own best interests.  After all, what is there in this
excess of pleasure that can give solid enjoyment
or permanent satisfaction.  It is vain and empty, 
it can never satisfy the cravings of the immortal
soul, nor even a laudable ambition.  It is a power-
ful evil influence to lead away and destroy those
who are capable of better things.  In many in-
stances upon record, one finds those on whom the
Creator had bestowed great gifts have allowed
 themselves to become entangled in the vortex of
fashion, and have yielded to temptation, and in an
evil hour have fallen a prey to the destroyer.
Sometimes through taking "a convivial glass," as
it is called, men have finally succumbed to a mor-
bid appetite, until they were lost to the proprieties
of life and even decency, and their existence has
became a burden.
     It does seem inconsistent that at a time when
persecution is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, and the whole world arrayed against them, 
as it were, that such a spirit of pleasure-seeking
should have gained ground among the young, and
even many whose years and experience should
have given them greater wisdom.  After all it does
not happify; ask any one of those who have gone
through the whole giddy round of dazzling pleas-
ures, and have plunged deepest into the mazy
labyrinths of the world's most fascinating enjoy-
ments, and they will tell you that after years of 
vain searches after happiness, with shattered
nerves and broken health they have sought to
drown trouble in the unknown, mystic river,
Lethe, but all their plans and devices have failed.
Happiness in this life is not the highest good to 
be attained, and if one seeks for that even, they
must seek it in doing good to others; there is no
such thing as isolated happiness.  The consecra-
tion of life to some positive work, with the assur-
ance of its being in the line of duty, affords more
true, genuine happiness than the pursuit of dreamy
pleasure ever could.  Life is full of opportunities
for noble work, work for humanity, and the friv-
olous pastimes with which many fritter away the 
best years allotted to them on earth, is in many
cases a source of unceasing regret in after life.
     To moralize, however, was not our object, but to
enter an earnest, emphatic protest against so much
extravagant folly and excessive gaiety as prevails
at the present time, here and there among this
people.  The simplicity of the primitive days in 
these valleys, when carding, spinning, and color-
ing were daily vocations, and when homespun was
good enough for Sunday wear, or social parties,
would be far preferable and better for the health
and permanent happiness of the young, than the
habits many are now pursuing.  It is not a time
for extravagance, or great demonstrations of joy;
there is, on the contrary, particular need to econo-
mize and carefully husband the slender means at
hand and waste not in riotous living, that which
has been given to the Saints to enjoy.  Prosperity
in worldly matters ought not to make this people
forgetful of God, or irreverent in keeping His laws.
The Sabbath day should be kept holy if His bless-
ing is expected.  Moderation in all things should
be the motto of the Latter-day Saints.
     There are plenty of innocent recreations
for  the  body  and  the  mind,  and  they
are always within the reach of the young
people of Zion, and they have no need to min-
gle with an element that is opposite in its nature,
and would lead them downward; they should
beware of all such.  They should keep good com-
pany, and avoid evil influences as they would a 
loathsome disease, for it is far more to be dreaded.
Hearken to the counsel of those who are their

[column 3]
teachers and guides, and remember, that "obedi-
ence is better than sacrifice."  It is easy to wander
into by and forbidden paths, but hard to retrace
one's footsteps, and one seldom gets help to re-
turn, though allurements lay thick around when
following the delusive and gilded bait of pleasure;
whose votaries are ever ready to tempt the inex-
perienced and unsophisticated.  Never get an idea
that you must go here and there in search of hap-
piness.  It is more often found at home than
abroad.  The best friends you can possibly have,
and the truest,  are those who have watched
over you from earliest childhood.  Father and
mother are the ones whose counsel should be
heeded.  The disregard of parental government
and control, has been a prolific source of evil, and
there is an inclination among the young in the
present day to assert their rights and maintain the
dignity of "Young America."  It is a pity that,
Latterday Saints should indulge in such ideas;
but "'tis true and more's the pity true it is," and
moreover such sentiments are not in harmony with
the spirit of the Gospel.
     Melancholy, which is often the cause of this
mad pursuit of pleasure, is quite frequently caused
by idleness and luxury.  Occupation is the rem-
edy, work and love of work is a protection against
many evils.  It is said by Samuel Smiles of one
of the greatest men, "work might almost be said
to form a part of his religion."  In this Church it 
might be truly said our work should be a part of 
our religion.  Work, "is the best discipline of
character, for it involves the exercise of diligence,
attention, self-denial, judgment, tact, knowledge of 
and sympathy with others.  Such a discipline is
 productive of happiness."
     These are times to be appreciated in other ways
than pleasure-seeking; the days the old prophets
and patriarchs "looked forward to and sought, but
never found." There is and must necessarily be
important work to be done, and missions to fill
that will require almost superhuman faith and
heroism.  And how can this labor be accom-
plished unless by men and women of indomitable
energy, and sublime characters.  Not those who 
pander to popularity, and spend their time in the
vain search for happiness, and are moral cowards;
but are men and women of action, who have the
courage of their convictions, and who fortify
themselves with the cultivation of those attributes
that give strength and vigor to all their energies, 
physical, moral, and spiritual.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	SOME delicious large ripe fruits have graced the
table of the editorial sanctum of the EXPONENT, 
recently; for which we tender grateful thanks to
Sisters Sutherland and Richards. 
	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies' 
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform. 
	THE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion, will be held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday,
Septembea 16th, at 10 a. m., and 2 p. m. The
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, would like to
see a good representation from each Ward in this
county. All those interested in the labors of these
benevolent organizations are cordially invited to
attend the meetings. 
	ON Friday, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake
will hold their Conference, in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, occupying the whole of
the day; and on Saturday, the Conference of the
Primary Associations of this Stake will be held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall.  Presidents of the
respective Associations should notify the children 
and parents, that there may be a good representa-
tion.


ON WEDNESDAY, August 18th, the P. A. of the 
Twentieth Ward held an annual meeting in the
ward house, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. The
children rendered their exercises very creditaby.
Many visitors were present, among whom were
Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Prest. P. A., this Stake
of Zion, and Lydia Ann Wells, her Counselor, 
Sister Emma Toone, Prest. P. A. of Twentieth
Ward, and Sister Presendia L. Kimball and Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who each made brief remarks
suitable to the occasion. 
	UTAH'S Delegate to Congress, the Hon. John
T, Caine, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, returned to his home in this city, Sun-
day evening, August 29th, accompanied by his
wife and daughters Misses Florence and Martie
Caine. We congratulate Mr. Caine on the suc-
cessful efforts he has succeded in making to ward
off adverse legislation. We realize to some ex-
tent how arduous his labors have been, and trust
that here at home he may have the opportunity of
recruiting his strength and preparing himself for
the winter campaign. Mr. Caine deserves great
credit for his indefatigable labors and the vigilance
with which he has watched and guarded the inter-
ests of the Territory he has the honor to repre-
sent. We join with their many friends in welcom-
ing Mr. and Mrs. Caine and daughters to their
lovely mountain home, and trust they may fully
enjoy the short vacation here among their old 
friends and true.
	AUGUST 9th. ult., we had the pleasure of visit-
ing Union Ward in company with Sisters Pre-
sendia L. Kimball and M. Isabella Horne. It
was the occasion of the annual meeting of the
Relief Society of that place. We breakfasted on
our way at Sister M. A. Smarts, who, by the by, is
the Secretary of the Society, and a very ener-
getic and efficient one as well an active worker in
other directions in benevolent duties. Meeting
was held in the new ward meeting house, Mrs
Elizabeth Richards presiding. After the usual
exercises and the reading of the minutes of the
last annual meeting, the financial report of the
Society was read, and was highly creditable. The
President is in very feeble health, and both the
President and her Counselor are quite advanced in
years; yet by their works of benevolence they are
an illustrious example to the younger women.
	Sister Kimball addressed the congregation in
her usual tender and motherly manner, and spoke
eloquently of the work in the Logan Temple, and
particularly in reference to the work for the dead.
Sister Horne dwelt earnestly upon the duties of
the mothers in their homes, and also upon the
work of the sisters in the different labors and
organizations, and encouraged them to persevere
in well-doing, Remarks were made by others, and
altogether the meetings both in the forenoon and
afternoon were very interesting, and a good spirit
prevailed. Probably the Secretary may send
minutes of the meeting for publication.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A GOOD WOMAN. 

SISTER ELIZA M. LYMAN, A FORMER WIFE OF
	THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH, PASSES
			FROM THIS LIFE. 
					PROVO, March 8th, 1886. 
Editor Deseret News: 
	Many of your readers will be pained to learn of
the death of Sister Eliza M. Lyman, who departed
this life on the morning of the 2d, inst., at Oak
City, Millard County, U. T.  She was the eldest
daughter of Edward and Lydia Partridge, and
was born April 20th, 1820, at Painesville, Geauga
County, Ohio.  Her parents joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when she was
quite young.  This action changed the prospects
of her whole life.  From having been in easy cir-
cumstances before, her subsequent life was to be
one of privation and self sacrifice. Becoming


identified with the Saints in her youth, she was
early imbued with a love for the principles of the
Gospel and a reverence for truth and honesty. 
Having to suffer the privations incident to the
persecutions endured by the Saints in Missouri
and Illinois, she was deprived of those advan-
tages of education generally considered necessary 
to qualify a young woman to appear to advantage
in company; at the same time her inherent quali-
ties of modesty and good sense, coupled with a
studious disposition, enabled her to surmount ob-
stacles and gain sufficient book learning to become
a teacher, and she was able to appear to advan-
tage in the best society.  With no ostentation she
was generally self-possessed under all circum-
stances. 
	Although having filled honorable positions in
connection with the benevolent institutions among
the Saints, her life labor has been most appreci-
ated by her intimate friends and relatives. 
	She was one of the first to receive the doctrine
of celestial marriage, being taught that principle
by the Prophet Joseph Smith, to whom she was
married in 1843, by Apostle Heber C. Kimball. 
In those days it required considerable self-sacri-
fice as well as faith to enter into that order.  After
the death of the Prophet, Sister Eliza was married
to Apostle Amasa Lyman by whom she had five
children; three of them are now living.  Her son
Platte D. Lyman, was born in a wagon on the
Platte River, near Fort Laramie, while journeying
to the valleys of the mountains, the parents hav-
ing been driven out by mob violence with the rest
of the Saints from Nauvoo. 
	She accompanied her son P. D. Lyman, to San 
Juan, where he was sent to take charge of a com-
pany of settlers, having to make a road through
an almost impassable country in the winter time. 
The suffering and anxiety consequent upon that
journey, and the residence in the San Juan coun-
try where her son Joseph A. was shot in the knee
by a horse thief and lay helpless between life and
death for about a year; being surrounded by In-
dians, Utes on the one side and Navajos on the
other, no doubt served to break down a constitu-
tion by no means robust. 
	Upon the release of her son from the Presidency
of the San Juan Stake, she returned to her old
home in Oak City, where she appeared to feel un-
usually contended. Although enjoying the society
of the Saints and always rejoicing in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, her lot in life has not been an
easy one; but it has been one of self-sacrifice
almost from infancy, and she was never happier
than when ministering to the comforts of others. 
	If honesty of purpose and integrity to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel will insure a crown of celes-
tial glory, Sister Eliza will certainly receive one. 
	EDWARD PARTRIDGE.


RE-ORGANIZATION
OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE 17TH WARD, 
	MAY 18, 1886. 

	On account of the death of our loved Presi-
dent, Mrs. Marinda N. Hyde, we were obliged to 
re-organize. 
	Bishop John Tingey, with his Counselor A. E. 
Hyde, assisted by Mrs. M. I. Horne, effected the
following organization. 
	Mrs. B. W. Smith was chosen President, with 
Mrs. Julia Pack, as first and Mrs. Harriet A. 
Preston as second counselors.  The secretary and
treasurer remained the same as heretofore. 
	Bishop Tingey added his blessing and hoped
the new organization would be as united and
faithful as the old one had been. 
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Secretary. 

	P. S. The Bishop and his counselor also set
apart the President, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith
and her First Counselor Mrs. Julia Pack. Mrs. 
Harriet A. Preston, the Second Counselor, not


being present. Remarks were made by Sister M. I.
Horne and others suited to the occasion. At a 
subsequent meeting in consequence of the need
of assistance, Mrs Julia Howe, the treasurer, hav-
ing gone to England on a visit and Mrs. Lydia
Alder, the Secretary being detained at home in
delicate health, Mrs. Emma Bull was appointed
assistant secretary and treasurer pro tem.—Ed.


SELECT SCHOOL.

	On the 6th of September 1886, Dr. Godfrey
Hessel of this city intends opening a select school
for special branches of instruction, in classes at
No. 56 N., 2nd West St. His terms are for
two lessons a week, 4.00 a month in English
Grammar, Arithmetic, Geometry, Latan, German,
French, Italian, Spanish, Organ, Piano, Guitar
and Vocal Music. Private lessons in languages
$1,00 a lesson.  Music lessons at the residences
of pupils two lessons a week $6.00 a month.
	Mercantile Arithmetic, Correspondence and
Bookkeeping, Mondays Wednesdays and Fridays
from 8 to 9 p.m. $6.00 a month.	
Dr. Hessel seems thoroughly qualified for the
work so far as education and ability are con-
cerned. He is a member of the Church, having been
converted and embraced the Gospel in New York
City through the teachings of Brother Hart, Emi-
gration agent.  He is the author of some of the
articles in the Utah Journal that have attracted
considerable attention.  We wish him success in
his labors to instruct the youth of Zion.  There
may be a number of young people who cannot
devote sufficient time to study for attend the uni-
versity who might avail themselves of this oppor-
tunity of Dr. Hessel's select school or private
teaching.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	Missionary and Indian donations are included
in charitable disbursments.
	Wheat is computed by bushels.
	Nothing is to be reported except under one or
other of the printed heads.
	If Real Estate increases in value this increase
must be shown in the receipts for the six months.
	Presidents and secretaries are requested to at-
tach full name and address to reports.
	Reports are hereafter to be sent to Dr. Romania
B. Pratt. Office over Godbe and Pitts drug store,
Salt Lake City, and they must be sent in promptly
by the 15th of September and if latter than the
20th of September they cannot be used.
				MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, Sec.
				ROMANIA B. PRATT, Asst. Sec


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

			HUNTSVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER:—It is many years since we
reported our ward. We are in the tops of the
mountains enjoying the spirit of our religion
undisturbed by the outside world, and while
we enjoy this, we are not ignorant of the doings
of other places. We are well posted through
the columns of our little EXPONENT, which is
always a welcome visitor. Would it were
more widely circulated among our friends out-
side, as well as home.
	When we read of Mrs. Newman's extrava-
ganzas we feel, as ladies in Utah, if we had the
power to echo through the land, we would tell
the opposite, for we know the statements there-
in are false. We have lived in the world, and
have resided in Utah for over twenty years,
and can say that nowhere do children cry less
for bread. Women are not the down-trodden
creatures there spoken of; our organizations


are so beautifully arranged that no one need
suffer. Although fathers and brothers are im-
prisoned their families are provided for and
their children educated. True we do not have
many fine buildings with grand names written
upon them, but our poor are kindly cared for
at their homes. It takes a close observer to
investigate the institutions of the Latter-day
Saints. A few flying visits do not see them as
they are, but they must live here to see how 
our sisters work for them to sustain them with
their means. It is those who have passed 
through trying circumstances that can econo-
mize. I feel for the poor. Our people are
happy if they could be let alone; but there
must needs be an opposite to all things; we do
not fear, for we know God is on our side. We
are thankful that we have so many faithful sis-
ters, who can so ably defend our rights and 
the principles of our holy religion.
	We had a visit from our Stake Presidency,
Sister Jane S. Richards, Sister Hattie Brown
and Sister Emily Shurtliff, which made our
hearts glad. The comforting counsel they
gave the sisters will long be remembered. We
feel to say, "God bless them!" for we know they
have passed through many sorrows.
	Our Society is in a good condition financial-
ly, and we try to keep plenty of wheat on
hand, according to counsel, in case of want.
Our sisters sustain home manufacture first rate
Their persons are adorned pretty well with the
work of their own hands. We desire to live
according to the spirit of the times, so we can
be prepared for every emergency.
	We do not wish to impose upon your time
and space, but ask God to bless and give you
wisdom, and those who labor with you, that
our little paper may reach many honest
hearts, is the constant prayer of,
		Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
					ELIZA A. TRACY, Prest.
					EMMA BURROWS, Sec.
			BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Y. L. M. I.
A. was held in Rexburg Hall, the evening of 
August 21st, 1886. On the stand were Prest.
Bybee, Coun. May A. Ricks, Serretta Pool,
Sarah A. Barnes, Lizzie Roberts, Lizzie Rig-
by and the Secretary, Mary Alice Anderson,
also a number of the brethren.
	Conference opened by singing. Prayer was
offered by Prest R. S. Bybee. Singing. The
reports from the different branches were favor-
able.
	Coun. May A. Ricks spoke very encourag-
ingly to the young ladies, and gave some
excellent advice. Exhorted them to attend to
their meetings and secret prayers, and each
get a testimony for herself; also to avoid jeal-
ousy and backbiting, or they could not retain
the Spirit of God, be kind and gentle toward
each other, and avoid hurting each other's 
feelings unnecessarily. Asked the Lord to
bless all the young ladies in Bannock Stake
and help them to keep the commandments of
God.
	Sarah A. Barnes was pleased to see so many
of the  young girls present; earnestly advised 
them to study the Church works, and get a 
testimony for themselves. "We all have our
own salvation to work ont; no one can work it
out for us. We cannot expect a salvation, or 
to be exalted in the presence of our Heaven-
ly Father without we live for it. We should
not be content to live in idleness, but we
should have an aim in view and that should
be to be exalted in our Fathers' presence; and
what is there more lovely than to see a young
lady that is noble, pure and good and trying
to serve God. We should study and reflect,
for we can never be saved in our ignorance,
asked the Lord to help us do right."
	Serretta Pool gave the girls some excellent
advice, counseled the young girls to be neat

[column 2]
and lady-like in their appearance and actions,
also to use good language. Spoke in very
strong terms against banged hair, said we want
our young girls to be elevating and intelligent. 
When I see a girl wear bangs I think there is
something lacking; she is too light minded,
and earnestly advised the young girls to at-
tend to their meetings, if you do you
will make better girls, better wives,
better mothers. Improvement should be
our aim. We should obey and re-
spect those that are placed over us. We
should prepare ourselves to meet the Savior
for we can then make no excuse, it will be too
late, and don't talk about your brothers and
sisters even if you think they do deserve it.
	Brother Troup spoke a short time encourag-
ing the young to study good books and live so
they could discern right from wrong and good
from evil, and live every day so you will not
have to grieve over your past life. Exhorted the
young to keep the "word of wisdom," come
life or death.	Coun. J. Morris spoke very encouragingly 
to the young men, and young women and gave
them a key: Honor and obey those that are
placed over you, if all that were put in office
would magnify their calling, we would have
better reports. 
	Lizzy Roberts and Lizzy Rigby bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work en-
couraged the girls to attend to their meetings.
Pres. R. L. Bybee in his remarks said you
have heard some excellent advice and counsel
try and remember it and put it in practice; you
should store your minds with useful knowledge,
said there is too much ignorance among the
young people. You should study and fit 
yourselves for future usefulness, for you can-
not be saved in ignorance. Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing. "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by H. Pool.
		SUSIE P. LAWSON Prest.
		MARY A. RICKS Act. Prest.
		MARY ALICE ANDERSON, Act. Sec.
				BANNOCK STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society was held in Rexburg
Hall. Aug. 11th 1886. On the stand.
were Mrs. Temperance Hinckely, Mrs. S. A.
Gunnel, Mrs. E. Paul, Mrs. A Rigby, and the
Secretary Mrs. S. A. Barnes. After Singing
and prayer and roll called minutes of the 
last conference were read and accepted.
	Rexburg Ward reported by President Ann
Rigby, Salem Ward by President M. Ward,
Lyman Ward by President Butler, Teton
Ward by President M. Donaldson, Parker
Ward by President P. Mason, Wilford Ward
President Brower, Lewisville Ward, President
Jardine, Rigby Ward, President A. Robbins,
Cleaveland Ward, President A. Browning,
Eagle Rock, President M. J. Hawkley.
	President Hinckley made some closing re-
marks. Singing "The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning." Benediction by Coun. S. A.
Gunnel.
	Afternoon session: After the opening ex-
ercises Prest. Hinckley addressed the sisters
upon their duties in the Society. and the
training of children. Exhorted the mothers
to keep their children in at night and not let
their daughters go to railroad towns to work,
thought that a calico dress and a pure heart,
free from guile, was far preferable to the finest
apparel obtained at the sacrifice of virtue and
honor, and spoke in a forcible manner of the
necessity of cleanliness in the homes of the
Latter-day Saints; encouraged the sisters to
lay up grain for a day of famine.
	Coun. S. A. Gunnel said they had been
around and visited every place in the stake,
thought there was room for improvement, bore
a strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Every principle of this Gospel is true; we

[column 3]
should practice all, realized we were a blest 
people, exhorted the sisters to attend to their 
family and secret prayers, for prayer is the
key to the Kingdom of heaven.
	Mrs. S. A. Barnes exhorted the mothers to
spend more of their time in the educating of 
their children that God had blessed them with,
"for the Lord will hold us responsible if we
neglect the teaching of our children, for none
can be saved or exalted in ignorance. We
should all have an aim in view, and work to
the same."
	Mrs. Emma Paul encouraged all to pay
their tithing and be blessed. Exhorted all to
be prayerful and humble, for if one principle
is true all are true. We should all be true to
our covenants, true to each other, and true to
our God; thought we had heard some excellent
advice and counsel, hoped we would put the
same in practice in our daily life.
	Miss Ann Rigby bore a strong testimony to
the truth of the work we are engaged in, also
gave some excellent advice and counsel.
	Mrs. Martha Ward spoke very forcibly on
different subjects; exhorted the mothers to look
after, and take care of their daughters; asked
the Lord to bless all with a portion of his holy
spirit.
	Brother Troup thought we had had a first
rate time, felt well; encouraged the sisters to
press forward in the good work we are engaged
in.
	Closing remarks by May A. Ricks. Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Mrs. Lizzie Roberts.
		MRS. TEMPERANCE HINCKLEY, Prest.
		MRS. SARAH A. BARNES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. FAIR. 

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Fillmore celebrated
pioneer day by holding a fair of useful and
ornamental articles, the proceeds to be given
to the Temple at Manti. Everything exhibited,
either for sale or decoration, was the work of
their own hands, many of the articles showing
great skill in the use of the needle and pencil,
as well as ability to manipulate the plastic wax
into beautiful bouquets of flowers and luscious
looking fruits. Among the useful articles were
several very pretty quilts, one, an album quilt,
being very handsome, each young lady having
worked a square or block, according to her
own taste, and also her own name, then form-
ing an autograph album and quilt combined,
which brought into the exchequer twenty-two
dollars and a half. A wreath of hair flowers,
from the heads of the fair young workers, was
brought in by the young people and presented
to their President, Mrs. Delilah Olsen, as a
mark of their appreciation of her uniform
kindness and energy in assisting them to pro-
gress in all things pertaining to their welfare,
both spiritual and temporal. The Primary
children contributed quite a large number of
articles, many of them showing great taste, and
proving how well and carefully they are being
instructed. One end of the large room was
set apart for the display of their work, and the
walls and table were very tastefully arranged
by their President, Mrs. Alice Collister. The
fair will add about ninety dollars to the build-
ing fund in money and goods. All articles not
sold were sent to Manti; among other things
was twenty-five yards of excellent carpet.
There was also a meeting in the school house,
where speeches were made, and singing, recita-
tions, etc., were indulged in, but the fair was
the great attraction. The weather was very
hot, and a plentiful supply of ice cream was
prepared for the thirsty visitors. The evening
closed with a ball in the Stake House, and al-
together a most enjoyable day was the result.
				M. A. GREENHALGH.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY OF PIONEER DAY
			IN THE COUNTRY. 

	The twenty fourth of July, 1886, was pleas-
antly celebrated by the people of the Teasdale
Ward. The meeting house was beautifully
decorated with pictures and mottoes, and with
wreaths and bouquets of flowers. Over the
stand was the photopraph of the late President
Brigham Young, and on either side were
arranged the pictures of the Salt Lake and St.
George Temples. An arch of vegetables,
fruits and flowers was placed beneath the
pictures with these words inscribed: "We
have met to-day to celebrate the anniversary
of the day the pioneers, with President Young
at the head, first entered Salt Lake Valley.
For thirty-nine years God has blest and pros-
pered His people in these valleys. Let none
forget to praise His high and holy name."
	Salutes were fired at day break by Captain
Lewis Adams and company. The flags, the
glorious stars and stripes, were raised at sun-
rise and floated gracefully on the air.
	At 10 a.m. the people assembled at the
meeting house to celebrate a day that will ever
live in the hearts of the people of Utah. The
choir sang, "Hark! Listen to the trumpeters," 
etc. Prayer was offered by the Chaplain.
Choir sang, "O my Father, Thou that dwellest," 
etc. The programme was then read by the
Marshal, David C. Adams, and was rendered
as follows: Interesting remarks by the orator
of the day, F. F. Noyes, Miss Mary E. Stewart.
Bishop George Coleman and others. Recita-
tions, songs, toasts, etc., were then rendered,
giving credit to all those who took part in
them. The choir then sang, "Hark! ye mor-
tals. Hist! be still. Benediction by the Chap-
lain. 
	At 1 o'clock p.m. tables  were spread and a
bouteous repast partaken of, and all enjoyed
the feast. At 3 p.m. dancing commenced for
the children, and at 7 p.m. dancing for the
adults. All retired with joyful hearts for the
peace enjoyed.
	Everything looks prosperous here, and the
people are rejoicing over the bounteous harvest
now at hand. Praying for the success of your
valuable paper, I remain, 
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
							ZELMIA.


LETTER

	FROM A FATHER TO HIS TWO SONS, THIR-
		TEEN AND FIFTEEN YEARS OLD,
			BORN IN POLYGAMY.

MY DEAR BOYS:
	I am truly thankful for the kind letters you
have sent me, and should have answered them
before, but father has seemed to have had
every minute of his time occupied. I get no
help from any one but your younger brother,
and he has not been strong for two weeks past.
I much wish he was with you a while.
	I am pleased to hear so good an account of
you from your mother; it is more to father to
hear that you are good boys, than to hear you
owned all the horses and cattle in Idaho or
Utah. I trust you are sample boys for telling
the truth, not using bad language, and for
kind, respectful obedience to your mother.
You know a person never builds a good house
to stand firm unless he puts a good foundation
in to start on.
	You boys are laying your foundations now
every day, and are forming habits that will
bring prosperity or misfortune as long as you
live—a person, for instance, if a story teller, it
hurts him for his whole life, or he gets the
habit of dropping his tools just where he uses
them, instead of having a place where he puts 
them when he has done using them, and know-
ing just where to put his hand upon them, night

[column 2]
or day. Many a man and his family have 
gone in poverty through a long worrying life
on account of this bad habit.
	Your Aunt Jerusalem has done as much
labor since I knew her in hunting for things as
all her other labor, and the worry has been 
worse than the work. I trust your mother has
educated you in regard to this. It is a $5,000
fortune to each of you to start life with. I 
want you boys to appreciate your chances in
life and be proud of them. If you reach
twenty-one years with thoroughly good habits,
with such morals as please God, you are rich
even if you don't own a dollar.
	Ranch men are often wicked—the last men
who ought to be so—God could send them a
thousand dollar colt as easy as a twenty-five
dollar one. My great desire is that my boys
may please God, and have His help in the
earth. Never do a thing you think to be
wrong. If you don't exactly know, don't do 
it. So will you give your conscience, or the
Spirit of God encouragement, and cherish it to
continue its help to you. Recollect that you
are children of God, literally, possessing in
miniature every attribute that is in Him, every
thing to enable you to become like Him. Let
your first highest ambition be to please Him
and develop these attributes by works of honor
and righteousness. Recollect, this world and
all in it are His, that of yourselves you cannot
even create a thought, and let humility, and
not pride, characterise your intercourse with
all people. The cheek, so glaringly the capital
of many men and women of this age, can
never push one's fortune to such solid and sure
fruition as God's blessing on the humble and
contrite spirit.
	From the reading of this letter resolve to
cherish, comfort and be obedient to your
mother, cheerfully, as a pleasure, as reflecting
more honor and blessing on you than her; do
this and I promise you prosperity in the earth.
Be "honor bright" to all your playmates; let
them feel that when "Hallie" and Hebe""
give their word it is as good as so much gold
in hand.
	Be saving, pains taking, and seek in your 
young years for the gift of salvation to dwell
in you as a gift, not only for yourselves, but
for your associates, that enlightened by it, your
eyes may see, and your ears hear evil before it
strikes you. Be slow to destroy anything;
teach your souls to save and build up; in every
prayer you make ask God for wisdom; never
 fail to offer thanks and show gratitude for the 
good you have; bear much before you com-
plain even a little; never cherish a complain-
ing spirit; always, everywhere in life, if you
open your hearts to look at the world as it is,
you will see that you have very much to be
thankful for.
	My dear boys, I did not think to write you
so long a letter, but I trust it will find place
in your souls, and that when we are permitted 
to meet again I shall have great joy.
			Your affectionate father.
	July 4th, 1886.


REORGANIZATION.

	On Wednesday, August 18th, a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Big Cottonwood 
Ward was held in the Ward meeting house,
commencing at 10 a. m., Mrs. Elizabeth How-
ard presiding. The morning session was de-
voted to speaking and giving general instruc-
tion. Prayer was offered by Sister E. Boyes; 
brief addresses were made by Sisters E. B.
Wells, E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, M. Isa-
bella Horne and Elizabeth Howard. Benedic-
tion was pronounced by Sister Annette Chris-
tenson. At the afternoon session, Bishop D.
B. Brinton and Counselor Milo H. Andrus
and several others were present. Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of Salt


Lake Stake, presided over the meeting. Prayer
was offered by the Bishop. The first business
was the resignation of the President, Mrs. E.
Howard, who stated that her reasons for re-
signing the position were, that other cares and
duties required her attention and kept her
absent a considerable portion of her time, and
she felt it was not consistent for her to occupy 
a place, which had necessarily to be filled
almost wholly by one of her counselors, and
therefore she wished to resign; she had con-
sulted with the Bishop, who in consideration of
the circumstances had consented to accept her
resignation. Her resignation was then formally
accepted by the society, evidently with regret.
The Bishop nominated Mrs. Emily Stevenson
to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Elizabeth Boyes and
Mrs. Mary Anderson were chosen as her coun-
selors; Mrs. Hannah Stevenson was appointed
secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Andrus treas-
urer. This completed the organization, and all
the officers were sustained by unanimous vote;
after which the former members of the Society
were voted in, and several new members came
forward and had their names enrolled and
were also accepted by vote. The Bishop, with
his Counselor and Elder Quist, set the Presi-
dent and other officers apart for the respective
office each had been called to fill. Very timely
and encouraging remarks were made by the 
Bishop, who seemed to fully appreciate the
labors of the sisters in the Ward. Suitable
instruction and motherly advice was also given
by President Horne, who had assisted the
Bishop in organizing, also by her Counselor,
E. S. Taylor.
	Brief remarks were made by the new Presi-
dent and an appointment given out for the
regular meeting, after which Counselor Milo
H. Andrus spoke for a short time, touching 
very feelingly upon the teachings of the moth-
ers. Singing, "Lord dismiss us with Thy 
blessing," etc. Prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The meetings were very interesting through-
out and a good feeling prevailed.


ATLANTIC MONTHLY FOR WOMAN
			SUFFRAGE.

	The September Atlantic contains a sweeping
indictment of "The Saloon in Politics," by
George Frederic Parsons. He asserts that
"the saloon has abolished party politics in our
largest cities, and that to-day in every such 
city the local government is vested in neither
party, but is in the hands of the saloon itself. 
Nominally, the government may be Demo-
cratic or Republican, but actually it is in com-
mission by a band of venal politicians who
have no convictions or principles, who
trade and swap opportunities for plunder with
each other who act as agents for the so-called
party leaders, but who acknowledge allegiance
only to the saloon."
	Our political situation is defined to be a
government controlled by 135,000 saloons and
8,000 wholesale liquor dealers, which absorbs
annually from seven to nine hundred million
dollars. These saloons, it is said, "have
fastened on us a shameful corruption, have
brutalized every institution, and have per-
verted and spoiled the democratic system,"
The sole remedy is declared to be the exten-
sion of suffrage to women. Mr. Parsons adds:—
	"Many men of sound capacity have won-
dered why the idea of woman suffrage has not 
made more progress in this country. The
usual explanation has been that the measure
is incompatible with 'practical politics,' and a
variety of minor objections have been raised
as that women 'know nothing of public ques-
tions,' that they are 'wanting in judgement,'
and so forth. When the fearful mess that men
have made of politics is impartially considered
it can scarcely be maintained soberly that
women, however inexperienced, could do much


[Column 1]
worse. It is, indeed, hardly possible to con-
ceive of worse being done by any kind of 
creatures. But there are obviously some things
now done by men which women could be
trusted not to do. For example, we may be
quite sure that they would not squander five
hundred million dollars a year in strong drink,
and then coolly ignore this extravagance, and
threaten to revolutionize the country on the
ground that they were not receiving their fair
share of the wealth they produced. They
would not, we may be confident, strike for
eight hours a day while permitting their hus-
bands to work sixteen. They would not, at
the week's end, spend seven-eighths of their
wages in the saloon,and then beat their hungry
and naked children instead of feeding and
clothing them. But when one thinks of the
suffering and misery which the saloon inflicts
upon women, the opposition it exhibits to
woman suffrage is perfectly intelligible. There
is nothing so cruel, nothing so brutal, nothing
so uncivilized, in American politics to-day, as
the dominance of the spirit which refuses a
voice in the government to that sex upon 
whose virtues, piety, and long suffering every
worthy hope of the nation depends. But the
difficulties of refusing this measure of justice
this logical and inevitable extension of the
democratic principle, become greater with
every tentative effort in the direction of a
broader suffrage. The proposition can no
longer be rejected on the ground that it is un-
tried. It has been tried, and wherever it has
had a fair trial it has produced satisfacroty re-
sults. Naturally, woman suffrage is hostile to
the saloon, whether in or out of politics. It is
to woman the serpent of Scripture. The an-
tagonism is fundamental. radical, inevitable. 
Woman stands for all the elevating influences
in this stage of existence. The home, the
family, the church, the school, all derive from 
her their best qualities, their highest capabili-
ties. The saloon stands for all that is retro-
gressive, destructive, debasing, vile and evil. 
It ruins the home, breaks up the family, un-
dermines religion,nullifies educational agencies,
checks intellectual and moral growth, fosters
brutality, coarseness, immorality, and dis-
honesty. Yet man, enlightened and civilized
as he thinks himself, cannot be persuaded to
trust his helpmate with even a share of the
government whose present abuses weigh so
heavily upon her; cannot believe that the
judgement and clear-sightedness which, if he
is candid and prudent, he is glad to avail him-
self of in private life would produce as bene-
ficient results when applied to the general con-
erns.
	“In this perversity the average man takes a
course eminently calculated to maintain the
supremacy of the saloon in politics. He shuts
himself out from the only zealous help he is
certain of. He deprives himself of the one
ally who is pledged, by nature as by condition,
to eternal war upon the rum power. It is 
scarecely necessary to point out that, if women
could vote, the saloon as an active force in
politics would speedily disappear. Therefore, 
we may be certain that so long as the saloon
holds the reins of power it will oppose all its
energies to the extension of the suffrage. This
is not, however,an additional argument against
the saloon. It is simply one of the conditions
of its existence." 
	If, as is asserted, the saloons really "stand
for all that is retrogressive, destructive, de-
basing, vile and evil," the question arises, Is it 
right to license them? The weakness of the
"anti-saloon" movement consists in the fact
that these establishments are licensed by the
State. Being authorized by law to manufac-
ture and sell, the dealers have a right to de-
mand recognition and respect. Mr. Partons
well says: 
	"The saloon having been permitted to attain 

[Column 2]
its present strength, having been recognized
as a perfectly legitimate institution, it has a
right to fight for its life, and it would certain-
ly do so, whether or not such a right could be
demonstrated. The point to be emphasized is
that the American people are themselves
mainly accountable, and that, while they may
take action to remove what has become a
gigantic abuse, they are not justified in de-
nouncing those who have profited by it as
though they acted throughout with popular 
sanction and scarcely tacit popular approval," 
	If this article has any practical significance, 
it advocates prohibition of the saloons, with
woman suffrage as a necessary means of mak-
ing the prohibition effective. We ourselves
advocate women suffrage on the higher ground 
of political justice and personal right. But
none the less we welcome this new and
progressive attitude of the Atlantic Mouthly.
So far as we . know, it is the first plea for
woman suffrage that has ever appeared in its
columns. We welcome the "new departure." 
—Woman's Journal 
					H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SPECIAL NOTICE.

	Secretaries of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake Stake are particularly requested to send
in their reports to the Stake Secretary, Eliza-
beth Howard, by the first of September. Re-
ports sent in after that date will be useless.
Be definite in the financial statements.
Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East 4th South
St., Salt Lake City, Utah. By order,
	MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE, 
	President.

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the 
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct.
conference. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20.
		LOUIE M. WELLS,
		Sec. Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.

[Column 2]
﻿	ANNOUNCEMENT.

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R Shipp’s annual class in
Obstetrics will begin Oct. 1st, 1886.	
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
	Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.	
	Those who desire to attend should communicate at once
with Dr. E. R. Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St. 
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383. 

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS. 
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired ou short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Orangeville, August 17th, 1886. Zina Lavenia,
infant daughter of Parker Adelbert and Josie E. Childs,
aged eleven months, of inflammation of the bowels and
congestion of the brain.
	Our sweet little rose bud has gone
		Where there is no sickness or pain;
	Sweet is the rest she'll enjoy
		Until we can see her again.

	Short was her stay on this earth,
		Dear to our hearts she had gown.
	Sad, oh, so sad, now to part!
		Lonely, indeed, is our home.

	But in God's goodness we trust.
		And now, in taking her home.
	Help us, dear Father, to say.
		"Thy will, not ours be done."
								S. A. FULLMER.

	
	DIED, at Mill Creek, Alice Maud Gunderson daughter
of Thomas and Harriet Gunderson born March 31st 1879.

	
	DIED, July 27th 1886 of Diptheria. She was a member 
of the Primary Association, ever willing to perform her
part, and a steady attendant when circumstances would
permit. 
	When her sorrowful mother asked what could be done
for her, she calmly answered—pray for me. Everything 
was done for her that could he done but she had to go.
	It is hard to part with those we love, but we know if we
remain faithful we shall meet them again. We feel to ac
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things. We sin-
cerely sympathize with the ber[-]aved parents and friends.
			Your sister in the gospel,
								A. J. [---]TH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 15		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1886					No. 8


TRUE FRIENDSHIP. 

O, 'tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the test;
'Tis but when afflictions cold pressure hath bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the best.
		For friends will fawn,
		At fortune's dawn,
	While the breeze, and the tide waft us steadily on;
		But if sorrow o'ertakes us,
		Each false one forsakes us,
	And leaves us to sink, and to struggle alone.

And though on love's altar, the flame which is glowing
	Be brighter, yet friendship's is steadier far,
One wavers, and turns with each breeze that is blowing,
	And is but a meteor, the other's a star.
		In youth love's light
		Burns warm and bright;
	But it dies ere the winter of age is past,
		While friendship's flame
		Burns ever the same;
Or grows but the brighter, the nearer its last.—
								Selected.


A CALL.

	Cling together! O ye people
		Of the Great Eternal God
	Ye are treading now the highway,
		That His Saints before you trod.
	Shoulder firmly, brace to shoulder,
		Clasp unyielding hand to hand;
	Leave not one without the circle,
		Who has faith and strength to stand.
	Yet when knees begin to tremble,
		And when faces turn aghast,
	Press not heavily upon them
		But uphold them to the last;
	And should all their faith forsake them
		That they cannot stand at all.
	Then be careful that ye slip not
		Into places where they fall.

	Quickly close the gaps they're making,
		Forming still a solid band;
	Shoulder firmly braced to shoulder,
		Hand unflinching clasped to hand.
	Heads erect and hearts uplifted.
		Firmly stationed be your feet;
	Forward press, and onward, upward,
		No surrender, no retreat.

	Long may be the march and weary,
		Strong may be the' oppressor's pow'r;
	But the God we serve is mightier,
		He who saveth every hour.
	He who built the walls gigantic
		Round the lands we occupy,
	Towering in majestic beauty,
		Strong, impsing, grand and high.

	He who led our sires to freedom,
		Neath the glorious stripes and stars;
	He who cheers our friends and brothers.
		E'en through prison gates and bars.

		He who soothes the hunted exiles.
	In their lonely weariness;
		Promising the tried and faithful,
	He will all their wrongs redress.

	He whose pow'r, the raging lion,
		Can to docile meekness turn;
	And can change the fiercest fire flames,
		That His servants shall not burn.
	He who hears our earnest pleading
		Father let they will be done;
	And whose voice, unto His people,
		Ever answers, "Be ye one!"


Shall we shrink, with such a General?
	Shall we step aside or pause?
Shall we dare withhold our efforts,
	In our glorious saving cause?
No! forever! onward, upward
	No retreat no compromise!

Death, to-day, may be our portion—
	LIFF ETERNAL is the prize!
Forward ever in the highway,
	Which the saints before us trod;
Cling together, oh ye people
	Of the GREAT ETERNAL GOD! 
	LULA.
April 8th, 1886.


[Column 1]CORRESPONDENCE.

			ZENOS, Sep. 8, 1886.

MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I have been thinking to-
day how much I would enjoy a quiet half hour
with you in the office, and a good talk upon
events that have transpired since I bade fare-
well to home and friends for a sojourn amid
the waste places of Zion. Many thoughts and
imaginary scenes pass through my mind as I
go to and fro among the ruins that cover this
land. I feel like I was walking on sacred
ground, fancying, sometimes, that the former
inhabitants were watching us with jealous
eyes. 
	I am pleased to state that the excessive heat,
which has lasted much longer than usual this
season, has cooled down considerably: the
evenings are delightful, and its wilted inhabi-
tants begin to look up and smile again. The
EXPONENT comes regularly, is a welcome
friend, and would be missed very much should
it fail to appear.
	I learn with regret the list for subscribers I
represented so long is growing less. I wonder
if the reason is hard times, or if they are grow-
ing careless in the cause of truth, and blind
to their own best interests? surely the women
of Zion should feel anxious for the success of
the one woman's paper in existence,and spread
it abroad, that the world may hear what we
have to say for ourselves; may learn, if we are
in bondage; we chose the bonds, and do not
ask them to break them for us. The sisters
have thousands of relations and friends in the
world where they might send our paper on
missions of love. It might among many reach
some honest hearts, and, like bread cast upon
the waters, return after many days, bringing
ample reward for the labor and cost of send-
ing. I find it hard to express on paper the
thoughts that come into my head. I think of
Zion now passing through the fire that is to
cleanse and purify her, making her ready for
the coming of her King, and wonder who will
stand, or who will fall. I think of those who
are now bearing the heat of the battle where
the blows strike home, sending our noblest and
best to prison cells, or fugitives from their own
dearly bought homes, leaving aching hearts
and darkened hearthstones, where love and
joy were wont to dwell. I feel that Zion
should be humble, low in the dust, praying for
her deliverance, but, alas, too many are blind
in their mad thirst after the pleasures and
follies of the world and I fear they will awake
too late, that their feasting will be turned to
famine, and their mirth to sorrow.
	I do not think that I can tell you anything
new about the country, as no doubt you have

[Column 2]
seen sisters recently from here, and know pretty
well the condition of affairs. One thing I
will say, as it is in the line of my calling at
present. There are hosts of bright, happy
children here as elsewhere in the settlements
of the Saints, and when I look upon them, I
marvel not that Satan and his minions fear
and tremble that they strive to stay their com-
ing, and plant so many snares for unwary
feet to draw them into by and forbidden paths.
May God protect and shield them from his
power until the hour of Christ's victory cbmes.
		Sincerely your friend,
				S. E. RUSSELL.


GOOD NURSES.

	This subject should at once attract the at-
tention of every woman. How often we hear
the question asked, "Where can I find a good
nurse?" Nature has especially endowed women
for the occupation; and all, even men so peculi-
larly sensitive and inconsistent on this point,
will concede the fact that its labors are within
woman's sphere; at the same time woman is
most often in situations to realize the necessity
for and appreciation of a competent nurse. It 
is a matter of surprise that communities are
so indifferent regarding this very important
art and will possibly submit to such a display
of ignorance as is usually met with in the sick
room. As a rule people are exceedingly par-
ticular about the physician they employ, are
careful to assure themselves of his or her
thorough education always showing preference
for one of skillful repute but fail to take the
same precaution regarding a nurse generally
through ignorance or mistaken ideas of econo-
my accepting those who will work for the least
wages, who, realizing that they are incompetent
and having incurred no expenses in educating
themselves for the business they wish to follow,
cannot demand good wages.
	Considering the constant demand for nurses
it would seem as wise policy for physicians, when
establishing themselves in a community, to at
once begin training a corps of nurses whom
they could feel justfied in recommending to
their patients thus removing much cause for suf-
fering and relieveing themselves of much blame
which rightfully belongs to the nurse. We
think the two provisions are inseparable when
success is desired.
	In the infancy and youth of our derritory
when people struggled hard for subsistence
among the hardships endured by women, was
hearing the trials and pains of maternity un-
aided by either competent doctor or nurse, and
many, in consequence, have lost their lives or
dragged through weary months or years mar-
tyrs to unnecessary physical suffering. Years
ago President Brigham Young with character-
istic high regard for and liberality to woman
appreciating her capabilities and needs strongly
urged the education of women as physicians
and it was with his advice and encouragment
that a number of ladies undertook the
study of medicine and became graduates of
medical colleges in the East, and have pursued
the practice of medicine in this territory ap-
parently with as great success as any of the 
opposite sex. With such efficient instructors,
willing to labor and disseminate their knowlege
attained through the untold energy, exertion
and sacrifice, for slight renumeration and with
hundreds of young and middle aged ladies
seeking employment, why will they not em-


brace the excellent advantages afforded in the
various classes organized for the special educa-
tion of women in obstetrics and nursing? and
become efficient reliable workers in an honor-
able and humane calling. In conversation with
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp who will shortly begin an- 
other class in obstetrics she assured me that
she had a list of names of women who being
out of employment have sought her recomen-
dation as nurses but some have had no educa-
tion or training in this responsible office in
justice to herself and those requiring assistance
she is obliged to withhold her signature and
aid. The occupation of a professional nurse is a
remunerative one and her services are always
in demand, but the reasons are clearly defined
to the reasonable mind why the kuewledge of
obstetries and nursing, especially the latter, is
essential to every wife and mother who is con-
tinually required to discharge these duties in
her family, and with what satisfaction and suc-
cess these labors of love might be performed
with the advantages and assurance that knowl-
edge gives. We would certainly encourage
every young lady to take a course as some are
doing in this branch of learning before she 
considers herself qualified to assume the re-
sponsibilities of a home and family whose
health,happiness and prosperity depends chiefly
upon the intelligence and qualifications of the 
Wife and Mother.
			OLIVE BRANCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HENRIETTA'S BAPTISM.

	EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Henrietta said good by to her kind friends,
and traced her steps homeward.
	In a new light she saw everything and she
rejoiced in all that had been told her. She
expected her mother, brother,and sisters would
be glad to hear her wonderful tidings, that in
these last days God had again spoken, and His
authorized agents were again upon the earth,
but, alas! at the home she was met with pity
and contempt from those that were so dear.
They saw no beauty or truth in the doctrine
that had so delighted her.
	All of their ridicule and arguments were
unavailing to eradicate the good impressions
that she had received.
	She attended the meetings of the Latter-
day Saints and the Spirit of God enlightened
her soul, so that when a day was appointed for
baptism, she was at the river’s side, joy shining
in her face.
	It was a gray, cold December morning when
she stepped into the water, under the arch of
a bridge, and was baptised by an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
one who had authority to baptise in the name
of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost
and as he said amen, he plunged her beneath
the water, and she rose to a new life, a new
faith, a new hope, one with a despised sect,had
entered the "wicket gate" and could journey
on to the heavenly City to receive a crown for
a life time of devotion. The baptism was
 over and the little crowd dispersed to their
different homes. Evening came and Henrietta
went to  the confirmation meeting. The
sweet singing and heartfelt prayer were over,
and the Elders laying their hands upon her
had conferred upon her the gift of the Holy
Ghost. That evening was an evening ever to
be remembered. After she had returned home
her heart was so full of joy and thanksgiving
that she felt as if she must pour out her
thoughts in writing a letter to the Elders.
Very seldom had she desired to write, but now
with her mind lit up by the Spirit of the Lord
she sat at her little table, and wrote a letter of
praise and gladness, that she had been privi-
leged to hear and obey the Gospel.
	After her letter was written, she knelt and
prayed,and soon laid down and was fast asleep.


About midnight, she was awakened by a loud
rattling at her door accompanied by a feeling
of terror as if some invisible shape of evil was
approaching. Louder and louder was the
noise until it seemed as if it had reached the
bedside, and the horrid presence was by her.
Intuitively she knew it was the evil one, mad-
dened that she had been baptised,and benumb-
ing her with terror. Then came to her mind
to pray, and as she muttered the name of Jesus
the clanking ceased, the fearfulness left her,
and she felt that she was free from the dire
mysterious influence and that it had vanished.


[Column 1]
DECLINE OF POPULATION IN RU-
RAL MASSACHUSETTS—NO. 1.

	This decline is going on throughout New
England, in portions of New York State and
Ohio, and still other States of the Union. But
there are some advantages in confining our re-
search to a single one, and it is now most con-
venient for me to take as an example that in
which I am residing. Further, Massachusetts 
is regarded as a kind of index State, and so is
looked at to determine somewhat how the ocean
tides of civilization are flowing.
	I have stated that to be a fect which I am
prepared to undertake to prove.
	The fact itself is a startling one, as I shall
try to show in its proper place. 
1. There is a general impression that the
country is being depopulated,while the villages
and the cities are growing larger.
	2. The drift of remark and conversation is
to this effect, whether you listen to the body of
the people or to the observations of travelers,
politicians, philosophers, or otherwise. Anon
you hear the lines;

	"Ill fares the land, to hast'ning ills a prey,
	Where wealth accumulates and men decay;
	Princes and lords may flourish or may fade;
	A breath can make them, as a breath has made:
	But a bold peasantry, their country's pride,
	When once destroyed can never be supplied."

	3. Men accustomed to hold offices in coun-
try towns, in particular, will state how much
larger the vote used to be, and they, or the
school board, will inform one how many dis-
tricts have been dropped and school-houses
closed. Such information is imparted in a way
to indicate that it is painful to the possessor,
and that it will have a melancholy effect upon
the listener. It is understood to be depressing,
instead of animating; a matter of deep regret,
rather than of congratulation.
	4. You may visit one of the older inhabi-
tants, one, perhaps, born in town, and whose
ancestors for several generations lie buried
there, get into conversation with him about
the past and the present of that township, and
he will grow serious, relate how many more
families were used to be in his own and other
neighborhoods circumjacent, how larger the
average household, how much stronger,
healthier and united people thereabouts once
were, he might add, handsomer. He speaks in
the sombre style of an Indian sage standing
on an eminence and describing to his compan-
ion[-] the hills, the vales, the plains which once
belonged to his tribe. 	
	5. Whether the pastor, the sportsman, the
physician, or anyone else is walking or driving
about in one of these towns, he is constantly
meeting, or at little distances, clumps, rows or
circlets of trees that once manifestly sur-
rounded a house, walls and pieces of fence that
quietly bear the same tender testimony, entire
excavations of partly-filled portions of a wall
still standing; in respect to all of which the
exclamation is made, "Another old cellar-
hole!"
	The observer, if at all clairvoyant in the
midst of such scenes, has impressions of van-
ished life, of a departed [--]ilvity, of space de-
serted, now only haunted, and he can [---] un-

[Column 2]
gainly stretches, unsightly distances between
houses, young forest trees growing on old fur-
rows, closed roads and others yet barely open,
almost grown over, which say to him, "I once
was abundantly traveled."
	He will find places where there is energy
and thrift, an attempt to farm according to the
latest ideas; he will also find others, and too
many, where they plow only portions of the
field, skim over a little here and there, are let-
ting buildings, fences and everything else run
down. If he accosts one of these peasants the
response may reveal a nationality not the
primitive New England stock.	
	6. You are distinctly told of a false fear of 
years ago in regard to a supply of wood. It
was thought that the time would come, and
not far distant, when not enough wood would
grow for fuel. At that time forests were felled
to make new fields. Now, although the primi-
tive woods are gone, the tall trees leveled, a
kind of scrubby growth is spreading wider and
wider, and with the increased use of coal the
price of wood is kept down. At the present
time, when woodland is cut over, it is left to
 grow up again. There is tillage land enough
for the diminished and diminishing popula-
tion.
	7. A middle-aged man remembers when,in his
town, at the centre, perchance, there was, for
those days, a large and respectable hotel. The
landlord could afford to provide amply for
man and beast for election days, for weddings,
for sojourners, for parties, and the coming of
the thundering stage. Teachers were examined
there, caucuses held, and sometimes the ordain-
ing council met at that place. There was
plenty of help in and about the buildings, and
all so respectful and ready. The public house
has departed, or dwindled, in many cases, into
a little, miserable rum-selling stand. For the
four and six horses suffices to carry the mail
bags and passenger, should there be one.
	8. A more strangely dreary object can
scarcely lie against the horizon, or confront
your immediate presence,than an unfrequented
church. Yonder is one, and beyond the next
hill is another. They used to have a noble at-
tendance. Preachers, famous in their regions 
at least, officiated in the high pulpits and at
the thronged tables. One or another has given
out and left the field to a rival, not from any
change in conviction, but because the means
became so limited and the attendance so
wretchedly meagre. My best buggy is shining
under a varnish put on in a building which
was once a church. In those very walls,
twenty-five years agone, I used to speak occa-
sionally to a full congregation.
	If I had time to ponder, I could find other
general considerations all pointing their bony
fingers in one direction—that of the caption of
my article. The decline has taken place and
is still going on, as I will bring statistics to at-
test in my next number. 
	The reader will remember that our special
field of view is the famous Bay State. You
would hardly expect to find a better govern-
ment, more gracious institutions, and taken to-
gether, a higher civilization. Our hills break
the cyclones in their formation. We never
have a drouth, such as some countries experi-
ence. Markets are near at hand. The soil is
broken, often rocky; yet back from ocean
sands, never barren. It will produce every
crop the latitude will allow of; is quickly re-
vived, and can not be entirely run out. It
immediately responds to every sort of good
dressing,holds it well, bears the best of grasses,
and has the sweetest of pastures. A farm can
be bought in a good situation for some two
thousand dollars, which will keep ten cows and
the usual proportion of other stock. Why
should such lands be forsaken? We will try
to answer that in the third and closing num-
ber.
					REV. L. HOL[-]ES.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEARS. 

	[SELECTED.

All night have I lain in my tears,
	Like a child—
	A weary child—
Bereft of parents and friends and home:
No one to succor; helpless, alone;
No ear to listen and catch my cry—
Alone in my tears like a child I lie. 

I have lain in my tears, like a child,  
	All night—
	A dismal night:
No star shines forth to lighten the gloom;
All nature lies hushed as the silent tomb;
Darkness hangs over the earth like a pall;
Fast and bitter my hot tears fall.

All night, like a child, have I lain
	In my tears,
	O, ye tears!
That fall like the rain on the sun-parched earth,
Saving the fruits from the withering dearth,
Soothing the wounds of a breaking heart;
Lifting and breaking the clouds apart:
And in their glistening drops doth shine
The rainbow promise, "God's love divine." 
	CECIL.
Plainwell, Mich.


A NEW FASHIONED GIRL.

She'd great and varied knowledge, picked up at
	   a female college, of quadratics, hydrostatics,
	   and pneumatics very vast;
She was stuffed with erudition, as you stuff a
	   leather cushion, all the elogies of the col-
	   leges, and the knowledge of the past.

She had studied the old lexicons of Peruvians and
	   Mexicans, their theology, anthropology, and
	   geology, o'er and o'er.
She knew all the forms and features of the pre-
	   historic creatures—ichthyosaurus, plesiosau-
	   rus, megalosaurus, and many more.

She’d describe the ancient Tuscans, and the
	   Basques and the Etruscans, the griddles
	   and their kettles, and their victuals that they
	   gnawed;
She’d discuss the learned charmer, the theology
	   of Brahma, and the scandals of the Van-
	   dals, and the sandals that they trod.

She knew all the mighty giants, and the master
	   minds of science, all the learning that was
	   turning in the burning mind of man;
But she couldn’t prepare a dinner for a gaunt
	   and hungry sinner, or get up a decent sup-
	   per for her poor, voracious papa, for she
	   never was constructed on the old domestic
	   plan
							Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]
ESSAY ON UTAH.

WRITTEN FOR THE Y. L. M. I. A. BY ONE OF
THE MEMBERS.
	
	Undoubtedly, to day there is no other place,
be it state, territory or country, under the
broad canopy of heaven,  which is so univers-
ally observed, as the subject of this sketch.
Utah is talked about, written of and lectured
upon, until, really, there remains but few, if
any, new ideas concerning her, to be formed or
expressed. So rigorously is this subject handled,
both by friends and enemies, especially the
latter, in all classes of society, that we scarcely
find time to measure one point, or sound the
force of one argument in relation to it, before
something else is thrust upon us for considera-
tion.
	And yet, as young men and women belong-
ing rightfully to Utah, we should give thought
to her and her affairs; deep studious thought;

[Column 2]
not allowing ourselves to become wearied even
by misrepresentations and odiums cast upon a
theme at once so popular yet so little under-
stood by a vast majority of the whole world.
	Many of us, who now help to form the grow-
ing strength and increasing glory of Utah,
may proudly claim her as our birth place.
Others who still belong to our young peoples'
association, have vivid  recollections of the
long tedious journey across the plains with ox
teams. Oh! that toilsome journey!  How many
of our fathers, weary and foot-sore, performed
the entire expedition on foot!  How many of
our mothers walked until they fainted in their
tracks, before they would add their scanty
weight to the loads drawn by the already over-
worked teams.  But they got through at last,
those who survived, and "found the place pre-
pared for them, far away in the west." How
good it seemed to find a resting place!  How
the fathers and mothers praised God for His
goodness; how their little ones sported and
laughed.  How thankful thousands were for
the first new clothes they obtained after set-
tling in Utah.  In many instances even the
little children helped in the production of
those clothes, by pulling the wool off the dead
sheep, or gathering it off the sage brush where
it had been left by sheep passing along to nib-
ble the grass.
	How happy many a Utah girl and boy felt
in those times if provided with a pair of buck-
skin moccasins to cover the little chapped and
bruised feet with on Sundays.  And oh! how
good the cakes sweetened with beet or water-
melon molasses tasted.  No dainties appear
on our tables now that we have half the relish
for.
	These are things of the past; but they must
be thought of and considered in order to pro-
perly contrast the Utah of to-day with the
Utah of twenty and thirty years ago.
	Under the blessings of an all wise and all
merciful Father, and the ceaseless toil and
labors of an industrious and ambitious people.
Utah has taken gigantic strides in the paths of
enterprise and development.  Her boys and
girls, from six to fifteen years, attend school
now, instead of herding sheep and cows.  And
here, let it be noted, that to educate the chil-
dren in the right way, in all that is useful and
ennobling to the human character, has ever
been one of the fundamental principles upon
which the founders of Utah have operated.
Everywhere in the Territories, where enough
inhabitants have settled to form a ward or
branch almost the first thing thought of and
looked after has been the establishment of
a school for the children.  And where fami-
lies have resided too far from settlements to
admit the children attending school, books and
slates have been their companions at home,
and the parents themselves have been the
tutors.  Doubtless, hundreds of our young
men and women can recall with pleasure the
times when they took their spelling-books and
readers with them and learned their lessons
while they followed the sheep.  I know some
who can.
	Returning to Utah of to-day, we find that
her day and Sabbath schools and also her
literature compare favorably with any State
or Territory of equal age, and with some that
are much older.  In many other respects she
also ranks high.  Having means provided by
which the poor are relieved without the neces-
sity of begging.  The erection of handsome
and substantial buildings for public benefit,
etc., etc.
	Judging from the past and the present, we
may safely conclude, that if the youth among
us are as faithful to the trusts reposed in them,
as energetic and determined as their parents
have been, and they should be much more so,
Utah, in the near future, will shine forth,
"beautiful and glorious."


SLANDEROUS REPORTS.

	The Latter-day Saints have ever been the
victims of slander.  From the time of their
existence, as a people, until the present, they
have been made to feel this weapon of cow-
ards.  Very frequently you find whole neigh-
borhoods who believe that our elders who are
sent out to preach the Gospel to them, go out
as spies; any one believing such reports to be
true concerning the Latter-day Saints, mani-
fests a spirit of intense bitterness against them.
And many would consider it doing God’s
justice, to adopt any measure, however unfair
it might be, to suppress “Mormonism.”  When
the Saints were citizens of Ohio, Misouri and
Illinois, the red-right hand of bloody persecu-
tion did all it could to blot them out of exist-
ence.
	They were persecuted and driven from their
comfortable homes, out into the wilderness,
only to meet with the continuance of these
vile reports.  As a consequence of these false
impressions existing, respecting the the Lat-
ter-day Saints, many people are unwilling to
listen to the instructions of our elders, whom
we send to preach the Gospel in their midst.
So bitter are the feelings of men in some
neighbor-hoods,  that  they band together
to drive out traveling elders from their vicinity;
and in some instances, seek their lives.  Slan-
der, has, undoubtedly, caused this state of
affairs.  They who have come into our midst
through self-interest, and a love of popular
applause, have misrepresented us and our in-
stitutions to the world, vilified our characters,
and then have stirred up this bitter feeling
towards us, and fanned the flame of hatred,
until they are provoked to deeds of violence,
because of the slanderous reports in circulation.
We don’t know  how  long this people, who
have been the victims of slander will suffer
from such cruel prejudice; nor do we know
how many will reject the Gospel, because of
these false reports,but of one fact we may be as-
sured—that as the sun rises above the moun-
tains and dispels the mists that have gathered
during the night, so truth will rise and dispel
the sodden clouds of “slander.”
						  HYACINTH.	
   Alpine City, Utah Co., Sept. 2nd.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The circulation of the Boston Sunday Globe
for August averaged 105,000, and that of the
Daily Globe 99,000.

	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has returned from
her European trip. She continues her inter-
esting letters in the Inter-Ocean, the last one
being a vivid description of “Picturesque
Ireland.” 

	Oliver Wendell Holmes, who has received no
end of courtesy and good-will abroad,has come
home safe and sound, having kept his seventy-
seventh birthday on shipboard. Thomas
Hughes and Clara Louise Kellogg were on the
same steamer.

	Dr. Sarah Frissell, a graduate of Mount
Holyoke Female Seminary,took the four years'
course at Ann Arbor Medical School,receiving
the regular degree of M. D., after three years
study, and a diploma for a special course in
anatomy and diagnosis of disease.  She had,
for six months, charge of a hospital for women
and children.  She practised as a physcian for
seven years in Pittsfield, where she had good
success and many patients, who were very
sorry to have her leave.  She went to Spring-
field two years since, where she is winning
her way by her medical skill and thorough
conscientious work. She was, ad interim, the
physcian for her alma mater, after the death
of the regular resident physician before an-
other could be found.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

     Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
     Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of noparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
     EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]
	THE TIMES ARE SIGNIFICANT.

	The great earthquake felt in the east, recently,
and which made such terrible destruction of life
and property in Charleston, has given a warning
alarm to many, and caused much reflection in the
minds of sober thinking people.  That the most
severe shock should have been felt, and the
greatest desolation made in the very place where
the late War of the Rebelion first broke out,
seems a singular coincidence indeed.  The terror
inspired by this catastrophe among the people,
taken as a whole, seems to have made a deeper im-
pression upon them than any event of modern
times, at least in this country, and will, no doubt,
result in awakening many to inquiring and search-
ing after truth and righteousness; and though the
majority will attribute this awful calamity to some
freak of nature, and ignore nature’s God in the
matter, the Latter-day Saints are not ignorant of
the meaning of all these signs and wonders and
manifestations of God’s displeasure and His power.
Great events are transpiring, and great changes
are at the very doors of the nations, whether the
people heed these serious and timely warnings or
not; nevertheless the fact remains, that the prophe-
cies uttered by the servants of God in ancient and
modern times, and as recorded in the Bible, the
Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
are being fulfilled.
	The people may shut their eyes and close their
ears to the warnings, but in the day of His power
“the Lord shall have them in derision.”  The
Prophet Jeremiah says, speaking of the Latter
days:
	“Behold, a whirlwind of the Lord has gone
forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind; it shall
fall grievously upon the head of the wicked.” 
	“The anger of the Lord shall not return until
He have executed, and till He have performed the
thoughts of His heart; in the latter days ye shall
consider it perfectly.”
	Is it not easy to comprehend that the whirlwinds
have come? and in several of the States the peo-
ple have already prepared places of refuge, such
as cellars and dugouts, so that when these terrific
winds arise they may take shelter in them, and
perchance escape the fury of the elements.
Isaiah the prophet said:
	“And they shall go into the holes of the rocks,
and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the
Lord, and for the glory of His majesty, when He
ariseth to shake terribly the earth.”
	Already these words are being fulfilled, and
strong men fear and tremble and quail before the
storm, and know not what to do or where to go for
safety and protection.  Theories of all kinds are
being published and circulated to account for these
wars among the elements of nature, and to allay
the superstitions of the ignorant, as the world
terms those who acknowledge that the day of God’s
judgments has come.
	Peter, the apostle, said:  “Judgment must be-
gin at the house of God, and if it first begins at
us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the
Gospel of God?”

[Column 2]
	It is not, therefore, expected that the Latter-day
Saints, or that Zion will escape, but that the Saints
need to be on the watchtower constantly, that they
may not be oyercome, or overtaken unawares, for
“no one knoweth the day nor the hour."  St. Luke
in his Gospel says: “And there shall be signs in
the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and
upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity,
the sea and the waves roaring;
	“Men's hearts are failing them for fear, and for
looking after those things which are coming on the
earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.”
	Those who make a life study of the sciences
would fain make men believe that there is no oc-
casion for alarm, that all will go on without serious
interruption, that there is no programme marked,
out by an Almighty hand; but the Saints know
better, and the Elders and messengers have been
sent forth from time to time to warn the people
and to entreat them to repent of their sins and
hearken unto the Lord.  A lew here and there
have obeyed this warning voice, have even re-
joiced that they were permitted to hear the glad
tidings of salvation brought to them, and have
gathered to Zion to be further instructed in the
ways of the Lord, that they might make prepara-
tion for the day of His coming.
	Not only do the prophecies of the Scripture
point to the events now transpiring, but also the
Book of Mormon and the prophecies of Joseph
Smith recorded in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, as contained in the revelations of God
to him.  In a revelation given December 27th,
1832,at Kirtland,Ohio,we find corroborative testi-
mony to that of Isaiah and other prophets of the
olden times:
	“And alter your testimony cometh wrath and
indignation upon the people.”
	“For after your testimony cometh the testimony
of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the
midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground
and shall not be able to stand.”
	“And also cometh the testimony of the voice
of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and
the voice of tempests, and the waves of the sea
heaving themselves beyond their bounds.”
	Can any one of sane mind say these things are
not being fulfilled?  Surely not!
	Men’s hearts are failing them for fear, and the
running to and fro in the earth is another signifi-
cant fact in connection with many others.  There
is abundance of proof that these things are true,
and those who hearken and obey the voice of the
Lord to His people, and sanctify and purify their
own hearts and lives, sincerely repenting of evil
and of folly, and humbling themselves, may, by
constant devotion and the help of the Holy Spirit,
endure these terrible things that are daily oc-
curring.  But not in their own strength can any
stand, only by relying upon God and obeying His
commandments given through His servants, who
are sat as Shepherds and as Watchmen to take
care of His flock.  Those who study in humility
and prayer the Bible and other books containing
the word of the Lord to His people will find conso-
lation, strength and encouragement for the per-
formance of duties and obligations, and help to
fulfill those of a temporal as well as a spiritual na-
ture, for we have practical work to do, and the
kingdom of God cannot be established upon the
earth without it.  Yet there is no work of any kind
that is not better done when one is in the posses-
sion of the Spirit of God, and in order to keep
that good Spirit, one’s life and works must corres-
pond.  Seek diligently to keep in the strait and
narrow way, and listen for the still small voice
within, while bowing in obedience to the authority
God has set in His Church to preside.  We are
told that, “Obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and the Saints have proved it again and again.
The Lord will take care of his people who are
striving to walk in his paths and will “yet make
 he wrath of man to praise Him,” even as he has

[Column 3]
said, for his words cannot fail of fulfillment.  And
O, how much there is to do, to build up Zion that
she may be established and become glorious;sure-
ly “the harvest is ready but the laborers are few,”
and many seek their own pleasure and aggrandize-
ment.  Evil influences are abroad, and they are
far more dangerous than disease, and not so ap-
parent, they strive to get possession of the body
and thus destroy the soul; and against tempta-
tions and allurements of the adversary the Saints
should watch continually as well as pray and
avoid the insinuations and promptings of the
wicked one, who is ever on the alert to decoy the
unwary, the careless and the indifferent.
	The hand of the Lord is stretched out in judg-
ment, yet will He remember his own in mercy.
He has said "if the righteous barely escape,"
which shows plainly that they must live near to
Him.  Blessed indeed are they who do his bid-
ding and whom, when He cometh,shall have their
lamps trimmed and burning.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE death notice of Sister Eliza Lyman, pub-
lished in our issue of September 1st, was more to
put her death on record in the EXPONENT, where
it should have been published at the proper time.

	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform.

	In looking over some old copy, we came across
the re-organization of the Relief Society in Draper
last year.  It is late to publish it, but it should
certainly be on record in the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Primary Associa-
tions in the several Stakes in Zion will please for-
ward reports to this office, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
at the earliest date possible, in order that a com-
plete report may be prepared for the October Con-
ference.

	SISTERS ELLEN C. CLAWSON and Lydia Ann 
Wells visited Granger Ward, and attended two
meetings of the Primary Association at that place,
on Tuesday, Sep. 7, and enjoyed the day very
much.  Further particulars of the meetings will
be furnished hereafter.

	THE closing exercises of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp's
class in obstetrics took place last Monday.  The
graduates were all of this city—Miss Mary
Schwartz, Mrs. Sarah White and Mrs. Mary Ed-
wards.  These ladies passed most creditable and
thorough examinations, which were conducted by
Drs. Anderson, H. J. Richards, Bower and Harri-
son.  Through the thoughtful kindness of Miss
Schwartz Dr. Shipp and her class were invited to
the Gardo House, where a most interesting and
enjoyable time was spent, in feasting the mind and
body.  At the close of the day the ladies separated,
each with thankful hearts for their success, in
their studies, and an earnest prayer for their future
usefulness.  Dr. Shipp and her class wish to ex-
press their gratitude to the physicians, who have
so kindly assisted, by delivering such useful and
well selected lectures, The next class will com-
mence on Monday, Oct. 1st, 1886.

	OUR [-]eaders will very likely have noticed that
for some time past there have been no contribu-
tions from the pen of our gifted sister, Hannah T.
King, and possibly they have wondered why she
has not written.  For years she has been a regular
contributor, scarcely a number of the paper hav-
ing been issued without one or more of her articles
appearing but her health has failed, and she is no
longer able to write, much as she would like to do
so.  She has suffered very great pain, and is now
upon a bed of affliction.  She delighted in writing


—it was with her an inspiration and a pleasure.
Many are the enconiums of praise given her by 
those who enjoyed and appreciated her articles. 
Perhaps when the cooler weather comes she may
recruit and become known again through her
writings. She has had great faith exercised for
her through the administration of the Elders, and
many precious promises have been given, that
have buoyed her up and helped her, and Sister
King is perfectly passive, and reconciled to the 
will of the Lord to go or to stay, as seemeth His
will. It was our duty, no doubt, to have men-
tioned Sister King's illness in the EXPONENT be-
fore, but we hoped she would soon recover and 
take her accustomed place in the columns of our 
little paper. We are greatly indebted to her for
 many beautiful thoughts, eloquently expressed,
and her memory will live in the hearts of thou-
sands who never knew her personally, because of 
her valuable contributions to home literature.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REBA BEEBE PRATT.

	DIED, at her residence in Farmer’s Ward,
Wednesday morning, September 1st. 1886, Sister
Reba B. Pratt, beloved wife of Elder Alma Pratt-
Sister Pratt’s illness was of a very trying and pain-
ful nature, and her sufferings, a greater part of
the time during the last two years, had been most
intense and agonizing. To those around her, and.
her friends who visited her from time to time, she
was a marvel of patience and sweet resignation.
No complaints or murmurs were ever heard from
her lips, and when momentarily free from pain she
was bright and cheerful. She had an angelic
spirit, and her faith in the principles of divine
truth was ever strong and fervent. Her sick room
might well be called “a chamber of peace, for
such it seemed to me whenever I visited her. Sis-
ter Pratt was in herself a beautiful character, and
possessed of a gifted and refined nature.
	Through the entreaties of her most intimate
friends she was persuaded, during the period of
her illness, to consent to the publication of her
fragmentary writings. The book was issued about
ten days previous to her demise. Some of the
pieces were written while she was suffering acute
pain, and as she has always been a very busy and
industrious person, has not had leisure to write
and revise and cultivate as much as some others,
but wrote as she felt impressed from time to time.
The title she chose for her book is certainly a
most appropriate one: “The Sheaf of a Gleaner.”
A sketch of the author’s life was written by Sister
Sarah' Jane Cannon, and published with the poems.
This biography gives interesting facts, and dates,
etc., a valuable addition to the work. We must
congratulate Sister Cannon on her success in pre-
paring this introduction to the verses, as it gives
the reader a greater interest in the poems.
	Such lives as that of Sister Pratt are worthy of
record, and we shall be glad to republish the
sketch from the little book at some future time,
if permitted. A poem entitled, “When Will The
Messenger Come,” expresses her real feelings in
regard to death in a most pathetic and touching
style. The last verse is:

"When through the dark waters he bears me away,
	A boon to my sould it would be
If that dream unbroken—like some magic spell—
	Could keep death's shadow from me;
Oh, blessed dream! could the awakening come 
	With my father and mother, safe at home.”

By that dream she means a dream of childhood,
in her sleep, to which she alludes in the preceding
verse.
	Sister Pratt was born April 1st, 1856, in Polk
City, Iowa. Her parents were Latter-day Saints,
and she was early taught the principles of the
Gospel, to which she ever remained firm and
steadfast. She was baptized Dec. 4th, 1869, by
Elder Moroni L. Pratt. She was ambitious in


her desire for knowledge, and early qualified her-
self for a teacher, receiving a certificate to teach
at sixteen.  Afterwards she attended the Iowa
State Agricultural College for one year.  She ac-
quitted herself honorably in all the positions she
filled, whether practical or literary; and as a wife
and mother, she was devoted and self-sacrificing.
In Farmer’s Ward, where she has lived since her
marriage, January 10th, 1876, she has filled, at
different times, the offices of Primary Counselor
and President of both Primary and Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Associations.
   Sister Pratt’s life was replete with good deeds,
and she died in the full hope of a glorious resur-
rection beyond the grave.


[Column 1]
	TOPICS OF THE TIMES.

	BY THE EDITOR.

	Suicide, or self-murder is becoming an event of
startling frequency in our country. At no time
since the people came to these valleys has there
been so many suicides in proportion to the popu-
lation as of late. In fact, in early days, it was a
crime almost unknown to the people; and if a
self-murder occurred, it shocked the community
and excited deep and wide-spread comment. But
now there is scarcely a daily paper without an ac-
count of some person having attempted self-de-
struction. A mania for self killing appears to be
going through the country. No doubt the com-
mission of this act by one suggests the crime to
others. Weak-minded people, or those who have
a love for notoriety, brood over the killing of
which they have heard, until their minds become
morbid and partly insane upon the subject, and
in a moment of temptation they destroy them
selves.
	The frequency with which this crime is com-
mitted calls loudly upon those in authority in the
community to take some measures to check the
mania. It should receive immediate attention.
The seal of public condemnation should be put
upon suicide. Those who have an inclination of
this kind should be made to understand that in
killing themselves, they gain an infamous notori-
ety and bring upon themselves public dishonor
and the same condemnation that is attached to
murder of every kind.
	This crime is increasing rapidly in the United
States and other nations. It seems to be one of
the results of Satan’s increased influence over the
children of men. Having no tabernacle himself,
he would like to prompt every child of God to
destroy his body. When a human being becomes
possessed of the devil, the tabernacle is soon
wrecked; for neither he nor his companion spirits
know to what use to put a fleshly tabernacle ex-
cept to destroy it.
	Man did not create himself. He did not furnish
his spirit with a human dwelling place. It is
God who created, man, both body and Spirit. Man
has no right, therefore, to destroy that which he
had no agency in creating. They who do so are
guilty of murder, self-murder it is true; but they
are no more justified in killing themselves than
they are in killing others. What difference of
punishment there is for the two crimes, I do not
know; but it is clear that no one can destroy so
precious a gift as that of life without incurring a
severe penalty.
	By the people of medieval times the remains
of those who were guilty of this offense were
treated as the remains of other murderers. In
England, it was the practice to dig the grave
of the suicide in a place where four roads met.
The body was consigned to the hole, and a stake
was driven through it into the ground, and it was
then covered up. This was a barbarous method
of treating the lifeless remains of a human being;
but it clearly expresses the horror that was en-
tertained by the people of those days of this

[Column 2]
dreadful crime. It doubtless was designed to
be barbarous in order to impress the minds of the
people with the awful consequences of such an
 act, and to show the execration with which the
memories of suicides would be held by surviving
generations. To this day places of this kind,
where the bodies of suicides were buried are
known and pointed out by the common people.
The rememberance of the manner in which they
destroyed themselves, and their burial places, are
perpetuated from generation to generation, and
such spots are dreaded and shunned, especially in
the night.
	This custom of refusing Christian burial to self-
murderers prevails upon the continent of Europe.
The Catholic church in Europe rigidly excludes
murderers from burial in what is knowu as con-
secrated ground. This is the rule also where the
Greek church the Lutheran church and the church
of England have control. The mortal remains of
no suicide is permitted to be buried in ground
which has been consecrated as the last resting
place of those who lead proper lives. In this way
these churches show their condemnation of this
crime. I think the Latter-day Saints should do
no less. There is no people who are taught as we
are to place a high value upon life. We are
taught to look upon murder as a most frightful
crime. The sacredness and importance of human
life are impressed upon us by every revela-
tion which God has given concern-
ing man and his future destiny. The
Spirit of God impresses man to look with
abhorence upon the shedding of blood; and no
man, who is possessed of it, will take the life of
an animal, a fowl, a fish, or even an insect, un-
necessarily.
	In order to palliate the crime of self-murder
there is a disposition often shown to attribute the
act to insanity or aberration of mind. This is
especially so where the individual who destroys
himself, or herself has been respected, or where
they have respectable connections. In this way
it is thought the feelings of surviving relatives
will be saved. Doubtless there are many cases of
self-murder which are due to insanity; but that
this mania can be greatly controlled and checked,
experience has abundantly proven. At one time,
in the city of Paris, the mania for self-destruction
became almost an epidemic. The authorities, be-
ing alarmed at the increase of the crime, took the
subject into consideration, and, finally, decided to
expose the body of every suicide, stripped of
every vestige of clothing, to the gaze of all the
public, who chose to visit the morgue, or dead-
house. It seemed a brutal thing to do, but the
epidemic needed a strong remedy. It had the de-
sired effect. Suicides almost ceased. Even
abandoned women shrank from committing self-
murder in view of such a penalty—the exposure of
their persons after death to the vulgar gaze. This
experiment plainly proves that there can be
checks used to prevent this crime.
	I do not believe that many would commit cuicide
among us if it were known beforehand that such
indignities as I have referred to would be heaped
upon their lifeless remains. But if officers and
members of our Church meet to-gether, and some
of our Elders,with eloquent words,bear testimony
to the moral worth and the excellent traits of
character of the one who has violently taken his
or her own life, and then a cortege is formed to
accompany the body, with solemn pagantry, to the
cemetery, to consign it to a resting place amidst
the honored dead whose lives have been just and
pure, what is there to make the living think that
self-murder is a dreadful sin against God and
against humanity?
	Many perhaps will think this language harsh.
Sympathy for the families of those who commit
this deed would prompt words of comfort, because
of the dreadful trial to which they are subjected;
but this crime is becoming too common to admit


of this method of dealing with it. Justice to the
living—justice to the rising generation, demands
that it shall receive the condemnation which it de-
serves. It is murder, and men and women can
not be justified in staining their hands even with
their own blood or in taking their own lives.
	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
should set its seal of reprobation and condemna-
tion upon this dreadful act. Instead of honoring
them who commit it by making their funerals dis-
tinguished, and treating them as though they were
dead heroes or heroines, and making no distinc-
tion between them and those who have worn
themselves out in the service of their God, let
them be buried in secret and without display, and
in ground far removed from the burial places of
those who have lived lives of honor and purity.—
Juvenile Instructor


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“SEPTEMBER SEVENTH.” 
		
	For the last twelve years the above date has
been one of interest to the loving friends of Sister
Presendia L. Kimball.  It was celebrated at her
quiet little residence in the 16th Ward of this
city, this month, by fifty or more of the sisters in
Zion, as the seventy-sixth anniversary of Sister
Presendia’s birthday.  An excellent picnic repast
was partaken of, and greatly enjoyed, but the
more special feature of the gathering was a formal 
meeting, presided over by the lady herself, in
whose honor the guests were assembled.  Singing,
prayer and remarks by each sister present (there
were but two children and no gentlemen), inter-
spersed by the reading and reciting of three
original poems, two of which were composed for
the occasion, constituted the exercises, which
closed with a beautiful benediction by the hon-
ored and beloved hostess of the occasion.
	After the close of the meeting, Miss Cecelia
Sharp recited, “Whistling in Heaven,” which was
highly appreciated.  It is safe to say that thou-
sands in Zion, who are not permitted to extend
greetings personally, will gladly join us in wishing
Sister Presendia “many, many happy returns of
the day.” 
	LULA.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	Missionary and Indian donations are included
in charitable disbursments.
	Wheat is computed by bushels.
	Nothing is to be reported except under one or
other of the printed heads.
	If Real Estate increases in value this increase
must be shown in the receipts for the six months.
	Presidents and secretaries are requested to at-
tach full name and address to reports.
	Reports are heareafter to be sent to Dr. Romania
B. Pratt.  Office over Godbe and Pitts drug store,
Salt Lake City, and they must be sent in promptly
by the 15th of September and if latter than the
20th of September they cannot be used.
	MRS. S. M. KIMBALL, Sec.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, Asst. Sec.


[Column 1]
	R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	R. S. TEMPE, ARIZONA.

     Our ward and society are alive to the inter-
est of the Latter-day work, and we are trying
to live up to the requirements thereof.  There
is much sickness among the little children this
season.  Sister Delcena Babbitt lost her lovely
little daughter, one year old, on the 20th of
August.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I re-
main,
	J. D. WILSON.

[Column 2]
	DRAPER.

	Owing to the death of our late President,
Harriet R. Burnham, we have been disorgan-
ized, but were reorganized September 11th,
with Mrs. Catherine Smith, President;  Mrs.
Mary Smith and Mrs. Hannah Rawlins, Coun-
selors; Mrs. Annie Burnham, Secretary; Mrs.
Kate Sanders, Ass’t Secretary; Mrs. Annie
Howard, Treasurer.
	The sisters all seem to feel well in the Gos-
pel and to go ahead with renewed energy in
keeping the commandments of the Lord, and
in assisting the poor and needy; in trying to
comfort those who feel bowed down and need
comfort, and in doing all the good they can in
every way.  We have a small house now that
we can call our own, where we can meet to-
gether and hold our sewing meetings without
having to wait until we can get the ward house.
Our school is held in that building, so that it
has been rather inconvenient for us to have our
meetings there.  We always feel blessed in
meeting together, and in talking one to another
in regard to our duties as Latter-day Saints,
and we feel to ask the Lord to bless His peo-
ple with such a sufficiency of His holy Spirit
that they may be able to stand firm and stead-
fast to the truth of this Gospel, no matter
what we may be called to pass through, and
that we may always be found in the line of our
duty, is the prayer of,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	ANNIE BURNHAM, Secretary.
	
	BANNOCK STAKE

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Association of the Bannock Stake convened in
the Rexburg hall, Aug. 20th, 1886 at 1 p.m.,
Prest. Ella Hinckley presiding.  On the stand
were Prest. Ella Hinckley, Counselors Sarah
A. Barnes, and Sarah E. Ricks and Secretary
Lizzie Rigby also a majority of the Presidents
and officers of the different places, and a num-
ber of the brethren.
	After the opening exercises Prest. Ella
Hinckley addressed the children and officers
upon the duties in the associations, and the
care and training of the children, said they
should be taught to be polite, gentle, kind and
truthful, and they will grow up to be noble
men and women, ornaments in the Kingdom
of God and in society; should be taught while
young to attend to their prayers, and pay
their tithing; encouraged the children to go to
fast meetings for there they could get testi-
monies; gave many instructions that sank deep
into the hearts of the children and all present.
	The Primary Star, a manuscript paper, was
read by Sarah  E.  Ricks; Recitation by
Janie Holman, entitled, Primary address;
Trio by Mamie Conrad, Rhoda Donaldson and
Alice Graham; followed by a Recitation, by
Rhoda Donaldson,  entitled, the ten virgins.
Song by Lilly and Sarah Bell; Question from
the Bible, answered by Francis Rigby; Song
by Robert Archibald; Recitation by Wallace
Jacobs; Song by Ida Stoddard; Bible question
answered by Silas Hinckley; Recitation by
Rhoda Stoddard, after which the minutes of
the different associations were read.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes gave the children
great credit for their good order and punctual-
ity;  spoke on the necessity of prayer, and
obedience to those placed over them; earnestly
advised the children to thiok what they are
living for, and have an aim in view, and that
aim should be to be saved and exalted in the
Kingdom of God, spoke of the blessings of the
Lord to us as a people, encouraged the chil-
dren to press forward; asked the Lord to bless
all with wisdom and knowledge that they 
might grow up to be noble men and women.
	Sister Sarah E. Ricks said she could feel the
Spirit of the Lord was present; hoped they
would retain the good instructions they had

[Column 3]
received; thought the Primaries were doing a
great work; realized it was a responsible posi-
tion to be placed over the children of Zion.
and those that are placed in position if they
do not fill their calling.  The Lord will hold
them responsible for the same; counseled the
children to use good language and be strictly
honest.
	Brother Troup said he never felt better in a
meeting; thought the Spirit of the Lord had
been with the children; felt to bless them in
their labors, encouraged the children to keep
the “word of wisdom,” and gave some good
advice.
	Brother Hinckley made some good and time-
ly remarks: counseled   the   children  to  be
neat and clean in their persons and make their
homes so also, and to obey those placed over
them, and remember the good instructions they
had received asked the Lord to bless all the
children.
	Prest. Ella Hinckley spoke of the fair that 
is soon to come off.  Conference adjourned for
three  months.  Singing,  "In  our   lovely
Deseret.”  Benediction by Brother Troup.
	ELLA HINCKLEY, Prest.
	LIZZIE RIGBY, Sec.
				
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking the many readers of your valuable
paper would like to hear what we are doing in
the North Oneida Stake, we will send the
minutes of a quarterly conference of the Y.
M. and Y. L. M. I. A. held in Franklin, Aug.
15th.  There were present of the Stake Presi-
dency, Prest. M. F. Cowley, Coun. F. C. Par-
kinson,  Prest.  Esther  C. Parkinson,  Coun.
Ruth A. Hatch.
	After the usual opening exercises,the follow-
ing parts were rendered:  Select Reading by
Bro. Andrew Shumway, from Elder J. M.
Grant’s missionary experiences; followed by
Clara Goaslind who gave a synopsis of the life
of Queen Esther.  Bro. S. B. Cutler reported
the Franklin Association as doing well.  Luella
Parkinson recited, Whistling in Heaven.  An
Essay on obedience was read by Bro. David
Williams of Franklin.  The Y. L. Association
of Franklin and the  Y.  M.  Assocation.  of
Fairview were each reported as being in a 
flourishing condition.  Coun. Ruth A. Hatch
felt to encourage Mutual Improvement.  A
Recitation entitled, What I live for, was ren-
dered by Bro. John Rankin.  Brother Bing-
ham of Clifton, Stake Secretary of the Y. M.
M. I. A. spoke on the first principles of the
Gospel in a very able manner.  Bro. Davis
advised the young men to obtain an inherit-
ance in Zion.  Singing.  Benediction by F. C.
Parkinson.
	Afternoon session:  After opening exercises
remarks were made by members of different
associations who expressed a determination to
remain faithful to the glorious work in which
we are engaged, and desired to do all they
could to aid Mutual Improvement.  Acting
Bishop S. R. Parkinson, lately arrested at
Ogden on the usual charge, felt well in our
midst expressed an earnest desire to remain
faithful to all the principles of the Gospel; ad-
vised the people to be united and remember
there are some among us not able to help
themselves, and no one should suffer for the
necessaries of life.  Parents should be inter-
ested in their children; educate them that they
may become shining instruments in the King-
dom of God; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of the brethren and sisters in his be-
half, that he might be true to his God and to
the covenants he had made, as he did not feel
to make a shipwreck  of what  he had done.
Prest. M. F. Cowley wished to impress upon
the minds of the young people the importance
of the great work in which we are engaged.
	We live in a day that the apostles looked
forward to, and desired to see.  Spoke in re-


gard to the pre-existence of man in the spirit
world and some were more noble than others 
and of those the Lord will make rulers. Man
has been appointed to come forth in the time 
and manner in which he does, and part of his 
mission is to occupy and till the land. All 
manner of precious metal shall be found in 
the land of Joseph on the Western Hemis-
phere, quoting references form the Bible to 
substantiate his remarks. The ancient prophets 
and apostles foresaw the downfall of the
ancient church and for seventeen centuries
there was no true church until the Lord spoke 
through the Prophet Joseph Smith who re-
ceived all the keys that had been held by holy  
men of old, our spirits have been reserved to 
come forth in the day when Latter-day Saints 
will see Zion redeemed. 
	Prest. Esther C. Parkinson spoke of the 
necessity of obeying the commandments of 
God and disapproved of the Saints following 
too much after the fashions of this world.
There are great responsibilities resting upon
every member in order to advance their asso-
ciations, advised all to be faithful. 
	After a few remarks by F. C. Parkinson 
conference was adjourned for three months.
Ever withing for the prosperity of Zion, we
reamin,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
	ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
	RUTH A. HATCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	LETTER OF APPRECIATION.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Since my promise some months ago to chain
my thoughts and present them in readable
form to our dear little paper, for the considera-
tion of our sisters, I have formed many a reso-
lution to keep it, but in the midst of the daily
round of a mother’s busy life, where heart and
brain and physical powers alike have been
taxed to the utmost, it seems that I could do
no more than read the little messenger of in-
telligence, so filled with warm, bright and pure
womanly thoughts, like a sweet, comforting
friend  in the hour of distress. How many
times my heart has respouded to the sentiments
expressed, and I feel that the same echo will
come from hundreds of sister hearts, who,
while appreciating the efforts of the writers,
through timidity, withhold their own able
thoughts on the various questions of interest to
us as a people; and there is not the freedom of
response, which, if concentrated in the pages
of the EXPONENT, would so much better repre-
sent the faith, experience and intelligence of
the women of Israel. Some may call it "small
talk," but I doubt if such ever give expression
to greater wisdom, or purer and more lofty
sentiments. Still, I do not think the EXPON-
ENT as well sustained as it should be to do
credit to our sisterhood.	
	Who does not feel inspired with the grand
truths so majestically and beautifully portrayed
by our general favorite, Hannah T. King? or
who can read the sweet eloquence, entwined
with sound arguments, deep wisdom and
faith, born of experience, displayed in "Aunt
Em's" articles, without an increase of spiritual
strength and power to meet life's trials more
bravely? Then Helen Mar Whitney leads one
to think that they have never done anything
for the kingdom of God, and are unworthy to 
unlatch the shoes of those who have borne and
suffered so very much in helping to establish 
the work of God, the heroism which she por-
trays in the lives of our sisters is a beacon
light to those who know that trial is the 
promised portion of a true Saint. And the
"Biographies of noble women"—one is led to
emulate their virtues and reverence the charac-
ters thus glorified, and I often think how little

[Column 2]

of a life's history can be crowded into a few
pages—the unwritten history looms up before
me, and I am glad that angels are more accu-
rate historians than mortals. I wonder if any
one can read the poems of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee, Lula, Augusta Joyce Crocheron and
Lu Dalton without finding something to feed
their souls and touch the tender, hidden chords 
of the heart?
	By the way, why don't Lu Dalton favor us
oftener with her sound logic, impressive senti-
ments and entertaining sarcasms? I've missed
her very much of late years. Would love to 
re-peruse "Horoscope," but have searched in
vain for the forgotton number of the paper in
which it appeared. Will she forward a copy
and gratify an admirer? I've spent many a
happy hour with "Queerie" and "Mary" of
Grantsville, and why are they silent? A score
of nom de plumes and initials that have puzzled
and vexed me would also receive a hearty vote
of thanks could I be furnished with an intro-
duction to those whose identity is so carefully
guarded by them. I trust that we shall have
many spicy chats with "Homespun." I'm sure
she will find much on that far off isle to enter-
tain and instruct us, in her ever cheery, origin-
al way. Well, memory fails to recall just now
all whose pen pictures have given me pleasure.
I like the gems of thought interspersed here
and there; in them one gets a sermon at a 
glance. Hints on household management,
home government, the proper training of our
human twigs, cookery, hygienic notes and
pleasant paragraphs are all very acceptable in
a woman's companion.
	May the latent talent of Zion's daughters be
fostered and improved by cultivation and
demonstrated in the pages of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. May it indeed be a true repre-
sentative of the faith, culture, intelligence and 
heroism of the noblest and purest and most
self-sacrificing women in the world; not the
crushed, degraded, ignorant slaves as so falsely
accused by those who love to make a lie. The 
eyes of the world are upon us, watching our
course with a curious interest. There are
thousands of both sexes actively engaged in
misrepresenting us. Let us come boldly to the
front and voice our own sentiments and defend
those principles for which we are willing to
suffer the scorn and ridicule and abuse of the
whole world, being willing to deliver up the
care, protection and companionship of hus-
bands, fathers, brothers and sons, and all the
home comforts and worldly advantages by
which we are so bounteously surrounded, rather
than renounce our belief and practice in that
which God has commanded.
	This warfare for right and liberty of con-
science is not for ourselves alone; it is for our
posterity, and generations yet unborn, who
will revere our names for the independent 
stand we take against tyranny and oppression;
and God; in whose mercy and power alone we
trust, will see that right triumphs, and crown
with eternal life those who have laid all upon
the altar in its defense.
	May the day come when the EXPONENT
shall be as a ministering angel in the family of
every Latter-day Saint, enlarged, improved
and adorned in the habiliments of grace and
beauty.
	Your Friend,


H. H'S LONELY GRAVE.

     "The burial place was of her own choosing,
about 2000 feet above her home at Colorado
Springs, and 8,000 feet above the level of the
Atlantic Ocean, near where she was born.  She
died in California, where she selected as her
final resting place a plateau upon the top of
one of the Cheyenne mountians.  The chosen
place was one where she had spent for five
years or more much of her leisure time in ex-


ploring the mountains, in planning, sketching
and writing portions of her "Century of Dis-
honor,"  "Ramona," and many of her poems
and stories of home history and Indian life.
	"Many pilgrims from all parts of this country,
and from abroad also, visit this mountain
grave, of which none knew up to the hour of 
her death but her husband, a single friend, and
herself.  Why, almost every one asks, this
strange place of burial?  If the dead cannot
speak, the living cannot answer.  The moun-
tain site is where everything is grand and
beautiful in nature—where nothing can ever
disturb her love of sweet repose and rest—
where the passing clouds and the heavens are
nearer than the boundless sweep of plains be-
low—where, with a clearer sky, if possible,
than elsewhere, one can look through nature
up to nature's God."


WHERE THE BLAME RESTS.

	Young girls are not always to blame for
over-exertion in social pleasures.  Sometimes
their parents, who are ambitious to see them
make brilliant figures in the gay whirl, push
them on to excesses, or, at least, do not restrain
them.  The consequence is that young girls
frequently exhaust their freshness in a single
season.  Often they lose the color, the vivacity
and enthusiasm of youth, and become faded
and dispirited before they are out of their
teens.  Worse still, they inflict permanent in-
jury upon their health.  The exhaustion
of excitement and fatigue often causes
sleeplessness, and the ready dose of chloral or
bromide is relied upon to quiet the nerves.
Alternate sedatives and excitements wear out
the nerves rapidly, and prepare the victim for
neuralgia, headaches, dyspepsia, and many
other maladies of that kind.  Very often, when
a young girl is smitten with illness of this sort,
the family speak of it as a "visitation of provi-
dence," when they ought to speak of it as pa-
rental mismanagement.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Jenny Lind's daughter, who is spoken of as
possessing a marvelous voice, is coming to this 
country some time next winter.
	A new prose work by Miss Jean Ingelow
will be brought out by Messrs. Roberts Bros.
during the early autumn. It will be entitled
"John Jerome: His Thoughts and Ways."
	Miss M. E. Braddon, the novelist, is very 
methodical in her habits. She works only 
three days a week, but on those days she puts 
in full time, working from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
without intermission. 
	The biography of Queen Victoria, which
Barnett Smith has had in hand for some time,
will be published this month in one volume of
400 pages. It will contain several portraits.
	The Fowler & Wells Co., of New York, an-
nounce the publication of "The American Kin-
dergarten and Primary Teacher." As the
name implies, it is especially devoted to kin-
dergarten methods of teaching.
	The death is announced of Miss Anne Bow-
man, of Yorkshire, Eng., author of "The Boy
Foresters," "The Kangaroo Hunters." "The
Castaways," and other popular juvenile stories.
Miss Bowman was ninety-one years of age.
	Mrs. E. M. Ames ("Eleanir Kirk") is pre-
paring a volume called "Beecher as a Humor-
ist." Mrs. Ames was formerly a reporter of
Mr. Beecher's sermous, and has long been in-
timately acquainted with him.
	Miss Annie L. Dawes has written, and will 
soon publish in bertou a book on the Modern


Jew," the outgrowth of a paper on the subject
read by her before a literary society in Wash-
ington, two years ago.
	A romantic young lady in London obtained
recently the desire of her heart—she met
Tennyson, the poet Laureate, at dinner, and
the sympathetic hostess even arranged that
she should be placed next to him. One re-
mark, and one alone, did the poet address to
the gushing maiden at his side, and it was this:
"I like my mutton in wedges."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Sabbath is a gift from heaven to the
laboring man.—Rev. D. King.
	Dress has a moral effect upon the conduct of
mankind.—Sir J. Barrington.
	He who has acquired his wealth unjustly
cannot enjoy it long.—Hesiod.
	The plainer the dress, with greater luster
does beauty appear.—Halifax.
	It has been sait that true religion will make
a man a more thorough gentleman than all
the courts in Europe; and it is true.  You may
see simple laboring men as thorough gentlemen
as any duke, simply because they have learned
to fear God; and fearing Him, to restrain them-
selves, which is the root and essence of all
good breeding.—Kingsley.
	"Love is strong as death; many waters can-
not quench love, neither can the floods drown
it."  And never is this master-principle more
gloriously triumphant than when it is exerted
to reclaim, restore, and purify the wandering
spirit; for wherever there is a heart to be won,
it will be won by kindness; and wherever there
is a spark of virtuous sensibility, it will be
cherished and enkindled by the breath of mild
consideration.—S. Jebb.


In Tarrytown, N. Y., last Tuesday, the
woman's ticket for school committee was
elected by a vote of 96 to 8.
	Miss Maud Banks, daugher of General
Banks, made her first appearance as an actress
on a New England stage, at Portsmouth, N.
H., on Monday evening.
	The mother of Gen. Phil Sheridan is still
hale and hearty, though eighty-seven years old,
and is living at Somerset, Ohio, where her
"boys" visit her every summer.
	James Russell Lowell has purchased a lot
in Ashfield, near the houses of Prof. Charles
Elliott Norton and George William Curtis,
and is expected to build on it soon.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 10, 1886, as follows:
	Hannah M. Bortree, Madison, Wis., Com-
bined Corset and Garment Supporter.
	Marie D. Bullock, Philadelphia, Penn.,
Game.
	Mary A. Henderson, Clinton, Mo., Coffee-
pot.
	Emma G. Nunn, Vassar, Mich., Adjustable
Handle for Dusters.
	Clara K. Waring, Middletown, N. Y., Port-
able Folding Wardrobe.


SPECIAL NOTICE.

	The secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. of the
different stakes will please prepare their semi-
annual reports and forward them as quickly as


[Column 1]
possible, so that the Young Ladies' Associa-
tions may be creditably reported at the Oct.
confrence. They must not be later than Sep-
tember 20.
	LOUIE M. WELLS,
	Sec. Centeral Board Y. L. M. I. A.
			
[Column 2]
	ANNOUNCEMENT.
		
	The first term of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's annual class in
Obstetrics willl begin Oct. 1st, 1886.
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
	Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.
	Those who desire to attend should commnnicate at once
with Dr. E. R. Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St.
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY.
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] CALL AND EXAMINE.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
			
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[Drawing of hand pointed to text] Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

[Drawing of hand pointed to text] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE Supt.

Special to the Ladies
			
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBROIDERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes:
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Salt meat should be put in cold water to cook; fresh meat
in boiling water, and if water is added, it should be boiling
also.
	To clean a bottle, put into it some kernels of corn, and
a tablespoonful of ashes; fill it half full of water, and
after a vigorous and thorough rinsing, the bottle will be
found as good as new.
	Grape Jam.—Take the common wild grapes and boil
them until soft;  pass the pulp through a seive, and take
one pound to a pound of sugar.  Boil the jam twenty
minutes, stirring it frequently.
	The Scientific American, says that if a bottle of the oil
of pennyroyal is left uncorked in a room at night, not a
misquito or any blood sucker will be there in the morning.
Mix potash with powdered meal and rats will depart.   If
a rat or mouse gets into your pantry, stuff in its holes a
rag saturated with a solution of cayenne pepper, and no
rat or mouse will touch the rag for the purpose of opening
a communication with the depot of supplies.
	To Make Vinegar.—Put apple parings into a stone jar,
cover them with cold soft water, and let them stand in
a warm place until fermented, having covered the top with
a clean cloth, and a newspaper, tied down to keep out in-
sects and dust.  Stir the peelings or turn the jars as often
as convenient for you to do so.  Take out and drain the
liquid through a colander, and put it into a jug with
pieces of white letter paper, or brown wrapping paper will
do, to make mother.  A little horse raddish will improve
it.  Also half a cupful of molasses to four quarts will
make nicer vinegar.

	Wash and rub the hair well in buttermilk thoroughly
rinse in clear water, and it will leave the hair soft and
glossy.  I know by experience.
	J. D. W.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The late Sister Elizabeth James who was so recently
killed in Salt Lake City, by being thrown from her buggy,
was a very energetic member of the Young Ladies Associ-
ation of this Ward. She had left this ward lately to go to
Bountiful; her husband's occupation called him there.
	The day before she left she bore a strong testimony, and
desired to live the life of a true Latter-day Saint, and bade
her Associates a kindly good-by for a season as her home
is still in this ward.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the young ladies of Union Ward, do
feel to tender our tribute of love and esteem to the memory
of our departed sister, though hurrieddly called to pass
from time to eternity. We feel that she is on the bright
side awaiting the resurrection of the just, and dear friends
left behind.
	Whereas, we feel to submit to the will of an all wise God
who doeth all things well, though called to an untimely
end that all is well with her,and
	Whereas, we feel to condole and sympathize with her
bereaved husband, daughter and a large circle of relatives
and friends, and feel to say mourn not as one without hope
for she in bloom of life was called to pass the portals of
death.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be placed
upon record, a copy sent to the bereaved husband and to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

	Alas—I in a moment fell,
	I had not time to bid my friends farewell;
	Its nothing strange, death happens unto all,
	My lot to-day, and to-morrow thine may fall.

		Committee.
			SARAH BURTON,
			SARAH A. FORBUSH,
			MARY A. SMART.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1886.		NO. 9.


TRUST IN GOD.

Trust in God, he'll ne'er forsake you,
	If you strive to do what's right;
Bear in mind, when grief o'ertakes you,
	Darkest nights bring morning light.
	
If in shadow lies your journey,
	Foot it bravely to the end,
Trusting God to send you sunshine—
	He will always prove a friend.

After rain the sun seems brighter,
	Then, despair not, who can tell?
For wise purpose He may smite Thee,
	For "He doeth all things well."

		MARY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, April 27, 1886.


TRUTH.

An ocean jewel, cast upon the strand,
Unseen, yet glittering 'neath the trampled sand,
Neglected and alone, in darkness lay,
Till time, in many a wave, had rolled away.

In vain the loud surge dashed upon the shore,
In vain the lightning's wrath, the thunder's roar,
Securely slumbered in its lowly bed,
A rarer gem than e'er decked kingly head.

At length, a shining edge peered forth to view,
A sun-lit drop, as 'twere, of morning dew,
And yet no glance e'er rested on the prize,
None guessed what lay concealed from human eyes.

Men came and went, but all were proud and vain,
They gazed upon the sky and distant main,
Eager for wealth, yet none would look so low,
Or stoop for gems, howe'er so bright, below.

Along the lonely beach, one summer day,
It chanced, at length, a little child did stray,
Beheld the jewel, sparkling in the sand,
And drew it forth with tiny, eager hand.

And thus the treasure, which had lain concealed,
In Fate's full ripened hour to be revealed,
Long kept from pride, or mammon's sordid sight,
By humble means at last was brought to light.

E'en so with Truth, the richest, rarest gem,
Save one, in Christ's eternal diadem;
By Merit worn, though oft in meanest guise,
Men scorn the source and trample on the prize.

	O. F. WHITNEY.
July, 1886.


MRS. NEWMAN CORRECTLY RE-
PORTED.

DEAR MORMON SISTERS:
	There are so many matters of interest upon
which I wish to write to you, I hardly know
what or which to leave unwritten. Mrs. Angie
F. Newman! Well, what shall we say of her?
Firstly, I should like to know  where Mr.
Angie Newman is, and what he is doing all
the while she is traveling about from pillar to
post in behalf of the "down trodden women of
Utah?" Did not domestic duties tie me at
home, I would be tempted to find Mr. N , if
there is such a being, put him among the Mor-
mon men, and then start out to stir up a flame
of pity and sympathy for them; for really, it
seems to me, if things are so bad as the papers
represent them to be in Utah, the Mormon
men are more to be pitied than the women.
I know some men have a pretty serious time of


it with one wife; with more than one, God pity
him!
	If Mrs. Newman has no family, domestic,
marital obligations—is a widow, then I believe
I know her, at least, I once heard Paul telling
Timothy of her.
	What she said in Cincinnati was truthfully
reported.  I do not know who the reporters
were, but heard the lecture, read the reports,
and can vouch for the correctness of the lat-
ter.
	I send you some Cincinnati papers contain-
ing accounts of a new religion, or rather a new
phase of religion, which has sprung up in that
city among the highest, best and wealthiest class
of citizens. There appears to be a great re-
ligious fomentation going on everywhere. A 
little leaven of some sort has been put in by
some invisible power, either for good or bad,
and the whole religious lump will be leavened.
If Mormonism is of God it will stand and grow,
for "God giveth the increase;" but if Mormon-
ism belongs to other than God, it will fail.
	May we all, individually, be up to duty,
"kind and affectionate one toward another,
tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as
God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven us." With
best wishes,
	Your sister,
		EMILY SCOTT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PITTSBURG, Pa., Sept. 19, 1886.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR SISTER:—With feelings of joy I write
a few lines, hoping you and yours are well, and
still in the sunlight of the Gospel of Christ.
The last time I wrote, you were away from
home visiting Kirtland, Nauvoo, and thither
to different places, on missionary work. I
read at different times in the papers of the al-
most Herculean task you had undertaken, in
company with those other noble-hearted sisters,
and I prayed to my Heavenly Father to bear
you up and give you strength, that you might
be able to speak words suitable to the occasion.
I have meditated much upon the condition of
this nation, and I feel that the Latter-day
Saints will leave the people without excuse at
the great day which is near at hand. When
I hear of the attitude taken by the faithful
of this Church, it bespeaks a power that is
more than human, and one must be very blind
not to see the hand of Omnipotence made bare,
and the labors of those engaged in this noble
mission will not be lost. A bright day will
soon dawn for Zion, and those who have sought
the destruction of the Latter-day work will be
sent to their own place to reap what they have
sown.
	A short time ago, as I sat reading the news,
I noticed some correspondence from Penn.,
dated at Coal Valley, and I learned from it
that there were Elders laboring in that section;
the writer called himself a missionary; I read
it over and over; I scarcely could believe what
I had read, that Elders were so near me, but I
made up my mind to find them, asking my
Heavenly Father's aid; so on July 5th, a holi-
day I set out to find Coal Valley, contemplat-
ing a treat, if I could only meet with genuine
Mormons.
	I found Coal Valley sparsely settled, and
nearly all the people were away on that day

[Column 2]

for enjoyment. I did not know who to inquire
for—not even a name. A boy was seated on a
log by the railroad depot; I asked him if there
were any Mormons lived around there? He
said, "Yes, right up yonder among them old
houses there are some." Off I went, and soon
met with a woman, who, upon a similar inquiry,
directed me to a log shanty down on the river
bank, where she said a Mormon lived named
Baxendell. I soon found the place, and for
the first time in twenty years I had the privil-
ege of shaking hands with a true Latter-day
Saint. My heart was full. I cannot tell you
what my feelings were on that occasion. The
Elders were then out preaching. They had
heard of a brother somewhere in Pittsburg,but
had not been able to get his address, but had
written to the Deseret News Office in Salt Lake
City for it. I told them I lived in Pittsburg, and
had written several times to the Deseret News,
and also the sisters' paper, the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT. Bro. B. asked what name I used in
the EXPONENT? I told him no name, just H.
M. W. Then he knew it was the same person
they had tried to find, and we shook hands
again. When we parted he gave me some
copies of the Epistle of the First Presidency.
His wife wished me to leave her the copies of
the EXPONENT I had brought with me, and I
told her I had brought them on purpose. The
next day I mailed a copy of the Epistle to
each of the following papers: The Dispatch,
Times, Chronicle, Telegraph, Commercial
Gazette, Penny Press, Post, Leader, and to the 
last a copy of the ladies' appeal to Congress.
He is a bold and fearless editor, and I thought
his paper would be the best to send that ap-
peal to, as I had only one copy. The cup of
iniquity of this nation is fast filling up. May
the Saints be wise and be upon the watch
tower, for there is no time to trifle away. I
feel happy in Mormonism, and love this work.
I hold a certificate of the last branch I was
in before I came to this country, and since I
have been in America I have not been near
any branch of the Church. I have been try-
ing to do right, and I feel proud of my religion,
and mean to gather to the bosom of the Church,
and bring with me the Holy Spirit, and be able
to give a good account of myself. My prayer
is for Zion; her troubles have borne heavily
upon my mind, and when I read of good and
holy men being sent to prison, I feel in my
heart I would rather go there than that they
should; I would rather suffer than have them.
The cause of Zion is in my thoughts and medi-
tations all the day and all the night long. My
prayers are for her suffering ones. May the
smiles of heaven rest upon them.
	Your brother in the covenant.
		H. M. W.
	P. S. Since this was written the Elders
have been to my house; I was indeed pleased to
see and entertain once more men holding the
holy priesthood.	W.


CONDITION OF SOUTHETN LADIES.

	ALABAMA, Sept. 2, 1886.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	A bright, progressive Northern woman said
recently in my hearing, upon being told that
Queen Victoria would permit no woman who
was divorced from her husband to be presented
to her; "Well, I would much rather never be


[Column 1]

﻿presented to Queen Victoria than live with a
man who abused me, or whose very touch was
pollution."
	I know a southern woman, a member of one
of the oldest and most aristocratic families of
Alabama, who says: "There is no indignity I
would not submit to, no amount of abuse I
would not bear, rather than do so unladylike a
thing as to leave my husband."
	This lady's life is exceptionally pleasant.
Her husband is devoted to her, has abundant
means, and her wish is law to him. Possibly,
were she differently situated, she might see
things in another light. At present she be-
longs to the large class of shielded, protected
women, who have never felt the rough blasts
of life, and have neither mercy nor pity for
their less favored sisters.
	These two women represent two extremes of
thought. From my point of view, the North-
ern woman is right, and the Southerner, with
her superior education, her elegant manners,
her cultivation and accomplishments, and her
rare opportunities for society and seeing the
world, is, as one of Charles Egbert Craddock's
characters would say, "fairly sodden in igno-
rance."
	The article in your Asheville correspondent,
in WOMAN'S JOURNAL for August 28, has
moved me to tell some things that I know of
the condition of the higher class of Southern
women, "the idols to whom every knee bows."
The women of whom "Asheville" speaks are
of the lower classes. At least, the men who
hold them in bondage have the excuse of igno-
rance. But the women whom I have to tell of
are educated, refined, cultivated. Their pedi-
grees antedate the Revolution. The men of
their families have boasted of their chivalry
for generations.
	I know a pretty little lady, a wife of two
years standing, but even now barely past
twenty, who is suffering from a horrible disease,
the gift of a profligate husband. She is pure,
lovely, and religious. She has no idea of the
nature of her complaint. Her physician tells
her she has been poisoned by ivy or poison oak.
Parents, husband, and physician all unite to
deceive her because they fear if she knew of
her husband's vileness, she would be so shocked
and horrified that she might refuse to live with
him, and so "disgrace the family."  When he
is absent from her, intent upon vicious plea-
sures, she writes him a loving letter every
morning, kisses his picture, and prays for him
every night. Her own parents look on ap-
provingly, willing to see their child sacrificed
on the altar of vice, rather than have their
annals stained with the "disgrace" of a separa-
tion.
	Some years ago a lady of an old and aristo-
cratic family married a "chivalrous" gentle-
man, who immediately assumed control of her
property, which was large, and was also en-
trusted with the guardianship of her younger
sister. Some two or three years after the
marriage she died very suddenly, soon after
signing a will which left him all her posses-
sions. Six months after her death he married
the younger sister. It was then discovered
that he had not only spent nearly all the first
wife’s money, but that he had betrayed his
trust as guardian, and had squandered the
second wife's property before he married her.
Then many suspicious circumstances came to
light, and it was soon believed by nearly all
the family that he had poisoned his first wife
so that he might marry the second and thus
cover up his defalcations. He became a
drunkard, and his drunkenness was of the
violent kind. For twenty years his wife bore
the abuse that a man maddened with drink is
capable of heaping upon a woman. She sat
for hours with a leaded pistol held close to her
head, the drunkard threatening to fire if she
stirred hand or foot. She passed many, nights
hidden under beds in the negro quarters. Her

[Column 2]

life was one agony of fear. She brought
children into the world to suffer with her, and
she saw the last cent of her property melt
away. But she never for an instant thought
of leaving him, nor would her family have con-
sented had she wished to do so. They all be-
lieved him to be a murderer; they knew him
to be a thief; that her life was a prolonged tor-
ture no one denied. Yet all this was as noth-
ing compared with the "disgrace" of a divorce.
Her relatives supported and pitied her, but
had she refused to endure her torment longer,
not one of them would have received or coun-
tenanced her. Finally he died, in a fit of de-
lirium tremens, and she was free to gather up
the fragments of her shattered life and make
the most of them. Twenty years of life with
a murderer, a thief, and a drunkard, to avoid
the disgrace of a separation!
	This happened "where woman remains in
the position where the deference of manhood
placed her;" in the country which "stands on
a much higher plane than the north;" where
the "outrage or murder of women so rarely
stains the criminal records."
	It would seem to the impartial observer
that a little agitation of "woman's rights"
would be a good thing among people whose
judgment is so warped. In short, that it might
be better not to be presented to Queen Vic-
toria.
		TRUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿CIVICS AND WOMEN.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	The following is from the Boston Woman's
Journal:
	Principal E. H. Cook read a paper on "Sys-
tematic Habit in Education, or The Study of
Civics in Our Public Schools," before the New
York State Teachers' Associations at Niagara
last July. The following is an extract:
	"How can the girls who are to supply the
large majority of the teachers for the coming
generation teach the subject of citizenship
without any knowledge thereof?
	"I would give to every girl as well as to
every boy a thorough training in the prepara-
tion for citizenship which the coming genera-
tions will demand from them. And here let
me go farther and say that every individual
student must have before him an inducement,
in order to become earnest and faithful in the
preparation for life work.
	"Take away from the boys of our land the
inalienable right of the ballot, and how many
of them will study with interest, value or
pleasure the history of our country and its
glorious institutions?
	"In order, then, to interest our girls in these
institutions, should they not have the same in-
ducement that is held out to the boys, viz: the
God-given right of the governed to have a
voice in the selection of those who shall govern
them, which can only come through the ballot.
	"Wendell Phillips said: 'Responsibility edu-
cates, and politics is but another name for
God's way of teaching the masses ethics, under
the responsibility of great present interests.'
	"I do not stand here as an advocate for
woman's rights, sometimes sneeringly so-called;
but for human rights, the right ot every indi-
vidual to voice by their suffrage who shall rule
them. I say, then, that the first step to secure
proper instruction on this subject and prepare
the majority of those who are to teach in our
public schools, is to place the ballot in the
hands of every person of proper age and in-
telligence, and put the responsibility of its
proper use upon every individual.
	"Without the proper and sufficient induce-
ments being extended to the large majority of
our teachers who are women, there will be


no careful and thorough preparation for the
work.
	"The denial of the right of suffrage to a
large majority of our people is a direct viola-
tion of those principles upon which our gov-
ernment is founded, and which are dear to
every American heart.
	"The social evils which are undermining the
best interests of our country can never proper-
ly be settled or adjusted until justice shall be
assured by placing the ballot in the hands of
all our citizens under proper restrictions.
	"The proper settlement of the great ques-
tion which involves the material and moral in-
terests of this land more than any other, viz.
the liquor traffic, can never be arrived at until
that large class whose prosperity and happiness-
are largely dependent upon this settlement,
viz., women, have an equal voice in its adjudica-
tion."
	Here is an opinion that has weight, coming
from a man in his position (Principal of the
Potsdam, N. Y., Normal and Training School)
who is not trying to advocate woman's rights,
but only stating an educational principle.
					E. L. BENEDICT.
	New York, Sept. 10, 1886.


Y. L. M. I. A., UTAH COUNTY.

	Report of the meetings held by the presi-
deney of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the
Utah Stake of Zion in the southern part of
the county.
	Minutes  of  the  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A. of
Springville, held in the meeting house, Sept.
13, 1886 with President Hattie Daily presid-
ing.  After the opening exercises, President
Jennie Tanner advised the young ladies to
preserve their health,the greatest blessing aside
from virtue; also to spend their time in reading
such literature as would refine and tend to
their advancement.
	Mrs. M. J. Tanner spoke of the beauties of
Zion, and closed by advising all to guard well
their actions, treat strangers with civility, not
to be given to forwardness and intimacy as
they would be led astray.
	Miss Evlyn Billings advised them to profit
by the instructions they had received and to
prize their virtue, a jewel that when once lost
could never be restored, and one false step
taken would lead them to destruction.
	Similar meetings were held throughout the
Southern part of the County.
	Spanish Fork, Tuesday, Sept. 14, President
Banks presiding; Salem, 3 o,clock p.m.,
Sarah Sabin presiding; Payson 8 o'clock p.m.
Ida Coombs, President; Santaquin Sept. 15,
Emma Wall presiding; Goshen, Sept. 16, M.
A. Price presiding.
	The visitors were entertained by the various
wards in a cordial and hospitable manner, and
found the Associations in a favorable condi-
tion although some of their meetings were not
as well attended in the summer as the winter
season, circumstances being such as to require
them to be elsewhere, yet they were energetic
in taking part in furthering the progress of
the work.
	ONE OF THEM


A floating church for the island of Arran,
Scotland, is the latest novelty, the Dnke of
Hamilton, who owns Arran, having refused
to allow any United Presbyterians a place of
worship on the island. The modern ark is to
be moored in Landlash Bay, one of the snuggest
anchorages on the Scottish coast, and the mem-
bers of the congregation will be pulled on
board from the shore in small boats when the
ship's bell rings at the masthead. The Duke
is an Arran(t) bigot, but his canny Scots ten-
ants have outwitted him.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COURAGE.

Fainting heart,	look	up, take courage,
	Clouds are melting fast away.
And beyond night's glowing portals
	Breaks the dawn of cloudless day.

Let the rays of hope's bright sunshine
	Penetrate thy weary heart;
And with courage strong and mighty,
	In life's contest take thy part.

Ne,er give way to idle dreaming,
	Act	with	all thy will and might.
Push thy way through inky darkness
	Toward the blessed realm of light.

All around is dark as midnight,
	Low hang clouds of dim despair;
But look upward, fainting traveller,
	And behold—the light is there!

		SELEC ED.


DREAMS OF THE NIGHT.

Dreams, sad dreams, why do you come,
From that far off land, my childhood's home,
Bringing the voices and forms of the past,
I thought I'd forgotten, at last, at last?

I can drive you away with the duties of day,
That throng the present of my life's way,
But at night, you reign in the realm of dreams,
And oh, so real your presence seems!

Why do you mock me with hopes that are dead,
Making more lonely the path I tread?
For ever will come that beautiful pain,
When I live, e'en in dreams, the past again;

When I feel again, in that shadowy land,
The well known clasp of a dear, dear hand,
And walk again 'neath the moon-lit sky,
And whisper sweet hopes of "bye and bye,"

Knowing nought of the blight to fall,
Throwing its shadow over all—
Oh, to destroy life's love and trust
Is a deadlier death than "dust to dust!"

Oh, may we hope that the future holds
Something to gather the scattered folds,
To mend the links of the broken chain,
And bring back heart to heart ugain.

Or e'en to forget—but no, ah, no!
I would not forget, though the myrtles grow
Where once bloomed roses fresh and fair,
With daisies, pansies and lilies rare;

But I'll take them all, and a wreath will twine
For those who have drank of the sorrow wine,
To lay at the feet of Him who will know
The worth of each heart-drop shed below.

And then in the realms where Christ is King,
He will form a crown, while the angels sing,
And every drop shall a jewel shine,
In that crown, when touched by that Hand Divine.

		HOPE.


[Column 1]

SOME PEOPLE WE HAVE MET.

	There has never been a year probably when
so many distinguished people have visited Salt
Lake City as the present one. The words of
the prophets are certainly being fulfilled
in this particular as well as in many others.
That many should come up to Zion to see and
to learn, and also to purchase articles manu-
factured in Zion. As yet the people here can-
not pride themselves very much upon home
manufacture, in this respect the saints are far
behind what they ought to be, and what they
might have been had more money been ex-
pended at home in establishing industries and
giving to the people employment than in send-
ing away to purchase articles made elsewhere.
In this matter of home industries the Saints
have much yet to learn, or at any rate to put

[Column 2]

in practice the teaching which has been given
to them, and there is no doubt the Lord will
be more willing to bless them in hearkening to
this wise counsel instead of enriching by their
purchases those who are seeking to deprive
them of their rights and even of liberty.
	There might be more little articles of in-
terest made here that would be pretty
souvenirs for strangers to carry away and in
this way leave a little money and it is the
trifles that seem insignificant in themselves
that help make up the total and great sums.
	Among those who have interested us particu-
larly as men and women of marked intelligence,
we really ought to mention a few whom we have
had the pleasure of meeting this last summer.
One of the most liberal minded gentlemen was
Frederick Robie, Governor of the State of
Maine, now filling his second term of office,
and though he was one of the G. A. R. he did
not at all approve of the rabid speeches made
by some of the company,and expressed his disap-
proval of the matter to us in plain terms.  His
speech was short, but the spirit of it was kind-
ly, and there was nothing in it that could have
been objectionable to any. Gov. Robie spent
an evening at our home, and we found in the
course of conversation, that we had some mu-
tual acquaintances, whom we had known in
school days, who had since made themselves
quite distinguished as statesmen.
	We had very pleasant calls from Mrs. Annie
Wittenmeyer, a distinguished speaker, and
also author of books and elaborate works on
the temperance question, and for many years
President of the W. C. T. U., Mrs. Maggie
Monroe, Secretary of the "Woman's Relief
Corps" of the G. A. R., Jennie June, who
came one day when we were out of town, and
left her regrets, saying, we had many mutual
friends, and Mrs. Clara Foltz, a distinguished
attorney at law, lecturer and speaker, from
California; also an active worker in the cause
of woman's suffrage, and of woman's advance-
ment in all the pursuits of life.
	Prince Wittgenstein of Russia, and the
Duchesse de Luynes, who came with a letter of
introduction from a lady in Boston, not men-
tioning other professional people, as well as
those who do not carry a title. These are a few
of the many who have called, and with whom
we have conversed upon the principles of the
Gospel, the settling of the country, the estab-
lishing of local government, the persecutions
of the past and present, the homes of the peo-
ple, etc., etc., answering numerous irrelative
questions in the mean time.
	While absent last winter and spring we had
the opportunity of meeting some very noted
people, and we promised to write and to pub-
lish items in regard to visits and interviews,
that we have not yet had the time to do.  We
have in mind, and intend yet to write up our
visit to the great American Poet, John Green-
leaf Whittier; also to Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, and the people
we met and places we saw, for instance, Niagara
Falls, Mount Vernon, a veritable Mrs. Jellaby
we found in Boston, and so on; the New Eng-
land woods and villages, which, for failing to
elaborate, we have been somewhat censured;
the meeting with old schoolfellows, the places
where we learned a. b. abs, as well as geography,
grammer and arithmetic, the old homestead,
the village factory, the hemlock, pine and
golden rod, these and a hundred more
things may furnish material for many a
sketch.
	In conclusion let me ask of the sisters some
testimonies upon the subject of plural marriage,
chapters from their own individual experience.
Almost every stranger who steps in to purchase
a copy of the paper, asks the question, "Does
it give the views of women on plural mar-
raige?" And if we say "yes," they seem satis-
fied, but if "no, there is not anything positive

[Column 3]

on that subject," they immediately express a
desire for information on that topic. And
now, dear sisters, can you not supply some
good material of this kind for the edification
of those who may "read as they run?"
		AUNT EM.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Cleveland has contributed to the Oc-
tober Chautauquan a paper on "Woman in the
Home."
	At the opening of Parliament on August 5th,
in the House of Lords, some thirty or forty
ladies occupied seats in the body of the House,
while several were also seated in the stranger's
gallery usually reserved for gentlemen only.
	"Ouida" expresses the belief, in the current
number of the North American Review, that
women have not sufficient intellectual capacity
for the suffrage. One evidence may be that
they sometimes read "Ouida's" novels.—Provi-
dence Journal.
	The Committee of the Cobden Club have
elected Miss Florence Nightingale, Mrs. Cob-
den Sickert (daughter of Richard Cobden,
Mrs. G. M. Crawford, of Paris, and Mdle. M.
Raffalsvich, members of the club. They are
the first ladies whose names have been en-
rolled.
	The "literary gentleman" who wrote to the
Boston Herald that Mrs. Julia Ward Howe
had been invited to reply to Ouida in the
North American Review and had declined be-
cause Ouida was so corrupt, was misinformed.
The Editor of the North American says,
"Mrs. Julia Ward Howe never was invited by
the North American Review to write a reply to
Ouida."
	Women should be more trusted and confided
in as wives, mothers, and sisters. They have
a quick perception of right and wrong, and
without always knowing why, read the present
and future, read characters and acts, designs
and probabilities, where man sees no letter or
sign. What else do we mean by the adage
"mother wit," save that woman has a quicker
perception and readier invention than man?


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many wonderful things appear in nature,
but nothing more wonderful than man.—
Sophocles.
	A quarrel is quickly settled when deserted
by one party; there is no battle unless there be
two.—Seneca.
	In the education of children love is first to
be instilled, and out of love obedience is to be
educated.—S. T. Coleridge.
	When we find that we are not liked, we as-
sert that we are not understood; when probably
the dislike we have excited proceeds from our
being too fully comprehended.—Lady Blessing-
ion.
	God preserves us from the destructive power
of words!  There are words which can separate,
hearts sooner than sharp swords; there are
words whose sting can remain through a whole
life!—M. Howitt.
	Our physical well-being, our moral worth,
our social happiness, our political tranquility,
all depend on that control of all our appetites
and passions, which the ancients designated by
the cardinal virtue of temperance.—Burke.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, n Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	OCTOBER 1, 1886.


﻿SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
be held in the new Stake House, at Coalville,
Summit County, U. T., on Wednesday, October
6th, 1886, at 10 a.m. All the officers and members
who can attend are cordially invited.


[Column 1]

A FEW THOUGHTS.

	How strange it seems that Conference should be 
held in Coalville, or anywhere, in fact, away from
Salt Lake City; and this change is only one of the
many recent changes and developments brought
about through the persecution of the enemies of
the Latter-day Saints, On every hand we can see
the ruin wrought by the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law. Not only are the people deprived of
the society and counsel of the leaders of the
Church, leaving them, as it were, "at sea," or "as
sheep without a shepherd," but many have been
sent to loathsome prisons, and their families
broken up and scittered, and even if not left in
poverty, deprived of their rightful protectors, and
suffering mentally through the cruel separations,
that the rendering of the law renders absolutely
necessary in its construction by the Judiciary.
The changes in family affairs, and the exiling of
men of means and executive ability is working 
great financial changes and hardship to the whole
people, that are being felt more and more as time
goes on. One can scarcely refrain from saying, 
"What will the end be?" And who can answer?
Or "to what will this persecution tend?" To these
questions one can only reply, "The Lord will take 
care of His people; He will make bare His arm in 
their defense," and so on. His promises are sure
and cannot fail.
	In times past the people looked forward to the 
Conference with the most pleasing anticipation.
The city was always in holiday attire; business
was prosperous; money plenty; and then the 
teaching from the stand in the Tabernacle was al-
ways looked forward to as a spiritual feast, and
also adapted to the practical needs of the people.
How changed the scene and the feeling now!
Every one is anxious and inquiring one of another,
and wondering how the tide will turn, and asking
of each other what course to pursue. Many are
growing diligent, who were before negligent of
duties, and the faith of many waxing stronger; 
and among the youth of Zion, while a portion are
indifferent and carried away with vanity and the
pride of the world, others are seeking to learn of
the truth, and to know the ways of the Lord, and
to walk in His commandments. There has been,
in days gone by, such prosperity and so much
teaching and instruction here at the fountain head,
that the people have been, as it were, flooded with 
light, and perhaps have forgotten or neglected to 
appreciate the great and choice blessings that lay 
all about them, until they were almost spurned.
Now they are willing to gather up the fragments 
and find upon them, and are almost left in dark-

[Column 2]

ness, to grope about for blessings that were once 
poured out upon them in rich abundance.
	There is and must be a purpose in all this, and
by and bye it will be evident; in the meantime
the Saints must trust in God, and wait His good
pleasure to deliver them from the thraldom which
has gradually come upon them, and which seems
to fasten itself more securely as time goes on,
threatening them with complete bondage. Justice
seems to have fled from the courts; there is no
longer any hopes entertained, by those who are
accused, of obtaining a fair trial, The jury is in-
structed to convict, and a trial is almost a farce.
There is such a feeling of hostility and hatred to-
ward any Mormon who is arraigned in the courts,
who has fidelity to principle and honors his coven-
ants, that it seems impossible for those who hold
the scales of justice to show even a semblance of
the elements of that grand attribute. Things of
this kind have been going on from bad to worse,
until one would really suppose they had reached
the climax, but the people have looked in vain for
this denouement, and the conclusion forces itself
upon the mind that human effort is utterly unavail-
ing. The most eloquent and earnest pleadings of
the finest lawyers in the land, bringing to bear
with their clear cut words the logic of the law
itself, as established by precedent and usage, are
all of no avail in this relentless crusade upon the
Mormon people, who are on trial for a religious
principle. The heartrending pictures of desola-
tion and misery presented in the ruined homes,
where the mother and little ones are left without
protection, touches not the hearts of these merci-
less enforcers of "the law." What care they for
the destruction they are spreading far and wide,
while it is only Mormons who suffer? What have
the Mormons done to them that they should thus 
pitilessly pursue them? They have made the
desert habitable for them; they have so manipu-
lated the affairs of the Territory of Utah, that
it has become a desirable place for the office seeker
and money maker; and this class having become
possessed of the idea that Utah has vast resources
that might be appropriated to the base purposes,
of aggrandizement and luxuriance, for those who
might, by chicanery and political intrigue, wrest it
from the tillers of the soil, the honest husband-
men, and those who redeemed and subdued it, and
have since prospered in the land, making them-
selves "families as a flock," with homes and inherit-
ances, and they are determined to leave no means
untried to accomplish their designss. But they are
assuredly "reckoning without their host." They
cannot have taken into consideration that they are
fighting against God.
	The Lord had a purpose in bringing His people
into these valleys. He knew the strength of these
hills and mountains, that form, as it were, a fortress
as formidable as the walls of Jericho; He has not
done this in vain; He knew the treasures that
were hidden away in the secret places of the
mountains, the gold and silver and precious metals,
and it was reserved for the building up and beauti-
fying of Zion. The Gentiles may hunt for these
hidden treasures, but their search will be compara-
tively fruitless, and disapointment will be their lot:
and in the due time of the Lord will He make
manifest His power in the deliverance of His
Saints, and it will no more be said, "The Lord
liveth who brought His people out of the land of
Egypt," etc. In the meantime humility and meek-
ness are necessary, and an implicit trust in the
divine guidance, faithfulness and devotion, with
the most earnest efforts and endeavors to live
nearer to God and keep His commandments.


[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE expect some notes , from the funeral ser-
vices of Mrs. King for the next number of the
paper.
	THE minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. Conference

[Column Two]
of this Stake have not yet reached us, but will
likely be published in our next issue.

	"THE Final State of Mankind, as Demonstrated
by the Prophecies of the Old and New Testa-
ments, also the Book of Mormon and the Doc-
trine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints," by Elder John
Sears, is in pamphlet form, neatly gotten up, and
published by Joseph Hyrum Parry and Co. The
contents have been carefully examined by compe-
tent authority, we are informed by the author, and
webelieve it may do much good. It plainly sets
forth important truths, of which corroborative testi-
mony is given in the three books mentioned. Our
young people should take pains to gather such
information for their own benefit and the good of
others, that they may be able, when called upon,
to bring forth strong reasoning. This little work of
36 pages is excellent reading, and cannot fail to 
be interesting to all who delight in spiritual things
and in obtaining a knowledge of the dealings of
our Father in Heaven with His children. It opens 
with a poem by the author in five verses, which
gives an idea of the contents of the book, and is
very well and smoothly written. There is a neat,
well-written preface, in which he states that he
does not set himself up as a "teacher of some
newly discovered truths, but to place in a simple
and honest manner, those glorious principles em-
anating from the Fountain of Light, which he
trusts will have a tendency to illuminate the path
of those who may peruse it, opening up to their
minds the prospect of a happy future, and the
rich reward in store for those who serve God and
keep His commandments while passing through 
this state of probation."
	WE have received, with the compliments of C. 
R. Savage of the Art Gallery in this city, a very
handsome little book, entitled, "In Memoriam"—
Helen Hunt Jackson (H. H. ) It is printed on
exquisitely fine paper and tied with white ribbon.
It looks outside like an emblem of purity, and it
contains in its leaves a picture of the lady herself,
though it is not half so good looking as Mrs.
Jackson—she was a magnificent woman in person-
al appearance—and a picture of her grave at Pine
Hill Forest in the Cheyenne Mountains, another 
of the Cheyenne Mountain near Colorado Springs
and the late residence of this celebrated author.
The description of the place was written by Mr. 
Crawford, and is in the most beautiful language,
but as we have already published two or three
descriptions of her resting place from different 
writers, we will only select the closing lines from
her own gifted pen:

	"Dear hearts whose love has been so sweet to know,
	That I am looking backward as I go.
	Am lingering while I haste, and in this rain
	Of tears of joy am mingling tears of pain;
	Do not adorn with costly shrub or tree,
	Or flower, the little grave which shelters me.
	Let the wild, wind-sown seeds grow up unharmed,
	And back and forth all summer unalarmed,
	Let all the tiny, busy creatures creep;
	Let the sweet grass its last year's tangles keep;
	And when remembering me you come some day,
	And stand there, speak no praise, but only say,
	'How she loved us! It was for that she was so dear;
	These are the only words that I shall smile to hear."

	TUESDAY, September 21st, the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Union Ward held their annual meeting, Mrs.
Sarah Buxton presiding, assisted by her Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Della Brady and Miss Mary L. Charles.
After singing, prayer and singing, the Secretary,
Miss A. M. E. B. Sharp read the minutes of the 
organization, and the statistical and financial re-
port for the two years past, it being a complete
report since the date of its organization. The
showing was very good both in the interest of im-
provement and practical benevolent work. The
Secretary also read written resignations from the
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, who were no


longer able, on accout of circumstances, to fill the
positions, and Mrs. E. B. Sharp was appointed
Assistant Secretary, and Miss Ellen C. Anderson
Treasurer, which made the organization again
complete. A mannscript paper, called "The Well
Wisher." Vol. 2, No. 10, was read by Mrs. Sarah
Forbush. It contained some good articles, and
was well read, followed by a recitation, "The Gam-
bler's Wife," by Laura Thayne; essay, "Obedi-
ence to Parents," by Ellen C. Anderson; singing
by the choir, "Utah, the Queen of the West;"
recitation, Martha Brady, a poem by Mrs. M. J.
Tanner, Dedicated to Mrs. Martha Nichols, and
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT of August
15th, 1886; Questions and Answers by Lillie Moul-
ton and Ellen Lundberg; select reading by Mrs.
Harriet Phillips, "Sketch of Amanda Smith;"
song, by Mary A. Ball and Mary Richards, "He
is Coming Home To-night;" essay, by Mrs. Mary
A. Smart, "The Life of Christ;" song by the
choir, "Beautiful Day." Prayer by Elder Charles
Sharp. Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the meeting was devoted to speaking, and
addresses were made by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss
Nellie Colebrook and Dr. Maggie C. Shipp of this
city, Mrs. Elizabeth Richards, Counselor Della
Brady, the Bishop's Counselor, Marian Brady and
Elder Charles Sharp; also President Sarah Bux-
ton. Meeting dismissed by Coun. M. Brady.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.

"Remember me in days to come,
	When I'm not here—
And think of me as just gone home
	To that bright sphere."

	The verse I have quoted above is from a poem
entitled, "Testementary," written many years ago
by the subject of this sketch.
	DIED, at the Spencer House in this city, Satur-
day afternoon, September 25th, 1886, Mrs. Han-
nah T. King, widow of the late Thomas King.
Deceased, whose maiden name was Tapfield, was
born in Cambridge, England, March 16th, 1807 and
was married to Thomas King April 6, 1824. Mrs.
King was the mother of ten children, three of
whom are still living. She passed away peaceful-
ly after much pain and suffering, at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. C. V. Spencer, having been
removed there from her own home, Dernford
House, a few weeks ago, that she might have the
comfort of the constant presence and gentle care
and attention of her loving daughter. It was
thought then that she would rally and recover
when the cooler weather came, and return to her
own home, to which she was fondly attached,
having resided there ever since her arrival in the
valley in 1853.
	The name of Hannah T. King is familiar to all
the readers of the EXPONENT, for she was a regu-
lar contributor to its columns, and the other papers
and magazines of this city had many contributions
in both prose and poetry, from her ready pen and
prolific brain. Mrs. King was also very well
known as a public speaker; her voice was often
heard in the semi-monthly meetings of the sisters
in this city, and her presence there will be greatly
missed. On great public occasions, when the
women of Zion have assembled in mass meeting,
or in any special gathering for the purpose of 
memorializing Congress, or protesting against
wrongs or injustice, Mrs. King has always taken
an active part.
	In the early days in Utah Mrs. King was a mem-
ber of the Polysophical Society, a literary or-
ganization, that held its meetings at the residence
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, who, at that time, re-
sided in this city. There she became acquainted
with men and women of talent and intellectual 
ability, and formed bonds of friendship which

[Column 2]

have continued strong and permanent up to the
present time.
	In England, before Mrs King became a Latter-
day Saint, she was known as a writer, and had
formed the acquaintance of the celebrated poetess,
Eliza Cook, with whom she had for years an in-
teresting correspondence. Mrs. King was the
author of two books, that were sold by subscrip-
tion in England, entitled, "The Toilet," and "The
Three Era's." They were quite favorably no-
ticed by the English press, and for this literary
work she received much well merited praise from 
ladies and gentlemen of position and influence.
	Within the last few years Mrs. King has issued
three books, entitled, "Women of the Scriptures,"
"Songs of the Heart," and an "Epic Poem,"
which is dedicated to President John Taylor.
It is a synopsis of the rise of the Church, etc.,
beginning with the birth of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. Mrs. King's articles, whether of prose or
poetry, always seemed a part of herself. She
often said to the writer, "I write as a bird sings,
free as the air and untrammelled; I care not who
blames or praises, I sing my song for love of sing-
ing."
	Mrs. King was a great admirer of genius and
talent in others, and was familiar with the poetical,
historical and biographical works of the most
famous and eminent men and women of the age,
more especially in her native country. She was
greatly gifted in intellectual conversation, which
caused her to be sought after by young and old,
who loved intelligence. She was an ardent ad-
mirer of nature, and highly appreciated the beau-
ties of our own mountain scenery. She combined
in her character the poetic and realistic, and al-
though her mind soared to the heights of sublimi-
ty, she walked the solid earth with real practical
views of life, its cares and vicissitudes.
	She was very fond of letter writing, and when
in perfect health she entered into it with a zest
and vigor that imparted to her correspondence
such individuality that one seemed to be near her
and feel her presence while perusing her letters.
	Mrs. King received the Gospel in her home in
England, and entertained the Elders there, giving
liberally of her means, as well as dispensing
bountifully her hospitality. She loved the princi-
ples of the Gospel, and gave up home, friends, the
society of people of culture and refinement, freely
and willingly to gather to Zion, and she never for
one moment regretted the step she had taken, but
rejoiced that she had been one of the chosen ones
in this dispensation to receive the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel. The principle of plural mar-
riage never seemed to have been the severe trial
to her faith that it has been to so many women.
She received it as she did every other principle,
and never rebelled; indeed, her faith in the divini-
ty of this work, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith was of the most exalted type. When on
her way to the valley she visited Nauvoo, and had
an interview with the Prophet Joseph Smith's
mether, in whom she was much interested, and
often spoke of her interview with this distin-
guished woman as one of the events of her life. 
	Mrs. King was of a grand type of womanhood
possessing many exalted attributes of character,
and among others, strict integrity to principle, and
a laudable ambition to excel in intellectual attain-
ments, nobility of soul, and yet a spirit to yield
obedience to the laws of God, childlike and with-
out questioning. Her illness was lingering, and,
she suffered intense and agonizing pain, until her
vigorous and fine organization gave way, and for
weeks she lay prostrated, yet passive and resigned 
to go or to stay as God willed, realizing His time 
was the best time.
	Her funeral was held in the Thirteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, on Tuesday, September 28th,
and was numerously attended by kind and loving 
friends, and by the relatives who reside here; also
her only son, Thomas O. King, of Elmo, Cassia

[Column 3]

County, Idaho, who came in to be with her in her
sickness, arriving only a week previous to her
death. It seems a fitting close to a life such as Mrs
King's that it should have finished its course on
the Saturday night, the last day of the week, and
when time was entering upon the Sabbath day rest.
Quiet and peaceful and free from pain she lay on
that lovely Sabbath morning the last in September;
the struggle was over, the battle of life finished, and
she lay sweetly sleeping the last long dreamless
sleep, from which there is no waking again in this
life, nor until the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
	Mrs. King leaves a son and two daughters, fif-
teen grandchildren and four great grandchildren,
who will have her example of integrity and up-
rightness, as well as her numerous writings to
stimulate them in the path of duty.
	Mrs. King wrote what she called "A Codicil,"
which was published in full in the EXPONENT,
April 15th, 1882, from which we make an extract
or two, as appropriate in concluding this simple
tribute to her memory.

"To only those it may concern,
	A few brief words I have to say:
Entwine no flowers around my Urn,
	Let no cold eyes behold my clay.

When death has sealed my pulses up,
	And bid my heart to cease its thrill,
When I have drained life's mingled cup,
	And eyes and heart and brain are still,
Then may some dear and treasured hand
	Enfold me in my temple robe—
And 'tis my wish—nay, more—command!
	That none death's secrets seek to probe!

"I want no one to gaze on me
	With curious, apathetic eyes—
But those who loved me, they may be
	Admitted with their fond good byes!

"I wish my Cenotaph to be
	Within the hearts of those I love;
I ask that they will shed for me
	A few sweet tears, their love to prove.

"There's nothing more I here will say,
	My dearest ones! remember me!
And heed these words—nay, more—obey,
	And see that they fulfilled shall be!


INTERESTING VISIT.

DEAR SISTER:
	I left Salt Lake City on the 10th of September.
Sister M. A. Hyde joined me at this place, and
we went to Thistle Station, where Bishop Tucker
met us with a team, and conveyed us to Fairview,
and we were received with a hearty welcome by
his kind family.
	On the 11th attended the Relief Society of that
place, M. A. Hyde presiding. Here Sister Pitch-
forth joined us, coming by way of Moroni. After
the minutes and reports of the last conference 
were read and accepted, M. A. Hyde, myself and
Sister Pitchforth addressed the sisters. In the 
afternoon attended the Young Ladies' conference,
Sister Helen Armstrong presiding. Sister M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, and myself and Bishop Alred
addressed the sisters. After meeting we went to 
Mount Pleasant, while Sister Hyde went on to
Spring City, on account of sickness in the family.
	In Mount Pleasant Sister Pitchforth and myself
stopped at Bishop Madsen's. The 12th, Sunday,
Sister Pitchforth and myself attended Sunday 
School, and spoke to the children, who were very
attentive. We expected to go to the general 
meeting in the afternoon, but Bishop Seeley in-
sisted on an appointment being given out that we
would speak to the  young men and women in the
afternoon, all who wished to come, then fill up
the house with older people. Of course we could 
not say no; we felt our weakness, but the Lord


greatly blessed us, and we all went home rejoicing.
After meeting we went to Spring City. Our kind
Bishop Alred and family received us with their
usual hospitality—meeting in the evening, and a
crowded house.
	On the 13th Bishop Alred took us to Ephraim,
where we were kindly welcomed by President
Peterson and family, and a delicious dinner spread
before us. At 2 o’clock we held meeting with the
sisters, M. A. Hyde presiding; Sisters M. A.
Hyde, Pitchforth, myself and President Peterson
addressing the sisters. We had a splendid meet-
ing, the gifts of prophecy, tongues and interpreta-
tion were made manifest,and we had a joyful time
long to be remembered. After meeting President
Peterson took us over to Manti, where we met so
many of our good brethren and sisters to welcome
us, we scarcely knew where to go first. The 14th,
visited the beautiful Temple in the forenoon,
Brother Folsom kindly taking us around. At 2
o’clock in the afternoon we met with the Relief
Society, M. A. Hyde, Sister Pitchforth, myself
and Brother Maiben speaking to the sisters.
	The 15th, went to Mayfield; held meeting at 10
a.m. Passed by Gunnison, as they had not got
the appointment, and Bishop Madsen and wife,
and the President of the Relief Society were all
out of town. Went on to Fayette and held meet-
ing in the evening. Sister Hyde was quite sick
that evening and did not attend meeting. Sister
Pitchforth and myself had to do all the talking.
	Next day, the 16th, a brother took us to Juab.
Took dinner with Brother and Sister Taylor. Took
the train at 2 o’clock, and arrived at Nephi in the
evening. Stopped at Sister Pitchforth’s: 17th,
attended the sister’s conference, Sister Pitchforth
presiding; and a beautiful meeting we had; we
found so many good sisters to welcome us on
every hand. 18th, attended the Primary Confer-
ence in the forenoon; in the afternoon attended
the Young Ladies’ Conference, Sister Teasdale
presiding: 19th, Sister Hyde and myself took the
train at 2 p.m. and arrived in Provo at 4 o'clock,
having had a very delightful trip, and meeting
kindness on every hand from the brethren and
sisters, and hope we have done a little good.
	I shall stop here a short time and visit my child-
ren before my return. I would like to see you, my
dear sister. God bless you, is my constant prayer.
	From your true sister,
	M. W. SNOW.
Sept. 20, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A.  & P. A. REPORTS.

	EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
	
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Eastern Arizona Stake was held
at Snowflake, September 10th, 1886. Prest.
Emma S. Smith presiding. After the usual
exercises, Sister Smith made opening remarks,
after which verbal reports of the branches of
Snowflake, ShowLow, Erastus and Taylor were
given by Sisters Mary H. Lawson, Harriet
Whipple, Clarissa Wilhelm and Elizabeth
Hawkins. The reports showed some improve-
ment, but sickness had been prevalent, and so
many deaths occuring, caused the people to
feel somewhat downcast. The presiding offi-
cers of the Stake, and also of the branches,
were presented, and sustained by unanimous
vote. The statistical and financial reports of
twelve branches were read.
	Sisters Jemima W. Smith, Elizabeth Pulsi-
pher and Mary Savage addressed the meeting,
and gave much good counsel and encourage-
ment to the sisters. Felt that unless we are
humble and prayerful we will not be able to
pass through the trials which are coming upon
the Saints.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith spoke upon the
good results obtained from having Relief So-
ciety meetings, and gave some instructions

[Column 2]
in regard to the manner of conducting them.
Counseled the mothers to teach their children
the principles of the Gospel, to make their
homes pleasant and agreeable, and to endeavor,
by divine assistance, to faithfully discharge the
duties of wife and mother.
	Prest. Jesse N. Smith made some remarks,
Expressed good wishes for the sisters in their
various walks of life, and encouraged them to
continue faithful in the work. Regarded the
training of children as a very pleasant task,
yet one which requires considerable patience,
care and study. Prayed the Lord to abundant-
ly bless us in our labors.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction pronounced by Brother
Samuel H. Rodgers.
	DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.

	TOOELE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions of Tooele Stake was held in the meeting
house at Tooele, Saturday and Sunday, Sept-
11th and 12th. Present from Salt Lake City,
Sisters Horne and Taylor. Coun. Emily War-
burton presided at the R. S. Conference on
Saturday morning, the President, Mrs. M. A.
Hunter being detained at home on account of
sickness. After singing, prayer was offered
by Bishop Atkin. Meeting continued by sing-
ing. Minutes of previous conference were
read and accepted; also reports from the several
branches in the Stake.
	Coun. Warburton made a few opening re-
marks.
	Sister Horne referred to the presence of the
brethren as an encouragement. Spoke of the
critical times, and that the Lord would have
a tried people. Said we should be honest with
each other, and the Lord in His own due time
would overrule all things for the best. Gave
good counsel to mothers, exhorted them to set
a good example, and to cultivate the intellect
of the children at home, and not to train
them up in the fashions of the world. Gave
advice to the Presidents of the Relief Society
present in regard to their duties.
	Sister Taylor spoke of the individual work
that each one must do for herself, and the
duties to be performed. Said, "This is a try-
ing time; we must go to the Lord with our
troubles, and ask Him to give us His Spirit.
Counsel our children to keep good company
and not associate with those who are not of
our faith, to keep the Sabbath day holy, and
not go on excursions on that day, but to attend
Sunday School and meetings, and the Lord
will bless us."
	Prest. H. S. Gowans endorsed the remarks
of the sisters, and spoke for a short time on
very interesting subjects.
	Meeting adjourned until afternoon. Benedic-
tion by S. W. Owens.
	The P. A. convened at 2 p.m. The Prest.,
Mrs. Sarah Hale, not being able to attend on
account of sickness, Coun. Mary Ann Atkin
presided. A great many of the boys and girls
rendered songs and recitations in a very able
manner, showing that the President of the
Tooele Primary, Mrs. Jane Bowen, and her
Counselors had taken a great deal of interest
in training the little folks. After the children's
exercises were finished the sisters addressed
them in an interesting manner.
	In the evening the Y. L. Associations held
their conference, Mrs. Ann Tate presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises, the sisters from the city
addressed the young ladies in a very able man-
ner, entreating them to live their religion and
honor their standing as Latter-day Saints.
	Coun. W. H. Lee, who had just emerged
from prison, where he had been sent for con-
science' sake, spoke to the young people, giv-
ing much good counsel.

[Column 3]
	After singing and prayer, conference was
then adjourned until December next, to meet
at Grantsville.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from Salt
Lake attended Sabbath School, and addressed
the young girls and children on living lives of
Latter-day Saints, and gave much excellent in
struction.
	In the afternoon the Relief Society confer-
ence was continued, after the opening exercises
and the administering of the sacrament.
	Mrs. Horne was the first speaker. She read
the revelation from the Doctrine and Covenants
given July, 1830, and spoke for some time up-
on the matter pertaining thereto.
	Mrs. Taylor followed, giving good advice
and urging all to the performance of every
duty.
	Prest. Gowans endorsed all that had been
said, and made a few remarks calculated to en-
courage the sisters.
	Coun. Warburton adjourned the conference
for three months, to be held at Grantsville.
The choir sang an anthem, and the meeting
was dismissed with prayer by Bishop Atkin.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. R. S.

	SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, September
16th; commencing at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne presiding. After singing, prayer was
offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Singing again,
and roll called by Secretary, to which twenty-
six presidents, six counselors and one secretary
responded. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted. Forty reports were
read from the various branches in the county.
	Prest. Horne expressed herself much pleased
with the representation present, and the good
number of reports; was also pleased that the
donations to the Hospital had been paid up by 
so many branches, and thought that those who
had been dilatory should attend to this matter.
The Lord had stirred up the hearts of the peo-
ple, and they had donated liberally for the
wants of the poor. "Now that the harvest is
on hand let us be diligent and see that we con-
tinue to gather wheat; we will want a good deal
to feed the number of people that will flee to
Zion." Hoped the teachers would have the
spirit of their missions when they visited from
house to house. Counseled mothers to see that
the children were properly taught to keep the
Sabbath day and all God's commandments,
and made other good remarks.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor thought there was an im-
provement in the reports, and urged the secre-
taries to keep their books properly; thought
we should have great pleasure in our labor if
it was well done. "We make wiser and better
mothers and wives when we educate ourselves
in everything that is for our benefit." Hoped
each of us would be wise enough to purify our-
selves so as to be able to stand when the day
of burning comes.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "We will have an
interesting conference, I think, and we should
try to profit by what we hear; we seem to be
slow to learn, but I hope we will go on increas-
ing in good works and in intelligence and wis-
dom; let us put away everything that is evil
from us.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards spoke concerning the
Y. L. M. I. A. Conference to-morrow. The
young ladies had voted that they would come
to conference fasting that day, asking the
Lord for a large outpouring of His Spirit up-
on them, that good might be the result.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. S. S. Young.
	Afternoon session: Usual exercises. Prayer
offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith. Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant was the first speaker; thought there


[Column 1]
﻿never was a time since the organization of the
Church that the adversary was doing his best
as he is now to overthrow the work of the
Lord.  Referred to having read the different
testimonies of several who had left the Church;
it caused her to feel we should be very careful
and watchful of our words.  "We want to have
charity one to the other, and not repeat at all
times what we hear.  The principle of celes-
tial marriage is the only one in which we can
gain an everlasting exaltation.  We all have
our human nature to contend with, and we
have a great work to do to save ourselves; we
are all in a school, and the better we conduct
 ourselves, it will be better for us hereafter.  If
we had kept the commandments of God, we 
should not be in the trouble we are at this
time, but we must acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all things."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said, "It seems to me we 
are all hungering and thirsting for the things
of the kingdom, and we all seem to be work-
ing members of this kingdom.  Our finances
are a small part of our labors.  I have made
 a rough estimate of what the ladies in this one
Stake control, and there are about thirty Stakes.
Let us look out for the most useful way to
spend what we have on hand, such as to beauti-
fy our hall, meeting houses and our homes.
We are to become a glory in the midst of the
earth.  The time has fully come when Zion
must arise and put on her beautiful garments;
but the Lord will keep us in the vale of hu-
mility until we know how to use the blessings
He is giving us.  When affliction comes to us
can we say, "Not my will, but Thine be done?"
If we can, as individuals and collectively, it is
well for us."
	Mrs. P. S. Kimball said, "I feel the Spirit
of the Lord is here; I hope we will learn to
pity others and learn to control ourselves; this
is our work, to control our desires and appetites;
let us not deform our bodies by following the
fashions of Babylon; let us try to do as near
right as we can while we are here in mortality.
Are our mothers training up souls for exalta-
tion out of the depths of humility?  Are we
rearing them to save souls of men and women,
by being worthy to enter the Temples of the
Lord?  If we humble ourselves, the Lord will
cause Satan to be bound, but we must become 
a humble people.  We are feeling after God
and seeking to prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior.  God will bless the Relief
Society; it is for blessing the poor and the sick.
Let us gather and save wheat, for we will re-
quire all we can get.  There is danger for
everybody while in the flesh, therefore let us
keep close to God and keep His command-
ments, and do as we would wish to be done by
to everyone.  I bless you, my sisters, in the 
name of Jesus."
	Secretary E. Howard spoke of the annoy-
ances all have to meet in some way or other,
 but thought we were getting waked up.  "Pride
is creeping among us.  The pride of education
is growing in our midst.  Many are becoming
so highly educated that they are losing the
Spirit of the Lord.  Let us humble ourselves,
that the Lord will not humble us. We need
more time for our conference. The enemy is
laying traps for our children in the excursions
and amusements. The work is accumulating,
but don't let us work too hard, but take care
of our bodies.  Let us ask our Father to bless
all we do, and let us acknowledge that all we
have and are is from Him."
	Mrs. S. B. Gibson, Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Mrs. Diana Ried, Mrs. Catharine Smith, Mrs.
Ann Griffiths, Mrs. M. Brady, Mrs. M. A.
Smart, Mrs. E. Hirst, each made a few re-
marks, and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting, and also to the truth of the 
Gospel, expressing their interest in the work of 
the Relief Society, as well as all work in the

[Column 2]
kingdom, with an ardent desire to prove faith-
ful to the end and endure all things.
     Prest. Horne made closing remarks upon
practical matters, as well as entreating all to
live lives of holiness, laying aside pride, covet-
ousness and self-will, cultivating faith, and
feeling a full assurance that God will be with 
us.
     Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "O Jesus, the giver of all we enjoy,"
etc.  Benediction by Mrs. Rachel Whipple.

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Associations of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, Saturday, September
18th, beginning at 10 a.m., Mrs, Ellen C. 
Clawson presiding, assisted by her Counselor,
Mrs. L. A. Wells.  Opened by singing, "Our
Father in Heaven."  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Willis.  Singing, "When shall we meet Thee,"
etc.  Minutes of last conference were read and
accepted, and a recitation by Sophia Sorensen
given.  Reports were then read from the fol-
lowing wards: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 7th, 8th,
10th, 12th and 13th.  Recitation by a little
girl from the 4th Ward, entitled, "The world
is for others as well as for you;"  Alice Hardy
sang, "God bless my poor old mother."  Re-
ports were read from the 15th and 16th Wards.
Recitation by a boy from the 6th Ward; song,
"Hope of Israel," by the children.  Remarks
by Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Prest. of the P. A.
of Davis Stake, upon attending meetings, keep-
ing the Sabbath day holy, kindness to each
other, quarreling, and touchingupon many
other topics of interest.  Class recitation by
eight little girls of the 20th Ward; recitation
by Ruby Irvine of the 19th Ward; reading by
a little girl from the 10th Ward; recitation by
a little girl of the 16th Ward.
     The President made a few remarks, and ad-
journed the meeting until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"Did you think to pray?"  Benediction by
Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
     Afternoon session: Opened by singing, "The
Primary Song."  Prayer by Mrs. H. A. Hardy.
Singing, "We're Marching Homeward."  Re-
marks by Mrs. E. Sutherland, Prest. Big Cot-
tonwood P. A.  A song from the little girls of
Union Ward, entitled, "Bessie Fair;"  Remarks
by Mrs. Terry of Draper; recitation by a little
boy from the 20th Ward, "Never give up the
right way."
	Conn. Lydia Ann Well asked the children
a few questions, and made some excellent re-
marks about prayer, improvement, and upon
the first principles of the Gospel.  Two little
boys of the 5th Ward gave a dialogue.  Re-
marks were also made by Mrs. Mary Gerber
of Granger Ward and Mrs. Minnie H. James
of the 7th Ward.  Recitations by two little
girls each from a different ward.  Mrs. C.
Smith of Draper spoke a few minutes to the
children, counseling and encouraging them in
doing right.  "The day dawn is breaking,"
was then sung by the children.  Miss Annie
McGhee of Sugar House Ward made some in-
teresting remarks.  Mrs. Frances Hanson of
Mill Creek Ward asked the children a few
questions and spoke a short time.  Minnie
James, a very little girl of the 7th Ward,
gave a recitation.  Miss Celia Sharp spoke
to the children upon order, attention and
punctuality; urged them to learn something
each day, and if once learned it would never
be forgotten.
     Prest. Clawson hoped the children would
try and remember what they had heard at this
conference, for they had really had some good
instructions; was glad to see some of the pa-
rents present; hoped they would attend, and
encourage the children.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.  Singing, "Hope of Israel."  Bene-
diction by Mrs. McGhee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


REORGANIZATION.
	The Eighth Ward Primary met at the ward
meeting house, Sept. 21st, 1886, Prest. E. B.
Fletcher presiding.  Sisters Ellen C. Clawson
and Lydia Ann Wells were present; also Coun.
Joseph McMurrin.
	Sister E. B. Fletcher stated that the meet-
ing was for the purpose of reorganizing.  She,
through poor health, realizing her inability to
perform her duty in a creditable manner, of-
fered her resignation, which was accepted, and
a vote of thanks tendered her and her Coun-
selors, Miss Katie Spencer and Miss Lizzie
Chamberlain, for their efficient and much ap-
preciated labors in the past.
	Sister Fletcher was elected as President at
the organization, March 19th, 1879, and has,
since that time, been greatly loved and re-
spected by the children.  She felt it quite a
trial to part with the children, but circum-
stances were of such a nature that it was neces-
sary for her to resign, as she had so many du-
ties and labors to perform.

DEAR SISTER FLETCHER:

	     “May happy days be ever thine,
	     And heaven’s glory on thee shine;
	     And as the days glide swiftly past,
	     May joy attend thee to the last,"

is the sincere desire of the children.
	The officers of the Primary Association are
as follows: Sister Jane Cowan, President;
Sister Ann Cartwright and Miss Jennie Mor-
tensen, Counselors; Susie Keysor, Secretary;
Aggie McMurrin, Assistant Secretary; Sarah
McMurrin, Recording Secretary and Treas-
nrer.
	A short programme was rendered. consisting
of recitations, readings, songs, organ solos and
essays.  Prest. Jane Cowan and Counselors
each spoke a few words, expressing their desire
to do the best they could.
	Sisters Clawson and Wells, as well as Bro.
McMurrin, also spoke, giving the children
much good advice. exhorting them to be obedi-
ent and prayerful.  They also gave words of
counsel and encouragement to all present.
	Those who attended felt that they had in-
deed been well paid for so doing.  The meet-
ing was then adjourned for one week, at four
o’clock, and prayer was offered by Sister Claw-
son.
						SARAH MCMURRIN.


﻿SOME PLAIN FACTS.

	I was reading in the Deseret News the re-
marks of a "47er."  I did not think it was
 right for him to dismiss his audience without
giving the women a chance to speak; and as I
came to Salt Lake the first year following the
pioneers, and driving my team, I thought I
would add a few wordt. My mind went back
to my leaving Nauvoo, being driven out by a
mob.  My husband, during the winter of '45
'46, built us a wagon. The timber was boiled
in brine to season it.  The wheels were tied
with rawhide and hickory withes.  I was very
proud of our wagon; we did not own a team.
The mob was coming into Nauvoo, and women
and children were being taken over the river
and set down on the bank without shelter. My
family had a little shorts; no groceries of any
kind, not even salt.
     Brethren would come with their teams and
help us on a few miles, till we reached Bona-
parte, in Iowa, where we procured flour by
selling our clothing. When we stopped we
were in a wagon and tolerably comfortable,
while there were hundreds of sick without 
food or shelter on the bank of the river.
     I thought, when reading the speech of the
woman visitor to Salt Lake, offering the "Mor-


mon" women a home in New York, to get
away from polygamy: "A home indeed!" It 
made my blood boil; I thought: "before you
preach to us change your practice." In New
York City there are thirty thousand prostitutes,
with their multitudinous pimps and paramours,
"All, all honorable men."
	I embraced the Gospel in the city of New
York in 1838, and came to Nauvoo in '43.
My forefathers came to America in 1620 and
were in the war of the Revolution, quite a
number as commissioned officers; yet I, the de-
scendant of valiant men, could not vote be-
cause my husband was keeping the laws of 
God.  I visited my native state and city, New
York, in 1871, and saw so much wickedness
and evil that I felt to pray to my Heavenly
Father to keep me till I got safely back to my
Mountain home.  The people of the United
States do not care how many women the
"Mormons" have if they will do as the former
do, not marry, but make mistresses of them.
	Were we driven from New York to Ohio for
polygamy? or from Jackson, Clay, and Cald-
well Counties and out of the State of Missouri
for that alleged offense?  No, we were not.  It
was because this people are united in trying to
keep the principles laid down by all the holy
Prophets and Apostles that they were divine.
	If we are to be tried till we are perfect
through suffering let it come, I would stay in
prison till I was carried out before I would
answer some questions.—Deseret News
			 A WOMAN FORTY-SEVENER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ORGANIZATION AT SCOFIELD, 
			EMERY CO.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Our Relief Society was organized in Decem-
ber 1885, Sister Elizabeth Richards President 
with Sister Alice Whimpey and Harriet Wal-
ton Counselors.  Sister Harriet Eaden, Secre-
tary and Treasurer, Sister Ella Ingles Assist-
ant Secretary.  We hold meetings every two
weeks, they are pretty well attended consider
ing the ward is in a very scattering situation. 
	Some of the sisters take the EXPONENT which
is a great blessing to us.  The people here, as
a rule, are blessed with health, which is one of
the greatest blessings the Lord can bestow on
his children.  It is indeed a trying time, not 
for one alone but all who are striving to keep
the commandments of God; but we need not
fear the final outcome, if we will only live as 
becometh saints of God.  Ever praying for
the welfare of Zion, I am, 
		Your sister in the Gospel. 
			    	 HARRIET WALTON.


Patents were issued to women during the
week ending Aug. 24th, 1886, as follows:
	Carrie J. Everson, Chicago, Ill., Concentrat-
ing Ores.
	Therese R. Fischer, Baltimore, Md., Dress
Form.
	Caroline S. Pusey, Philadelphia, Pa., Pattern
for Garments.
	Emma J. Whitman, Oakland. Cal., Com-
bined Press-board and Sleeve Pressing Frame
	Catherine A Williamson, St. Louis, Mo.,
Gasoline Stove.

	Aug. 31st, 1886 as follows:
	Sarah E. Ball, Brooklyn, N. Y., Combined
Work-table and Basket.
	Mary J. Cole, Grand Rapids. Mich., Trunk.
	Julia B. French, Boston, Mass., Tank for
Toilet, Laundry, and Refrigerating purposes.

	Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Sept. 7. 1885, as follows:
	Clara M. Kimball, Milwaukee, Wis., Com-
position for medicating Bed-quilts.


﻿Carrie A. Munro, Olive Branch, Ohio, Va-
por bath.
	Emma J. Lawrence, Philadelphia, Pa, De-
sign for Rug.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Hot water applied to bruises will move the pain and
swelling.
	The secret of muscular recuperation is in stopping when
fatigue begins.  He or she who is not the fresher in body
and mind for the exercise taken has had an overdose of
what in proper measure would have been a benefit.  The
gain in strength is shown and felt in the increasing ability
to do more and more without exhaustion.  The measure
of success is not in the greatness of the feat accomplished,
but in the ease with which the exercise is indulged in, and
in the absence of exhaustion after it.  There are occasions
frequent enough in which people in the struggle of life are
forced beyond their powers of endurance and there is no
need to carry into the pursuit of recreation the fatigue
which exacting work imposes.
	Dr. George R. Shepherd adds his testimony to that of
many others by saying in the Medical Record:  “I have
used hot water as a gargle for the past six or eight years
having been led to do so from seeing its beneficial effects.
In acute pharyngitis and tonsillitis, if properly used at the
commencement of the attack, it constitutes one of the
most effective remedies, being frequently promptly curative.
If used later in the disease or in chronic cases, it is always
beneficial, though perhaps not so immediately curative.
To be of service it should be used in considerable quantity
(half a pint or pint) at a time, and just as hot as the throat
will tolerate.  I have seen many cases of acute disease thus
aborted, and can commend the method with great confi-
dence.  I believe it may be taken as an established fact
that in the treatment of inflammations generally, and those
of the mucous membranes in particular, moist heat is of
service, and in most cases hot water is preferable to
steam."
	The increased, and apparently increasing, frequency of
neuralgic headache among women must needs have a cause.
There is one of singular simplicity and quite obvious which
has been overlooked, and to which it is worth while to draw
attention.  The pain experienced is generally located in
one or more of the branches of the second cervical nerve,
very commonly those terminating in the scalp of the occi-
put.  As a matter of fact, the nerves of the scalp are irri-
tated by the hair being drawn tightly back and put on the
strain, not as a whole, in which case the strain would be
spread over a large area of the surface, but by small bun-
dles of hair which are pulled back and held in place by
hair-pins.  Relief is often consciously experienced as a re-
sult of removing the hair-pins, but this has only a tempor-
ary and partial effect.  The injury done is lasting if not
permanent, in its consequences.  The present style of
dressing the hair should be discontinued, as it probably, in
part at least, accounts for the extreme prevalence of a form
of suffering which is both intractable and distressing.—
The Lancet.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Herewith I send you an account of the death of Sister
Annie Woods, at Woodruff, in this county, on the 15th of
last month. She was born in England, July 10th, 1837.
Her maiden name was Chandler. When sixteen years of
age she embraced the Gospel. She immigrated in 1853,
with her mother, two brothers and one sister. At New
Orleans her mother and youngest brother died of cholera.
With her remaining brother and sister she came to Utah.
In 1854 she married James T. Woods. Of their eight
children, only three reached maturity.
	She was Secretary and Teacher in the Relief Society of
the 14th Ward, Salt Lake City. In 1875 her husband was
called to Arizona, and she accompanied him thither. At
Brigham City, in said Territory, she was President of the
Young Ladies' Association. At Show Low she was Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, and was a Teacher in the Relief
Society at Woodruff. She sang regularly in the choirs
where she lived, possessing a voice of great richness and
purity of tone. Her husband was absent on a mission to 
England at the time of her demise.
				Very respectfully,
								EMMA S. SMITH.


ANNOUNCEMENT. 

	The first term of Dr. Ellis R Shipp's annual class in
Obstertrics will begin Oct. 1st, 1886. 
	Every effort has been made to place this school upon the
highest basis, and its educational facilities in this important
branch of medicine cannot be excelled.
Liberal reduction in prices will be made to any branch
of Relief Society sending students.
Those who desire to attend should commnnicate at once
with Dr E. R Shipp either verbally or by letter in order
to procure books and make necessary arrangements. For
particulars send for circulars. Office No. 18 Main St. 
Salt Lake City. Telephone 383.

F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE. 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders true
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 305. SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We	carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 
Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118, East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.  	 
VOL 15.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1886. 			No. 10.


[Column 1]

AN EPISTLE
OF THE
FIRST PRESIDENCY
TO TIIE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST
OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS.

Dear Brethren and Sisters:
	Six months have passed away since
we last had the pleasure of addressing
you through our General Epistle, and
we find ourselves face to face with the
Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference
of the Church in this dispensation
The past six months have been very
fruitful in events in which all of us
have been deeply interested. The
season has been a healthful one; no
sickness worthy of note has affected
our people unpleasantly. The sum-
mer has been both unusually dry and
hot, and many of the crops have not
yielded as good a return as usual.
Nevertheless our land is still filled with
plenty, and man and beast have suf-
ficient to supply their wants.

PERSECUTION AND ITS EFFECTS.
	Our enemies during the past half
year have not slackened their ac-
tivity in the work of persecution. If
there has been any difference, it has been
pursued with greater vindictiveness
and more flagrant disregard of law and
justice than at any time previous.
Those who have been compelled to en-
dure the penalties inflicted upon them
have  submitted, in nearly every
instance, with a cheerful equanimity
and fortitude that must have won the
admiration of heaven and of all just
men. That which has been accom-
plished furnishes but little cause for
gratification to those who have been
engaged in the inhuman task of perse-
cuting a people for the practice of
their religion. There have been but
few persons in all who have been tried
and convicted who have felt sufficient-
ly terrified at the prospect of punish-
ment to express a willingness to accept
the rulings of the court instead of the
law of God, as the guide for their con-
sciences
	The faith of the Latter-day Saints
seems to grow stronger from these ef-
forts to destroy it; and men, women
and children who have been living in the
practice of the requirements of their
religion feel more determined than
ever to maintain their integrity and to
do all that the Lord requires at their
hands with cheerful willingness, what-
ever may be the consequences from a
worldly point of view.
	This persecution is not without its
effects upon those who have made a
pretense of being faithful members of
the Church. Iniquity is being brought
to light. The wrongdoer is being made
to feel, in a most remarkable manner,
that his sin will find him out; and the
evidence that God is pleading with and
awakening the consciences of those
who  have been  living in sin is
frequently furnished to us. There have
been many violations of the law of
God practiced among us which have
been hidden from the public gaze. The
trials through which we are passing
have the effect of causing these evils to
be brought to light. It seems as though
the Lord is tearing the covering, not
only from the nations of the earth, but
from the Latter-day Saints; and the
time is not far distant—in fact, it has
reached us already in part—when the
sinner in Zion shall tremble, and fear
shall seize upon the hypocrite.

THE PURIFICATION OF ZION.
	So far as we can learn there is an in-
creased disposition on the part of the
faithful officers of the Church to do all
in their power to cleanse the Wards and
Stakes in their charge from those who
will not conform to the requirements
of the Gospel. Greater strictness is
being shown, and the Saints who have
the love of the truth within them feel
that the time has come to put away
their follies and their sins far from

[Column 2]

them and to conform to a higher
standard of righteousness. The great,
crying sin of this generation is lasciv-
iousness in its various forms. Satan,
knowing how powerful an agency this
is in corrupting men and women, and
in driving the Spirit from them, and
bringing them under condemnation
before the Lord, uses it to the greatest
extent possible. It requires an inces-
sant warfare to check its spread and to
prevent the people of God from be-
coming its victims. No people who
practice or countenance these sins can
be accepted of the Lord or find favor
in His sight. His anger will fall upon
them unless they thoroughly and heart-
ily repent of every such evil. When
we take into consideration the teach-
ings we have received upon this sub-
ject, the holy covenants into which we
have entered, and the professions
which we make, unchastity should have
no existence among us. It is sorrow-
ful to contemplate that Satan finds
those among us who are willing to
yield to his temptations, and thus
bring misery upon themselves
and all connected with them.
We solemnly call, as we have done so
often before, upon all the officers of
the Church to set their faces like flint
against practices of this character.
Those who indulge in them must be
dealt with according to the laws of
God, and they must be made to feel
that if they do indulge in this wicked-
ness they cannot have the fellowship
of the Saints nor a standing in the
Church of Christ. If men and women
would only profit by the experience of
those who have fallen, they would re-
sist the allurements of sin and walk in
the path of righteousness. "The
wages of sin is death." The
misery which it brings upon the
guilty, and upon all connected
with them, furnishes some idea of the
dreadful condition of the wicked who
die in their sins and do not obtain the
forgiveness of their God. O! that
men and women could be warned, and
that they would turn to the Lord and
seek unto Him, humble themselves be-
fore Him, put away their sins, and
obtain His Holy Spirit to be their
guide and their companion, then no
matter what the circumstances might
be in which they were placed, they
would have the peace of heaven, the
joy of the Holy Ghost, and a con-
science void of offence towards God
and man! And this is the condition in
which every Latter-day Saint should
live.

PROPHECY FULFILLED BY THE
SITUATION.
	The circumstances which surround
us, though in many respects painful
and trying,are not such as to discourage
the faithful Saint. We have been
taught to expect just such scenes as
these through which we are passing,
or, at least, just such opposition as we
now have to contend with. What we
now behold is in direct fulfilment of
the predictions of God's servants to us
in this generation, and unless these
events take place His word could not
be fulfilled.
	Not only have the Prophets in our
day spoken about the events which
should take place in connection with
the latter-day work and the opposition
it would have to contend with, but the
Prophets of old foretold with accuracy
and minuteness that the people of God
should be few and their dominions
should be small,because of the wicked-
ness  of  "the great whore"  which
should make war against them.  But
notwithstanding that the multitudes of
the earth should fight against the
Church of the Lamb of God, the power
of God would descend upon the Saints
and upon His covenant people; and
they should be armed with righteous-
ness and with the power of God and
great glory. The scenes in which we
are now taking part were known to
men of God,by the spirit of revelation,
thousands of years ago. But while
they predicted the troubles and diffi-
culties with which the people of God
would have to contend in the last days,
in every instance they broke out in

[Column 3]

language of encouragement respecting
the result of the struggle and predicted
the complete triumph of God's kingdom
over all the opposing powers of evil.
Therefore, in this contest which is
forced upon us we do not wage a de-
fense that is hopeless. The God of
heaven is on our side. He has made
promises to Zion which cannot fail.
He is mightier than all of earth's
hosts, and by His wonderful provi-
dence can bring to pass, in His own
way, the fulfilment of all the words of
His inspired servants. Upon this
foundation we can rest secure. No
weapon that is formed against Zion
can prosper; and every tongue that
shall rise against her in judgment shall
be condemned. Our enemies gloat
over the prospect of our destruction.
Even those who feel inclined to be
friendly can see no prospect for our
deliverance except by the aban-
donment of our religion. But
it is better for us to die than
to abandon our God! We cannot do
this without throwing away all hope
respecting the future and the great
eternity that awaits us. We know that
there is no faithful Latter-day Saint
who feels for one moment like yielding
to the demands of the wicked. Our
religion is given to us from our God.
We have received it by the revelations
of Jesus to us. When all the world
was in darkness and struggling and
contending about doctrines and ordi-
nances, He condescended to restore
the Everlasting Priesthood from the
heavens and His Gospel in its purity
and fulness and power. We were left no
longer to grope in the dark and to
follow the traditions of our fathers
or the false teachings of uninspired
men. The path of salvation
was plainly marked before us, con-
firmed to us by the unerring testimony
of God's Holy Spirit. Our souls, in
walking in that path, have been filled
with ineffable joy and peace. While
others who have rejected the truth
have been apprehensive and fear-
ful concerning the events that
were taking place and that were likely
to take place, we have had a peace, a
satisfaction of mind, and a content-
ment that have made our position
unique. God has given unto us the
fruits of His Gospel in great abun-
dance. We behold them in our family
organizations. We behold them in our
Wards, and in our Stakes, and in our
entire Church. His blessing has
visibly rested upon us, and
His power has been displayed
in our behalf. Every faithful
Latter-day Saint has rejoiced in the
abundance of the gifts of the Spirit
which He has bestowed; and no prom-
ise that was made to the ancient
Saints, or that has been made to us,
upon the condition of our faithfully
obeying the Gospel, has been withheld
from us. We have been a people
greatly blessed of the Lord, and our
hearts should swell with gratitude and
thanksgiving to our God for His abun-
dant mercies.

SHOULD BEAR EACH OTHERS BURDENS
	We again call upon the Presidents of
Stakes and the Bishops of Wards to
look carefully after the wants of all
who are within their jurisdiction and
stand in need of assistance. Espe-
cially should the families of those who
are in prison, or who have been com-
pelled to flee, or who are upon mis-
sions, be tenderly cared for. They
need both aid and sympathy. Those
upon whom the heavy hand of persecu-
tion does not personally rest should be
willing to share the burdens of their
afflicted brethren and sisters, by con-
tributing to the comfort and susten-
ance of those who are de-
prived  of  the  society  and  guid-
ance of husbands and fathers
for righteousness' sake. By so doing
they will lay up treasures in heaven,
and share the reward for these trials.
The weight of this persecution falls
upon the women and children. De-
prived of the presence and support of
their husbands and fathers; upon
whom they have been accustomed to
rely, they are comparatively helpless

[Column 4]

and naturally a prey to deep anxiety.
The care and training of the children
thus bereaved devolves upon their
mothers,whose burden is made doubly
heavy to bear. The Teachers should be
particularly diligent in visiting such
families, and in watching over their
welfare. Thus the hands of the moth-
ers should be strengthened, the young
encouraged, the wayward admonished,
and the heroic example of the heads of
those households held up for admira-
tion; aud everything possible should
be done to make their situation tolera-
ble and pleasant. In this way we can
bear each other's burdens, and so ful-
fil the law of Christ, and witness to
our God and to the world, that though
we may not personally suffer persecu-
tion, our sympathy and faith are with
those who are afflicted for adherence
to their religion, and that we are ready 
and willing to do our part and mani-
fest our devotion to the cause of
Christ.

JUDICIAL PERVERSION AND 
OPPRESSION.
	The District Courts of Utah still
pursue their extreme, vindictive and
unrelenting course. The law is per-
verted, not justly administered; [---]e
object appears to be, not the ma[---]-
nance of social purity nor the rectifica-
tion of alleged evil, but the oppression
and distress of individuals because of
their religious position. The Latter-
day Saints are under the most sacred
obligations to do the will of God. At the
same time they wish to obey every
valid law of the land. But by the
strained interpretation and the unwar-
rantable application of the Edmunds
Act, men are made offenders because
of their religious scruples, and ren-
dered criminals when they are not
fairly amenable to the law. Defend-
ants who, according to the evidence,
have only lived with one wife, are
"presumed" to have cohabited with
another wife, and thus are convicted
of "cohabiting with more than one
woman," when the presumption is
obliterated by the proof.
	In other cases when parties, in their
desire to observe the requirements of
the Edmunds Act, have privately
agreed to the voluntary relinquishment
of association as husband and wife,
the husband has not escaped, the ven-
geance of the law. Though there are
numbers of instances where such par-
ties have honestly endeavored to live
within the law, yet whenever indict-
ments have been found, husbands have
almost invariably been convicted and
sentenced to the full penalties of fine
and imprisonment. We take this op-
portunity of recording our high appre-
ciation of the spirit of self sacrifice
which has been manifested by our
sisters throughout the entire crusade.
They have shown a fortitude, a cour-
age, a devotion and love which must
be the admiration of posterity. They
have not faltered in their devotion to
the principles of righteousness, have
not shrunk from the consequences at-
tending obedience to God's law, and
have been a source of strength and en-
couragement to their sons, their hus-
bands and their fathers. There are
numerous instances which have come
to our knowledge of wives offering to
make the most heroic sacrifices to save
their husbands from the penalties of
the law.
	Contrary to the jurisprudence of
centuries, legal wives are compelled,
under threats of imprisonment, to tes-
tify against their lawful husbands and
disclose family secrets that should
never be bared to the public eye. This
is a gross violation of the law under
which they act, and opposed to rec-
ognized public polity and family rights.
And by the system of "segregation" an
offense which, according to the law, is
punishable at the utmost extent by six
months' imprisonment and a fine of $300
is multiplied into many offenses and
the  full  sentence inflicted for each
fraction of that offense.
	The plan of finding several indict-
ments for the one offense has been dis-
carded and the scheme adopted of
making several counts in the one in-


[Column 1]

dictment. The number of these counts
is not regulated by law, but is left to
the arbitrary disposition of a grand
jury selected from the class in hostility
to the defendants, and usually sub-
ject and pliant to the will of an ex-
tremely bitter and unscrupu-
lous Prosecuting Attorney. The
petit juries empaneled for the
trial of persons thus indicted, are also
picked out for their known antagon-
ism to the society to which the accused
belong. And in almost every instance
they find verdicts as requested by the
Prosecuting Attorney, oblivious of the
exculpatory portions of the evidence.
Juries are thus selected, not only for
the trial of cases under the Edmunds
law, which permits challenges of
"Mormons," but by the open venire
process strong ani -"Mormon" are
chosen to try "Mormons" accused of
offenses not included in the Edmunds
act, and thus again is the law pervert
ed and prostituted to work oppression
and injustice. The Courts, as a rule,
decide on questions of law and proced-
ure as desired by the District Attorney
and ignore the request of defendant's
counsel for legal instructions to the
trial jury. Thus the victims marked						
for the sacrifice on the altar of hate,
are, humanly speaking, entirely at the
mercy of their persecutors.
	Another new step in the progress of
this iniquity is the rule, recently en-
forced, of compelling persons charged
with violations of the Edmunds act to
plead guilty or else have their families
forced upon the witness stand, to be
plied with shameful questions con-
cerning the most private acts and re-
lations of their husbands and fathers.
Children of tender years are compelled
[--] give evidence on subjects unsuited
to their immature minds, and to be-
come the instruments of their parents'
incarceration. Formerly, defendants
were permitted to plead not guilty and
then go upon the stand and testify
against themselves, declaring the facts
and leaving the result with the jury
and the court. By this means a con-
scientious man who did not
consider himself guilty of crime,
could explain his position, and
meet the issue without doing vio-
lence to his convictions. But this poor
consolation is now denied by the male-
volent District Attorney. The unfortu-
nate defendant must do violence to
some extent to his conscience by
pleading guilty, or suffer the anguish
of witnessing the tortures of his wives
and children when subject to the legal
rack of a brutal cross-examination, in
which no regard is shown for a wife's
affection or a daughter's love, the sen-
sitive shrinking of a virtuous woman
from exposure of her marital associa-
tions, or a child's tearful aversion to
disclosing the secrets of home for the
conviction of a father. Such proceed-
ings prove that the object is not the
vindication of the law but the
promotion of human suffering,
providing the victims are mem-
bers of the "Mormon" Church.
Many of the objects of this malevo-
lence are aged men who have passed
the allotted three score years and ten,
who have contracted no new marital
obligations, but are engaged in caring
for their families as honor and right-
eousness dictate. The heartless se-
verity with which such defendants are
pursued is also evidence that the
object is not the public benefit but the
wreaking of vengeance upon members
of a Church.
	Another indignity which has been
heaped upon the heads of Latter-day
Saints is the charge of perjury which
the reckless District Attorney has
publicly but not legally made. Wit-
nesses who have been compelled to
testify against their dearest friends,
when answering "I do not know" to
questions concerning matters of which
they were not cognizant, have been in-
sulted and abused and branded with
perjury. All evidence they disclose
which suits him he uses as undeniable
truth before a commissioner or a jury,
but everything elicited from the same
witnesses that does not suit his pur-
pose he enounces as perjury. And
he has the hardihood to claim that this
crime is taught and encouraged by the
"Mormon" Church. The refutation of
this atrocious calumny is found in the
standards of Church doctrine, and in
the fact that the brethren who are now
lingering in prison for declining to re-
pudiate their wives, have been sent
there, in nearly every instance,
through their own testimony or the
testimony of their families. And it is
well known that every one of them
could have escaped the penalties

[Column 2]

of the law if they would
but promise to obey the law, in
future, as construed by the courts.
It would have been easy to make the
promise and avoid imprisonment. But
their regard for their word was such
that they would not make a promise
which they did not intend to keep, so
they accepted a loathsome prison and
pecuniary loss in preference to the ap-
pearance of falsehood. It may seem
to those who do not understand the
situation that the requirement of future
obedience to the law is but reasonable
and that every good citizen should
make this agreement. But an expla-
nation of the facts will speedily dissi-
pate this conclusion. Obedience to the
law as construed by the courts, would
be difficult of comprehension if the
numerous and diverse definitions of the
law were considered. But according
to the latest rulings, a promise to obey
the law signifies an agreement to vio-
late the most solemn covenants of
marital fidelity that mortals can make
with each other and their God. It
means the utter repudiation of loving
wives and the separation either of the
father and some of his children or of
the mother and her children. It is a
promise not to visit, go to the same
place of worship or amusement, or
recognize, associate with, or even call
on when sick or dying, or when her
child is sick or dying, the plural wife
who has been faithful in all things. It
means dishonor, treachery, cruelty and
cowardice. It places, not the law but
a gross and wicked perversion of the
law, above the revealed will of God
and the noblest promptings of the hu-
man heart. It is a promise that no
true Latter-day Saint can make and
that no humane being would demand.
	Thus the legal difficulties that sur-
round the Saints are not so much the
effects of a special and partial law
aimed at a feature of their religion as
of the wicked and absurd construc-
tions of that law and its improper and
unprecedented administration, prompt-
ed by malice, inspired by Satan and in-
tended to crush out a system of re-
ligion which cannot be overcome by
truth, reason and the agencies of en-
lightened humanity.

RETALIATION DEPRECATED.
	Before leaving this uninviting sub-
ject we desire to say to the Latter-day
Saints, that though we are suffering so
acutely from the inhumanity of our fel-
low men, we must not descend in the
slightest degree to acts that would
savor of retaliation,or in the least seek
to curtail any man in his individual
rights. We wish it fully understood          			
by the Saints and by all the world
that we have a profound respect
for all wholesome and consti-
tutional laws. We are the firm and
unequivocal advocates of law and
order, and of every principle associat-
ed with human freedom, and though we
regard the Edmunds Act, in its provi-
sions and its administration, as ex post
facto, cruel, oppressive and unconsti-
tutional, yet we are not contending
against it in our own interests alone,
but we are also fighting the battle of
civil and religious liberty, and of free-
dom of conscience in behalf of our
common humanity and in the interest
of every people. We feel assured that,
as the founding of these United States
formed an epoch in the history of hu-
man liberty, so this action of ours will
have due weight in restraining the ten-
dency to intolerance and oppression
that to-day uprears its head to stay
the progress of human freedom. We
say, as Elder Parley P. Pratt very
forcibly expresses it in one of his po-
etical effusions:

"Come ye Christian sects, and Pagan,
	Pope and Protestant and Priest,
Worshippers of God or Dagon,
	Come ye to fair freedom's feast.
Come ye sons of doubt and wonder—
	Indian, Moslem, Greek and Jew,
All your shackles burst asunder;
	Freedom's banner waves for you."

THE REFUGE OF LIES.
	Probably at no period in the world's
history has Satan had such power over
the hearts of the children of men as
he appear to wield at the present. He
has flooded the earth with lies, en-
deavoring by means of these decep-
tions to retard the work of God, to
destroy its influence, and to make vic-
tims of its believers, especially those
who have the authority to administer
the ordinances of the Gospel. A more
striking illustration of his power in
this respect has not been furnished us
than was witnessed at the meetings
which were attended by some of the
members of the Grand Army of the

[Column 3]

Republic who were passing through
here. It would be incredible to be-
lieve that people could be so deceived
by the false statements which were
made to them by our enemies who
reside here, had it not been witnessed.
The most abominable falsehoods,
which could be disproved with the
greatest ease, were told with an un-
blushing effrontery that was Satanic:
and though many of the visitors had
opportunities of seeing for themselves,
and of mingling with the people, some
went away fully imbued with the idea
that the Latter-day Saints ought to be
exterminated from the face of the
earth. But to the credit of humanity
be it said, others became thoroughly
disgusted with the proceedings, and
denounced unsparingly the folly and
wrong of condemning a people afford-
ing so many evidences of the qualities
that go to make excellent citizens, from
the one-sided statements of their
avowed enemies.
	The course of the former class is an
illustration of the malignant power of
falsehood wielded by Satan in other
directions and places. If lies could
overwhelm the work of God,we should
be completely crushed under their
weight. It is this great influence up-
on which Satan depends to thwart the
purposes of God and check the spread
of truth; and, unfortunately for the
world, it appears willing to drink in
his spirit and to believe his fabrica-
tions. It is this that arouses mobs and
causes them to indulge in acts of vio-
lence and hostility against,unoffend-
ing servants of God, and that has in-
cited them to shed the blood of inno-
cent men in the most cruel and barbar-
ous manner.
	By means of this incessant stream of
falsehood which is continually being
sent forth, the rulers of our nation are
urged to adopt the most extreme
measures against us. It appears
vain to point to our works, to
show what we have done in reclaiming
this land from its original sterility, and
building up a grand commonwealth in
these mountains—a commonwealth
rich in all the elements of greatness,
lightly taxed, free from debt, with
peace and union prevailing to an un-
paralleled extent throughout all these
mountains where Latter-day Saints
reside. It is in vain that we point to
our frugality, our temperance, our
comparative freedom from crime, and
the peace and good order which exist
wherever we are in the majority. All
these evidences of thrift and virtue go
for nothing, and the National Legisla-
ture feels that it is under the necessity
of devising schemes to take away from
us the rights we have inherited, and
which belong to us as a free people, and
to bring us into bondage to those who
malign us, and who would take delight
in destroying us.

EFFORTS TO PROCURE PROSCRIPTIVE
LEGISLATION.
	Every effort possible was made dur-
ing this last session of Congress to
secure legislation of the most proscrip-
tive and sweeping character against the
Latter-day Saints. Not only was it
the design to reach persons who be-
lieved in and practiced plural marriage,
but our enemies went so far as to pro-
pose the complete annihilation of every
political right belonging to those who
were free from the charge of polyg-
amy, and whose only crime was that
they were members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Congress adjourned without acting
upon this measure. Already we hear
the notes of preparation for a renewal
of the campaign against us. Filled
with anger at their non-success at the
last session, our opponents are pre-
paring for the onslaught at the coming
session of Congress,and we are threat-
ened with vengeance of the most
dreadful description.
	But in this, as in all other circum-
stances and conditions, our trust is in
God. This is His work. He has thus
far taken care of it and preserved it,
and has delivered us from the many
plots which have been framed against
us. It has progressed thus far only by
His power, and not by the power of
man. Whatever glory there is con-
nected with the establishment and
progress of this great work is due en-
tirely to Him. Man's wisdom, educa-
tion, shrewdness, wealth and ability
have not been the factors that have
produced success; but it has been the
blessing, the power, and the overrul-
ing providence of our God. We have
had to trust Him in the past in the
midst of unnumbered foes; we must
trust Him in the future against the ter-

[Column 4]

rible odds that are pitted against His
work and His Gospel. We know, and
can boldly testify to the Latter-day
Saints, and to the whole world, that
the Lord hath founded Zion, and that
no power beneath the Celestial King-
dom can prevail against it.
	But those who fight against it will
share the fate of all who have ever
fought against it. Who is there that
has prospered in his warfare against
Zion? Who can point to the laurels
which have been won in fighting the
work of God? What man or what na-
tion has gained credit and glory in the
earth for successes achieved over the
feeble Latter-day Saints? We have seen
generation after generation of our op-
posers pass, one after another, into
cold oblivion. They have strutted
their brief hour upon the stage, ap-
pearing to think that they were accom-
plishing wonders. But they have
passed away, and the memory of their
deeds only lives in our historical arch-
ives. So it will be with those who
now occupy so large a portion of pub-
lic attention as crusaders against the
Saints, and who imagine themselves to
be such doughty heroes.

THE SPIRIT OF SCANDAL.
	Not only has Satan sent forth his
lies outside of our society, but he uses
his influence in this direction among
us. The tendency in our settlements
and cities to listen to and believe in
every wild and slanderous rumor which
may be put in circulation is to be
deeply deplored. No matter how un-
founded and destitute of even the
semblance of truth such reports may
be, there are those among us so silly
and credulous as to readily believe
them. The injury that is thus wrought
is not easily measured. Many of the
evils from which we have suf-
fered have been greatly aggravated
by this disposition on the part of some
who call themselves Latter-day Saints.
The man who frames a lie is a 
great sinner; but the one who loves a
lie, and who circulates a lie after it is
told, is also under condemnation.
Many stories go from mouth to mouth
concerning the truth of which those
who repeat them know nothing. But
it seems as though the constant repe-
tition of a falsehood impresses many
people as though it were a fact. Where
Latter-day Saints, so-called, are found
telling that which is untrue, they
should be called to an account. It is
written that whosoever loveth and
maketh a lie shall not be permitted to
enter into the Holy City, nor to have a
right to the tree of life, but they are to
be without, with dogs, sorcerers,
whoremongers, murderers and idola-
ters. The Lord has said, "He that
telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight."
Latter-day Saints should be warned
upon these points, that they may not
grieve the Spirit of the Lord, nor do
injury to their friends and neighbors,
by indulging in this pernicious habit of
repeating and attaching credence to
every slander and false rumor that may
be put in circulation. But every one
should be careful, when they hear a
story about their brethren and sisters,
to refrain from repeating it until they
know it to be true, and then not to do
so in a way to injure the person about
whom it is told. The reputation of our
neighbors and the members of our
Church should be as dear to us as our
own, and we should carefully avoid
doing anything to another or saying
anything about another that we would
not wish done or said about ourselves.
We testify that those who give way to
this influence, who take delight in
reading lies which are published
about us in papers circulated
in our midst or outside of our Terri-
tory, who delight in listening to the
false and malicious representations
which are made concerning the serv-
ants and people of God or His work,or
who themselves gossip about and aid
in the dissemination of these things to
the injury of their fellows, will, unless
they speedily repent, lose the Spirit of
God and the power to discern between
truth and falsehood, and between those
who serve God and those who serve
Him not. Their own minds will be-
come so darkened by the spirit of
falsehood that the Spirit of God will
cease to have power with them and will
flee from them.

SABBATH-BREAKING AND RECREATION
MANIA.	
	Among the sins into which some who
are called Saints have been betrayed is
Sabbath-breaking and over indulgence
in useless pleasure. "The Sabbath
was made for man, and not man for
the Sabbath." But it is the Lord's day


[Column 1]

and should be spent as he directs. We
are not left to the doubts and queries
which enter into the polemics of sec-
taries on this important matter. We
have the word of the Lord upon it, di-
rect. He has declared to us through
His Prophet:
	"And the inhabitants of Zion shall also
observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy.
	"And that thou mayest more fully keep thy-
self unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy
sacraments upon my holy day;
	For verily this is a day appointed unto
you to rest from your labors and pay thy
devotions to the Most High;
	Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up
in righteousness on all days and at all times;
	But remember that on this the Lord's day,
thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy
sacraments unto the Most High, confessing
thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the
Lord.
	And on this day thou shalt do none other
thing, only let thy food be prepared with
singleness of heart that thy fasting may be
perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may
be full."
	These commandments of the Lord
do not admit of Sunday excursions to
the lake or the canons or other places
any more than manual labor. That day
will be held sacred to the service and
worship of God by every true Latter-
day Saint. Those who desecrate it
reject the word of the Lord and will
not be held guiltless. We admonish
all members of the Church to obey this
commandment and the officers of the
Church to see that it is not broken with
impunity.
	The mania for recreations of various
kinds which has seized upon many of
the people is harmful in several ways.
It unfits them for the regular duties of
life. It renders them restless and im-
patient of proper restraint. It ob-
structs business. It tends to contract
habits of dissipation. It throws our
young folks into the company 
of persons whose society should 
be hunned. It cultivates worldliness.
It conduces to many evils, and the
spirit of purity, temperance, holiness
and peace will not abide in resorts
such as have been established for the
purpose of enticing the Saints into 
folly. Many thousands of dollars have
been worse than wasted during the
past summer on excessive amusements
and sometimes unseemly diversions.
The influential men and women of the
Church should discountenance this
evil, and with all wisdom and prudence
endeavor to check it and prevent its
increase among the Saints.
	We have no disposition to deprive
either young or old of proper amuse-
ment. It is necessary to perfect
health and rational enjoyment. It
should be provided by those who have
the watchcare of the people, especially
for the young, and conducted without
sinfulness and without excess. But in
these times of trial and distress to
many, is it seemingly to indulge in fre-
quent and hilarious junketings and to
act as though we disregarded the afflic-
tions of our brethren and sisters who
are placed in difficulty and jeopardy?
When most of our leaders are in exile,
when good men are thrust into prison,
when many families are plunged into
grief at the enforced absence of those
who are dear to them, when the cords
of oppression are being drawn more
tightly and the small liberties remain-
ing to us are being gradually taken
away, when our enemies are forging
fetters for our feet and planning
for our utter destruction, and when
Satan is working with all his forces to 
weaken our ranks by leading the Saints
into sin, is it a time to waste our days
in useless pleasure and spend our
nights in noisy revels? Rather, should
we not humble ourselves before the
Lord and seek by faith and devotion to
good works to obtain power that we
may prevail against our foes? We do
not believe in long-faced sadness or
the piety that consists in a sanctified
appearance. There is no need for
drooping heads or a sad countenance.
A cheerful spirit should be cultivated 
and hearts should be gladdened by
words of cheer. But these are serious
times and the sorrows of the afflicted
and the carousings of the thoughtless
seem utterly incongruous when all
profess to be brethren and sisters. Let
unseemly levity be abandoned and let
the solemnities of eternity rest down
upon those who are called the Saints 
of the Most High God.

SACRED VICARIOUS WORK.
	Notwithstanding the violent and un-
abating opposition which is arrayed
against us the work of ministering in
 he ordinances of the Lord's House
continues, and the blessing of the

[Column 2]

Heavens still follows these adminis-
trations. As we have so long expected
and so frequently been warned, Satan
rages as he views his domain trenched
upon, his captives delivered, and the
souls of men wrenched from his grasp
by the labors of the living for the dead
in and through those sacred ordi-
nances that belong alone to the Gospel
of the Son of God, administered in
holy places by His chosen servants and
handmaidens. And it must not sur-
prise us if the rage of the arch-enemy
of mankind increases and his emis-
saries grow more relentless and cruel,
more brutal and inhuman. In their ef-
forts to stay this work, as the number
of temples increases and the thous-
ands of Israel go in thereto to minister
the ordinances of salvation for their
ancestors and departed friends. We
further rejoice that the work of erect-
ing the Salt Lake and Manti Temples
goes steadily forward, and that the lat-
ter is nearing its completion with all
the rapidity that could reasonably be
expected when we consider the condi-
tion of the Church and the people
and the difficulties under which they
labor.

TRAINING THE YOUNG.
	It is pleasing to notice the increased
feeling of anxiety on the part of the
Saints to have their children educated
in schools where the doctrines of the
Gospel and the precious records which
God has given us can be taught and
read. Our children should be indoc-
trinated in the principles of the Gospel
from their earliest childhood. They
should be made familiar with the con-
tents of the Bible, the Book of Mormon
and the Book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants. These should be their chief text
books, and everything should be done
to establish and promote in their
hearts genuine faith in God, in
His Gospel and its ordinances, and
in His works. But under our common
school system this is not possible. In
Salt Lake City, we understand, an ef-
fort is now being made to establish a
school of this character, and, we are
informed, the prospect for its success
is very encouraging. The Brigham
Young Academy, at Provo, and the
Brigham Young College, at Logan, are
both doing excellent work in this
direction and should be patronized and
sustained by the Latter-day Saints. In
no direction can we invest the means
God has given us to better advantage
than in the training of our children in
the principles of righteousness and in
laying the foundation in their hearts of
that pure faith which is restored to the
earth. We would like to see schools
of this character, independent of the
District School system, started in all
places where it is possible.

SACREDNESS OF THE FAMILY
RELATION.
	The life of a saint is not simply a
personal perfecting, it is also a factor
in the entire scheme of earth's re-
demption. No one can be saved alone,
by himself or herself, unassisted by or
unassisting others. The weight of our
influence must be either for good or
harm, be an aid or an injury to the
work of human regeneration, and as
we assume responsibilities, form ties,
enter into covenants, beget children,
accumulate families, so does the
weight of our influence increase, so
does its extent broaden and deepen.
The Scriptures inform us that God cre-
ated this earth as a habitation for man
and he placed man on it that he might
have joy, a joy that is to be eternal.
To accomplish these purposes, the
preparatory one of the peopling the
earth, and the ultimate one of man's
eternal happiness, He, the Creator, es-
tablished marriage, and commanded
those he first placed here on earth to
be fruitful and multiply. This institu-
tion he regulated by strict laws given
through his servants to His people in
their various dispensations; and His
Son, our Savior, emphasized these com-
mandments by most unequivocal
teachings with regard to the sacred-
ness of the marriage covenant,
and of the sinfulness of divorce for
other than the most grave departures
from the spirit and intent of that cove-
nant. In this is wisdom, for the exper-
ience of the world, in all its ages,
 proves that where lax ideas exist with
regard to marriage and divorce, more
especially where those ideas find ex-
pression in lax legislation, there we
discover peoples and nations whose
code of morals is inferior, and
where sexual irregularities and sins
increase, until that righteousness,
which has been so truthfully said "ex-

[Column 3]

alteth a nation," ceases to have an
existence in their midst. To a people
who believe as we do, that true mar-
riage was divinely instituted for the
multiplication of mankind, and is not
a union for time alone, but reaches in-
to the eternities, the disruption of
families by divorce is an evil of no or-
dinary character, not only bearing a 
harvest of sorrow and suffering in this
life, but also having a far reaching in-
fluence into the world beyond the
grave, and possibly involving others in 
the ruin who had no voice in the sepa-
ration or power to avert its occurrence.
For this reason the Latter-day Saints
of all people should be most loath to
sunder sacred ties once formed, and
most determinedly opposed to the sev-
erance of unions made in holy places
in God's appointed way, for light and
trivial causes; and the efforts of
Teachers and Bishops in their labors
amongst families where differences,
alienation or quarrels exist, should al-
ways be to effect reconciliation, pro-
mote union, inspire  mutual forbear-
ance and increase love. Only when 
every kindly counsel and ministration
fall should that last resort, a divorce,
be permitted. And in such cases those
who have received of the sealing power
of the Church should also be separated 
by the same authority that bound
them together: until this is done new 
alliances are sinful.

SELF-MURDER DENOUNCED.
	There is another evil that is growing
amongst the peoples of the world that 
is not unfelt amidst the Latter-day
Saints. It is the crime of self-murder. 
Suicide should be made odious among
the people of God, it should be em-
phasized as a deadly sin, and no undue
feelings of tenderness towards the un-
fortunate dead, or of sympathy to-
wards the living bereaved, should pre-
vent us denouncing it as a crime
against God and humanity, against the
Creator and the creature. It is true
that the exact enormity of the act is
not defined with minute detail in the
Holy Scriptures, or the limits of its
punishment given; but to believers in
the God whom we worship it has al-
ways been regarded as a sin of great 
magnitude; and in many countries
especial pains have been taken to dis-
courage it, by refusal to bury in con-
secrated ground, by indignities offered
to the lifeless remains, or by such
lack of funereal observances as would
produce a peculiar and horrifying
effect upon the survivors. Now,
while not advocating measures of this
description, we do not think that the
same laudations and panegyrics should
be pronounced over the self-murderer
as are so freely uttered over the faith-
ful Saint who has gone to his eternal 
rest. There is a difference in their
death, and that difference should be
impressed upon the living, unless the
deceased, at the time of the rash act, 
was in such a mental condition as not
to be wholly responsible for his ac-
tions; but again, if this condition be
the result of sin, of departure from
God's laws, then the unfortunate one,
like the inebriate, is not altogether free
from the responsibility of acts com-
mitted while in this state of mental 
derangement; if he is not censurable
for the act itself, he is for the causes 
that induced it. In such cases the
mantle of charity must not be stretched
so widely, in our desire to protect our
erring friends, as to reflect dishonor on
the work of God, or contempt for the 
principles of the everlasting Gospel.
There is an unfortunate tendency in
the natures of many to palliate sins by
which they are not personally injured,
but we must not forget that such pal-
liation frequently increases the orig-
inal wrong, and brings discredit on the
Church and dishoner to the name and
work of our blessed Redeemer; in
other words, to save the feelings of our
friends we are willing to crucify afresh
the Lord of life and glory.

MISSIONARY OPERATIONS.
	The reports of our Elders engaged in
missionary labors in foreign lands are
far from discouraging, when we con-
sider the tempest of misrepresentation 
and abuse that has flooded the lands of
civilization with regard to ourselves,
our objects and our  methods of evan-
gelization, as well as the prejudices
that have to be overcome and the per-
secution which has to be met by those
who have sufficient moral courage and
stamina to obey so unpopular a doc-
trine as the fullness of the Gospel of
our Lord Jesus Christ. Yet were the
results even less encouraging than they
are, we have still imposed upon us the
duty of warning the peoples of the

[Column 4]

earth of the judgments of Almighty
God, which in his own due time must
surely come. The divine injunction
given to the servants of God in former
dispensations and reaffirmed in this,
"Go ye into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature," has 
never been abrogated nor annulled; and
our duty to carry the Gospel's warning
voice to all nations, kindreds, tongues,
and peoples, to the Gentiles first and
then to the House of Israel, still re-
mains unchanged.

PROMINENT BRETHREN.
	President Woodruff and the members 
of the Council of the Twelve Apostles
still continue in the active perform-
ance of the duties appertaining to their
Priesthood and calling, occasionally
hampered, it may be, in certain direc-
tions by the unrelenting attacks of our
persecutors. Almost without excep-
tion they have enjoyed good health,
while the more aged ones, including 
Elder Lorenzo Snow, in prison, have
been blessed with a vigor and with 
powers of endurance remarkable for 
men of their years. Brother Lorenzo
Snow bears his unjust imprisonment
with much fortitude and patience and
is a source of great comfort and
strength to his fellow-prisoners, de-
prived of liberty for their obedience to
the requirements of God's law.
	President Joseph F. Smith continues
to send us words of faith and encour-
agement, of patience and brave endur-
ance, and, so far as his position and
surroundings will admit, he is zealous-
ly furthering the interests of God's
holy Church and Kingdom.

MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS.
	We hear favorable reports of the
good done by our Sunday Schools,
Primaries, Improvement Associations 
and Relief Societies, and we feel to
abundantly bless the brethren and
sisters who so diligently and faithfully 
labor therein for the instruction of our
youth and the benefit of the poor. We
desire to encourage all engaged in these
duties to continue with unabated zeal
and disinterestedness in these labors
of love and mercy, that the institutions 
under their charge may rise to yet
greater heights of excellence and use-
fulness, and the scope of their influ-
ence for good in the midst of the Saints
continually increase, and upon parents 
we urge the wisdom and desirableness
of fostering by their faith, influence
and example these admirable institu-
tions for the benefit of their children.
	In consequence of the unusually dry
summer the crops have not been so
abundant as in some former seasons.
Although the yield of wheat is com-
paratively small it commands but a
low price in the market. Wisdom and
economy suggest that our farmers
should not be anxious to make imme-
diate sales. Every kernel of wheat is
precious. It should be stored care-
fully for future use, in such a manner
as to preserve it from destructive in-
sects and the action of the elements.
The warnings which have been given to
Israel on this point were not uttered in 
vain, as coming time will abundantly
establish. Let no grain be wasted nor
thrown heedlessly upon a depressed
market to continue the depression and
fritter away the fruits of arduous toil
	Preparations should be made for the
proper care of stock during the ap-
proaching winter. Too many animals 
are permitted to perish for the lack of
food and shelter. After the Lord has 
blessed the flocks and herds of His
people, it is sinful to allow them to
wander on the bleak prairies or snow-
covered benches to die of cold or
starvation. Unless provided with 
shelter from storm and inclement
weather loose stock should be gathered
up and sent to warmer localities for
winter range.
	The wool crop of the past season has
been very large and sheep-owners have
made fair profits on their products.
But domestic economy recoils at the
spectacle of 7,000,000 pounds of wool
being shipped out of the Territory to be
returned in the shape of inferior cloth,
and be purchased at high prices
by woolgrowers and others. Factories
among our own people should utilize 
the whole of this product, employing 
hands that are now idle to manufac-
ture honest goods, and thus retain in
the Territory much money that goes to
build up industries afar off. Our home
factories are turning out most excel-
lent articles at reasonable prices;
these should be purchased in prefer-
ence to foreign made goods, because
they are more durable and because 
home industries ought to be patron-
ized.


On the same principles and for the same rea-
sons the hides and pelts which are now shipped
away to be brought back manufactured into articles
that can be made in this Territory, ought to be re-
tained and worked up for home use.  Factories
for this purpose, carefully conducted, would soon
return fair profits, while the whole community
would share in the resultant benefits.
			CONCLUSION.
	In conclusion, we say to the Latter-day Saints:
Put your trust in God, as you ever have done.
He will not fail you.  Continue to live in strict
conformity to His Gospel. Humble yourselves 
before Him in mighty faith and prayer.  Confess
your sins one to another; and go to your God and 
confess to Him, and obtain His forgiveness there-
fore.  Live in close communion with the Holy
Ghost, that it may be your constant companion,
and through its heavenly influence you may be
prepared for every coming event.  The Lord is 
holding a controversy with the nations, and He 
has said, "After your testimony cometh the testi-
mony of earthquakes.    *    *    *    *    * 
	And also cometh the testimony of the thunder-
ings, and the voice of lightnings, and the voice
of tempests, and the voice of the waves of the 
sea, heaving themselves beyond their bounds.
And all things shall be in commotion; and surely
men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come
upon all people," Already His words upon this
subject are being fulfilled.  The elements are 
joining their voices with the voices of His Elders
in testimonoy of the near approach of the end.
And woe! to the people or the nation that fight
against Zion, for, as we have often had occasion
to say, God will fight against them.  His wrath
will be poured out upon them.  Babylon will fall,
and the refuge of lies will be swept away; and 
truth and righteousness will cover the earth as
with a flood, in fulfilment of the words of the 
Prophets.  Greater signs will appear in the hea-
vens above and on the earth beneath, bearing
awful testimony of the near approach of that
great day when our Redeemer will be revealed
from heaven in power and in great glory.
	With continued prayers for your safety, and for 
your prosperity in the work of God, and with most
earnest desires that every man, woman and child
will be faithful to the trust which God has reposed 
in us, we remain,
		Your brethren and fellow servants,
					JOHN TAYLOR,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON.
Of the First Presidency of the Church of Jesus
		Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President's Office, Oct. 6, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one uear, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMEN'S EXPONENT
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	OCTOBER 1, 1886.


OCTOBER CONFERNECE.
	The Fifty-sixth Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints con-
vened Wednesday, October 6th, in the new Stake
House at Coalville, Apostle Franklin D. Richards
presiding. Of the authorities of the Church there
were present, Patriarch John Smith, and four of the
Quorum of the Apostles. The services were of
an exalted character throughout, and the Holy
Spirit seemed to be poured out in rich abundance
upon those who took part in the services.  An
Epistle from the First Presidency was read during
the Conference by Elder H. M. Wells. The
Epistle is published in full in this number of the
paper. It is encouraging to this people, who are
so cruelly deprived of the counsel and instruction
of the President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, to have from time to time official Epistles
containing definite advice, and to know that they
are still watched over and guided under the in-


spiration of the Almighty by His servants, who
hold the keys to administer unto the people of
His Church here upon the earth. It will be a 
great comfort and blessing, not only to those who
are here in Zion, but to thousands afar off, to read
the words of divine inspiration, though they have
not the privilege of hearing the voices of those to
whom they were wont to listen in times that are
past—the days of peace and prosperity.
	The Conference was numerously attended, and
discourses touching upon all general topics, and
exhorting to lives of purity and holiness, were de-
livered by members of the Quorum of the Apos-
tles and other leading men; of the Apostles, who
addressed the people, there were F. D. Richards,
John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant and John W.
Taylor. Several Presidents of Stakes represented
their fields of labor, and altogether the meetings
were interesting, and no doubt the good teaching
will have a beneficial effect in its results upon the
the Saints.
	It is certainly a time of solemnity and supplica-
tion,  and there is the greatest need of the Holy
Spirit in the hearts and homes of this people.
Great events are close at hand; of this fact there
can be no doubt in the minds of any who are
watching the signs of the times.


SISTER KING’S FUNERAL.

	The funeral obsequies over the remains of Sis-
ter Hannah T. King took place on Tuesday, the
28th ult.,in the Thirteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Bishop Millen Atwood presiding. Besides the 
Bishop and his Counselor, Nelson Empey, there
were present on the stand, President Horace S.
Eldredge, Bishops John Tingey and Orson F.
Whitney, Elders Charles W. Stayner, George
Goddard, Samuel Neslen, George B. Wallace,
Joseph W. Johnson and Robert F. Neslen
	The large gathering of the friends of the de-
ceased who were present, showed the great esteem
in which she was held in the community.
	The services commenced by the choir singing:
			"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb."
The singers were Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas, 
Miss Louie Wells, Mathoni Pratt and J. D.
Spencer, accompanied on the organ by C. S.
Burton.
	Elder Charles W, Stayner then offered prayer.
	The Choir sang:
			"Rest for the weary soul."
		ELDER GEORGE B. WALLACE
Addressed the congregation. He eulogized Sister
King as a faithful and noble minded member of
the Church; related some of his early experiences
as a missionary in the part of England where she
resided; and described the pleasant home and
surroundings which she forsook to gather with
the Saints in this land. He said that he had
known many noble women, but he never met but
one Hannah T. King. His remarks were very
consolatory to the bereaved, and brought many
kind reminiscences of Sister King's early days
to the minds of the numerous friends present.
	The following remarks were then made by 
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY:
“It has fallen to my lot, by selection and ap-
pointment, to be one of the speakers at the funeral
of Sister King. There may be many here who 
have known her longer, and known her better
than I have, but there are none, I am certain, who 
respected her more, or valued her friendship more
highly. Brother Wallace has dwelt more particu-
larly upon the incidents of her life, the temporal
phase of her career, and portrayed the sacrifices
she made for the Gospel's sake. I desire, also, 
to add my tribute to her memory, as the Holy
Spirit shall give me utterance.
	It is good to hear the life story of such a woman
as Sister King. Possessed of a refined soul, a
cultivated mind, and surrounded by the comforts

[column 2]
and luxuries of life; with friends and associates
who loved to minister to her wants; an intimate
friend of one of England's poetesses, the cele-
brated Eliza Cook, and numbering among her ac-
quaintances many in the upper walks of society
in her native England; yet, when the Gospel
found her she did not hesitate to relinquish all
and follow her Lord and Master through the
world. She had a noble spirit, and this, without
doubt, was the noblest act of her life. I am told
 that, to this day, it is a matter of astonishment to
her friends in England that she should ever have
done as she did, forsaken all, and united herself
with so despised a people as the Latter-day Saints.
With my knowledge of her character, and the
loftiness of her soul, it would have been to me a
matter of astonishment had she done otherwise.
	She was naturally a proud woman, but her pride,
which was doubtless the result of conscious recti-
tude, respectability, and the traditionary aristo-
cratic sentiment of her native land, was not of
that pernicious kind which prompts so many to
reject the Gospel because of its unpopularity and
its humble origin, and trample on the prec-
ious pearl whose value they do not compre-
hend. She was not ashamed to stoop, for she
stooped to conquer; she saw the jewel glittering
in the dust at her feet, and was not ashamed to 
pick it up, and wear it. The worldly-minded
do not understand the secret motive of such
an action. And here is the real reason for as-
tonishment. They over-look the prize; their
gaze is riveted upon the sky, or on the distant
horizon, and they ignore and trample on the
treasure shining below; like the proud and haughty
Pharisees, who were looking for the Messiah, but
expected Him as a mighty conqueror who would
throw off the Roman yoke and restore at that 
time the temporal power to Israel; they were not
prepared to receive the humble Nazarene, the
man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and so
rejected their Redeemer and spiritual deliverer, to
their condemnation.
	Thus is the pride of the world ever tested by 
the Truth. Our tests are many and varied; the
trials being suited to our different natures and
calculated to bear upon our weakest parts. To
the young man who came to the Savior and asked
what good thing he should do to obtain eternal
life, the answer was—‘keep the commandments,’
which he claimed to have done from his youth up;
and then, to sell all he had and give to the poor,
and follow the Lord of life and glory; a King in
heaven, a peasant on earth, who was poorer than
the fowls of the air or the beasts of the field, hav
ing not 'where to lay his head.' A similar test
came to our beloved Sister, Hannah T. King, but 
unlike the young man who 'went away sorrowful'
because ‘he had great possessions,’ she made the
sacrifice and laid hold upon eternal life, the great-
est gift of God, in preference to the good things
of this earth. It is not the possession of wealth,
but the love of it, that is sinful. The worship of
any idol we are called to sacrifice, makes it hard
to enter the kingdom of heaven.
	I am told that her father, who was a gentleman,
and a fine specimen of physical manhood, when
he found that he could not dissuade her from her
purpose, sat down and gradually died of a broken
heart. ‘How cruel,'—some might say,—‘surely it
cannot be a message from God that would have
such results.' Indeed! Why, then, did the Son of
God say: 'Think not I come to bring peace, but
a sword?' Why did the Prophet say, in reference
to the gathering of Israel in the last days: 'I
will take you one of a city, and two of a famly,
and I will bring you to Zion?' The word of the 
Lord had gone forth, and she could not restrain
herself. She was a child of Israel, a daughter of
Abraham; her veins tingled with magic blood;
her heart responded to the call and she listened to
the voice of the good Shepherd. The blood of
Israel was in her veins—that blood which God


[Column 1]
has scattered over the earth and with it ‘sprinkled
many nations’—and when He lifts the gates and
bids it return, it as naturally seeks its Source and
Reservoir, as the raindrops that fall upon the hills
trickle back to the ocean whence they came.
This was why Sister King became a “Mormon,”
as it is called. She had the nobility, the great-
ness of soul, to sacrifice the earthly for the heaven-
ly, the temporal for the spiritual.
	But, did not her father object, and did not
Christ say, with Moses, ‘Honor thy father and
thy mother?’ Yes; and she did honor her Father
and her Mother—in heaven. What are the claims
of earthly parents upon us, compared to those of
our heavenly Parents? Besides, it is an individual
responsibility—this question of the soul’s salva-
tion, and our noble sister, no less than her father,
had a soul to save and an individual work of
salvation to perform. How could she have done
otherwise, and been true to her conscience—the
voice of God in the human heart? Furthermore,
it will yet be seen that she truly honored, even her
earthly father, in disobeying his behests. By the
course she took she became a savior to her father’s
house—one of ‘the salt of the earth.’ How could
she ever have, ministered for their salvation in the
Temple of God, had she not taken the step she
did. We must first save ourselves before we at-
tempt to save others; we must plant our own feet
upon the rock, ere we reach out to rescue others
from the floods and quicksands.
	The test is ever between the temporal and the
spiritual. In one scale is placed father, mother,
wife, children, home, country and possessions; in
the other the unspeakable riches of eternal life.
He or she who refuses to make the sacrifice, even
if, like Abraham, they are required to offer an
only son, is unworthy of the kingdom of God.
They who forsake all and follow the Master are
promised an hundred-fold in this life and in the
world to come life everlasting.	
	But enough of sacrifices. What sacrifice can
we make that is at all commensurate with the
Great Sacrifice made for us? How our little trials
pale into insignificance beside those of our blessed
Redeemer, and what mention are they worthy of
in the light of the glories and rewards to come?
The real sacrifice required of us is that of a
broken heart and a contrite spirit. God cares
not for gold and silver, nor is the smell of the
blood of goats and bulls pleasing unto Him. It
is a spiritual sacrifice that He demands, and when
that is made the temporal will follow easily. The
battle is won when the spirit has humbled itself
and been purified; the flesh must succumb as a
matter of course. It is the acceptable offering of
a broken heart and a contrite spirit, faith and hu-
mility, that will redeem Zion and work out for her
children a full and complete salvation in the pres-
ence of our Father and God.
	I might enlarge, if time would permit, upon the
glories of the future. I might dilate upon the
celestial, the terrestrial, and the telestial kingdoms,
and depict the great reward which our beloved
sister has attained, through her humility and in
tegrity in embracing the Gospel and enduring faith-
ful unto the end. I might show also, in the same
connection, the grandeur of this religion, stigma-
tized by the world as “Mormonism,” which pro-
vides for the salvation of all men according to
their merits, even of those who curse it and trample
on its advocates; and possibly let more light upon
the mystery—although it is no mystery to Latter-
day Saints—why a noble spirit, a large soul, with
lofty aims and broad sympathies, should be at-
tracted naturally to a saving plan so glorious, far-
reaching and sublime as “Mormonism.” But it
would not be necessary. Like cleaves to like; af-
finities will coalesce. The principle is an eternal 
one.
	May the God of mercy bless all who mourn,
and comfort the hearts of the relatives and friends 
of Sister King, and move upon them to emulate her

[Column 2]
virtues, to follow in her footsteps as she followed 
Christ's, and, becoming like Him, be worthy to 
meet Him, and mingle eternally with the righteous 
who have gone before. Amen." 
	Bishop Atwood gave some final instructions in 
regard to the casket and the remains, and 
	The choir sang: 
			"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Elder Joseph W. Johnson, who baptized Sister 
King into the Church, pronounced the benedic-
tion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿A PRAYER.

Mighty God of earth and ocean,
	Hear us from Thy blest abode;
While we in faith, in deep devotion,
	Praise our great and gracious God;
Help us humbly, we implore Thee,
	Countless are Thy mercies here;
Mighty Prince of peace and glory!
	Bless our Prophet and our Seer.

We our shepherd are bewailing, 
	In his exile from the flock,
Let thy power, oh, God! prevailing,
	Plant him still on safety's rock;
Who for freedom now would barter
	Purest gold, will still remain:
Oh! to see our living martyr,
	And to hear his voice again.

Every gift and every blessing 
	Comes, O Lord, from Thee above;
Life and liberty possessing,
	We the righteous giver own;
And with earnest supplications,
	Now we bow in humble prayer;
Great and mighty God of nations, 
	Shield our Prophet and our Seer.

Let Thine angels hover near him,
	Fill him with prophetic fire;
Send Thy minstrels forth to cheer him
	With the touch of seraph's lyre; 
Bless his bed and soothe his pillow,
	Charge his sentinels sincere;
Toss'd on persecution’s billow,
	Guard our Prophet and our Seer.

While Thy humble interceders
	Praise Thy name for mercies past, 
Grant to our beloved leaders
	Thy protection to the last. 
Let Thy Zion, now before Thee, 
	In her destined freedom stand;
Lord of liberty and glory,
	Sweep the tyrants from our land. 

Break their chain from Zion’s noble, 
	Save Thy servant from their scorn,
Bare Thine arm in days of trouble,
	Bid Thy children cease to mourn;
Then to Thee, with warm devotion,
	Shall our hearts and voices sing;
Honor be to Zion's chieftain,
	Glory be to Zion's King.

							J. PATON.


[Column 1]

OLYMPIA MORATA.

A LEARNED ITALIAN LADY OE THE
SIXTEENTH CENTURY.

	A noteworthy instance of a woman who
combined the rarest intellectual gifts with
every domestic virtue, was the subject of this
brief notice, Olympia Morata, whose short and
brilliant career extended over the period be-
tween 1526 and 1555. She was born in Fer-
rara in the halcyon days, of the Renaissance,
when that city was the resort of all the great-
est scholars and writers of the age; for the
Este family were, after the Medici, the most
enlightened and munificent patrons of art and
learning in Italy.
	The enthusiasm for the revival of the Greek
culture was inimical to clerical instruction,and

[Column 2]

the education of youth, hitherto in the hands
of ecclesiastics, now passed from their control
to lay teachers. In a burst of Liberalism
consequent on this emancipation from priestly
control, men began to extend the benefits of
their learning to their daughters as well as to
their sons, and the girls studied under the
same tutors as their brothers. There was
nothing remarkable then, in the learned Pro-
fessor Morata's imparting to his daughter all
the knowledge of which he was master, but
there was something very remarkable in the
avidity with which the child drank it all in.
Olympia was lovely as well as gifted, and the
elderly gentlemen, mostly famous scholars,
who frequented her father's house, were en-
chanted with the precocious little beauty "The
language of the Muses was her earliest, mother
tongue," said one of them in describing her.
When Olympia was seven years old, her
father had to remove with his wife and five
children to Venice, or wherever he could get
employment, for he was not permitted to dwell
in Ferrara having fallen under the displeasure
of the Duke. In those glorious days when art
and learning were nursed and fostered in the
bosom of royalty, the cultivators and dispensers
of them had much to bear, and the position of
the proudest genius amongst them was but a
gilded slavery. The Dukes of Ferrara were
perhaps, the most liberal of these princely
patrons, who loved to shine with the borrowed
light of genius attracted to their courts.
	After six years of exile, the banished pro-
fessor was permitted to return to his native
city, and was re-instated in royal favor. He
was appointed tutor to the Duke's young
brothers, and also gave lessons to the sovereign's
own little daughter, Anna, a child of eight
years old. Morata was a poor scholar without
other patrimony than his brains, and it cost
him not a little effort to educate his peerless
daughter as he wished, for he had to work for
money, and she had to attend to household
affairs. With her passionate love of books
this was a trial, and we can imagine with what
joy the parents and the girl received an invita-
tion from the Duchess to reside in the palace
and share the instruction of the little Princess
Anna. Olympia was now past thirteen, and 
so advanced in her education that she excited
the wonder of everybody. The Duchess
thought her companionship would be very
beneficial to the child, and she was received
with the greatest kindness and consideration.
Instead of the luxury, learning was now the
business of her life.  In a Greek poem, trans-
lated by Mr. Trollope, she says:

"And I, though woman, womanly gear have left,
Distaff and thread, and workbasket and weft!
The Muses haunts, Parnassus' flowery hill,
These have been all my joys, these shall be still."

	The Duke Hercules II., had married Renèe,
a daughter of France. She was a woman of
unattractive appearance, but of great intel-
lectual power and a taste for theology, which
got her into trouble. Her mental qualities
were inherited by two of her daughters, who
were counted among the greatest scholars of
their time, Lucretia, Duchess of Urbino, and
Leonora, the object of Tasso's most unhappy
love. Her children were still in their infancy
when she became imbued with the doctrines of
a new faith just then preached by Calvin in
Geneva.
	Among the learned men admitted to her
private intercourse was a foreign traveller, 
called M. Charles d'Espeville. The Duke had
secret information from the papal spies, who
tormented him continually on the subject of
his wife's orthodoxy, that this gentleman was
no other than the arch-heretic, John Calvin
himself; and he entered the apartment of the
Duchess with the police, who seized the
traveller and another, to carry them off to
prison; but Renèe planned their escape on the


[Column 1]

﻿road. Henceforth she had to suffer persecution
for her opinions. At one time she was de- 
prived of her children and shut up in her
apartments, but she made her submission and
was pardoned for a time.
	We may be sure that a court presided over by
this lady could never become frivolous, and her
young protegee studied constantly and assidu-
ously.  But all the same she was in much
danger of being spoiled—now in the full
bloom of her beautiful girlhood, flattered, ad-
mired, adored by poets, scholars, soldiers,
princes, by every man who came within reach
of her fascination. Her marvelous accomplish-
ments stirred even the old dons into extrava-
gant admiration. "We used to hear her de-
claiming in Latin, improvising in Greek, ex-
plaining the paradoxes of the greatest orators,
and answering all the questions addressed to
her," writes one enthusiastic admirer. She
was just sixteen when she delivered lectures on
these abstruse themes. But this was not such
an extraordinary spectacle in the Italy of the
6th century as it would be now.
	It must not be imagined that Olympia sought
only the approbation of men. She formed
tender friendships with the noblest and best
young persons of her own sex-friendships
which were tried in adversity and lasted for
life. Her fellow pupil, the Princess Anna, was
one of these friends, also Princess Lavinia
Della Rovere. Another close companion of
her youth was Francesca Bucyronia, whose lot
resembled that of Olympia, as she, too, became
converted to the reformed religion, married a
German, and went with him to his own coun-
try.
	Olympia as long as she remained in the
Ducal palace continued to be like a pagan
goddess, receiving men's homage as her due,
but caring for no one in particular; still un-
touched by the deep, religious sentiment which
was making itself felt in the innermost circle
of the Duchess's court. She wrote thus to a
friend afterwards:
				
	"Had I remained longer at court it would have been all
over with me and my salvation; for never while I remained
there could I attain the knowledge of anything lofty or
divine, or read the books of either Testament."

	Olympia was called home to attend her
father's sick bed, and her family just then 
seem to have fallen under the suspicion of
heresy, for they were left to struggle with sick-
ness and poverty without aid from the sove-
reigns; and after the death of the professor his
daughter was not received back into the
palace.
	The Duke was under the guidance of his
clerical advisers, who threatened papal en-
croachments on his possessions, and the
Duchess was simply afraid to show any favor
to a family suspected of a change of faith, be-
ing herself under constant surveillance. Olym-
pia, in this season of adversity, which must
have presented a sad contrast to the happy,
joyous life she had left, behaved like a brave
devoted daughter and sister, and returned to
the distaff and the needle, the brewing and
baking which she thought she had abandoned 
for ever. She became strongly impressed by
the doctrines of the reformers, and from this
time henceforth she was a profoundly religious
woman. While Olympia was still at the court,
she and other liberal minded young persons
had felt their interest excited in the fate of a 
young man called Fannio, then in prison by
order of the Inquisition, which had condemned
him as a heretic. The entreaties of his young
wife had induced him to recant to save himself
from the stake, but he repented of his recanta-
tion, and now declared his faith openly. Dur-
ing his prolonged imprisonment, Olympia and
some other friends visited him, and no doubt
the converse of a man about to die the death
of a martyr was such as to make a lasting im-
pression on her mind. There was another in-

[Column 2]

fluence at work, which had its effect in develop-
ing the gay thoughtless girl into a serious,
noble woman. When she was in the zenith of
her glory, a young German, Grünthler,
studying at the university of Ferrara, was
captivated by her charms, and ventured to 
make known his feelings to her. He was cold-
ly rejected, but this did not prevent the disin-
terested lover from renewing his suit when the 
lady of his choice was sharing her poor family's
misery and disgrace.  He had now his degree
of doctor of medicine, and was acknowledged
to be very clever and well-informed. Olympia's
eyes were opened to his worth, and she returned
his love with a passionate fervor, as is proved
by her letters to him after their marriage,
when he was obliged to go to Germany to seek
a home for his bride. When at last he found
a temporary resting place, he returned for her,
and took with him also his wife's little brother
Emilio.
	After some months uncertainty the Grünth-
lers settled down in the native town of the
doctor, where they enjoyed freedom to worship
God in their own way, and led a calm, happy,
peaceful life, the lady attending to her domes-
tic affairs, as she had but one maid servant,and
teaching her little brother and the child of her
friend, Fraucesa, who had been sent to her for 
instruction. In the evenings, when the doc-
tor's professional duties were over, two or three
friends would drop in for a little music,in which
Grünthler was skilled, when they often sang
hymns translated or composed in Greek by
Olympia.
	The civil religious wars that then raged in
Germany caused Schweinfurth to undergo a
cruel siege of fourteen months; a famine fever
broke out in the town, and poor Grünthler,
who worked like a hero among the sick, at
last fell ill with the terrible malady. Olympia
watched by him day and night, praying in-
tensely for his recovery, and he was spared to
her for a time, but only to suffer more terrible
misfortunes. The town was sacked, and the
Grünthlers, treated barbarously by the soldiers,
escaped barely with their lives, and suffered
such hardships before reaching a place of
safety that Olympia's health was seriously im-
paired. The good Protestant, Count Erbach.
took in the poor starving fugitives, and his
wife nursed Olympia through a fever. After
this Dr. Grunthler was invited to a post in
Heidelburg, and Olympia was offered the
Greek chair in the University, which she de-
clined. Then the Elector wished her to take 
some high office in the train of the Electress,
but Olympia could not be tempted from the
domestic hearth ever again. Her health
gradually declined; she pined away and died
at last, expressing her joy at being called to a 
happier world. Her noble husband did not
long survive her, he fell the victim of another
pestilence, and the little brother died a few
days after him. So this devoted family were
not long separated. They parted in deep sorrow
but awoke to a deeper joy.
		G. S. GODKIN.
	Author of the Life of Victor Emanuel
Lung' Arno Guicuardini, Florence. 
—English Woman's Review.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT!


[Column 1]

THE HOUSE AT MIDNIGHT.

A LAY SERMON THAT IS WELL WORTH
READING AT ANY TIME.

	How quiet the house is at midnight! The
people who talk and laugh and sing in it every
day are asleep, and the people who fell asleep
in it long ago come back into it. Every house
has these two classes of tenants. Do we love
best those with whom we can laugh and talk
and sing, or the dear, silent ones who come so
noiselessly to our side, and whisper to us in

[Column 2]

faint, far-away whispers that have no sound, so
that we hear only their very stillness.
	I am not tired, but my pen is weary. It 
falls from my fingers, and I raise my head. I
start to leave the table, and my eyes fall upon
a little book lying on the floor. It is a little 
"First Reader." He left it there this after-
noon. I remember just how I was impatient
because he could not read the simple little
lesson—such an easy lesson—and I told him it
was a waste of my time to teach him, and
pushed him away from me. I remember now
I see the flush come into the little tired face,
the brave, cheerful look in his eyes—his
mother's brave, patient, cheeriness, struggling
with his disappointment and pain. I see him
lie down on the floor, and the little face bent
over the troublesome little lesson, such a sim-
ple, easy lesson, any baby might read it. Then, 
after a little struggle alone, it has to be given
up, and the baffled little soldier with one more
appealing look toward me for re-inforcements,
sighs and goes away from the lesson he cannot 
read to the play that comforts him. And
there lies the little book,  just as he left it. Ah,
me, I could kneel down and kiss it now as
though it were alive and loving.
	Why, what was my time worth to me to-day? 	
What was there in the book I wanted to read
one-half so precious to me as one cooing word 
from the prattling lips that quivered when I
turned away. I hate the book I read. I will 
never look at it again. Were it the last book
in the world I think I would burn it. All its
gracious words are lies. I say to you, though
all men praise the book, and though an hour
ago I thought it excellent, I say to you that
there is poison in its hateful pages. Why, what
can I learn from books that baby lips cannot
teach me?  Do you know I want to go to the
door of his room and listen; the house is so still
maybe he is not breathing. Why, if between
my book and my boy I choose my book, why
should not God leave me with my books? My
hateful books.
	But I was not harsh. I was only a little
impatient. Because, you see, his lesson was so
easy, so simple. Ah, me, there were two of us
trying to read this afternoon. They were two
easy, simple lessons. Mine was such a very
simple, easy, pleasant, loving one to learn. Just
a line, just a little throb of patience, of gentle-
ness, of  love that would have made my own
heart glow and laugh and sing. The letters
were so large and plain, the words so easy and
the sentences so short. I did not read one
line aright. See, here is my copy now, all
blurred and blistered with tears and the heart-
ache; all marred and misspelled and blotted. I 
am ashamed to show it to the Master, and yet
I know he will be patient with me; I know
how loving and gentle he will be  Why, how
patiently and lovingly all these years he has
been teaching me this simple lesson I failed
upon to-day. But when my little pupil stum-
bled on a single word—is my time, then, so
much more precious than the Master's that I
cannot teach the little lesson more than once?
	Ah, friend, we do waste time when we plait
scourges for ourselves. These hurrying days,
these busy, anxious, shrewd, ambitious times,
of ours are wasted when they take our hearts
away from patient gentleness, and give us fame
for love, and gold for kisses. Some day, then,
when, our hungry souls will seek for bread, our
selfish god will give us a stone. Life is a sim-
ple, easy lesson; such as any child may read.
You cannot find its solution in the ponderous
tomes of the old fathers, the philosophers, the 
investigators, the theorists. It is not on your
bookshelves. But in the warmest corner of
the most unfettered heart it glows in letters
that the blind may read; a sweet, plain, simple,
easy, loving lesson. And when you have
learned it, brother of mine, the world will be
better and happier.—Robert J. Burdette.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CLEANSING FIRES.

Let thy gold be cast in the furnace;
	Thy red gold precious and bright;
Do not fear the hungry fire,
	With its caverns of hungry light:
And thy gold shall return more precious,
	Free from every spot and stain:
For gold must be tried by fire,
	And a heart must be tried by pain!

In the cruel fire of sorrow
	Cast thy heart, do not faint or wail;
Let thy hand be firm and steady.
	Do not let thy spirit quail;
But wait till the trial is o'er,
	And take thy heart again;
For as gold is tried by fire,
	So a heart must be tried by pain!

I shall know by the gleam and glitter
	Of the golden chain you wear,
By your heart's calm strength in loving,
	Of the fire they have had to bear.
Beat on, true heart, for ever,
	Shine bright, strong golden chain;
And bless the cleansing fire,
	And furnace of living pain!

		SELECTED.


[Column 1]

"WHEN WE WERE GIRLS."

	How often women of mature years make
this expression to each other, when some little
incident of the past is awakened, or when
meeting with each other after a prolonged ab-
sence; how natural to say, "When we were
girls." And now I am going to give you an
incident which actually transpired, not "when
we were girls," but when we met again after
a separation of forty years.	
	Two girls who had been playmates in child-
hood and intimate companions at school, who
shared the same tasks, and whose lives seemed
likely to run on in the same channel, year
after year, and whose hopes and ambitions
were similar, and whose tastes and inclinations
were very like, and who had pledged the
school-girl eternal friendship for one another,
while yet young, drifted apart through religious
tendencies and belief. Still loving tenderly,
without any unpleasantness, each went her
own way. One to the "far west." or what
seemed so in those days, and the other re-
mained behind, clinging to the old Puritanical
notions of religion. Each had her own pecu-
liar life history; both were characteristic of
the girls; and indeed just what might have
been expected from their temperament and
training and education. Interwoven in both
their lives were the love of poetry and the
beautiful in nature, and this endowment de-
scended to their children, for though they were
New England girls they were not old maids.
	On a cold, wintry day, when snow lay deep,
and one would scarcely expect a visitor from a
distance, a lady alighted from a carriage at
the door of a rather old-fashioned house in a
large town in the Old Bay State, and after
ringing the bell, inquired for Mrs. Dr. ——.
"O, yes, she lives here." After having dismissed
the coachman, the lady is admitted into the
parlor, and in a moment more Mrs. Dr. ——
enters, and the two schoolgirls, playmates and
companions meet after forty years' separation.
It was a strange-meeting—two who had passed
through so many experiences since they last
met, and the change of face and figure that
motherhood and time bring with them—and
neither would have known the other, only that
the traveler had been told by the servant that
she whom she sought was the mistress of the
mansion. Here stood the two little women,
grown old and grey; they gazed at each other
for one moment only, and then, the Doctor's
wife, grasping the hand of her visitor, said:
'I know you are not my cousin Irene, for she

[Column 2]

is dead, and the dead come not back again, but
you are one of my old time friends, and I
ought to know you. Yes, yes, now you speak,"
for the visitor had, in her excitement, ex-
claimed,  "We knew each other well, when we
were girls." "O, it is, it is Emmie, can it be
possible?" and the two were, by this time, en-
folded in each other's arms in a loving and ten-
der embrace. "After all these long years you
have come back to us, to your old home and
friends in New England," and by this time
the two were seated on the sofa by a warm,
glowing fire, and the visitor had thrown off
her wraps, and the two friends sat, as it were,
entranced. I cannot tell you all that trans-
pired in that short interview, but I can give
you some idea of its effect; the Dr's wife every
now and then saying, "It seems as though you
had come from another world," and then again
she would say, "Of all the people in the
world, now that my mother and her sister,
Aunt Ursula, are dead, I would rather see
you than any one." Frequently she would say,
in beginning a new sentence, "When we were
girls, you know."
	They talked on and on, and many of the re-
markable events in each one's life were re-
counted briefly, but in truth the visitor had
most to tell, for her history was richer far, be-
cause of the countries she had seen and the
advancement she had made in active work for
her sex and for humanity, as well as because
the religion she had embraced, and that took
her from home and friends, had so engrafted
itself into her soul as to broaden and expand
all her ideas, thoughts and energies.
	"How has it fared with you all these years,
and what can you tell me of our school friends?
Where are the boys who stood in the front
rank of scholarship, of whom we were all so
proud?" Questions like these from the visitor
were answered one after the other in quick
succession. Information of half a hundred
old schoolmates was briefly given, and memory
recalled many a scene and transaction in the
past, and in fancy they wandered over the
same hills again, gathering berries, or rustlsd
among the fallen, frosty leaves under the
chestnut trees, picking up the brown nuts, their
fingers pricked and bleeding from the sharp
burrs.
	What a picture these two women made as
they sat there on that wintry day. They had
been so far apart. Many thousand miles had
lain between them, and in such different
spheres were their lives cast, that not a letter
had found its way from one to the other. Both
had been engrossed with matronly cares and
duties as well, and yet each acknowledged to
the other, now that they had met again, how
often and how tenderly they had thought of
the time "when we were girls."
	They met upon the same familiar ground of
intimacy as in the former days; no icy barrier
kept them apart even after forty years; they
did not question each other as to rank or
wealth; the old feeling of girl-love came back
instinctively, and their hearts rushed towards
each other, removing all embarrassment.
	The past came back to them in all its rich-
ness and glory, and they saw not the luxuriant
furnishings of the handsome parlor in which
they were seated, nor the fast falling snow
without, but the old village home and all its
familiar haunts; and they reminded each other
of this or that, until a description of the whole
place and its surroundings had been graphic-
ally given. They knew exactly how many
peacocks used to sit perched on the rail fence
under the locust walk, as they went by to
school; every phase of that happy school-life
it would seem, was recalled and retouched by
the vigorous imagination of the two who sat,
as 'twere, entranced with the "visions of the
past."

[Column 3]

"But thank'd be memory—her sweet power can bring
Back to my heart its early joys again; 	
Her magic power revives the frozen spring
Of youth and hope, and re-unites the chain
	Of sacred sympathies."

	Again and again bright tear-drops fell, or a
great sob choked them, as they spoke of some
dear departed one, with whom they had been
closely associated.
	There is something particularly sad and sol-
emn in going back over old places and home-
steads after the absence of years and finding the
great changes that time has wrought, but when
one meets a genuine friend, who has held you
in her heart of hearts without questioning, it
is a proof of constancy, of which we might
all be justly proud it is so uncommon.
Such a friendship is indeed golden. Such
meetings are like a foretaste of futurity. They
afford us a dim glimpse of that which may be
when we shall reach "that other shore," where
our loved ones are waiting. Then shall we re-
count the dangers we have passed, the ship-
wrecks we have encountered here below; but
these two women studiously avoided all these,
and were careful to keep back all the dark
days, all the fiery ordeals, and yet if you had
seen them as they sat and held that sweet con-
verse together, you would have known by the
marked lines in their countenances, and the
subdued and softened light that shone in their
deep-set eyes, that the discipline of sorrow had
left its sure impress. How like and unlike
those two women were, and yet how well they
blended.
	Some day I will tell you more, for there is
much more to tell, but well might we say with
Byron of such an one,

	"thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend."
		AUNT EM.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

JUAB STAKE. 

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Nephi meeting house,
September 17th, 1886. On the stand were
Prest. Mary Pitchforth and Counselors, Amy
L. Bigler and Maranda Bryan, Sister M. W.
Snow of Salt Lake City, Prest. Mary A. Hyde
of the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, and
representatives of the different branches of
Juab Stake; of the brethren, Prest. Charles
Sperry, Bishop Udall, Patriarch J. S. Bigler
and others.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
A. Hyde addressed the sisters on the importance
of educating their children in the principles
of their religion, and providing them with
good books, and making home pleasant and
happy, for society is changing, and we must
keep our young folks from the allurements of
the evil one. A recitation, "The hand that
rocks the cradle," etc., by Mrs. M. E. Teas-
dale.
	Sister M. W. Snow referred to her long ex-
perience with the Relief Society; said she had
been a member of the R. S. organized by the
Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and had witnessed
with pleasure the good which had been accom-
plished by the sisters of Zion since that time.
Spoke of the great responsibility resting upon
the teachers, and exhorted them to be humble
and prayerful, that they might be guided by
the Spirit of God in all their visitations among
the Saints.
	Bishop David Udall said, "We are highly
favored in having the privilege of meeting in
quarterly conference, to transact business for
the Stake, and receive counsel from those who
are inspired of God to teach us of the plan of
salvation."


The choir sang, "Praise God, from whom all 
blessings flow," etc. Benediction by Bro. Geo.
Kendall.
	Afternoon session: Amy L. Bigler, Maranda
Byran and Jane Picton each exhorted the
sisters to faithfully perform their duties in the
Relief Society, and watch over their children
and keep them from the snares of the wicked.
A song, "Where are the friends of my youth,"
by Mrs. Elizabeth Grace, followed by remarks
from Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow, on
revelation and the principle of celestial mar-
riage. A song, "Who's on the Lord's side,
who," by Mrs. Sarah A Andrews.  
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth felt to praise God
for the manifestations of His Holy Spirit dur-
ing our conference, and desired the sisters to
treasure up the good counsel which had been
given; and carry it out in their lives.  Recita-
tion, "The mountain boy's prayer," by Bro. L.
A. Bailey.
	Prest. Rebecca Udall, Counselors Sarah
A. Andrews and Ann Midgley each bore a
strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel,
and desired to prove faithful to every duty re-
quired of them. A song, "Stick to your
mother, Tom," by Mrs. L. Pratt.
	Prest. Charles Sperry desired to encourage
all Latter-day Saints to live their religion,
keep the commandments of God and prepare
themselvss for every event of His providence.
A reading, "What's the matter?" by Mrs. S.
A. Andrews. 
	Sisters Snow and Hyde, during the confer-
ence, each bore a strong testimony in regard to
the principle of plural marriage; they desired
to impress upon the minds of the rising genera-
tion, that Joseph Smith did practice plural
marriage, and that he sealed them to their
husbands, performing the ceremony in the
presence of their husband's first wives. Said
although the sons of the Prophet deny that
their father taught or practiced celestial or
plural marriage, they were living witnesses
that he did.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Awake, ye Saints of God, awake."
Benediction by G. Kendall.
		MARY PITCHFORTH PREST.
		M. E. BUCHHOLT, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Two of the thrones of the last Napoleon are
for sale in France at one hundred dollars
each.
	It will cost $4,000 and take 6,000 books of
gold leaf to gild the great dome at Notre Dame
university, Indiana. The work is now in pro-
gress.
	The Vatican library contains 24,000 manu-
scripts, of which 2,164 are oriental, 3,052
Greek, and 17,069 Latin. A complete cata
logue is now being prepared.
	The President and Mrs. Cleveland have re-
turned to Washington from their summer so-
journ in the Adirondack wilderness. Social
life at the national capital is beginning to re-
sume its wonted autumnal activity.
	The Princess Maria Josepha, niece of King
Albert Frederick of Saxony, was married
October 3rd, to Arch Duke Otto, nephew of
Francis Joseph of Austria. The Princess re-
nounced for herself and her descendents all
right of succession to the throne of Saxony.
	A telegram from the City of Mexico, Oct.
4th, states that a curious phenomenon has oc-
curred at Chimapla in that state. Within four
days tremendous subterraeann reports were
heard, though at the time the meteorological
conditions were perfect. The people in the town
were filled with alarm, and an investigation


was made, by which it was discovered that a
high hill in the vicinity had been completely
divided into two parts by some powerful
force.
	Captain Uriel Crocker, of Boston, celebrated
his 90th birthday at his country place in Co-
hassett, on the 13th of September last. He
was prominently connected with the raising of
the Bunker Hill Monument, and has been a
director of the Old Colony Railroad ever since
its organization in 1835. His business partner,
who sat by his side during the day, Osmyn
Brewster, is eleven months and eleven days
younger. Their's was the old firm of Crocker
and Brewster, Publishers and Booksellers on
Washington Street.
	It is said that Queen Victoria can wash and
dress a baby with any woman, and can general-
ly diagnose the trouble when a child cries.
The Queen's skill in baby nursing was acquired
from the famous Mrs. Lilley, who attended her
majesty at the birth of the nine royal children.
This excellent person was a great favorite with
the Queen, who honored her with her confi-
dence upon the most delicate matters. When
Mrs. Lilley died, in her ninety-second year,
her majesty was unaffectedly grieved, feeling,
that she had lost a true friend. The old nurse
to the last proved worthy of the confidence of
her mistress.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	They are never alone that are accompanied
by noble thoughts.
	It is really of little consequence who we are
—it matters more what we are.
	Determine a person's worth by his actions,
not by what people say about him.
	Ideas are the seeds of thought, but they do
not produce flowers unless the soil where they
are sown is fertile.—Lady Btessingion.
	A good wife must be grave abroad, wise at 
home, patient to suffer, constant to love, friend-
ly to all, and provident for her household.—
Theophrastus.
	In every relation of life we must bear and
forbear; we must not expect perfection, and
each person should carry the cloak of charity
for the other—Rev. M. Huggins.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Indian belles of Alaska wear a thick coat-
ing of oil and soot on their faces, when not in
full toilet. This is said to preserve the com-
plexion, which, after a thorough scrubbing,
looks as fair and smooth as a good article of
soft soap.
	Celebrations of one hundredth birthdays are
common occurrences nowadays. That of Mrs.
Mary H. Gilbert is the latest. She was born
in Gloucester, Mass., Sept. 8, 1786, and has
lived there since. At her birthday celebration,
she repeated a poem learned when five years
old.
	It is now reported that Miss Rose Elizabeth
Cleveland does not intend to make her home
in Chicago, and that she will go to housekeep-
ing in "The Weeds"—her home at Holland
Patent, N. Y. In this connection the Utica
(N. Y.) papers publish the following: "To
my friends and neighbors who have this day,
by their unmeasured kindness and marvelous
energy, saved to me my old home, I wish to
make some expression of my sense of obliga-
tion. I beg them to believe that no words can
ever express the gratitude I shall forever feel.
		ROSE ELIZABETH CLEVELAND.


"My dear," said an anxious wife to her hus-
band, who is running for office, "we must econo-
mize in every possible way."
	"I do economize," he replied.
	"Yes," she said, "you spend ten or fifteen
dollars a day in treating a lot of bar-room
loafers to beer and whisky just to get them to
vote for you. Do you call that economy?"
	"Certainly; that's political economy."—
Life.


F. Auerbach & Bro.
A Full and Complete Stock of
MILLINERY,
Spring and Summer Goods
AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
CALL AND EXAMINE
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY., UTAH
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,

And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1886.	NO. 11.


﻿AN ANGEL VISIT.

AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO NELLIE'S
MOTHER.

I saw her with a smile as sweet
	As angel ever wore;
And in her arms, with tenderest love,
	A beauteous child she bore.

She spoke, her voice was music soft,
	No sign of pain was given;
She told me what a blessed thing
	It is to live in heaven.

Upon one arm she held her babe,
	The other hand she raised;
And said, "For all that I have known,
	God's name and power be praised!"

I thought to take her hand in mine,
	Her lips with mine to touch;
But something told me to withhold,
	And not presume too much.

Then I remembered some great things,
	Our Father hath revealed;
And though I longed to clasp her form
	The wish I kept concealed.

Ah! was it hidden then so well?
	She smiled a brighter smile;
And moved her head as if to say,
	Not yet, but wait awhile!"

I drop'd my gaze to hide the thought,
	Or have it quite withdrawn;
And when I raised my eyes again
	My angel guest was gone.

But the sweet influence which she brought,
	Still gently lingered near;
And still resounded through my soul,
	Her voice so low and clear.

Thank God! that o'er this dark, cold world
	Some beams of light are thrown,
Fairer than those which form the day,
	And to all eyes are shown.

Thank God! that we, through faithfulness,
	A portion may receive;
Like our dear Nellie, never more
	To suffer or to grieve.

		LULA.


[Column 1]

POETS AND POETRY.

BY BISHOP ORSON F. WHITNEY.

A lecture delivered before the Teacher's Insti-
	tute of Salt Lake County, in the Fourteenth
	Ward Assembly Rooms, Wednesday evening,
	June 23, 1886.

MR. PRESIDENT, PROFESSORS, AND LADIES
	AND GENTLEMEN:

	In an age and world given up to the rush
and roar of railways, steam-ships, the miracles
of labor-saving machinery and other mighty
practicalities, when things regarded as theo-
retical or purely ideal are looked upon with
comparative indifference and are at a discount
in the popular mind, the mission of the poet is
apt to have its utility gravely questioned.
What is the poet good for? and what is the
good of poetry? are queries that have doubtless
flitted through many a mind, imbued with the
idea that nothing is useful which does not in
some way increase man's material wealth or
minister to his temporal needs.
	To answer, in part, these queries, and refute

[Column 2]

this sordid and all too practical argument, will
be the purpose of my present effort. And with
an audience like this, willing to be and per-
haps already convinced that the poet has a
mission in the world, and that the world would
do well to give him, at least, a respectful hear-
ing, I anticipate no very difficult task.
	I am satisfied that much of the prejudice
against poets, and the distaste for poetry which
exists in this prosaic age, are due entirely to
misapprehension. Only those who are ignorant
of what poetry means, will ask the question;
what is it good for? This is true of two classes,
those who have no poetry, or very little of it,
in their natures; and those who are brimful of
poetry and do not know it; who are really capa-
ble of appreciating it, and only need enlighten-
ing in order to enjoy to the fullest extent the
fragrance and beauty of this flower, plucked
from the gardens of Paradise and thrown to
earth to delight the senses and refresh the
souls of all lovers of the beautiful and refined.
	It is my belief that many persons who think
they dislike poetry are really poetical in their
natures, and are indebted to it more than they
imagine, for the success they may have
achieved, even in practical pursuits, and for
the enjoyment which their lives have afforded
them. Notably is this the case with many
public speakers, who owe to the poetic vein of
their natures—which they perchance lightly
esteem or entirely ignore—the purity of dic-
tion, magnetism, emotion, and power of utter-
ance with which they sway the minds and
hearts of the multitude. Where there is
no poetry there can be little or no eloquence.
	The commonest error made by many in re-
lation to poetry, is that it consists simply in
verse-making. They mistake the casket of
meter and rhyme for the jewel of thought
which it encloses, and perhaps in many in-
stances, after close investigation, they have
found the casket empty, and turned away
with feelings of disappointment and disgust.
Thenceforth, all rhymes were to them poetry,
and all poetry trash and sentimental nonsense.
Perhaps upon the worst specimens of doggerel
that could be selected, they have based their
estimation of the whole library of song. News-
paper warblings on "Spring," "Snow," "Fallen
Leaves," "Did you Ever Call Me Darling,"
and other hackneyed or effeminate themes,
they have classed with the divine epics of
Milton and Homer. The croak of a frog in
the marsh has sounded as sweet to them as the
song of the nightingale in the forest; and the
bray of the long-eared half brother to the
horse has been to them no less lofty and soul-
inspiring than the roar of a lion.
	Furthermore, poetry, as expressed in verse,
like all other arts and sciences, has its techni-
calities. The prose reader is often puzzled by
its transpositions, its contradictions, ellipses, and
other poetic licenses and rhetorical figures, ne-
cessary to rhythm and style, and comparative-
ly unknown in ordinary composition. And as
these require some study to overcome, the
mind naturally tires—unless the inducement
to proceed is greater than the temptation to
desist—and turns in impatient preference to
the easier forms of prose. This may be one
reason why poetry, even of a superior order, is
not pleasing to some.
	But all poetry, it must be remembered, is
not written in verse or rhyme. I heard a very
beautiful poem read a few weeks since, at the

[Column 3]

commencement exercises of the University.
It was an essay on the "Influence of Passion,"
by one of the young graduates. Not two lines
of it rhymed together, nor was it written with
any apparent regard to the rules of metrical
composition, but it was a poem nevertheless,
and the pen that wrote it was wielded by a
poet, or one gifted with poetic ability.
	We must not mistake the fruit of a tree,
either, for the tree itself. What is commonly
called poetry—that which we read or hear
spoken—is the blossom and fruit of poetry, or
more properly speaking, of poesy. Poesy is
the gift, poetry the expression of the gift;
poesy is the fount, poetry the stream that issues
from it.
	Says the poet Coleridge: "Poetry is the
blossom and fragrance of all human knowledge,
human thoughts, human passions, emotions,
language."
	Another writer defines it at greater length
in these eloquent words: "The gentle stillness
of a spring-time evening, when, with heart at-
tuned to the glories of the twilight scene, we
listen enraptured to the closing song of busy
nature, hushing to repose—this is poetry!
	"The coming storm, preceded by the rushing
wind; the dark, angry, approaching clouds,
capped with the flashing, darting lightning,
with the low muttering, and anon the deep
toned thunder coming nearer and nearer in its
awful grandeur! To the lover of the grand
and sublime—this is poetry!
	"The silvery quiet of the moonlight night,
when we wander amid the jessamines and roses,
with our darling, whispering words of love,
and dreaming of the future—this is poetry!
	"The midnight hour in the attic, when,
through the crevices of the roof and windows,
we catch glimpses of the flashing lightning,
and listen, slumber and dream to the music of
the pattering rain drops on the roof—this is
poetry!
	"The roaring cataract, the silvery rivulet,
the towering mountain, the dark ravine, the
opening rose-bud, the cherub child, the waving
grain, the modest violet—all breathe the music
of poetry!
	"The beautiful face, the gentle, thrilling
pressure of the hand, the kettle singing for tea,
the joyous meeting of the husband and wife on
the return from labor at the twilight hour, the
smile, the kiss—all this is poetry!
	"It flashes in the sky, it blossoms on the
earth, it breathes music in the air, delighting
the eye, charming the ear, and filling the soul
with ineffable happiness—all this is poetry!
	"To appreciate, to comprehend, and to in-
terpret, this golden sunny halo of beauty, is the
gift of the poet."
	If these are correct definitions—and who
will doubt it?—what must be the state of that
mind which really hates poetry, and has no
poetry within it?
	Says Dr. Holland: "All that is grand and
good, all that is heroic and unselfish, all that is
pure and true, all that is firm and strong,
all that is beautiful and harmonious, is essen-
tially poetical."
	"Poetry," says Coleridge, "has been to me
its own exceeding great reward; it has given
me the habit of wishing to discover the good
and beautiful in all that meets and surrounds
me."
	Again I ask—what must be the condition
of that mind which hates poetry, and has no
admiration for, or sympathy with, the good, the


[Column 1]

pure, the true, the beautiful and sublime? Of
such a one, might we not say with Shakes-
peare."

"The man that hath no music in himself,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils.
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
And his affections dark as Erebus—
Let no such man be trusted."

	Sir William Temple wisely observes, of those
who despise poetry and music, which are twin
sisters: "Whoever find themselves wholly in-
sensible to these charms, would, I think, do
well to keep their own counsel, for fear of re-
proaching their own temper, and bringing the
goodness of their natures, if not of their under-
standings, into question. It may be thought
at least an ill sign, if not an ill constitution;
since some of the fathers went so far as to es-
teem the love of music a sign of predestination;
as a thing divine, and reserved for the felicities
of heaven itself."
	Thus it appears that poetry, so far from be-
ing the trivial toy that some people suppose—
a soothing pastime for children, or for love-sick
boys and girls—is something of superior im-
port, and as worthy the attention of the wise
and serious, as of the gay and thoughtless among
mankind. Indeed, it is one of those things
which only the wise can properly understand,
and, as I have already stated, the reason why
many people dislike poetry, is simply because
they do not understand it.
	Poetry is that sentiment of the soul, or
faculty of the mind, which enables its possessor
to appreciate and realize the heights and depths
of human experience. It is the power to feel
pleasure or suffer pain, in all its exquisiteness
and intensity. All do not possess it in the
same degree, nor can any one who is not total-
ly depraved be utterly devoid of it. Nearly
all men and women are poetical, to some extent,
but very few of them can be called poets. There
are great poets and small poets, and there are
men and women who make verses. But all
are not poets, nor even good versifiers. Poetas-
ters are plentiful, but real poets are very rare.
Education cannot make a poet; although it
may polish and develop one. The poet is a
child of Nature, and, as the old proverb says,
"is born, not made." The greater the poet, the
greater is his capacity to suffer and enjoy. This
is why poets and other men and women of
genius are often such violent extremists, with 
their lives and characters full of contrasts and
apparent contradictions. All heights and
depths of feeling are theirs; vast is their scope
and marvelous their versatility. They are
either soaring like eagles in triumph among
the clouds, or groveling in despair in the depths
of the abyss.
	The poetic sentiment or faculty, I have said,
is the power to feel intensely, either pleasure
or pain. It does not always find expression in
words. There are joys that are mute; there
are sorrows that never sigh or weep; but are
eloquent in their stillness, and all the more
powerful for their imprisonment. Many poets
have never written. They may have felt
the divine fire burning within them, every
nerve and fibre of their sensitive natures
thrilled with joy or shaken with agony, and yet
were powerless to pour out upon the palpitat-
ing air the burden of the song that resounded
through all the secret caverns of the soul. The
most eloquent poets, "whose words were sparks
of immortality," have felt the painful inade-
quacy of language to illustrate their thoughts.
Even Byron cries out amid the overpowering
grandeur of the Alps, whose towering tops,
glistening in their caps of snow—silvered by
the moonbeams or frowning darkly amid the
lurid gleams and mutterings of the storm—
swept with Titanic fingers the harp-strings of 
his soul:

[Column 2]

"Could I embody and unbosom now
	That which is most within me,—could I wreak
My thoughts upon expression, and thus throw
	Soul, heart, mind, passions, feelings, strong or weak,
All that I would have sought, and all I seek,
Bear, know, feel, and yet breathe—into one word,
	And that one word were lightning, I would speak;
But as it is, I live and die unheard,
With a most voiceless thought, sheathing it as a sword."
	
	This, from one who could create, by the
magic wand of eloquence and imagination, new
worlds of light, and "people them with beings
bright as their own beams," who could "with
terror freeze the cowering blood," or "now dis-
solve the heart in tenderness;" who "from
above descending stooped to touch the loftiest
thought, and proudly stooped, as though it
scarce deserved his verse." In the same breath
which bewails his poverty of expression, he
thus addresses himself to the stars:

"Ye stars! which are the poetry of heaven!
If in your bright leaves we would read the fate
Of men and empires—'tis to be forgiven,
That in our aspirations to be great, 
Our destinies o'erleap their mortal state,
And claim a kindred with you; for ye are
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love and reverence from afar,
That fortune, fame, power, life, have named themselves a
	star."

	Every school-boy is familiar with Byron's
apostrophe to the ocean:

"There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
There is society, where none intrudes,
	By the deep sea, and music in its roar:
I love not man the less, but nature more,
	From these our interviews, in which I steal
From all I may be, or have been before,
	To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express, yet cannot all conceal.

"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean--roll!
	Ten thousand fleets sweep over thee in vain:
Man marks the earth with ruin—his control
	Stops with the shore; upon the watery plain
	The wrecks are all thy deed, nor doth remain
A shadow of man's ravage, save his own,
	When, for a moment, like a drop of rain,
He sinks into thy depths with bubbling groan,
Without a grave, unknelled, uncoffined and unknown.

"Thy shores are empires, changed in all save thee—
	Assyria, Greece, Rome, Carthage, what are they?
Thy waters wasted them while they were free,
	And many a tyrant since; their shores obey
The stranger, slave or savage; their decay
	Has dried up realms to deserts;—not so thou,
Unchangeable save to thy wild waves' play—
	Time writes no wrinkle on thine azure brow;
	Such as creation's dawn beheld, thou rollest now.
	
"Thou glorious mirror, where the Almighty's form
	Glasses itself in tempests; in all time
Calm or convulsed—in breeze, or gale or storm,
	Icing the pole, or in the torrid clime
Dark heaving;—boundless, endless and sublime,
	The image of Eternity—the throne
Of the invisible; even from out thy slime
	The monsters of the deep are made; each zone
	Obeys thee; thou goest forth, dread, fathomless, alone.

"And I have loved thee, ocean! and my joy
	Of youthful sports was on thy breast to be
Borne, like thy bubbles, onward: from a boy
	I wantoned with thy breakers—they to me
Were a delight; and if the freshening sea
	Made them a terror—'twas a pleasing fear,
For I was as it were a child of thee,
	And trusted to thy billows far and near,
	And laid my hand upon thy mane—as I do here."

	Somehow I have always suspected that poems
of this kind were not written while on the
bosom of the heaving wave. There are doubt-
less some people of soaring soul and cast-iron
diaphragm who can "sail the ocean blue" with

[Column 3]

all the aesthetic rapture which inspires them
while standing upon the shore, letting imagina-
tion take a lone voyage; but these, I opine, are
not yet as numerous as Abraham's posterity.
I am prepared to wager a large orange that
the bard who sang, "I'm on the sea," was at
the time snugly ensconced in an attic, and that
even the sublime oceanic rhapsodies of the im-
mortal Byron were more the result of occular
than of tangible sensation. A man may "lay
his hand upon the ocean's mane" with compara-
tive comfort, but when the ocean takes it into
his hoary head to return the compliment, the
conditions are more than liable to be reversed.
	I have quoted liberally from Byron, not
only because I greatly admire his genius, but
because he is typical, in some respects, of all
poets. Not to surfeit you with his poetry, per-
mit me to give one more brief selection, on the
vanity of human ambition:

"He who ascends to mountain tops shall find
 	The loftiest peaks most wrapt in clouds and snow;
He who surpasses or subdues mankind,
	Must look down on the hate of those below,
	Though high above the sun of glory glow,
And far beneath the earth and ocean spread,
	Round him are icy rocks and loudly blow
Contending tempests on his naked head,
And thus reward the toils which to those summits led."

	Few men have realized more fully the melan-
cholly truth of these majestic words than the
one who penned them. Gifted by heaven with
all a poet's genius, and with all a poet's sensi-
bility, he knew what it was to incur the jealous
hatred of those whom nature and nature's God
had made his inferiors. His sins were many,
and they merited punishment, but his great
"crimes," for which he was hated most, were in
being gifted above his fellows, and having the
temerity to tell more truth concerning them
than they desired to hear. He was harshly,
unreasonably criticised on the very threshold
of his career; and later in life was covered
with calumny and opprobrium. His soul, like
a finely strung harp, swept by savage hands,
cried out in resentment against the outrage
and poured forth a mingled torrent of discord
and melody. His satire was as keen as the
arrows of Apollo; his invective as terrible as
the thunders of Jove: and upon the heads of
his traducers he poured out the vials of his
wrath unsparingly. I am not an apologist for
the sins of Byron; I am simply calling attention
to facts that may plead in extenuation of his
faults, and which furnish a reason for the ex-
tremes of good and evil to be found in his
poetry. Byron might have been very different
with other circumstances, other treatment and
surroundings. It was the stormy experience
of his  life, which moulded the character of
much of his poetry. His soul responded to
every touch, gentle or harsh, that came upon
it; it was a mirror throwing back the smiles
and frowns of all beholders; a clear, calm lake,
sleeping peacefully in the sunlight, but rippled
by the faintest breeze, and capable of reflect-
ing all the terrors of the storm. Byron, like
all true poets, simply poured out what he felt.
The cup of sweetness mingled with wormwood,
which he quaffed and held to the lips of others,
was made up of his own joys and sorrows, com-
pounded by his own genius in the crucible of
his own brain.
	Thus is this poet a type, in many respects, of
all children of genius. They who express
most must likewise feel most, both of pleasure
and pain; and this it is which creates for genius
its dual destiny—its laurel wreath of bliss with
misery interwoven—its couch of roses with its
pillow of thorns. It is one thing to sip the
sweets of poesy, and another thing to provide
them for the world's delectation. That which
gives us so much pleasure to hear may have
cost its author untold toil and pain.
	I will now present a few selections from


[Column 1]
standard poets, only regretting that time will
not permit my quoting from them all. Here is
a pretty little conceit of Shelley's, called
"Love's Philosophy:"
		"The fountains mingle with the river,
			And the rivers with the ocean;
		The winds of heaven mix forever
			With a sweet emotion;
		Nothing in the world is single;
			All things by a law divine
		In one another's being mingle—
			   Why not I with thine!

		"See! the mountains kiss high heaven,
			   And the waves clasp one another;
		No sister flower would be forgiven
			If it disdained its brother;
		And the sunlight clasps the earth,
			And the moonbeams kiss the sea;—
		What are all these kissings worth,
			If thou kiss not me?"

	Love, you know, is called "the poetry of life,
and the life of poetry." Tennyson says of it
sadly:
		"I hold it true, whate'er befall;
			I feel it when I sorrow most;
		'Tis better to have loved and lost,
			Than never to have loved at all."

	Longfellow:—
		"As unto the bow the cord is,
		So unto the man is woman;
		Though she bends him, she obeys him
		Though she draws him, yet she follows—
		Useless each without the other."

	Burns illustrates gratitude and friendship in
these touching lines, addressed to a dead
friend:
		The bridegroom may forget the bride
			Was made his wedded wife yestreen;
		The monarch may forget the crown
			That on his head an hour has been;
		The mother may forget the child
			That smiles sae sweetly on her knee,
		But I'll remember thee, Glencairn,
			And a' that thou hast done for me."

Moore's picture of "Sunset."

		"How dear to me the hour when daylight dies,
		   And sunbeams melt upon the silent sea,
		For then sweet dreams of other days arise,
		   And memory breathes her vesper sigh to thee,
		And as I watch the line of light that plays
		   Along the smooth wave toward the burning west
		I long to tread its golden path of rays,
		   And think 'twill lead to some bright isle of rest."

	"Night," by Shelley:

How beautiful this night! The balmiest sigh
Which vernal zephyrs breathe in evening's ear,
Were discord to the speaking quietude
That wraps this moveless scene. Heaven's ebon vault,
Studded with stars unutterably bright,
Through which the moon's unclouded grandeur rolls,
Seems like a canopy which Love has spread
To curtain her sleeping world. Yon gentle hills
Robed in a garment of untrodden snow;
Yon darksome rocks whence icicles depend;
So stainless that their white and glittering spires
Tinge not the moon's pure beam; yon castled steep
Whose banner hangeth o'er the time-worn tower
So idly that rapt fancy deemeth it
A metaphor of peace: all form a scene
Where musing solitude might love to lift
Her soul above this sphere of earthliness,
Where silence, undisturbed, might watch alone—
So cold, so bright, so still."

		"Morning," by Edwin Arnold:
					Lo! the Dawn
Sprang with Buddh's victory! lo! in the east
 Flamed the first fires of beauteous day, poured forth
Through fleeting folds of Night's black drapery;
High in the widening blue the herald star
Faded to paler silver as there shot
Brighter and brightest bars of rosy gleam

[Column 2]
Across the gray. Far off the shadowy hills
Saw the great sun, before the world was 'ware
And donned their crowns of crimson; flower by flower
Felt the warm breath of Morn and 'gan to unfold
Their tender lids. Over the spangled grass
Swept the swift footsteps of the lovely Light,
Turning the tears of Night to joyous gems,
Decking the earth with radiance, 'broidering
The sinking storm-clouds with a golden fringe,
Gilding the feathers of the palms, which waved
Glad salutation; darting beams of gold
Into the glades; touching with magic wand
The stream to rippled ruby; in the brake
Finding the mild eyes of the antelopes
And saying, 'it is day;' in nested sleep
Touching the small heads under many a wing,
And whispering, 'Children, praise the light of day.'"

	Campbell:

		"At summer eve, when heaven's ethereal bow
		Spans with bright arch the glittering hills below,
		Why to yon mountain turns the musing eye
		Whose sunbright summit mingles with the sky?
		Why do those cliffs of shadowy tint appear
		More sweet than all the landscape smiling near?
		'Tis distance lends enchantment to the view
		And robes the mountain in its azure hue.
		Thus, with delight, we linger to survey
		The promised joys of life's unmeasured way.
		Thus, from afar, each dim discovered scene
		More pleasing seems than all the past hath been."

Burns:

			"But pleasures are like poppies spread,
			You sieze the flower—its bloom is shed;
			Or, like the snow fall in the river,
			A moment white then melts forever;
			Or, like the borealis race,
			That flit ere you can point their place;
			Or, like the rainbow's lovely form,
			Evanishing amid the storm."

Moore:

	"Let fate do her worst; there are relics of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy;
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
	Long, long be my heart with such memories filled!
	Like the vase in which roses have once been distilled—
	You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will,
	But the scent of the roses will hang round it still.

Gray:

		"Full many a gem of purest ray serene
		   The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear;
		Full many a flower is born to blush unseen
		   And waste its sweetness on the desert air."

Longfellow:
			"Never stoops the soaring vulture
			On his quarry in the desert,
			On the sick or wounded bison,
			But another vulture, watching
			From his high, aerial look-out,
			Sees the downward plunge, and follows;
			And a third pursues the second
			Coming from the invisible ether,
			First a speck, and then a vulture,
			Till the air is dark with pinions.
			So disasters come not singly;
			But as if they watched and waited,
			Scanning one another's motions,
			When the first descends, the others
			Follow, follow, gathering flock-wise
			Round their victim, sick and wounded,
			First a shadow, then a sorrow,
			Till the air is dark with anguish."

	May Ryley Smith:

Sometime, when all Life's lessons have been learned,
	And suns and stars forevermore have set,
The things which our weak judgements here have spurned,
	The things o'er which we grieved with lashes wet,
Will flash before us, out of Life's dark night,
	As stars shine most in deeper tints of blue;
And we shall see how all God's plans were right,
	And how, what seemed reproof, was love most true.

[Column 3]
But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God's plans, like lilies, pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart;
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."

	Thoughts and words like these are the pro-
ducts of genius, and genius, in order to produce,
must feel them.
	"Genius," says Castelar, "is a divine infirmi-
ty—genius is a martyrdom. The poet seizes
upon the light, the stars, the mountains, the
seas, to convert them into ideas, into canticles.
The poet dissolves the universe to mingle the
colors for his pictures. But he cannot under-
take this Titanic work without insuring his
own destruction. He cannot go into the fire
without being burned; he cannot mount to the
extreme heights of the atmosphere without
being frozen; he cannot enter the thunder-cloud
without receiving in that conductor, his body,
the shock of electricity. Those privileged
souls which, flinging off the clay of this world,
force their way upward till they become like
bright stars in the firmament, almost approach-
ing the angels; those beings—who from the
rock of their own shipwreck hold forth the
light to future generations—have fed the di-
vine splendor burning in the lamp of their
own brain with tears from their eyes and with
blood from their hearts."
	"Thus there is always an abyss in the depths
of all genius. A crown of stars cannot be
placed upon the brow unless there is at the
same time a crown of thorns around the heart.
One cannot enter the temple to inscribe an im-
mortal name, but at the cost of writing it in
the blood of one's veins."
	These, my hearers, are the words of a poet—
a poet who is famed as an orator, and who
utters his thoughts, his poetry, in prose. Take
one more draught from the same pellucid foun-
tain:
	"Life is full of complications, and for the
same reason of insuperable difficulties. And
as there are great contrasts in nature, there are
also in society opposed forces. By the side of
the prophet, who announces the future, arises
the magistrate, who believes his mission to be
the conservation of the present system, and
who as a result of this conviction, persecutes
the prophet; in the vicinity of every new
thinker there exists an association which be-
lieves itself infallible; beside each reformer is
placed the eternal cup of hemlock. It appears
that seeds cannot fall upon the earth unless
the vase which contains them is broken.
Every old prejudice feels itself wounded by a
new idea, and hates it accordingly.		*	*
Society is movement—but those who move it
fall under the weight of its crushing wheel.
Society is renovation, but those who renew it
are slain by its old errors. We cannot aspire
to be blessed by posterity without being cursed
by our contemporaries. Savage beasts do not
disappear from a country without having been
long and patiently chased. How many bright in-
telligences fall, how many fail, how many die
and depart like shadows in the struggle which
is necessary to rid the earth of monsters. The
greater number of people believe you are tear-
ing their souls from God if you endeavor to
uproot one of the prejudices or errors under
whose shadows their fathers lived for ages.
	"And you, poetic souls, you who come from
purer regions crowned with flowers, beating
your white wings, clothed with ether; with an
immortal song upon your lips and a lyre in
your hands, like the first angels who gazed
upon chaos at the birth of the universe; you
who bear imagination like a star upon your
brows, and who live awe-struck and ecstatic in
the contemplation of a world of ideas, which
to us weak mortals whose vision cannot pene-
trate it appears a world of shadows—you can-
not enter this sphere of realities without fall-
ing into an abyss, without tearing your wings
			Continued on page 86


[Column 1]

Continued from page 83.
and wounding your feet with thorns; you can-
not descend from the fire in which  you have
been moulded to the coldness of our shades
unless the dew of your tears is frozen in their
fall, and the transparent vase of your hearts is
broken by the hailstones."
	This brings us face to face with the mission
of the poet among men. Says Holland: "Verily
the poets of the world are the prophets of hu-
manity. They forever reach after and foresee
the ultimate good. They are evermore build-
ing the Paradise that is to be, painting the
Millennium that is to come, restoring the lost
image of God in the human soul. When the
world shall reach the poet's ideal, it will arrive
at perfection, and much good will it do the
world to measure itself by this ideal and strug-
gle to lift the real to its lofty level."
	I am not prepared to admit—nor do I sup-
pose Dr. Holland meant to say—that the poets
of the world are its only prophets, or that they
are prophets in the same sense and degree as
the inspired oracles of sacred writ. But I do
believe that the gift of poesy and the gift of
prophecy are akin to each other; that both are
of divine origin, and that they generally go
hand in hand. Prophets are almost invariably
poets; and poets, in many instances, have been
remarkably prophetic. Of the former class at-
test the writings of David, Isaiah, Jeremiah
and others—veritable prophets and veritable
poets—who, in some of the greatest poetry
ever sung, have indeed "built the Paradise that
is to be, and "foretold the Millennium that is
to come." Read the parables and sayings of
the Savior, you who love poetry and desire to
pluck from its luxuriant parterres some of its
sweetest and most fragrant flowers:
	"Consider the lilies of the field, how they
grow; they toil not neither do they spin, and
yet I say unto you that even Solomon, in all
his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.
	"Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of
the field, which to-day is and to-morrow is cast
into the oven, shall he not much more clothe
you, O ye of little faith?"
	Can our language boast anything purer, ten-
derer, truer, and more beautiful? Jesus of
Nazareth was a poet, no less than a prophet, of
preeminent genius.
	Time and your patience would fail me in
even glancing over the many conspicuous beau-
ties of Bible poetry. One more selection—
from Isaiah—and we will pass on:
	"How beautiful upon the mountains are the
feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of
good, that publisheth salvation, that saith unto
Zion, thy God reigneth.
	Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with
the voice together shall they sing: for they shall
see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again
Zion.
	"Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath com-
forted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.
	"Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the
glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.
	"For, behold the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people; but the
Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall
be seen upon thee.
	"And the Gentiles shall come to thy light,
and kings to the brightness of thy rising."
	There are some people who think there is no
poetry in religion. Such people, I fear, do not
know what poetry means, or what religion
means. Religion is full of poetry, and poetry
is full of religion. The loftiest and sublimest
poetry, as well as the sweetest and tenderest, is
religious poetry, and it cannot be otherwise. I
could cite many of the sayings of the Prophets,
Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball, Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor, and
scores of others with whom we are familiar,

[column 2]

and you would feel the poetry breathing in
every syllable, blazing from every sentence.
The fabled fire that Prometheus filched from
heaven is not more strikingly a symbol for
poetic inspiration, than is the Spirit of the
eternal God the very muse that has inspired all
true poetry that was ever written.
	I do not include in this—I need scarcely
say—the poetry of sensuality, of brutality false-
hood, hypocrisy and lust; which disgraces, and
not adorns, wherever found, the world's litera-
ture. Neither do I palliate—however much I
admire genius, its prostitution to ignoble ends.
No true poetry was ever based on anything low
and groveling. It is impossible to soil a sun-
beam. The poet may pervert his gift, as the
judge may disgrace his ermine, but the spirit
of poetry, the genius of justice, can never be
dragged in the mire. Day and night, dross
and gold, are not more essentially separate, al-
though their edges may join, than is the essence
of poetry distinct from everything base, sensu-
al and depraved. It is that high sense of right
which scorns all wrong; the sword and balance
of eternal justice; the voice of mercy pleading
for the fallen; the tongue of truth heralding
salvation and reform; the oracle of liberty pro-
claiming freedom to the captive, and deliver-
ance to the oppressed; the thunder-bolt of retri-
bution which lays the tyrant low. It is akin
to that Spirit which leadeth into all truth;
which reveals things past and things to come;
which takes of the things of God and shows
them unto mortals. The pillar of faith which
cannot be broken; the light of hope which is
never extinguished; the fountain of charity
and love which never fails.
	A few words in relation to prophetic poetry.
An anonymous writer says: "So entirely do
great poets soar beyond the reach, and almost
beyond the ken of their own age, that we
have only lately begun to have a right under-
standing of Shakespeare, or of the masters of
the Greek drama—to discern the principles
which actuated them, the purposes they had in
view, the laws they acknowledged, and the
ideas they wished to impersonate."
	Here is a prescient glimpse of Shakespeare's
worthy of one of the old Hebrew prophets:

	The cloud-capt towers, the gorgeous palaces,
	The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
	Yea, all that it inherit–shall dissolve,
	And like the baseless fabric of a vision
	Leave not a rack behind."

	Tennyson, in Locksley Hall, foretells the
triumphs—yet to be—of aerial navigation, and
the advent of the Millenium:

For I dipt into the future, ar as human eye could see,
Saw the vision of the world and all the wonder yet to be;

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic
	sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly
	bales;

Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rained a
	ghastly dew
From the nation's airy navies grappling in the central blue;

Far along the world-wide whisper of the south wind rush-
	ing warm,
With the standards of the people plunging through the
	thunder-storm.

Till the war drum throbbed no longer, and the battle flags
	were furled
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world.

There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful world
	in awe,
And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law."

Byrant, our American bard, gives this:
	"Truth crushed to earth shall rise again;
		The eternal years of God are hers;
	But Error, wounded, writhes with pain,
		And dies amid his worshippers.

[column 3]

	Charles Mackay, in a poem entitled "Eter-
nal Justice," supplies this generation with some
choice food for reflection:

	The man is thought a knave or fool
		Or bigot plotting crime,
	Who, for the advancement of his race,
		Is wiser than his time.
	For him the hemlock shall distill,
		For him the axe be bared;
	For him the gibbet shall be built;
		For him the stake prepared;
	Him shall the scorn and wrath of men,
		Pursue with deadly aim,
	And malice, envy, blight and lies
		Shall desecrate his name.
	But truth shall conquer at the last,
		For round and round we run,
	And ever the right comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Pace through thy cell, old Socrates,
		Cheerily to and fro;
	Trust to the impulse of thy soul
		And let the poison flow;
	They may shatter to earth the lamp of clay
		That holds a light divine,
	But they cannot quench the fire of thought
		By any such deadly wine;
	They cannot blot thy spoken words
		From the memory of man
	By all the poison ever was brewed
		Since time its course began.
	To-day abhorred to-morrow adored,
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done.

	Plod in thy cave, gray Anchorite;
		Be wiser than thy peers;
	Augment the range of human power
		And trust to coming years.
	They may call thee wizard, and monk accursed,
		And load thee with dispraise,
	Thou wert born five hundred years too soon
		For the comfort of thy days.
	But not too soon for human kind,
		Time hath reward in store;
	And the demons of our sires become
		The saints whom we adore.
	The blind can see, the slave is lord;
		So round and round we run,
	And ever the wrong is proved to be wrong
		And ever is justice done.

	Keep, Galileo, to thy thought,
		And nerve thy soul to bear;
	They may gloat o'er the senseless words they wring
		From the pangs of thy despair.
	They may veil their eyes, but they cannot hide
		The sun's meridian glow;
	The heel of a priest may tread thee down
		And a tyrant work thee woe;
	But never a truth has been destroyed:
		They may curse it and call it a crime;
	Pervert and betray, or slander and slay
		Its teachers for a time;
	But the sunshine aye shall light the sky.
		As round and round we run;
	And the truth shall ever come uppermost
		And justice shall be done.

	And live there now such men as these—
		With thoughts like the great of old?
	Many have died in their misery,
		And left their thought untold,
	And many live and are ranked as mad
		And placed in the cold world's ban,
	For sending their bright, far-seeing souls
		Three centuries in the van;
	They toil in penury and grief,
		Unknown if not maligned;
	Forlorn, forlorn, bearing the scorn
		Of the meanest of mankind;
	But yet the world goes round and round
		And the genial seasons run,
	And ever the truth comes uppermost
		And ever is justice done."

	Poets do not always know what great truths
they are telling. Like the prophets, whom


they so much resemble, they have in all ages
"builded better than they knew."  Shall we
say, then, that the prophetic poet is an acci-
dent, and the poetical prophet a design? No—
rather let us ascribe them both to their great
Author, Designer and Inspirer, that God may
be all in all.
	As to the question of poetry versus practi-
cality, with which this lecture began, a few
words in conclusion. It is only a seeming
chasm which divides them— the difference be-
tween cause and effect. The world is indebted
to poetry for its practical triumphs more than
it is generally aware. Poetry has unveiled
science, applauded enterprise, stimulated re-
search and led to discovery in all ages. Tullidge,
a local poet and historian says:
	"It was the poets, they who die in garrets,
who first gave birth to civilization. When the
race was emerging from the barbaric splendor
of empire-founding and war, our poets were
the only historians, and they made peoples fa-
miliar with each other through the plastic me-
dium of their gorgeous verse. Homer wrote
the history of Greece and Troy ages before
Plutarch wrote his lives of great men. [And
four hundred years before Herodotus, the so-
called father of history was born.—O. F. W.]
We know more of what men were four thou
sand years ago, and gather more of the manners
and customs of the early nations from Homer's
Iliad than from any other work extant; nor
should we forget the glorious Hebrew Bible—
the very book of poets—which has been the
basis of civilization these thousands of years.
And if we come down to our poets of more
modern times to learn the value of their gifts
to the race, we have but to take the English
language to discover that they have more than
half created it. What have not Shakespeare,
Milton, Pope, Byron, Southey, Wordsworth,
Shelly, Moore, Scott and others done for us in
this respect! The age of poets is the age of
culture. The world is blessed when poets are
born. Let sentiment and ideas flow into so-
ciety, and poets must sing as do the birds
when summer comes round. When there is
no poetry in the air, human nature is rude and
barbaric."
	Thus, my hearers, is poetry shown to be the
elder sister of history, the mother of language,
and the ancestress of civilization.
	The poet was a boon-giver and benefactor
from the beginning. His seat is among the
highest up that mount whose summit peers into
the sources of thought, and like the moun-
tain peaks at sunrise; his mind ever caught
the first glimmerings of light as it dawned
upon the world. His brain has been as the
torch of the Almighty to kindle and illumine
the nations. His mind has been the fountain
whence have sprung thoughts that have
induced millions to think. The ideas he first
advanced have awakened ideas in others, until
the spring has become a running brook, the
running brook a river, and the river an ocean
of ideas, inventions and achievements that
have flooded and filled the earth with glory
and civilization.
	But the end is not yet. There are heights
to climb which have never been surmounted;
depths to fathom which still remain unsounded.
The wheels of progress are not idle; the work
of Omnipotence is speeding onward; and the
world, the human race, though far from
the goal of perfection, will yet be lifted to the
poetic standard and raised to the poet's ideal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


84									WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		- 		Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY, 		-		NOVEMBER, 1, 1886.


TRIALS TEND TO STRENGTHEN AND
			PURIFY.
	The condition of affairs in Zion at the present
time is calculated to stir the hearts of the Lat-
ter-day Saints to their innermost depths. One
can readily say there is no parallel to the present
state of things in the history of the Church. It
is as though the people stood upon the banks of a
precipice, so near are they to an impending crisis.
And yet many are at ease in Zion, notwithstanding
the warning voice of of the heralds of salvation,
and the constant teachings and instructions that
are offered by those who are placed as guards and
protectors to the people. The rapid fulfilment of
ancient and modern prophecies is startling, and
one cannot fail to discern the signs of the usher-
ing in of the great judgments that precede the
coming of the Son of Man. Yet with all these
facts and terrors, as it were, staring them in the
face, many refuse to hearken, and are as indiffer-
ent to that which is transpiring around them as
the heathen, who know not God.
	It is indeed a time for watchfulness, diligence
and prayer; a time to labor earnestly and with
zeal in every good cause for the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth. There is
much real work to do in the building of Temples;
and the labor to be performed in them for the liv-
and the dead, no one can estimate. With such
responsibilities resting upon them, how can the
people give way to folly and extravagance, forget-
ting the weightier matters.
	What crowds of children and young people are
growing up in Zion; and what magnificent pros-
pects are before them, if they will only seek to
attain to the fulfilment of their destiny, and carry
out in their lives the precepts and teachings so
freely given to them. Blessings lie about them, if
they will only live so as to claim them. But the
Lord has said He will have a tried people, and
those who have set out for "the prize of the high
calling," will have to accept the bitter and the
sweet, and humble themselves sufficiently to pass
under the chastening rod of the Almighty, and
murmur not at His dispensations, but accept all in
the spirit of meekness and forbearance, knowing
that it will "work out a far more exceeding and
eternal weight of glory," than to slide along with-
out the rich experience and development that self-
sacrifice and discipline give to the character of a
Saint.
	There have been more than seven years of
prosperity and plenty for the people in these
valleys of the mountains; Zion has indeed become
strong in many respects, and the nations of the
earth have looked upon her with envy and jealousy
according to that which has been written. The
Lord has made the earth fruitful for His people,
and water has sprung up in many waste places,
and the husbandman has been amply rewarded
for his honest toil in subduing the earth, and re-
deeming it. Good and wholesome laws and regu-
lations have been laid down here in this land,
where freedom seemed indigenous to the country

[Column 2]
for with its mighty bulwarks of strong mountains
and towering hills, it seems a place of safety and
refuge for the oppressed, and to possess the very
elements of freedom and religious liberty. There
is something specially sacred associated in the
human mind with mountains. Men of God in
olden times went up into the mountains to pray
and offer sacrifices; the divine records show that
Jesus often went up into the mountains; and per-
secuted peoples, in various countries, who have
fled in times of crusades against them, have gone
into the mountains for safety, and to escape the
terrible fate of religious tyranny. The Latter-day
Saints came here that they might have religious
freedom, and they established a government in ac-
cordance with the Constitution of the United
 States, and the local political arrangements were
the best that could be, for a people settling in a
new country. But the time came when the pros-
perity and peace that had crowned the efforts of
the Saints was interrupted, and a series of trials
and difficulties have arisen, and dark clouds have
gathered thicker and heavier as time moved on-
ward, until it seems a time of peril; yet there
should be no fear; however strong the enemies of
the Saints may be, God is able to overpower them
with only a handful of the faithful. Zion must
and will be redeemed, but ere that day comes,
there may be and must be great and mighty faith
exercised by the pure in heart. The Saints have
been instructed through the Scriptures, and ser-
mons and writings of the prophets of this age,
that the severest ordeals will be required to test
the Latterday Saints, that they may be as gold
tried in the furnace. This superior strength of
character, that comes through the discipline of
suffering, is what will purify and cleanse those
who are earnestly seeking to live near to God and
to do His will, trusting in Him for support and
courage, though the way be ever so dark. The
promises of God cannot fail, and the courage born
of pain will triumph at last.

	“Heavier	the cross, the stronger faith;
		The loaded palm strikes deeper root;
	The vine-juice sweetly issueth
		When men have pressed the clustered fruit.
	And courage grows when dangers come,
	Like pearls beneath the salt sea foam.

	“Heavier the cross, the heartier prayer;
		The bruised reeds most fragrant are;
	If sky and wind were always fair
		The sailor would not watch the star;
	And David's psalms had ne'er been sung
	If grief his heart had never wrung."


BARTHOLDI'S STATUE OF LIBERTY.

	The grand ceremony of unveiling the Bartholdi
Statue was celebrated with great pomp and parade
on Thursday, October 28th, at Bedloe's Island.
It is spoken of as "The Great Event," by the
papers generally, and must have indeed been a
red letter day in the history of the country. The
great city of New York was in holiday attire, and
crowds of people, fine bands of music, distin-
guished guests from the nation's capital and other
cities, the French and American flags flying from
the different points of the city, the naval parade,
the labor parade, the firing of guns, in which three
Batteries took part, all these, and many other
things, too numerous to mention in detail here,
must have made this national inauguration of this
Statue of Liberty one of the greatest events of
modern times. The telegraphic dispatches give
very full particulars, and are exceedingly interest-
ing. In Broadway there were magnificent arches
of evergreens, flags and mottoes erected in front
of the World building. The Tribune, Times, Sun,
Mail, Express and other newspaper buildings
were tastefully decorated, as also many other ele-
gant structures, in honor of the event.
	"The music that was played while the officials

[Column 2]
and guests were assembled on Bedloe's Island was
followed by a signal gun, that announced the be-
ginning of the ceremonies." Rev. Dr. Richard
S. Starrs offered prayer, and Count Ferdinand de
Lesseps delivered an address in behalf of the
Franco-American union. Senator Evarts made
the address of presentation, "and the ceremony
of unveiling the statue of Liberty then took place
and was followed by a salvo from all the guns in
the harber. After music, President Cleveland
formally accepted the statue." An address was
then made by the Representative of France, Le
ministre Plenipotentiaire et delegate extraordinaire
A. Lafaivre. More music by Gilmores' Twenty-
second Regiment Band, and Chancry M. Depew
delivered a commemorative address. Old Hun-
dred was played by the band, and the vast assem-
bly joined in singing doxology. The ceremonies
were closed with benediction, pronounced by the
Right Reverend Henry C. Potter, D. D., assistant
bishop of diocese of New York. A national sa-
lute was then fired simultaneously by all batteries
in the Harbor, afloat and ashore. There was an
evening illumination of the statue, with fireworks
on Bedloe's and Governor's Islands and the Bat-
tery. A dinner in honor of the French guests
was given at Delmonico's in the evening by the
Chamber of Commerce.
	The banquet at the Chamber of Commerce was
an elaborate affair. Mr. James M. Brown pre-
sided. On his right were Messrs Albert Lafaivre,
Eugene Spuller, August Bartholdi, Governor
David B. Hill and others. President Cleveland
went direct from the festivities on Bedloe's Island
on board the Dispatch in company with Secretaries
Lamar, Bayard and Whitney to the Adams Ex-
press pier and walked to the depot, where the
special train was in waiting to convey them to
Washington.
	It must be an imposing sight to witness such
national ceremonies and listen to such eloquent
addresses; but are the hearts of the people deeply
impressed with the spirit of liberty? In the mem-
orial speech of Hon. C. M. Depew, he says:
"The spirit of liberty embraces all races in a com-
mon brotherhood, and it voices in all languages
the same needs and aspirations." If the liberty of
the American people is as much greater and
broader than that of any other nation as the
colossal statue just planted on American soil is
than other structures commemorative of victories,
science and industrial progress, then, indeed, will
the people of the United States enjoy all the rights
of free men and women, which may heaven grant
to those persecuted and oppressed for conscience’
sake and belief in an unpopular religious faith.
	That this event may be significant of a truer
bond of brotherhood among mankind, and a
broader charity, that shall extend its mantle to en-
circle all who are striving after the light of truth,
that it may herald in such a foretaste of the mil-
lenium, "is a consummation devoutly to be
wished."


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WOMEN voters will not fail, we trust, to cast
their vote on Tuesday, November 2nd, election
day for the candidate of the People’s Party to the
Fiftieth Congress, the Hon. John T. Caine, who
has served the people faithfully in the past, and
deserves an overwhelming vote.
	To encourage the patrons of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, we have decided to give to each sub-
scriber of the paper, at Christmas time, a picture,
which will be a suitable size for framing, of one
of the most notable women of the Church—Lucy
Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph. It is
said by those who were personally scquainted
with the lady, to be an excellent likeness.
	R. S. REPORTS of Utah and Box Elder Confer-
ences, poems and other articles have been crowded


out to make room for the lecture on “Poets and
Poetry,” but we trust the readers of the EXPON-
ENT will be gratified in its perusal, and that it will
be suggestive to the young people, awaken
intellectual search, and stimulate progress in this
department of fine arts.
	THE effort being made by the anti-Mormons to
establish an Industrial Home for women and
children who are, as they think, likely to be left
destitute and unprotected on account of the en-
forcement of the Edmunds law, will not receive the
patronage of plural wives; they are too firmly es-
tablished in their principles to accept a home which
would place them under such conditions as they
must endorse in order to secure the proffered aid.
	“THE CHURCH CHRONOLOGY,” or “A Record
of Important Events,” recently issued, was com-
piled and prepared for publication by Elder An-
drew Jensen, Editor af the “Historical Record,”
a monthly periodical, and is in itself a supplement
to that magazine. It is a book of 112 pages. The
price, bound in cloth, is $1, pamphlet form, 75 cts.
It will be very useful as a book of reference, and
the people will find it well worth the money. The
compiler has evidently taken great pains to collect
items and facts, and has so arranged them that it
is easy to turn to any particular item wanted very
quickly. Bro. Jensen calls it “a labor of love” in
his preface, and we can readily comprehend him,
knowing how interesting and absorbing are the
incidents connected with the history of the Church
to any true Latter-day Saint. It is a mental labor,
and involving physical as well, to do literary work
of this kind, whatever may be the idea of those
who peruse such books. The index is arranged
alphabetically, and the matter is ingeniously made
up in years, beginning with the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1805. From that date
to the close of the year 1884,the author has sought
to specify the most important events that have
transpired in the history of the Church. One may
not at a glance through the book, comprehend the
amount of thought and study it has required to
bring all this into shape and make it presentable
and readable. To those who wish to obtain a
large number of facts without searching papers
through, or reading the whole compiled histories
and biographies, it will certainly be valuable. It
will be a good book for strangers and inquirers, as
well as for our own people. We hope Bro. Jen-
sen will receive the patronage this little work de-
serves in its sale and circulation. We have not
had time to go through it carefully, but have
looked it over, and feel pleased that such a work
has been undertaken by one who seems to possess
ability and talent in this direction, as well as
energy and perseverance to make a success of
the undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

THE TERRITORIAL CONVENTION.

	The Territorial Convention was held in the City
Hall in this City, on the 12th of October, Hon.
James Sharp Chairman.
	The following Platform and Declaration of
Facts and Principles were presented and unani-
mously adopted:

PLATFORM.
	The People's Party of Utah Territory, by its
chosen representatives in regular convention as-
sembled, solemnly proclaims for the careful con-
sideration of all just men the following

DECLARATION OF FACTS AND PRINCIPLES:
	First—We believe that the protection of life
and liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, should
be the object of free government; that the Con-
stitution of the United States represents the high-
est form of political government yet devised, and
that under its provisions the greatest possible
liberty consistent with safety is guaranteed to
every citizen.

[Column 2]

	Second—We believe that free government can
only exist where the people governed exercise the
unrestrained right to choose their own officers;
and that the doctrine that citizens resident in the
Territories have no political rights inherent in
themselves is at variance with the spirit and
genius of our great charter, the Constitution, and
is repugnant to democratic principles and the
liberal spirit of the age.
	Third—We believe that any party or faction of
a political community that seeks to obtain politi-
cal control by any other means than the ability to
cast a majority of votes into the ballot box, is
guilty of the grossest of political crimes, and
should be branded as an enemy to human free-
dom.
	Fourth—We believe that interpretation of the
political and legal rights of the citizens under the
Constitution should be made in courts free from
local or general prejudice, and that justice should
be evenly administered to every person, regard-
less of the class to which he belongs.
	Fifth—We believe that the right of trial by a
fair and impartial jury is one of the strong bul-
warks of liberty, and the trial of any one by a jury
who have strong prejudices against the accused is
a violation of well established principles and is a
dangerous precedent which we solemnly de-
nounce.
	Sixth—Any effort of the government to manage
church property is a violation of the spirit of the
first article of the amendments to the Constitution.
and is practically a union of church and state.
And we denounce any attempt of the church to
dominate the state, or the state to dominate the
church as being dangerous to the liberty of
the citizen. We also assert that any proposition
looking to the disfranchisement of a class of citi-
zens because of their belief in or adherence to any
religious faith in direct contravention of the rights
guaranteed by the Constitution in regard to religi-
ous liberty, and seeks to punish citizens for their
religious belief. Such a doctrine, when we con-
sider the difference of enlightenment of the ages,
is more infamous than the decrees of the Spanish
inquisition.
	Seventh—We declare irrevocably in favor of
woman suffrage; that the benign and purifying in-
fluence of wives and mothers may be manifest
through the laws for the protection of our home
and country.
	Eighth—We approve the administration of local
affairs so for as the people are permitted to exer-
cise the rights of self-government. We assert
that we have proven our ability to control the
business of the state economically, progressively,
and justly to every citizen. We point with pride
to the fact that the taxes in Utah are lighter than
in any other Territory. The Territory is out of
debt, and the counties are practically in the same
satisfactory condition.
	Ninth—We emphatically deny the charge of
disloyalty to the national government made
against the people of Utah. We affirm that it is
the duty of every American citizen to render obe-
dience to the Constitution of the United States,
and laws enacted in pursuance thereof. We
pledge ourselves as a party to the maintenance
and defense of constitutional principles and the
natural and inalienable rights of mankind.
	Tenth—We believe that Utah is entitled to
sovereign statehood. Her citizens have an equal
right to free government with the most favored
children of this Republic. The National Congress
is bound by every consideration of equity and
lawful precedent to remove the chains of Territori-
al bondage from this community. Our population
is nearly two hundred thousand souls, with greater
proportion of native born citizens than is pos-
sessed by many proud and worthy States of the
Union. If we can properly be kept in this en-
thrallment, a population of two millions of free-
born and law-abiding citizens can be held in simi

[Column 3]

lar subserviency. Utah has for years possessed
every requisite for statehood. The failure of
Congress to recognize this right has propagated a
hideous train of evils, from which the land can
never be freed while this political wrong continues.
	Respectfully,
		E. G. WOOLLEY,
			Chairman.

	Hon. W. W. Riter placed in nomination one of
Utah's tried and patriotic citizens, the

HON. JOHN T. CAINE,
for Delegate from Utah to the Fiftieth Congress.
	The nomination was greeted with applause, and
was seconded by E. G. Woolley.
	No other name was presented, and Hon. John
T. Caine was nominated by a unanimous vote.
	The question of electing a Territorial Central
Committee was then taken up, and the following
were elected as a

TERRITORIAL CENTRAL COMMITTEE.
	Beaver County—P. T. Farnsworth.
	Box Elder County—O. G. Snow.
	Cache County—Geo. W. Thatcher.
	Davis County—Thomas F. Roueche.
	Emery County—Orange Seeley.
	Garfield County—David Cameron.
	Iron County—Edward Dalton.
	Juab County—F. W. Chappell.
	Kane County—John Rider.
	Millard County—J. V. Robison.
	Morgan County—James R. Stewart.
	Piute County—John R. Young.
	Rich County—Wm. H. Lee.
	Salt Lake County—John Sharp, E. A. Smith,
Angus M. Cannon, Faramorz Little, John T. Caine,
J. R. Winder, Junius F. Wells.
	Sanpete County—Wm. T. Reid.
	San Juan County—F. A. Hammond,
	Sevier County—Geo. W. Bean.
	Summit County—Alma Eldredge.
	Tooele County—H. S. Gowans.
	Utah County—S. R. Thurman, Warren N. Du-
senberry, A. O. Smoot, Jr.
	Uintah County—C. C. Bartlett.
	Wasatch County—Abram Hatch.
	Washington County—John M. MacFarlane.
	Weber County—L. W. Shurtliff, Thomas D.
Dee.
	At large—Emmeline B. Wells, M. Isabella
Horne.
	On motion of J. T. Hammond, the Central Com-
mittee were authorized to fill any vacancies that
might occur in their number.
	A vote of thanks was returned to the officers of
the convention and the committee on platform for
their services, and to Salt Lake City for the use
of the hall in which the convention had met.
	The President and Secretary were instructed to
notify the Hon. John T. Caine of the action of the
convention.
	The President and Secretary were also directed
to furnish to each member of the Territorial Cen-
tral Committee a certificate of election.
	After the reading of the minutes, the conven-
tion, at 2:45 p.m., adjourned sine die.


﻿Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, who traveled in
Ireland last summer, has a new lecture entitled
“Ireland Yesterday, To-day, and To-morrow,”
which she is now prepared to give. In view
of the magnitude of the Irish question, this
lecture will have special interest. Her ad-
dress is Lafayette, Indiana
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar opened this season's
lecture course of the Western Reserve Club of
Cleveland, Ohio, with her new lecture on “Ire-
land Yesterday, To-day and To-morrow,” on the
6th of Oct. The following evening she gave it
for the benefit of the Painseville Equal Rights
Association. The papers speak in the highest
terms of the lecture.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

Y. L. M. I. A., SALT LAKE STAKE.

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt Lake
Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Friday, Sept. 17th, 1886, Coun. M. Y.

[Column 2]

Dougall presiding.  Singing, "Gladly Meeting."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne.  Singing, "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer," Roll called, seventeen
presidents responding.  Minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved.
The Secretary then read the semi-annual re-
ports of the associations, after which Coun-
Dougall expressed regret for the incomplete-
ness of the reports; hoped that the presidents
would, in the future, see that these reports are 
sent in on time, that the general report might
be complete.  She reported the work of the 
Stake Presidency for the last quarter, saying
they had held the regular meetings for the 
officers, and that they had been fairly attended,
and had visited two associations since the last
conference.
	After this report, Sister Horne addressed
those present.  She expressed herself pleased
in being able to attend a young ladies' confer-
ence, and in listening to such favorable re-
ports.  Said that the Lord loves the diligent 
worker, and not those who are only lukewarm.
She thought the young should strive to be dili-
gent and gain favor of the Lord.  She read 
some of the prophecies of Isaiah, foretelling
what will befall the daughters of Zion, and
urged the young to consider these things and
qualify themselves to be useful women—mothers
in Israel, instead of devoting so much time in 
ornamenting their bodies.  She claimed that
the daughters are as precious in the sight of 
the Lord as are the sons, and that we are re-
warded for our good deeds, and hoped all
would do good and avoid even the appearance
of evil.
	Miss Clara Snedaker, President of the Mill
Creek Association, testified of the value of 
these associations: desired to do her utmost to 
become acquainted with our religion; said
everything she read led her to believe that this
is the true Church of God.  Prayed for the 
blessings of God to be with us continually to 
guide us in all our efforts.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards said: "I realize a 
lack of performing a duty makes us lose the
spirit we desire," and for this reason she had 
responded to the call to address the meeting.
She referred to her recent visit to Washington,
and felt that she and the other sisters were
blessed in their labors.  She met some who 
were anxious to learn of our people, but the 
majority cared nothing about us, and accept 
only the false reports of us, etc.
	Miss Sarah Eddington felt to respond to the
call made upon her from a desire to do her
duty.  She felt a desire to keep every com-
mandmant of God and advance in His king-
dom for she knew that there was no standing
still in His kingdom, etc.
	Mrs. M. A. Coulam said: "I realize it is time
to be up and doing.  The pleasure of the 
world waneth, but the pleasures of heaven are 
something to live for, and do every duty for."
	Mrs. Fannie Thatcher said that there was no
place she loved to be better than in an assem-
bly of the Saints, and she hoped she would
stand ever true to her religion.
	Mrs. Ellen Clawson expressed herself pleased
to be at this meeting, and only wished it were 
crowded.  She urged the young ladies to con-
tinue to do right, and remember the Lord con-
tinually.
	Mrs. Aurelia Rogers urged the young not to 
indulge in slander and gossip, for we do not
gain by it, and some one's reputation is often 
affected by it.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Dougall, who
bore a strong testimony to the benefit of fast-
ing, the meeting was adjourned till 2 p.m.
Singing.  Prayer by Coun. Nellie Colebrook.
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing,
"Love at Home." Prayer by Prest. E. S. 
Taylor.  Singing, "Our Mountain Home." Re-
marks by Coun. Nellie Colebrook upon mat-

[Column 3]

ters of vital importance to the young girls—
light reading, prayerfulness, acquiring knowl-
edge and intelligence, gaining a testimony for 
themselves; urged them all to appreciate
the blessings they enjoyed, and at the close of 
her remarks she cautioned the girls against
backbiting and speaking evil words.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some interesting
remarks, in which she said we might ask our-
selves the question, "Who are we, and what
is our destination?" Spoke of our former state
of existence, and that we had kept our first 
estate, otherwise we should not have had our
bodies; but we were not in a progressive state.
Spoke of the fall, and added that what Eve
had done had generally been looked upon as a
misfortune, a weakness of hers, but she con-
sidered it the greatest thing she could have
done for her descendants; thought one of the 
first grand lessons for young women to learn was
self-preservation.  Spoke of the mission given
her to the Y. L. in connection with Sister Tay-
lor; spoke of the necessity of purity, and that
it was expected the daughters of Zion would 
be polished after the similitude of a palace.
	Coun. Mattie H. Tingey, who had been in
delicate health, and not able to attend meet-
ings or conferences for some time, was the next 
speaker.  She testified to the power of God
in healing her, and returned thanks to Him
and to the sisters for their faith and prayers in
her behalf.  Exhorted the young girls not to 
give way to evil influences and  gave some 
illustrations of the same, and urged them to 
heed the good instructions they were receiving
from time to time.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp related a circumstance
showing the efficacy of a mother's prayer and
also spoke of purity for only the pure in
heart would be able to stand.
	Mrs. Harper bore testimony to the truth of 
what had been said and hoped we would be
able to carry it out in our daily lives.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp have some excellent in-
structions and said the power of the adversary
is greater than the young girls can imagine
and prayed that they might be strengthened
to withstand temptation.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor thought there had been 
excellent teachings, said "some had been apt
scholars and they were the ones to whom we 
could look as patterns; some had fallen by the 
way; was it because they did not receive the 
Holy Ghost when hands were laid upon them?
no; it was because that spirit was not cherished,
and let this be a lesson to us. "Spoke of
prayer as a safeguard and if they were in the 
company of thousands your angel will waft
your prayer to your Heavenly Father.
Beware of those who ridicule sacred things
and watch the whisperings of the spirit, some-
times it leaves us that we may be tempted.
Let us be brave and not give way to wrong
impressions. We must learn to be self reliant.
It has been said the time will come when we
shall have none of the Melchisedec Priest-
hood with us only the Aaronic, but may God
help us to keep faithful.
	Counselor Maria Y. Dougall said I feel to 
urge upon the young to put on the whole 
armor of righteousness, and I want my ex-
ample and conduct to be such before my sisters
that they may know that I am in earnest.  Sin
and iniquity are rampant and there seems to 
be an undercurrent that we know but little of.
Obedience is a keyword; if we had obeyed the 
revelation to President Taylor our enemies
would have no dominion with us.  Mothers
talk to your children that the principles of the 
Gospel may not be strange to them; made other
good and instructive remarks.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "Give us room that we may dwell."
Renediciton by Mrs. Hadley.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

	On Wednesday evening Oct. 20th, a surprise
was given to Sister Mary Whittle, President
of the Relief Society of the Evanston Ward,
it being her 59th birthday. About 40 of the
brethren and sisters went to the house very
quietly and surprised the inmates completely.
The evening was spent in singing and dancing
for a time; lunch was then served, after which
all returnud home. Sister Whittle was made 
the recipient of some very nice presents.
					JAS. WHITTLE.
	Evanston, Oct. 26 1886.


CHESTER PRIMARY FAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT
	I know that you will be delighted to learn
that the young of Chester met under the aus-
pices of dear Aunt Emma and her Counselor
Sister Amelia Allred in the capacity of a 
Primary Fair. On the 23rd again came troop-
ing this regiment of the little folks of Zion
obedient to the call, and with songs, recitations, 
speeches and good words, the day passed in the 
midst of joy to young and old present.
	To particularize would be tedious and es-
pecially where all was excellent. Specimens
of the Jack knife, the culinary department,
the garden, and the needle truly graced the
tables and the occasion.
	These are red lettered days for the young
and fraught with good.
							CHESTER.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	There are said to be numerous Masonic
lodges in France composed exclusively of
women.

Miss J. Rose Colby is teaching in the High
School of Peoria, Ill., not in Michigan Uni-
versity, as erroneously reported.

Dr. Grace Peckham will deliver her lecture
entitled “Nervousness of Americans,” at.Vas-
sar College, some time during the present
semester.

Dr. Eliza M Mosher, physician to Vassar
College, is Vice-president of the N. Y. Associa-
tion of Michigan University Alumni.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 9, 1886:
	Sarah J. Byers, Lafayette, Ind., Ash-pan.
	Estella Case, New York, N. Y., Rubber
Sound-deadener and Packing Band.
	Clara Frank, Cuff-holder.
	Ella Maratta, Pittsburg, Pa. Coal-vault 
Grating. 
	Rebecca McKee, New York, N. Y., Insecti-
cide.
	Mary Sutherland, Diamond, Mo., Composi-
tion for Tanning.


An article prepared expressly for this num-
ber, entitled, "Autumnal Tints," and already
in type, is crowded out for want of space. We
make this apology, as the middle of November
may seem rather late to describe the beauties
of mid-autumn.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.
	At Clarkston, Cache County, October 12, 1886, of
paralysis, Huldah Bassett; born February 11th, 1808, at
Quebec, Canada; baptized at Kirtland, Ohio, in 1832;

[Column 2]

moved to Nauvoo in 1841 with her husband, Alpheus
Harmon. He went on a mission, and on his way home
was frozen to death, leaving her with nine small children.
She was an eye witness to the martyrdom of Joseph and
Hyrum, her home being then in Carthage. She afterwards
married Lorin Bassett, by whom she had four children.
She arrived in Utah in 1863. She was the mother of
13 children; grandmother of 67, and great-grandmother 
of 32. She was full of zeal for the Latter-day work.

	DIED, in West Porterville, Morgan Co., Oct. 3rd, 1886
of inflammation of the bowels, Sarach C. Dearden, daughter
of William and Ann Dearden. Deceased was born Feb.
7th, 1868. A pure spirit has left us, one well prepared to
dwell in a holier sphere, where she now shines among the
jewels of that glorious court on high.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Y. L. M. I. A. of West Porter-
ville Ward, unanimously adopt the following Resolutions:
	Whereas, It has pleased an allwise Providence to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister and
friend, now, 
	Therefore, we, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A., wish
to express the honor and respect entertained by us for her
as a wise counselor and a true friend, who faithfully held
the office of Second Counselor of the Y. L. M. I. A ; in
which position she labored with love and intelligence,
qualities that she ever exercised for the good of her asso-
ciates.
	Whereas, We acknowledge her loss, and her readiness
at all times to give a helping hand and use her best abilities
for the furtherance of the latter day work, and manifesting
her devotion to its principles, Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, deeply sympathize with her bereavrd
family and friends; and further, be it
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Association, and that a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and to the bereaved family.

	"Ay, look upon this dreary, desert path,
The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears,
	What wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife
	The journey hath!
She has escaped from these,
	And lo! we mourn."
		EMILY E. BROUGH, Sec.

	The many friends of Sister Martha Sampson will be
pained to learn of her demise, which occurred on the
morning of the 16th of September last, at her residence in
Glenwood, surrounded by her family and friends. She
had arrived at the advanced age of eighty years and three
months. Sister Sampson first heard the Gospel, as re-
vealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Kirtland,
which she embraced with a joyful heart, and was
 baptized in June, 1830, a few months after the organization
of the Church; she also preached the Gospel to Orson
Hyde, who soon after was convinced of the truth. She
has to the day of her death borne a strong testimony to
the truth of the latter day work. With her family she
followed the Church to Jackson Co., Mo. Received her
inheritance with her husband. They were expelled with
the Saints from there; went to Clay Co. and were expelled
again, suffering untold misery. Followed the Church to
Nauvoo. Immigrated to the valley in 1851 and located
in Provo. Was an active member in the Relief Society
there; moved to Glenwood in 1865, where she resided un-
til the time of her death. Here, also, she was Counselor
to the President of the Relief Society. Sister Sampson
was the mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her. She had forty-nine grand children, fifty-seven great-
grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. She 
reared a number of her grandchildren, who were left
orphans, to be men and women. Sister Sampson was very
retiring in her habits, but she had a genial and kind heart.
When she was attacked with the illness, that ended her
earthly career, she told her granddaughter that she would
like to go to the beyond, if her Heavenly Father was will-
ing. She died with a smile on her face, telling of the
heavenly joy that filled her soul. Her remains were taken 
to the bowery. The speakers were Bishop Bell, Counselor
Heppler and Brother Ransford Colbey; they spoke words
of comfort and instruction to the sorrowing friends; also
bearing a strong testimony to the faithfulness and integrity
of the deceased. She was followed to the grave by a 
large cortege of relatives and neighbors; the dedication of

[Column 3]

he grave was made by Bro. A. Buchanan, Sen. We
mourn the departure of our dear sister, but we are com-
forted, knowing that she fought the good fight; she has
kept the faith; henceforth there is a crown laid up for her,
which the Lord will give her,and not her only but all who 
have His approval.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Glenwood Relief
Society, do tender our love and esteem to the memory of
our departed sister; we will miss her in her accustomed
place; and also her many good counsels; we feel she has
indeed shown us, both old and young, an excellent ex-
ample of faithfulness, worthy of emulating, and we feel to
say, "Peace to her soul." God help us all to hold out so
faithfully to the end.
	Whereas, We condole with her friends in their bereave-
ment, yet we would not wish her back. Oh, how sweet is
her rest after so long and tiresome a journey of life.
	Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the
minutes of the Relief Society, and also send them to the
family and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	SARAH JACOBS,
	PATIENCE PALMER, Committee.
	LOUISANNA HEPPLER.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
	ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
	CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

	Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
			in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
	RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and IN-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1886.				NO. 12.


APOSTROPHE.

Oh, Sympathy! thou dear and holy thing,
	Be not abashed -fear not to reach thy hand
Unto the weary and the sorrowing,
	To soothe, to strengthen, and to help them stand.

Oh, Charity! remember what thou art;
	Shrink not from thy full mission here below;
Thou canst not hurt the wounded, bleeding heart,
	What e'er the cause, thou must the balm bestow.

Oh, Wisdom! bear thy stately form erect;
	Lips may be mute, yet open wide thine eyes;
The RIGHT is thine to cherish and protect,
	Thou art not moved by Error's smooth disguise.

And oh, Humility! thou good, safe friend,
	Hide not thy gentle face, though pained to see
Those whom thou fain wouldst succor and defend,
	For thine opposer's sake will trample thee.

Oh, Love! hast thy whole story yet been told?
	Canst lift no more thy mournful, drooping head?
Though crushed and smitten, though so pale and cold,
	Still shalt thou speak, sweet Love, thou art not dead!

Oh, Justice! thou hast waited long—so long;
	Thy look is fierce and searching, like the sun;
Thy voice is sharp, thine arm is firm and strong;
	Who shall abide when thy day's work is done?

Oh, Mercy! ever hovering softly nigh
	Yet nearer come—revive with thy pure breath,
And with thy tender, lovely, pitying eye,
	The thought that Life is Life and Death is Death.

And thou, oh, Truth! the greatest, grandest Pow'r!
	Linking all Light to Light—spare not the rod,
Save those who hold to thee in this dread hour,
	Cling to thine own, and lead them up to God!
										LULA.
Oct. 1886.


THE BOOKS WERE OPENED AND THE
		JUDGMENT WAS SET.

		The judgment is set
			In the house of the Lord,
		And Jehovah is sharping
			The edge of His sword.
		It will fall like a thief
			In the night upon those
		Who fight against Zion,
			Her sons and her laws.

		What wonderful knowledge
			And power we behold,
		Where Jehovah is sifting
			And testing His gold;
		The furnace of Zion
			Has started to burn,
		And all will be tested
			Alike in their turn.

		The refiner is set
			With his crucible now.
		And the token of justice
			Is stamped on his brow;
		And the balancing scales
			Are displayed by his side,
		While the sinner bewails,
			Stepping down from his pride.

		The goddess of equity.
			Robed in her power,
		With the sands in her glass,
			Is forecasting the hour;
		When the feet of the needy
			Shall step on the dust
		Of the selfish and greedy,
			Who pamper their lust.

[column 2]
		The scene we behold
			Is so noble and grand,
		Where the purest of gold
		In the furnace will stand,
			Unmoved by the power
		That a despot has used,
			To break and to bend,
		Where his mandate’s refused.

		The Gods are dictating
			The programme each day;
		While the wheat’s being garnered
			The chaffs blown away;
		And the humble and faithful
			Still closer will cling
		When the stripe is laid on them,
			For all it can bring. 

		They will bow in submission
			And glorify God,
		For counting them worthy
			To taste of His rod;
		His sons and His daughters
			He’ll surely correct,
		And caution and chide them
			With proper respect.

		And naught shall betide us
			But what’s for the best,
		To save and exalt us
			With Him in His rest.
		By suffering He perfects
			The sons of His love,
		Who’ll reign with their Father
			In glory above.

		And we shall rejoice	
			And shout glory to God,
		Although we are bent
			By the weight of His rod,
		For He gives us the good;
			By His blessing we stand,
		And evil we'll also
			Receive at His hand.

		Till the offering of Levi
			Is given again,
		And accepted and righteous
			His gift shall remain.
		And we'll live our religion
			And try to be one,
		Saying, "Father Almighty,
			Let Thy will be done."
							JENNETTE PATON.


AUTUMNAL TINTS.
	There is no season of the year when the
earth is more magnificent in its glory and
beauty than the Autumn and especially Octo-
ber. In September the leaves begin to fade
and turn yellow, and sometimes the pale blue
sky is dim or leaden, but the mellow October
days are rife with beauty. 
	One could easily imagine “the fairy folk"
dancing over the hills and touching with magic
wand the beautiful leaves until they dazzle
and shine like burnished gold or flame up
like a blaze of glowing fire in the distance.
The trailing vines and briers variegated
in color form such festoons of artistic loveli-
ness that one feels like gazing with wonder on
the scene, as though nature had outdone her-
self in the transformation. The fallen leaves—
what sentiment they call up in the human
heart, and how one loves to tread upon them,
what, poetical thoughts they inspire. The
thistledown floats in the air, and the
crickets pipe their shrillest notes in the flags
and stubble. Immense flocks of blackbirds sail

[column 2]
across the pathway and over the brown fields
lighting among the soft willows that fringe the
water’s edge. A few plain brown birds sing 
sweetly in the shrubbery, but the medlarks are
quiet now, or have gone away. The red-headed
woodpecker with gaudy wing is busy at his
boring, making for himself and mate a shelter
ere the winter storms come on.
	In this country the woods are not so gor-
geously attired as where the trees are old and 
heavy with moss and lichen, but the mountain
oak and sumach are splendid, almost regal in
grandeur off coloring, and in the canons and
upon the mountain side, make a display of
their vivid beauty, especially when the sun
is on them, that could scarce be equaled
in any land, and that no artist could ever
successfully imitate with paint and brush.
	The murmuring music of the leaves when
the autumn breeze begins to sway the trees,
and they bend and sigh and moan, has some-
thing so pensive in it,that it thrills the human
heart and softens it like the music of the harp
with a thousand chords gently played by a
skillful hand.
	I doubt if the murmur of the sobbing sea
surpasses in its soothing effect the music of the
trees in Autumn when “the melancholy days
have come.”
	October generally brings the soft radiant
Indian Summer with its delightful weather-
when one can be out of doors all day long,
aud just comfortably warm, gazing upon the
beauties of nature which are invigorating both
to the body and mind. There is nothing more
charming to me in the way of varying tints and
shades of color than the beautiful vail or haze
like the finest transparent gauze that lies like
a graceful mantle upon the eastern mountains
that half encircle this wonderful valley to-
wards evening of these autumnal days. I
have heard hundreds remark it, who have
traveled in foreign lands and have gazed with
admiration upon the Italian hills and skies and
watched the sunsets of the land so famed in
poetry and song. I firmly believe the sunsets
in Utah are quite equal, if they do not surpass
those of sunny Italia, but I regret to say the
name Utah is not euphonious or musical in
the least, there is no beauty in the name
itself. Deseret is much more to my taste and
suited to the country and its people. I would
much rather admire the glorious lights that
come and go upon the Eastern mountains veil-
ing them in silent beauty, and watch the glow-
ing sunsets with their effects upon the lake and
clouds in the distant horrizon and with a pas-
sive silence drink in the beauty of the scene
leaving all names and disputed questions for
the time being; until the pale evening is
ushered in and the stars one by one peep out
and the harvest moon, yellow and mellow,
sheds a silvery lustre over hill and vale; while
reviewing all these wonders of the creation, and 
rejoicing in their harmony and completeness,
one cannot but feel a nearness to divine power,
and a reverence for that hand that has fash-
ioned all things in heaven and on earth, and
holds the keys of destiny in His holy keeping.
How can we be grateful enough for the beauti-
ful creations we enjoy, and appreciate all the
good Father has given us. It is only through
His Spirit we can be truly appreciative and
grateful. The great lessons of life content-
ment, gratitude, earnestness of purpose, purity
and obedience to divine laws and precepts—
all these impress us more strongly when we


sit, as it were at the feet of nature, and con-
template the wonderful works of God our
Father. He has made all these beautiful
varieties of things for man's comfort, joy and
happiness, and the rich and poor alike are en-
dowed with them.
	There is a subdued quiet, too, about the
Autumn—dreamy, languid, lingering days,
that some call monotonous and wearisome; but
to one who lives much in his own thoughts and
fancies, such seasons are a positive luxury.
They may be monotonous to some, but to me
they are placid and restful. In New England
this is the season for nutting, and merry crowds
of young people and children enjoy this recrea-
tion day after day in the woods, not only in
gathering the nuts for winter use and amuse-
ment, but the exhilarating frosty air has a stimu-
lating effect upon the health and spirits of
those who engage in the sport, for sport it is.
I verily believe the people in rural New Fng-
land as thoroughly enjoy this yearly pastime as
the gentle folk in old England do the hunting
season, when they ride after the hounds. When
visiting in the old Bay State, last winter, these
gala days were often referred to by my former
school mates and friends, and even Mr. Whit-
tier, the venerable poet, questioned me on the
subject, and expressed in eloquent terms his
taste for nutting in the woods, and regretted
that we who live here had not that
pleasure, which had always given him
such real enjoyment; and although nearly
eighty years old he still goes nutting,
evidently with the same zest of the sport, as
was his wont in former times, though, perhaps,
the sentiment that characterized his youthful
rambles may have worn off. He is, however,
young in spirit as all true poets are. Out
door exercise, such as rambling over the hills
and listening to the voices of nature, at all sea-
sons of the year is as necessary for the poet as
his daily food. And at this time the hills, the
view from adjacent heights, the crimson pur-
ple and yellow foliage, the ever-changing skies
the murmuring, sighing, sobbing trees are all
that the fondest fancies could wish to inspire
the muse.
							AUNT EM.
	Oct. 13th, 1885.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

"THOU SHALT NOT BEAR FALSE
WITNESS."

	By request, I once more seat myself, with
pen and paper, to contribute something to the
EXPONENT. In my present mood there is no
subject bearing with greater weight upon my
mind than that of "scandal," and the uncharit-
able spirit which seems to be as prevalent
among Saints as among sinners; and, judging
from late occurrences, must be running ram-
pant in Zion. Having been personally affected,
it has doubtless impressed me more deeply
than those who have been so fortunate as to
escape its poisonous fangs. As it has lately
fallen to my lot to suffer the keenest anguish I
think that it is possible for a human being to
endure, it has enabled me to feel for others
who have passed through similar scenes.
	The greatest lessons, and the most lasting
ones, are those learned by experience; and
though a hard schoolmaster, there is no teacher
so profitable to mould and fashion and train
the human mind in that channel that will lead
one to think and feel for another's woes.
	It seems that my misery was not quite com-
plete in the visitation of death, without an-
other thrust, which came in the shape of a
vile falsehood, without even the shadow of
truth on which to found it, but was substituted
as a reason for my son's committing the frenzied
act which closed his earth-life so tragically,
casting not only an additional stain upon the
name of the dead, but upon the living. Even
if this story had been true, he would rather

[Column 2]

have faced it than to have committed a crime
which he had always looked upon with the
greatest horror, as a sin for which there was
no forgiveness, as all who knew him can testify,
and that his moral character stood above re-
proach. The last and most earnest wish that
he was heard to express, was his long talked of
desire to go into the world and preach the Gos-
pel, and his highest aspiration was to be among
those who would be counted worthy to stand as
saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Everything has gone to show that he never
premeditated the act of self-destruction, and
that he was bereft of his reason, through the
intense suffering to which he had been sub-
jected, more or less, for several years. He
went to Arizona three years ago, with the
brightest hopes of regaining his health by the
change, and also of growing up with the coun-
try, but met with disappointment and unlooked
for hardships, by the death of his uncle, D. P.
Kimball, on whose influence he was depending
to give him a start. The news of his father's
death, coming to him when camped in the
dreary Huachuca mountains, had such an ef-
fect upon him, as he expressed himself in a let-
ter, that he "was no longer a boy, but a man
of family;" and when we saw him the change
was so visible that it pained us to see him no
longer the gay, fun-loving boy, who had been
the joy and life of the house. He told me that
he never wanted to mix again with the world
and its follies, but desired to go into the vine-
yard and preach the Gospel. The change from
that climate, where his blood had become
thinned, to this region, at the coldest and most
unfavorable time of the year, affected him im-
mediately. But, anxious to obtain work he
took whatever he could get to do, and the hard
work and exposure told on him, as also the in-
tense heat of the summer, more especially this
last, all of which was calculated to help on the
disease (catarrh), which at last turned his brain.
The last day that he was employed at the
Tithing Office, in lifting a weight, that
would require a much stronger man, he hurt his
back, which laid him up a number of days.
Just at this time he was offered a situation in
the Dinwoody establishment, where he worked
till the week previous to his death. He was
confined to his bed three daysby cholera morbus,
but went to work before he was able, a thing
I should not have allowed had I been at home,
for he was never in possession of a strong con-
stitution, and his ambition generally took him
beyond what wisdom would have dictated.
Knowing so well the purity of his thoughts
and desires, and his aims in this life and for
that to come, I felt that I could not allow so
unjust a stigma to rest upon his name without
raising my voice in its condemnation; and I
think it high time that such cruel wrongs should
be righted; or in the name of all that is just and
God like, how long are they to be borne?
Should not the truth triumph, and the virtues
of the innocent plead their cause in Zion,
though they may be judged guilty by men and
looked upon as outcasts from the fold of God?
	The Latter-day Saints have been noted for
their charity toward the outside world, and
would do good even, unto "those that hate
them;" but, when it comes to individual chari-
ty, how many are there who practice this virtue,
and are seeking with one accord to reach that
standard which should govern our daily walk
and conversation? How many are thoughtless-
ly breaking one of the most important com-
mands, and thereby violating, not only a law
laid down by the Savior for our guidance, but
breaking covenants that have been made in
sacredness before Him, and His angels, who
have borne witness to the same. We know
enough of the "injustice of man to man" to
look for nothing better from the world; and
we may more easily tolerate Tribune informers
and anti-"Mormon" missionaries, as they are

[Column 3]

only performing their part in the drama; but
we have been led to expect better things from
those calling themselves Latter-day Saints,
especially those who have age and experience
on their side, and are looked up to as examples
for the rising generation, but some of whom are
placing themselves as stumbling blocks; and not
only this, but giving voice to imaginary evils,
that never existed only in the brain of those
who "love and make a lie." The Psalmist
said: "His mischief shall return upon his own
head, and his violent dealing shall come down
upon his own pate," a truth which has been
verified in our own, and in every age.
	If some of the time spent in idle gossip and
tale-bearing were used in studying the Scrip-
tures, though they may not be so fascinating,they
would certainly bring greater and more lasting
happiness, for the fruits of the Spirit are holy,
and bring us into closer communion with our
Father, and heavenly beings, giving us confi-
dence when we approach the throne of grace,
which we cannot feel when taking the opposite
course. In mingling with the more humble
and obscure, we may find some of the choicest
gems, upon whom the candle of God is shining
brighter and brighter, till their minds are as
wells, from which is springing that inspiration,
wisdom and intelligence which flows down
from the true fountain of life, bringing peace
and solace to the weary heart, encouraging
them to press onward and gain the reward
which is laid up for those who are hungering
and thirsting after the knowledge of God.
	It behooves us all to live our religion, for
the time is near when the wheat is to be gar-
nered up and the chaff swept away by the
Great Reaper, who alone can judge of the in-
most thoughts aud desires of one's heart, or
whose lives have been the most just and pure,
and worthy of His praise.
	Your sister in sorrow,
		H. M. WHITNEY.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	I have friends here whose society is very
agreeable to me; they are of all ages, and of
every country.—Petrarch.

	Grand and dignified thoughts must be ex-
pected from those alone whose minds are ever
employed on glorious and noble objects.—
Longinus.

	Show me a man who has no love for his
native land, and I will show you in the same
person one who loves nothing but himself.
Lady Ponsonby.

	How many of us have been attracted to rea-
son—first learned to think, to draw conclusions,
to extract a moral from the follies of life—by
some dazzling aphorism.—Bulwer.

	Nothing is more impertinent than for people
to be giving their opinion and advice in cases
in which, were these to be their own, they
would be as much at a loss what to do.—S.
Croxall.

	Were it left to me to decide whether we
should have a government without newspapers,
or newspapers without a government, I should
not hesitate to choose the latter.—Thomas
Jefferson.

	I will tell you what to hate. Hate hypoc-
risy, hate cant, hate intolerance, oppression,
injustice, hate pharisaism; hate them as Christ
hated them, with a deep, living, godlike hatred.
—F. W. Robertson.

	Censure and criticism never hurt anybody.
If false, they cannot harm you, unless you are
wanting in character; and if true, they show
a man his weak points, and forewarn him
against failure and trouble.—Gladstone.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LINES TO A SPIRIT DEPARTED.

IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF THE LATE SISTER
	SARAH H. PRATT, WHO DIED MAY 22ND, 1886,
	WIDOW OF APOSTLE P. P. PRATT.

Thou art gone far away to that sweet land of rest.
	Where the soul ne’er grows weary or faints;
May thy soul rest in peace till the call lor the blest,
	When thy body will rise with the Saints.

Oh, the sweet gentle rest thou art called to enjoy,
	With the loved ones who’ve passed on before—
The sad trials of earth never thee can annoy,
	For thou’rt gone to that "beautiful shore."

We mourn for thine absence, our fond mother dear.
	As we journey through this vale of woe;
Ne’er again on this earth wilt thou be with us to cheer
	The dark hours we’re called to pass through.

Oft in sickness and grief thou hast been in our home
	As an angel sent down from above;
To lighten our burdens, and cheer us in gloom,
	With thy tender, affectionate love. 

But now thou art gone, rest in peace, gentle soull
	Rest in peace till the Savior doth come;	
Though dark the fierce flood that between us doth roll,
	We will meet in our heavenly home.
								ANNIE GARDNER.


PERSEVERANCE.

Perscveranae—precious! grand!
	On it hinges many blessings,
Death with Life goes hand in hand;
	But it robs not the possessing
Of this priceless attribute,
	This desire to gain Perfection,
That forever contributes
	To our strength in every action.

Perseverance doth sustain;
	Trials only tend to strengthen, 
And each time some power we gain,
	Our chain of usefulness to lengthen;
Yes, this love seems born of God,
	To excel in every measure;
It pertains not to the sod,
	It abounds with lofty pleasure.

Perseverance helps us gain
	Victory from defeats unnumbered;
It inspires and it sustains,
	While with mortal life we're cumbered;
And, methinks, when life is done,
	When our span on earth is ended,
And it's said that we have gone,
	O'er the mystic river wended.

If our lives have been replete
	With kind words and wholesome actions,
Truly death we will defeat
	In a glorious resurrection.
This is the way our Savior led,
	Suffered anguish, death and sorrow;
It is said He blest the bed,
	And from this we comfort borrow.

Perseverance! precious gift!
	Thereon hinges endless blessing,
For some day it wiil uplift
	The possessor in the presence
Of our Savior Jesus Christ,
	And our allwise Heavenly Parent,
With a great and glorious host
	Of just beings, holy, perfect.

Let us labor while it's day;
	Persevere while life’s in session;
Onward, upward is the way
	To accomplish well our mission.
When we lay our bodies down,
	Broader views will spread before us,
We will gain the victor’s crown,
	With the just we’ll join in chorus.

		MAREN MITCHELL.
Oct. 6, 1887.


THE HAWIIAN AS A WOMAN.

	She stands on about the same plane, so far
as I am able to judge, as her husband or
brother.
	She gets up at the same early hour. and,
shouldering her hoe, with her calabash of poi
and bit of salt fish, she goes singing in the
fresh waking day down to the sugar cane field
to hoe out her row as her husbaud does. She
is not often employed at responsible or very
heavy labor, as she is, if possible, more lazy
and less to be relied on, and is not quite as
stout as her husbaud.
	Her muscles are rounded and firm, her dress
is exceeding simple, consisting of a holoku
(Mother Hubbard) and a chemise. (Gracious!
its a good thing this is a woman's exclusive
paper.) She swims with quite as much ease
and grace as her brother. Flinging her baby
on her back, she swims out to deep holes,
where they are fishing for devil fish, and pad-
dles round for half a day, turning over on her
back to suckle her offspring.
	In the festive hula she is quite as agile and
vulgar as her male companion. She sings with
as much melody, at times possessing an ex-
quisite voice, and reserves to herself the liber-
ty to sing in a deep, double base sephulchral
voice whenever she so chooses.
	He pounds their poi and catches the fish; she
weaves the mats and hats, and has a baby once
in a great while, after which latter event neither
give much further thought as to its future.
	She is inordinately lazy, and the counterpart
of her lord and master in this, as in his easy
morals, or rather, lack of anything like virtue.
	She beats her husband, at times, and he re-
turns the happy compliment. In fact, things
as to sex, are about as evenly divided as I ever
saw them in my life. But she has virtues.
She has, as a rule, in youth, a rounded, beauti-
ful form, with black liquid eyes and lovely
hands. She loves yellow and scarlet, and is
not particular as to how many shades of either
or both appear on her at the same time.
	She is a devoted friend, and, when faithful,
a most fond, affectionate wife.
	She will work very hard to help build the
home, and is often the treasurer of the family
concern.
	She is very capable of taking on the refine-
ments of civilized life, and is full of imitation
and ingenuity.
	She is an excellent ironer and fair seam-
stress.
	She has proven,as have her white sisters, the
most obedient to the Gospel call, and is ever
kind, hospitable and generous.
	There are a very few types here of fine,
stately women. They all, as to dignity, bear
themselves with the air and grace of a wild-
wood queen.
	She is suave and deceptive, kind and polite,
earnest and unstable, quick and unscrupulous,
intensely demonstrative and truckling.
	But with all, she is trying to raise her head
from out of the gross darkness about her, and
she calls upon you to aid and pray for her, for
she is our sister.
Susa Young Gates HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]

HANNAH T. KING.

	It is early morning, in October, the moun-
tains are capped with the first snow, while
their base and sides are gorgeous with autumn
coloring on the lingering green. The sky is
beautiful and serene, the air delightful, tempt-
ing one to a ramble. Year after year, this
season, in particular, more than spring or sum-
mer's beauty, ever reminds me of one herself,
in the ripe and glorious autumn of life. From
an ivory painting of herself, that she had
shown me I know that the springtime of her

[Column 2]

﻿years were full of beauty, delicacy, health and
enjoyment.
	It was soon after the famous "Indignation
Meeting," held by the Latter-day Saint women
in the Old Tabernable against the infamous
"Cullom Bill," that I made the personal ac-
quaintance of Hannah T. King. Often her
fine person and eloquent eyes had drawn
my admiring gaze, and one Sunday she came
aud sat beside me, and, during the service,
asked me some question, which led to others,
as we both happened to spend our noon in the
Tabernacle, instead of going home to dinner,
thereby retaining comfortable seats for the
afternoon meeting. I don’t think that either
of us stayed so much for this convenience, as
from a sense of spiritual enjoyment in spend-
ing a quiet hour in the place, permeated as it
was with an almost mystical atmosphere of
reverie, worship and intuition of diviner reali-
ties. When we parted that afternoon it was
with the understanding that we should each
bring something in our pockets for a taste, and
sit together, and become further acquainted,
next Sunday. Almost without interruption
we thus spent our Sundays for several months.
	I was alone, as it were, away from my own
family, visiting for an indefinite period in the
citv, boarding in somewhat uncongenial quar-
ters, and the kind attention of this lady was
very lovingly appreciated by me. Not that I
had no other friends; I had many, and they
were kind, but there was something peculiarly
satisfying and fascinating to me in her literary
conversation, and in drawing me to her and by
her confiding manner, finding out my own
tastes aud inclinations, combining in one per-
son guide and friend. I looked with longing
heart toward others whose talents and natures
I adored, yet shrank from approaching nearer
than they invited; but she discerned and en-
couraged me. Sometimes, by her invitation, I
walked home with her, and every room I en-
tered in her home became an indelible picture
in my memory, in their literalness, their spirit,
and all those beautiful phantoms that rise and
cluster around the individuality that invokes
them, making the hours beautiful.
	Often we took long walks together, and I
used to smile to myself when she seemed so
to love to tread upon the carpet of autumn
leaves, just as a child might have smiled to
walk adown some dimpled slope thick with
flowers. Then, how she gave loose rein to
fancy and happiness, and how we enjoyed the
time, lingering once so long that we walked
home by the full moon.
	After my marriage I saw less of my friend,
and once, when I spoke of it regretfully, she
answered: "Never mind, we understand each
other too well for time or absence to make any
difference in our feelings."
	Hannah T. King was known to thousands,
who never had the pleasure of meeting, her, by
her pen. They knew her ability, integrity and
powers; but only the near friends could know
the greatness and the gentleness, the dignity
and the sweetness, yea, and the almost girlish
happiness of her spirit. Upon the street, one
meeting her would never have dreamed, that
the fresh, beautiful complexion, the undimmed
eye and the elegant figure, had known so
many years of earthly life. Still young and
beautiful in spirit, she has departed from us
before we were prepared to meet the thought
of her loss. How happy must have been the
meeting with those dear friends so lately gone
before her, and the reward—for which she left
country, home and friends. As though we
stood again Sunday afternoon in the outgoing
throng at the "gate of the Temple Blook," let
me repeat, as she used to with a smile, "We
meet again."
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Oct. 26, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE D. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]

APPROACHING THE NARROWS.

	There never was a time in the history of the
Church when greater faith and humility were 
needed than at the present. The Saints are
actually coming to what may, with all pro-
priety, be termed "the narrows." It is a time of 
testing and proving, and the Lord is dealing with 
His people through some very powerful agencies,
and the influences brought to bear to purify and
cleanse them, are not and cannot be understood,
except through the Holy Spirit. The burden of
the cry of the prophets of the Lord to this people
has been for years, "Get the Holy Spirit and keep
it." The question arises with some, and it is a 
serious one, too, "How shall we be sure of being 
in possession of that spirit?" By keeping all the 
commandments God has given to His people, and
being obedient in all things to the counsel through
His servants placed to preside over them, and
through humility and meekness. It might, per-
haps, be said that all fall short in some particular, 
either through weakness or a lack of knowledge,
but if the people are striving to obey and to fulfill
the law, the Lord is merciful and full of loving
kindness, and will help the weak, and lift up the
feeble hands of those who supplicate Him for grace
and strength.
	There are many things transpiring now, calcu-
lated to awaken the thoughtless and indifferent,
and it is easy to perceive that "the mills of the
gods" are grinding. The processes may be tedi-
ous and slow, and there are many tests, but all the
smut has to be removed first, and afterwards comes
the bolting, and even when the fine flour has been
made, there is still another test, that of sifting.
How much of the wheat that has been gathered
will be susceptible of the process of making fine
flour, and even that to be sifted, it would be diffi-
cult for any one to determine.
	President Heber C. Kimball was very fond of
illustrating by the process of the potter, and our
Savior makes similar illustrations of the kind in
His divine writings. The potter throws his clay
into the mill and grinds it, and then moulds and
fashions it to his will, if it be pliable and passive
in his hands, but if not sufficiently so, he throws
it back again to be ground over. The Latter-day
Saints, who have embraced the truth for the love
of it, and in all sincerity of soul, desire to be
fashioned into vessels of honor, that they may be
acceptable in the great day of the Lord, and not 
be thrown back into the pit to be ground over
again. But are they passive while complying with 
the necessary preliminary processes? Is it not
often the case that even the first trial seems too
severe a test? And yet they sing, perhaps uncon-
scious of its true significance,

	"I'm willing to be cleansed
	From every kind of dross,
	I see a fiery furnace,
		I feel its piercing flame;
	The fruits of it are holy,
		The gold will still remain."

	The Saints have been warned and forewarned

[Column 2]

that great trials were in store, and that they should
be on their guard, and watch every loophole
through which an advantage might be taken by
the enemy, who is ever on the alert, and as the
scriptures say, "Is more wise in his generation
than the children of light;" and yet, notwithstand-
ing the warnings and exhortations to diligence
and faithfulness, it would seem that the enemy
had come upon the Saints unawares, but even
though many are taken at a disadvantage, there is
still time to reform, and that so effectually as to 
be able to pass through the narrows, by divine
help, in submission and obedience to the law of
God.
	Passing through the narrows reminds the writer 
of a dream she heard a sister relate in Winter
Quarters. She dreamed that she was traveling
along a very difficult road, or pathway, where
every now and then it seemed next to impossible
to proceed any further, yet  this was the direct
way to the place she had set out for. There were
others in company with her, and just ahead of
her was Sister Vilate Kimball: Finally they came
to a passage way or aperture in a solid wall,
through which it would be necessary to make a
very tight squeeze, if even it were possible to get
through at all, and the sister said to Sister Vilate,
"I can't through there, I would rather go round,"
but she stood and saw Sister Vilate go through,
but remarked, "that it made her bones crack." No
doubt it will be a struggle to pass through the
narrows, and there are many prophetic minds who
seem to think this people have not scarcely
reached any part of the narrows, or the severest
trial as yet. If that be so, how humble and meek
and lowly must one be to endure to the end; and
yet they who do are the ones who obtain the re-
ward which is in store for the faithful.
	The spirit of the world has crept in among the
Saints, of that there can be no doubt, and the pos-
session of that spirit and its influence is at variance
with the spirit of the Gospel, and therefore it be-
comes a positive necessity to "get the Spirit of the
Lord and keep it," and to crush out every feeling
which is not in accordance with that spirit, and
cultivate every Christian grace and qualification,
and follow the example of the Savior, and obey
the injunction He laid upon those who would fol-
low Him—"If ye love me, keep my command-
ments."


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANUSCRIPT received, that will be published in
our next number: An excellent article on plural
marriage, by M. A. M. Pratt; also one upon
marriage, by M. J. Morrison; poems by Hannah
Conraby and May J. Marler, M. J. Tanner and
other suitable matter.
	THE Editor and Proprietor of the "Graphic
News Illustrated," two gentlemen seeking infor-
mation on Mormon subjects, paid quite a visit to
our  sanctum  to-day. They  have  been  in
town a week, looking up material for their columns,
and expect to visit, Logan, Ogden and Provo, re-
turning here again and spending a a few days
more in visiting places of interest, etc.
	THE EXPONENT offers hearty congratulations to
Hon. John T. Caine, Delegate from Utah to the
Fiftieth Congress, on his recent election.  Hav-
ing so ably represented this Territory in the past,
the People's Party, who elected him by an over-
whelming majority, have the utmost confidence in
his future success, feeling assured of his doing all
that is possible to promote the best interests and
prosperity of the Territory, and make a fair repre-
sentation for all its inhabitants.
	WE have had some very interesting conversa-
tions of late with strangers visiting the city,
among whom mention may be made of Mrs.
Threlkeld of Los Angelos, a women of very

[Column 2]

bright mind, and a wide-awake newspaper corres-
pondent. Mrs. Threlkeld, in company with Dr.
R. B. Pratt, visited the Utah Penitentiary and
had an exceedingly pleasant interview with Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, with whom, as well as his Sis-
ter, E. R. S. Smith, she appeared to have been
greatly impressed. Mrs. T. also met and con-
versed upon Mormonism with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Bishop O. F. Whitney and others.
	MONDAY morning, Nov. 15th, the Salt Lake
Academy opened in the basement rooms of the
Social Hall in this city. The school is under the
supervision of Elder Karl G. Maeser, who has,
from its first inauguration, had charge of the Brig-
ham Young Academy at Provo, and has succeeded
admirably in keeping up the original intention of
its founder, that it should be a Latter-day Saint
school. The Salt Lake Stake Academy is estab-
lished with the same purpose, that the children in-
structed there shall be taught the principles of the
Gospel in connection with other studies, and that
the spirit of the institution shall be in accordance
therewith. There is no doubt but the school will
receive a large patronage, and that very soon there
will be a much larger hall needed than the one at
present occupied. The Gentile world have had
much to say about the Latter-day Saint children
being taught nothing but their peculiar religion,
when the facts are they have had much too little
of this sort of instruction. Greater diligence on
the part of parents and teachers in this respect
will no doubt have a very salutary effect upon the
rising generation. At any rate let us not only
hope, but strive earnestly to awaken a wide-spread
interest in this better and higher system of educa-
tion
	THE organization of Zion's Choral Society will
be highly appreciated by every lover of the fine
arts among the Latter-day Saints. The human
voice is capable of a great degree of cultivation in
speaking, and still more in singing. In both these
departments of study and culture, the youth of
Zion should seek to excel. Vocal music has
something delightful in it, even in its simplest
form of expression. Knowing the power of music
over the human soul, and its influence in refining
and elevating, it is certainly desirable that the
children of the Saints should receive all the ad-
vantages of musical training possible, and that
the development and cultivation should be here at
home, under the supervision of parents and teach-
ers, that the influence may be in harmony with the
spirit of their religion. To accomplish this,
nothing could afford better facilities than the forma-
tion of just such an association as Zion's Choral
Society. The large Tabernacles and Temples of
the Saints, which have been and will be built, will
require a great number of singers, the most per-
fect harmony of many voices, and to fill these
buildings with melody from many thousand voices,
necessarily there, must be preparation beforehand.
Sacred music is the highest order of the divine art
and it is for the cultivation of this specially, as we
understand it, that the organization has been
effected, and with the favorable circumstances at-
tending it at the outset, and the efficient officers
chosen to preside, the people may naturally look
for the best results to follow.
	IN the last issue of the paper, brief mention was
made of a picture of Sister Lucy Smith, the
mother of the Prophet Joseph, which it is the in-
tention to give to each one of the subscribers of
the EXPONENT during the holidays. It is earnest-
ly desired that all those who are behind in pay-
ments will make an effort to pay up back subscrip-
tions to date, and as an inducement to new sub-
scribers, one of the pictures will be given to each
one subscribing for the next half volume, which
begins with the 1st of December, if payment is
made in advance, for the half year, viz., $1. The
likeness of the engraving to the original, is said
by those who knew her intimately, to be excellent


and the picture, when suitably framed, will be an
ornament in any home, of which it may be just-
ly proud.  In the days of Kirtland and Nauvoo
this venerable woman, Lucy Smith, was very
greatly loved and revered by the Saints, not only
because she was the mother of the Prophet, who
opened up this dispensation, but because of her
many estimable qualities of heart and mind, her
unflinching integrity to the Gospel, and her great 
strength of character. The memory of this noble
mother should be cherished by the Saints of to-
day, and the children and children's children
should be reminded of her many virtues, and her
bright example as a mother among mothers in
Israel. Pictures always make an impression, and
especially upon children; they seldom ever forget
those that hung upon the walls in their childhood's 
homes, and having one of these likenesses of
Mother Smith in the home, will help to keep her
in honored remembrance, and the story of the
early life of the Prophet, when a boy at his
mother's knee, and her salutary teachings will
thus be rendered more impressive, when told to
the little people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

	Monday, March 25th, 1839. About this time,
Elders Kimball and Turley started on their mis-
sion to see the Governor. They called on the
Sheriff of Ray County and jailor for a copy of the
mittimus, by which the prisoners were held in cus-
tody, but he confessed he had none. They went
to Judge King, and he made out a kind of mitti-
mus. At this time we had been in prison several
months without even a mittimus; and that, too,
for crimes said to have been committed in another
county.
	Kimball and Turley took all the papers by
which we were held, or which were then made out
for them, with our petitions to the Supreme Judges,
and went to Jefferson City.
	The Governor was absent. The Secretary of
State treated them very kindly; and when he saw
the papers, could hardly believe those were all the
documents by which the prisoners were held in
custody, for they were illegal.
	Lawyer Doniphan had also deceived them
in his papers, and sent them off with such docu-
ments, that a change of venue could not be effected
in time. The Secretary was astonished at Judge
King acting as he did, but said he could do noth-
ing in the premises, and if the Governor were
present, he could do nothing. But the Secretary
wrote a letter to Judge King.
	The brethren then started to find the Supreme
Judges, and get writs of habeas corpus; and after
riding hundreds of miles to effect this object, re-
turned to Liberty on the 30th of March, having
seen Matthias McGirk, George Thompkins, and
John C. Edwards, the Supreme Judges, but did
not obtain the writ of habeas corpus in conse-
quence of a lack of the order of commitment, al-
though the Judges seemed to be friendly.
	We were informed that Judge King said, that
there was nothing against my brother Hyrum, only
that he was a friend to the Prophet. He also
said there was nothing against Caleb Baldwin, and
McRae. Brother Horace Cowan was put into
Liberty Jail to-day for debt, in consequence of
persecution of the mob.
	During their absence, I continued my Epistle to
the Church of Latter-day Saints as follows:
	"We continue to offer further reflections to
Bishop Partridge, and to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, whom we love with a
fervent love, and do always bear them in mind in
all our prayers to the throne of God.
	It still seems to bear heavily on our minds that
the Church would do well to secure to themselves
the contract of the land which is proposed to them
by Mr. Isaac Galland, and to cultivate the friend-

[Column 2]

ly feelings of that gentleman, inasmuch as he shall
prove himself to be a man of honor and a friend
to humanity.  We really think that his letter
breathes that kind of a spirit, if we can judge cor-
rectly.  And Isaac Van Allen, Esq., the Attorney
General of Iowa Territory,—that peradventure
such men may be wrought upon by the providence
of God, to do good unto His people. Governor
Lucas also.—We suggest the idea of praying fer-
vently for all men who manifest any degree of
sympathy for the suffering children of God.
	We think that peradventure the United States
Surveyor of the Iowa Territory may be of great
benefit to the Church if it be the will of God, to
this end, if righteousness should be manifested as
the girdle of our loins.
	It seems to be deeply impressed upon our minds,
that the Saints ought to lay hold of every door
that shall seem to be opened unto them, to obtain
foothold on the earth, and be making all the pre-
paration that is within the power of possibles for
the terrible storms that are now gathering in the
heavens, with darkness and gloominess, and thick
darkness, as spoken of by the Prophets, which
cannot be now a long time lingering, for there
seems to be a whispering that the angels of
heaven who have been entrusted with the council
of these matters for the last days, have taken
counsel together: and among the rest of the general
affairs that have to be transacted in their honor-
able council, they have taken cognizance of the
testimony of those who were murdered at Haun's
mills, and also those who were martyred with D.
W. Patten, and elsewhere, and have passed some
decisions peradventure in favor of the Saints, and
those who were called to suffer without cause.
	These decisions will be made known in their
time; and they will take into consideration all
those things that offend.
	We have a fervent desire that in your general
conferences, everything should be discussed with
a great deal of care and propriety lest you grieve
the Holy Spirit, which should be poured out at all
times upon your heads when you are exercised
with those principles of righteousness that are
agreeable to the mind of God, and are properly
affected one toward another, and are careful by all
means to remember those who are in bondage, and
in heaviness, and in deep affliction for your sakes.
And if there are any among you who aspire after
their own aggrandizement, and seek their own
opulence, while their brethren are groaning in
poverty, and are under sore trials, and temptations,
they cannot be benefitted by the intercession of
the Holy Spirit, which maketh intercession for us
day and night with groanings that cannot be ut-
teted.
	We ought at all times to be very careful, that
such high-mindedness never have place in our
hearts; but condescend to men of low estate, and
with all long suffering bear the infirmities of the
weak.
	Behold there are many called, but few are
chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because
their hearts are set so much upon the things of
this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that
they do not learn this one lesson—that the rights
of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with
the powers of heaven, and that the powers of hea-
ven cannot be controled, nor handled only upon
the principles of righteousness. That they may
be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we un-
dertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride,
or vain ambition, or to exercise control or domin-
ion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children
of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold
the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of
the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn,
amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that
man.  Behold! ere he is aware, he is left unto
himself, to kick against the pricks; to persecute
the Saints, and fight against God.
	We have learned by sad experience, that it is

[Column 3]

the nature and disposition of almost all men, as
soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose,
they will immediately begin to exercise un-
righteous dominion. Hence many are called, but 
few are chosen.
	No power or influence can or ought to be main-
tained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by per-
suasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and
meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness,
and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge
the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, re-
proving betimes with sharpness when moved upon
by the Holy Ghost and then showing forth after-
wards an increase of love toward him whom thou
hast reproved, lest he esteem thee  to be  his
enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is
stronger than the cords of death; thy bowels
also being full of charity toward all men, and to
the household of faith, and virtue garnish thy
thoughts unceasingly, then shall thy confidence
wax strong in the presence of God and the doc-
trine of the Priesthood shall distill upon thy soul
as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall
be thy constant companion, and thy sceptre an
unchanging sceptre of righteousness and truth,
and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion
and without compulsory means it shall flow unto
thee forever and ever.
	The ends of the earth shall enquire after thy
name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and
hell shall rage against thee,—while the pure in
heart, and the wise and the noble, and the virtu-
ous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and bless-
ings constantly from under thy hand, and thy
people shall never be turned against thee by the
testimony of traitors; and although their influence
shall cast thee into trouble, and into bars and walls,
thou shalt be had in honor, and but a small mo-
ment and thy voice shall be more terrible in the
midst of thine enemies, than the fierce lion, be-
cause of thy righteousness; and thy God shall
stand by thee forever and ever.
	If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if
thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art
in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils
by land or by sea; if thou art accused with all
manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall
upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of
thy father and mother and brethren and sisters;—
and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee
from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring,
and thine Elder Son, although but six years of
age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say,
"My father, my father, why can't you stay with
us?—O my father! what are the men going to do
with you?" And if then he shall be thrust from
thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison,
and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves
for blood of the lamb; and if thou should be cast
into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and
sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be
cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire
against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy;
if the heavens gather blackness, and all the ele-
ments combine to hedge up the way; and above
all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open her
mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that
all these things shall give thee experience, and
shall be for thy good.  The Son of Man hath de-
scended below them all—art thou greater than He?
	Therefore hold on thy way, and the Priesthood
shall remain with thee, for their bounds are set,
they cannot pass. Thy days are known, and thy
years shall not be numbered less; therefore, fear
not what man can do, for God will be with you
forever and ever.
	Now, brethren, I would suggest for the con-
sideration of the Conference, of its being careful-
ly and wisely understood, by the council or con-
ferences, that our brethren scattered abroad, who
understand the spirit of the gathering, that they
fall into the places of refuge and safety that God
shall open unto them, between Kirtland and Far


West.  Those from the east and from the west,
and from far countries, let them fall in somewhere
between those two boundaries, in the most safe
and quiet places they can find; and let this be the
present understanding, until God shall open a
more effectual door for us for further considera-
tions.
	And again, we further suggest for the considera-
tion of the council, that there be no organization
of large bodies upon common stock principles, in
property, or of large companies of firms until the
Lord shall signify it in a proper manner, as it
opens such a dreadful field for the avaricious, and
the indolent and corrupt-hearted to prey upon the
innocent, and virtuous, and honest.
To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE UNJUST JUDGE.

	In the City of Prescott, Arizona, there dwelt an
unjust judge, that feared not God, nor regarded
man, for he sentenced three innocent men to the
Detroit Prison, to labor in the house of correction
for three years. After serving two years and six 
months, the chief executive of the nation, Presi-
dent Grover Cleveland, having a heart that God
could touch, in answer to the pleading prayers
of His faithful Saints, exercised the pardoning
power vested in him. The prison doors were
opened and the captives are free! There is great
rejoicing and thanksgiving over their uncondition-
al pardon, for which we render thanks to God and
the President. I should think they could recover
damages if our laws were constitutional; but, alas!
when a government so enlightened and far ad-
vanced as the United States suffer such uncon-
stitutional bills as the Edmunds to become a law,
what can we expect! Mercy? No! Justice? Nay!
far from it; those two attributes are bowed in shame
and bathed in tears, when angels bear record of the
pleading prayers and weeping wives of such men
as these, sentenced by an unjust judge.
	We find, in a letter from Bro. Tenny, published
in the Deseret News, October 15th, the most ex-
alting and inspirational sentiments couched in his
own words: "I stand by my convictions; and
while liberty is sweeter than life, my hope is
sweeter than liberty, and up to date, prison walls
and cells have only tended to intensify the testi-
mony that mingles with my life's blood."
	Do such sentiments as these emanate from a 
priest ridden people? Nay, verily not! they were
not surpassed by the great patriot, Patrick Henry,
on signing the Declaration of Independence. He
closed his memorable speech by exclaiming:
"Give me liberty, or give me death!" Mark the
expression of Bro. Tenny: "The testimony that
mingles with my life's blood." What testimony
does he have reference to?  John the Revelator
will inform us.  He saw in vision an innumerable
company of Elders clothed in white robes, with
palms of victory in their hands, near the throne
of God, and he asked, "Who are these arrayed in
white?" the angel answered, "These are they that
were valiant for the testimony of Jesus, and they
loved not their lives unto death." The Revelator
also saw the souls of them that were slain for the
testimony of Jesus under the altar of God, and
they cried with a loud voice, "How long, O Lord!
holy and true and righteous, dost thou not judge 
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell on 
the earth?" and the voice of God was heard say-
ing, "Wait a little longer, until some more of thy
fellow servants, the prophets, are slain as thou
hast been, and I will avenge thee."
	The unjust imprisonment of such men as Apos-
tle Snow and others, will shake the nation and
speak louder than a thousand thunders, until the
inhabitants thereof will cry aloud, "Oh, that we
had not slain the prophets and stoned them that
were sent unto us."

W. EAST.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A  REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
branches of the Relief Society of Utah Stake,
held Sept. 3d, 1886, in the meeting house,
Provo City, Prest. Mary John presiding. Con-
ference opened with singing and prayer.
Minutes of former conference read as usual;
also reports.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff craved an interest in
our prayers, and said, "If we have accom-
plished so much in our financial reports, how
much have we acomplished in a spiritual view?"
The speaker exhorted the sisters to be humble
and prayerful. "There is great power in
prayer. Satan is trying to overthrow the
Saints, and the Lord is suffering us to be perse-
cuted for a purpose," etc.
	Sister Tanner spoke quite lengthy on differ-
ent subjects of interest to the Saints. The rest
of the forenoon was occupied by the presidents
of the various wards throughout the county,
representing the branches of the Relief So-
ciety over which they were called to preside.
	Afternoon session opened by the usual exer-
cises. Sister Marilla Daniels, the first speaker,
said, "It is with feelings of gratitude that I
stand before you to-day, and I ask an interest
in your prayers, that what I may say may
benefit you as well as myself.  We are living
in a momentous time.  The Lord is chastening
the nations, but they do not realize it.  He
has said that He will speak to them in thun-
ders and earthquakes, etc.  It behooves us to
live nearer to our God, for he will have a tried
people. We have the same God now that
Daniel and the Hebrew children had, and with
the same power, too; and if we have the same
firmness that they had, we shall triumph over
our enemies, and all will be well with us, and
we need not fear," etc.
	Prest. David John spoke a short time.
Thought there was no need of being cast down;
this was not a dark day for Israel, etc.
	After singing, "The Spirit of God like a
fire is burning," and benediction by Father
Graves, conference adjourned for three
months
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.

	The ladies quarterly conference convened at
Pima, Sept. 17th, 1886. After the usual
opening exercises, minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Miss Emma
Allred was unanimously sustained as Assistant
Secretary of the St. Joseph Stake. Reports
were not so favorable as formerly; the cause is
attributable to sickness and the heat of sum-
mer.
	Stake Prest., Willmirth East, said, "My
sisters, I am most thankful for the privileges
wo enjoy to-day. Can we realize that this
work we are engaged in is the great latter day
dispensation spoken of by all the holy proph-
ets since the world began? History fails to
give any account of the organization of women
and children, according to the pattern of the
holy Priesthood until revealed by a prophet of
the latter days. The pre-existence of spirits
has been the joyful theme of my soul; that the
children of the Latter-day Saints were held in
reserve, to come forth when the everlasting
covenant of marriage was restored, to be
schooled in these associations. Are we not ac-
countable? Who has a right to neglect or
or discourage the youth of Israel? Saviors are
to come up on Mount Zion. Do we act the
part of saviors. Jesus said if one sheep went
astray, to bring it back to the fold. Then let
us act upon this principle; teach the youth by
precept; give them a kind and encouraging
word, which will do more to reclaim them
than a kick.

[Column 2]

	S. D. Curtis then made encouraging remarks;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness.
	In the afternoon the P. A. was presided
over by Coun. Johnson. Reports eucourag
ing.
	Prest Layton gave some good instruction.
Spoke upon the duties of officers; exhorted the
parents to send their children to the Associa-
tion, and go themselves occasionally. Said,
"We have a good country here, and if the
Saints will live their religion they will have
health and peace, and plenty will prevail
throughout the land." Said he knew one man
that raised six hundred dollars worth of pota-
toes off one acre of ground, and another raised
four hundred dollars worth of sweet potatoes
off his city lot.
	Conference adjourned till December 17th.
		WILLMIRTH, Prest.,
		SARAH BURNS, Sec. pro tem.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The Thirty-ninth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle at Brigham City on
the 14th of September, 1886, Prest. Harriet A.
Snow presiding. After singing and prayer,
Coun. Olivia Widerberg addressed the sisters.
Said: "I feel thankful to be able to stand here
to day; I cannot express how grateful I feel
that you and I can meet here together in the
same spirit." Reported the Scandinavian So-
ciety in a good condition. Spoke of the signs
of the times.
	Roll called by the Secretary. Minutes read
and approved. Twenty-two reports were read
by the Secretary from the different branches.
	Prest. Harriet Snow spoke to the secretaries,
particularly about understanding how to make
the reports correct, as sometimes they would
not balance at all.
	Sister Dewey reported verbally; Miss Fannie
Graehl read the accounts of the Stake fund.
	Sister Harper, Sister Albertson and Sister
Keller each bore a faithful testimony, and re-
ported verbally the respective society over
which each presides.
	Sister Perry spoke eloquently on many sub-
jects. Said, "What are we without the Spirit
of Lord? We are nothing. This persecution,
has come upon us to purge us." Spoke of the
necessity of partaking of the sacrament.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Anderson.
Adjourned till 2 o'clock.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the condensed report was read by the
Secretary.
	Sister Hubbard said, "If we strive with all
the energies of our souls to overcome our
weaknesses we have nothing to fear.  I often
think how blest we are in Zion, but we must
learn to love each other, and our neighbors as
ourselves."
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker spoke of the great
work we are engaged in; if we shall inherit
celestial glory we must earn it.
	Sister Richards, from Ogden: "I hope the
Lord will bless me; I feel small, because we
naturally look to the Priesthood for instruction.
	We are called upon every hour, every mo-
ment, to live so we can enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord. I think it a great responsibility to
raise one child." Related an incident about
polygamy; one sister said, "If I have lived
polygamy about right I have preached a louder
sermon than if I had spoken a mile long." "It
is a terrible thing to make covenants and
break them; we need to be prayerful; it is our
duty to assist one another; we should make our
duty a pleasure; when we accomplish a little
we are building up Zion. We have not so
many brethren around as we used to have. If
any of you have a husband not quite as good
as he ought to be, you must forgive him; may-
be he does some good that you don't know of."
Showed the folly of loving riches. "When we


first came here we felt very humble and prayed
a great deal; I don't believe the Lord will send
us harder trials than He is willing to give us
strength to bear. You and I belong to the
Lord's people, and we know He wants a tried
people. As long as we are here let us strive to
live right. We have been told ever since we
were children that this time would come; we
ought to build up Zion. If we lavish kind-
ness on any one we expect them to be kind to 
us again; the Lord expects the same of us. We
cannot be charitable enough; we must forgive.
Kindness comes from God, hatred from the
adversary.  I cannot say what the tempter
will tempt me with to-morrow, but to-day I
feel that I love the Gospel more than I did
forty years ago; and I loved it then and felt
happy in it."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly on
many interesting subjects, and particularly so
on the great responsibility of parents. "We
should strive to govern our children; bring
them up in a pleasing way before the Lord; we
claim we are regenerating the world. We do
expect to be more virtuous, more sober, teach-
ing our children morality and honesty. We
do not talk enough about the first principles, or
converse enough with our children upon them.
We should be very careful with what we say or
do at home."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker.
Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks, endorsing all that had been said; the
Spirit of the Lord had abundantly been poured
out upon all present, and every heart had re-
ceived new warmth and strength.
	After singing and benediction by Brother
Graham, conference adjourned for three
months.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETINGS.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	The regular Semi-monthly Meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, July
10th, was one of unusual interest, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith being present, after a
very long absence from these gatherings. There
was another special feature of this meeting;
also that the place of Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
recently deceased, was to be filled. Prest. M. I.
Horne presided. There was a full meeting,
and a good spirit pervaded the assembly. After
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Minerva
W. Snow. Continued by singing. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th Ward
were read, and P. A. of the 5th, 21st and 4th
wards.
	Prest. M. I. Horne made a few remarks,
and referred to the business which was to be
transacted, viz., to nominate some one to fill
the vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Woodruff.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith expressed her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters after so long a time,
and added that the sisters who had come out
on so sultry a day loved the Lord and their re-
ligion. She then nominated Sister Minerva
W. Snow as Counselor to President M. I.
Horne, in place of Coun. Phebe W. Woodruff,
deceased. The nomination was unanimously
approved.
	Coun. M. W. Snow made a few remarks, ex-
pressing the hope that she might be granted
health and strength to perform any duty she
might be called upon to do, and prayed she
might prove faithful, and fill the position with
honor.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, after preliminary
remarks in reference to her recent illness, and
her gratitude for the preservation of her life,
said she had, for some time past, been laboring
in the Temple at Logan, and urged the sisters

[Column 2]

to greater faith and earnestness in the Gospel;
warned them of evil spirits that are hovering
around trying to destroy and draw our little
ones away; prayed we might have grace and
faith to accomplish all we desired to do, etc.
	Prest. E. R. S: Smith said, "We are living
in a very important time, since God has
brought to light the Everlasting Gospel, and
since we have had to leave our homes and our
country for the pearl of great price, let us
cling to it, come life or come death; do not
waver." Was thankful she had lived to see
this day. "In this persecution that is going
on, is God's hand in it? I think it is." Spoke
quite eloquently of the Savior, and His death
for us; said we should try and stand firm, re-
membering what He passed through for us.
"O my sisters, what glorious propsects are be-
fore us, but we will need the Holy Ghost, and
to draw nearer unto God, if we desire to ob-
tain them. These enemies who are working
against us have taken their parts in the pro-
gramme, and we have taken ours, and let us
abide firm and true in the path we have
chosen." Spoke of a division that would take
place, when hypocrites would be taken from
our midst, and our Temples would not be pol-
luted.	*	*	"If we do right we have
nothing to fear." Felt to bless all, and ask
God to preserve this people from all the evil
machinations of those who are combined
against them. "They are Satan's emissaries.
It has been said that if we are not pure enough
the Melchisedec Priesthood will be taken away,
and we will only have the Aaronic." Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Sinah Bishop bore testimony to the
truth of the principle of plural marriage. Dr.
E.S. Barney gave a few words of good coun-
sel. Sister Dyer bore her testimony, and spoke
in the gift of tongues. Interpretation given
by Sister Zina D. H. Young. A sister in the
congregation bore testimony to the words of
Sister Zina. Sister Elizabeth Paul, Sister
Mortensen, Sister Kimball, Sister McLean and
another sister in the audience bore faithful
testimonies, and expressed their gratitude for
the feast of good things enjoyed at this meet-
ing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Weep, weep not for me Zion." Benediction
by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly Meeting, August 7th, Prest,
M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. B. W. Smith. After
singing again, and the reading of minutes of
previous meeting, minutes were read from the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward, and from the
P. A. of the 5th and 6th Wards.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks, and ex-
pressed a desire to hear from the sisters in the
congregation.
	Sisters M. Brown, Sinah Bishop, S. Bird, M.
E. A. Watmough, Sister Dyer, Dr. E. S.
Barney and other sisters in the congregation
bore faithful testimonies and made interesting
remarks; also Sisters Mortenson, Tentier and
Mary Davis gave a few words of good counsel.
	Sister Roundy said if we lived nearer to
God we would not feel to shrink from the
trials that are upon us. "We are to be tried
as gold seven times, and we may expect some
very bitter experiences."
	Two sisters in the congregation then bore
testimony. Sister Brown quoted from a recent
discourse of Elder Moses Thatcher's. Sister
H. C. Young desired the meeting to unite with
her in prayer, which was responded to by all
present.
	Sister B. W. Smith then addressed the meet-
ing; counseled the sisters to be true and firm,
and not to fear, "for we will yet overcome our
enemies, and triumph in the end." Was thank-
ful that Congress had adjourned without pass-
ing the new Edmunds bill.

[Column 3]

	Prest. Horne made some very stirring re-
marks; believed, in regard to the sermon by
Bro. Thatcher, that it would be fulfilled, unless
the people turned round very quickly and re-
formed. Said, "Has this raid humbled the
people? No; I do not think so. We have got
to forsake our sins and repent before our
Father and God." Made mention of election
day, and many other items of the greatest im-
portance, earnestly exhorting the sisters to
heed the many warnings given to us, or if not,
we must abide the consequences, which she de-
scribed as very dreadful.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing. Dis-
missed with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney.


﻿RESULTS OF THE CRUSADE.

	"God moves in a mysterious way
		His wonders to perform."

	Since the present crusade has begun, and
especially since the excursion of the G. A. R.,
which passed through this city recently, when
our enemies did so much to "show us up" in
an improper light, a great many people have
visited our city, and are more than ever inter-
ested in the present condition of affairs among
the Latter-day Saints, and appear to manifest
a more earnest desire than ever before to in-
quire after the principles of the Gospel, the be-
lief and practice of the Saints, etc. They say
that people in the east are thoroughly aroused
to the fact that we, as a people, are unjustly
persecuted. They say that until this persecu-
tion commenced they had heard nothing of
Mormonism, except the false reports, that are
generally circulated about us, but since the
commencement of the inhuman persecutions,
that have been heaped upon the people, their
sympathies have been aroused, and their curi-
osity excited; and it has caused them to inquire
into the reasons for such a state of things, and
they hear many things that they would not
otherwise take notice of, and what they hear
and see, makes stronger impressions than it
would under ordinary circumstances. Thus
we see that "the wrath of man may be made
to praise God, and the remainder will he re-
strain."
	I think this affords an excellent opportunity
for missionary labor for all who have friends
or relatives in the world. If we would take
time from our own affairs to write to friends,
to send them papers and Church publications,
that they may hear both sides of the question,
and get a proper understanding of the situation,
they would at least better understand us, and
we can be missionaries at home. When we
have read our papers we should not destroy
them, but mail them to a distant friend; if we
have none of our own, give them to some one
who has friends, and urge them to send them
to them. When you give reading matter to
your friends enjoin it upon them to loan it to
others, that the truth may be learned about us,
that the truth may be scattered as far as false-
hood has been. I fear that some of the re-
responsibility will rest upon us, if we do not
do our duty in this matter.
		RUTH.


﻿NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mrs. Edith Longfellow Dana and Mrs. Annie
Longfellow Thorpe are to build a double house
near the old Craigie mansion for their resi-
dences.
	Mary Anderson has been spending the
autumn with Mr. and Mrs. William Black,
amid the picturesque scenery of Oban, which
her host has so graphically and charmingly
described.
	A university for women, founded on private


capital, is contemplated in Moscow, if th
government will sanction the scheme, whic
proposes to have three faculties—mathematics
natural history (with medical studies), and
philosophy.
	Miss Calhoun, granddaughter of John C.
Calhoun, went to London two or three years
ago, and appeared on the stage, where she
achieved some success. A play has been writ
ten for her which is founded upon the life of
Charlotte Corday. She proposes to bring it
out in America this winter.
	Mme. Janauschek says she invariably dis-
courages girls who ask her advice about going
on the stage. 'They know nothing of the life
of the stage, its temptations and its hard work.
They see us only at night, nicely dressed, and
with everything perfect. They know no more.
I have been thirty-three years on the stage,
and I say there is no life like it. It has no
happiness, it leaves you no time for domestic
or social pleasures, no time for anything but
work, work, work.  I was once a good pianist,
but for years I have hardly touched a piano.
I love to draw, but there is no time, ever. All
is work and travel, travel and work. To girls
who think of going on the stage, again I say,
no, no."
	Miss Constance Fenimore Woolson has
rented for the autumn and early winter a part
of an old stone villa on the hill called Bellos-
guardo, outside the Roman gate of Florence,
Italy. In the same villa resides Miss Green-
ough, sister of the sculptor. Miss Woolson's
quarters have a garden in front of them, and
are very romantically situated. Next door is
Villa Montanto where Hawthorne wrote the
"Marble Faun," and which he describes as the
home of Donatello. The shadow of its old
stone tower moves across Miss Woolson's
garden every day like that of a sun-dial.  Not
far distant is the small villa where her great-
uncle, James Fenimore Cooper, spent two sum-
mers with his family sixty years ago.  He 
was very fond of Italy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Lord Randolph Churchill does not want his
wife to vote, but is glad to have her make po-
litical speeches in his behalf.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, since the death
of Professor Stowe, has received daily letters
of condolence in such numbers that it has been
impossible for her to answer them.  She there-
fore desires it to be known that she is grateful
for the sympathy expressed, and she hopes
that her correspondents will accept this public
acknowledgment of her deep appreciation of
their kind words in place of letters of reply.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Oct. 19, 1886:
	Mary H. Barnes, Binghamton, N. Y., Sad-
iron Cleaner.
	Elizabeth Gefort, Erooklyn, N. Y., Tracing-
wheel.
Eliza E. Scott, Hamilton, Ontario, Drugist's
Sieve.


In every human being there are many grains 
of gold. When one is down, even by indiscre-
tion of his own, do not stoop to throw additional
mud upon him. Strive rather to reach him a
helping hand, to extricate him from the mire
in which he is wallowing. This is true man-
hood.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE FROM THE CLIFTON
RELIEF SOCIETY.

SARAH HOWELL.

	DIED, at her residence in Clifton, Sunday morning, at
twenty minutes to one o'clock, Oct. 10th, 1886, Mrs. Sarah
Howell, wife of S. C. D. Howell.
	Deceased, whose maiden name was Stewart, was born a
Gallantin, Summer Co., Tenn., January 15, 1815, and was
married to S. C. D. Howell on the 5th of July, 1835.
	She passed away peacefully, after much suffering.  She
was lovingly cared for by her children, grandchildren and
friends. She was very patient and sensitive to the last, in-
structing her family concerning her wishes to be carried
out by them, even to the last moments of her life. She
was very thankful she had the privilege of doing a grea
portion of her work in the Temple for the dead, and left
full instructions for her children to finish the work after she
was gone.
	Mrs. Howell was of a kind and cheerful disposition, be-
nevolent to the poor, and faithful in all her duties. She
was President of the Teachers in our Relief Society. She
received the Gospel in December, 1843. She was left with
three small children to provide for herself while her hus-
band went with the Mormon Batalion to Mexico, and
passed through many trials and persecutions with the
Saints in Nauvoo also, as well as the early days of Utah.
Her illness was lingering, still she was resigned to go or
stay as God willed, realizing He knew best.
	Her funeral was held in the ward meeting house on
Monday 11th, and was attended by many relatives and
friends. The very elements seemed to mingle their tears
with the mourners' as the wind throbbed and the rain fell in
showers.
	Life flitted quietly away as the Sabbath morning dawned,
and she lay free from pain on the Sabbath day of rest.
The struggle was over; her busy life was ended, and she
lay sweetly sleeping the last, long, dreamless sleep, from
which there is no awakening until the resurrection morning.
She had five sons, two of whom are living, forty-two grand
children and eight great grand children.

		JANE M. HOWELL, President,
		E. W. HOWELL,
		S. J. MARLER, Counselors.
		DELILAH E. DUDLEY, Cor. Sec.

TO THE MEMORY OF SARAH HOWELL.

Dear Sister Sarah, we meet here to-day,
Our hearts full of love a small tribute to pay
To your worth and nobility, knowing full well
That the whole of your worth only angels can tell.
You have honored God's laws, 'mid oppression and strife
When harship and famine were threatening your life,
When husband and loved ones were sent from your side,
You bore all in meekness for God was your guide.

And when you were driven from the home you possesed,
You willingly shared with the sorely oppressed,
Rejoicing that you was deemed worthy to go,
You said they're my people and my faith I will show.
You followed them even 'mid deserts to roam
Wher'er their abiding place, there was your home,
And bravely you traveled o'er mountain and plain, 
Determined through all things the right to maintain.

There you struggled and toiled to create a new home,
Where the wild beast and savage in freedom did roam;
Rejoicing the while that the Saints were made free,
And would worship the Lord in sweet liberty;
A blessing you've been to the daughters of light,
For your influence ever has been for the right;
With words of encouragement cheered many hearts,
The remembrance of which will never depart.
Your children you trained in the ways of the Lord,
By example and precept you taught them His word,
Now they're workers in Zion, and honored, we see,
Beloved by the good for their integrity;
And multiplied thousands will yet speak your praise,
For your trust and obedience to God and His laws;
Like Jesus, your motto has been, and is still,
"Not my will be done, but O Father! thy will."

And now we all pray that the blessings of heaven
May rest on your aged companion from morning till even;
May his life be prolonged till his work is all through,
Then be crowned with his queen 'mong the righteous and.
	true.

[Column 2]

Like the last floral tint of autumnal leaves,
      After the frost king's blighting breath,
Fresh radiance crowned this aged friend of ours,
	Ere she was folded in the arms of death.

		ELIZABETH N. HENDERSON.
Clifton, Nov. 3d, 1886.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Alpine Ward, Oct. 13, 1886, of heart disease
and dropsy, Sister Mariah Nelson, daughter of Yense
Christon Anderson, born September 21st, 1821 in Den-
mark; joined the Church Feb. 22 1862; emigrated to Utah
1872; joined the Relief Society 1873. She was the mother 
of six children; two have died and four are living. Sister
Nelson was a faithful Latter-day Saint, always on hand to
attend to her duties as long as her health permitted, and
we feel to mourn with her husband and friends, and to fol-
low her worthy example.

	Rest, dear sister, from thy labor,
	Enjoy the blessings thou hast earned;
	In the mansions of thy Father
	Thou hast won a noble crown.

		R. Y. NASH.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions,
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.		
	112,	114,	116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1886.	No. 13.


AFTER OPPRESSION—FREEDOM.

MAY L. MARLER.

In these valleys of the mountains
	Dwell a people much oppressed;
	In these valleys of the west,
With their crystal flowing fountains,
	Here they thought they would find rest,
	But, alas! they're sore oppressed.

Driven out from eastern homes,
	For obeying God’s command—
	To this far western land
Their weary feet did roam,
	And with strong and willing hand
	They tilled the sage brush land.

They made a land of beauty
	Of a dreary desert place;
	They're a righteous, honest race,
And have ever done their duty,
	Thanking God for every grace,
	And for this safe resting place.

But, lo! our rest is broken,
Eastern Senators have spoken,
	And their laws they think in preference
		To God's laws must be obeyed;
They believe not God's commandments,
So they're making "new amendments,"
	And they think upon this people
		They will make an awful raid.

When oppress'd, we cling together,
And their laws can never sever
	Our hearts from wives and children,
		Nor break divine command;
Though we suffer by laws they make,
We’ll bear it for the Gospel's sake,
	And bravely hope for freedom
		In this our promised land.

Bye and by, when God has tried us,
	Till no dross with us remains—
Then, these men that have belied us,
	Who at present hold the reins,
Will see our land restored to freedom,
	And our people greatly blest;
Utah then will prove a haven
	To all those who are oppressed.

Soda Springs, Idaho, June 12, 1886.


MAY WE PASS THE “NARROWS”
		   IN SAFETY.
			
	   May we safely pass the "narrows,"
	      Is the prayer of many a heart,
	   Which cruel persecution harrows
	      With its bitter, piercing dart.

	   Very narrow now the path is
	      Which the true Saint has to tread,
	   Winding through courts and prisons, ’tis
	      Enough to fill the soul with dread.

	   Yet, nothing strange to us has come,
	      The former Saints were also tried; 
	   To suffer is the common doom,
	      Unless the "faith” can be denied.

	   But firm in truth’s great cause then stood
	      Those worthies of a former day,
	   Who "all things” suffered and endured
	      Rather than throw the pearl away.

	   The prize they sought was life eternal,
	      A life beyond the power of death;
	   Fraught with joy and biss supernal,
		That would not vanish with their breath.


They in safety passed the “narrows,”
	      For in Israel’s God their trust:
	   By faith in Him they burst the barriers
	      The wicked placed around the just.

	   What were bolts and bars to Peter,
	      When he was into prison cast,
	   Safely bound with chain and fetter,
	      With soldiers charged to keep him fast?

	   How very narrow was the road
	      For Daniel, made by wicked men.
	   When he must cease to pray to God,
	      Or go into the lion’s den.

	   Of this aware, he did not falter,
	      Although he knew the king’s decree,
	   Made by laws that none could alter,
	      On him must executed be.

	   The “narrows” he in safety passed,
	      Though hungry as the lions were,
	   And for this reason made to fast, 
	      They could not hurt—his God was near.

	   Straight and narrow was the pathway
	      By the Prophet Nephi seen;
	   And mists of darkness on it lay,
	      Nor ray of light scarce intervene.

	   But clinging to the Iron Rod,
	      Through all the turmoil and the strife,
	   Pressing along the narrow road,
	      Many did reach the “Tree of Life.”

	   Be the “narrows” e’er so narrow.
	      God can bring us safely through;
	   He who careth for the sparrow,
	      Careth for His children too.

	   And although the fiery arrows
	      Thick and fast around us fly,
	   All will safely pass the “narrows”
	      Who on Israel’s God rely.
						   HANNAH CORNABY.
Spanish Fork, Nov. 9, 1886.


[column 1]
VIEWS ON PLURAL MARRIAGE.

BY ONE WHO HAS HAD A LONG
EXPERIENCE.

     If strangers wish to know the views of 
women who have entered into the order of
plural marriage, as revealed by God our Hea-
venly Father in this age and ages past, I, for
one, take great pleasure in setting forth mine,
which are founded on Bible testimony and di-
rect revelation from a higher source than man.
I was first taught this divine principle in the
renowned city of Nauvoo.  The stand point
was the holy Scriptures.  Was it right in the
sight of God for holy men of old to marry
more than one wife?  Yes, they echo back, as
did Jacob when Esau, his brother, said to him,
"Whence came all these," he saw so numerous,
Jacob answered, "These are the children God
hath so graciously given thy servant."  And
these were through four plural wives.  "And
God appeared unto Jacob again; and God said
unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations
shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of
thy loins."  "And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac to thee will I give it, and
to thy seed after thee will I give the land."
Genesis.  "And now I expect to go up on
Jacob's ladder, for it was set up on the earth,
and the top of it reached to heaven, and the
Lord stood above it, and said to Jacob, And 
thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth; and

[column 2]
thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to
the east, and to the north and to the south; and
in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of
the earth be blest."
     I feel thankful that I have had the privilege 
to climb Jacob's ladder, that when I reach the
top I may see the face of my Heavenly
Father, and receive my blessings, for there is
no other way to obtain them only as the Lord
has spoken through men who begot offspring
by plural wives, notwithstanding the court's
interpretation, that the first wife is the only 
legal wife.  Rachel, then, was not a legal wife?
Jacob, being a Patriarch, blessed her offspring
with eternal blessings, and said, "From thence
is the Shepherd, the stone of Israel."
     Now we are told by the interpreters of the
law, that Latter-day Saints are criminals, and
their marriages are after the heathen nations. 
But the house of Israel, God's chosen people,
were the only ones that married by God's di-
vine law, and He sanctioned their marriages,
and God's prophets gave plural wives to right-
eous men by that law, and no other people could
hold their wives in eternity, let them marry
one or more.  And so it is now; civilized na-
tions marry one wife only, and heathen nations
marry more than one; but God views them all
in one condition; they all marry "till death
doth us part," and not by God's law, for eter-
nity.  And none can marry by this law only
those who hold the holy Priesthood after the
order of the Son of God, as the ancients held
it.  Then why do they fret themselves about
us?  No other people on the face of the earth
but God's people, whom He has chosen to bear
His Priesthood, and set up His kingdom on
the earth, preparatory to His coming, can give
any woman to a man, that he can hold not only
for time, but eternity; and as the Savior an-
swered the Sadducees, that in the resurrection
they neither marry nor are given in marriage.
These ordinations have to be performed here
in holy temples.  "That which is sealed on
earth is sealed in heaven;" and, "What God has
joined together let no man put asunder."  You
lawyers read your Bibles, and you will see a
woe pronounced against you by the Savior,
"who lay heavy burdens upon the shoulders of
others," etc.  You are fighting against God's 
work and not against man's, and that to
your sorrow and downfall.  Every weapon
that is formed against Zion shall perish,
and Zion shall prosper and become the joy of
the whole earth.  For Zion is the pure in 
heart, the covenant people of the Lord.  They
who make covenant by sacrifice and keep the
commandments of the Lord, even as Abraham
did; for the Lord said, "That he will command
his children and his household after him, and
they shall keep the way of the Lord to do
justice and judgment."  Paul says, Romans,
last chapter, 25-26 verses: "Now to him that is
of power to establish you according to my
Gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, ac-
cording to the revelation of the mystery, which
was kept secret since the world began," "but
now is made manifest and by the Scriptures of
the prophets, according to the commandment
of the everlasting God, made known to all na-
tions for the obedience of faith.
     The Latter-day Saints are obedient to that
faith established by prophets of old.  He chose
a generation from plural wives to place His
name on them to serve Him to the end of time.
Exodus, chapter 19, verse 5:  "Now, therefore,
if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my


covenant, then ye shall he a peculiar treasure
unto me above all people, for all the earth is
mine." 6th verse: "And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and a holy nation." Now,
all the surrounding nations worshiped idol gods,
and this displeased the Lord, and on Mount
Sinai He spoke to the children of Israel by
Moses: "Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud,
that the people may hear when I speak with
thee." That they might know Him, the true
and living God, whom to know is life eternal,
and Jesus Christ, whom He has sent. The
lineage of our Savior is from plural wives. St.
Luke, chapter 1st: "And hath raised up a horn
of salvation for us in the house of His servant
David." 55th verse: "As he spake to our
fathers, to Abraham and to his seed forever."
The Savior said He came not to destroy, but
to fulfil the law. "Blessed are they that do
His commandments, that they may have right
to the tree of life, and may enter in through
the gates into the city." Thereon are written
the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.
	I have quoted sufficient Scripture to prove
that salvation comes by a God, who gives what-
ever commandment He sees fit; and obedience
to that will justify all mankind, for He will
reign triumphant over all.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 7, 1886.


98				WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿AN OLD LETTER.
	[Some apology may be necessary in publish-
ing such an old letter from a person unknown,
but my mother wrote it when in Nauvoo wait-
ing with the others until they could follow
those who had gone on ahead to open up the
way into the desert. She afterwards died
upon the journey, and sleeps in an unknown
grave upon the wild prarie; she died of the
hardships and suffering that followed the
driving of the Saints across the river, where
they suffered for lack of shelter and suitable
food at the time of the terrible mobbings and
difficulties. Many others suffered the same
fate. I do not propose to enter into particu-
lars, but that mob and those who instigated
them will have many deaths and much suffer-
ing to account for in a day to come.—Ed.]
		NAUVOO, ILL., August 4th, 1846.
TO MY DEAR CHILDREN, HENRY AND LUCY:
	We received your letter with most grateful
thanks to Almighty God for His goodness.
Yes, my children, we do mourn the death of
little Francis. I feel the earthly loss greatly.
He was indeed a remarkably beautiful child,
but now glorified and more beautiful in the
heavenly courts above. I am glad that you
have his portrait; it will be a comfort; but we
shall see our dear ones with immortal bodies,
nevermore to part. I am firm in the belief of
the coming of Christ, and the final restoration
of all things. Time is bringing forth teachers
and preachers new and old. It is a day of
wonders, a day of gospel grace and of salva
tion to those who believe and obey. I do most
earnestly beseech of you, in the name of Israel’s
God, not to murmur at our absence; we shall
soon leave this blood stained place and journey
about four hundred miles from here to remain
for the winter. Those who have not teams are
sending for them. Hiram was going out to
stay with Emmeline and help take care of
herds, but he was sick and could not go then,
and I am counseled by a sister not to let him
go, but keep him with me, as there are none
but men alone there now.
	The mobocrat spirit is influenced anew. The
settlers that bought property of the Mormons
are taking in new comers, and all their talk is
of whipping, hauling and driving them from
place to place until worn out—burning houses,
fields, fences, wheat, corn, and everything, to

[column 2]
make the people leave the city, so that they
can come in and plunder. Still, my children,
I must tell you I am not sorry, nor never have
been, that I came here. This beautiful place
has all been built up by poor, persecuted Mor-
mons—Latter-day Saints. The Temple is ad-
mired by every beholder. yet we leave this
great work of art with pleasure, because God
has so ordered it. We will go and build up
another, “and another shall not inherit it, saith
the Lord.”
	I presume you have heard that five hundred
of our young men of the camp have enlisted in
the U. S. service to go out to Mexico
under pay for their services. Some are
going to take up their line of march next
Spring and cross the Rocky mountains. If it
be the Lord’s will, He will prepare ways to
bring us all together as one family. Though
unseen to you now, my dear children, God is
over all, and sees the end from the beginning.
Read His word, watch the signs of the times,
ask wisdom of God, who giveth and upbraid-
eth not. Take care to read all the news, and
strive to get at the truth; put away prejudices;
you will see the hand of the Almighty Creator
in this movement; a great destiny is bound
upon it. We need have no fears for the future;
though trials must needs come, we know that
He who controls all events—without notice not
even a sparrow falleth to the ground, “whose
path is in the great waters,”—directs this move-
ment with a design (though, as yet, to the
world incomprehensible) that will unfold, step
by step, to the wonder and admiration of mil-
lions yet unborn.
	August 5th.	Oh, my darling little Catha!
My precious, sweet pet! you cannot think how
much your far-away grandmother longs to see
your dear face once more, and your aunties,
Maria and Ellen, want to see you; we all think
and talk of you often. The girls have been
out blackberrying; they went in a California
wagon; quite a number of the boys and girls;
you would have liked to be with them I know;
they are all as merry as birds, but I am disap-
pointed, for not one berry have they brought
back; but I will tell you what they have brought
back, some peaches, wild plums, crab apples,
hazel nuts and wild flowers; we have nice grape
and blackberry wine here also. Dear, darling
Croyden! grandmother wants to see you, too.
I just went to the door and saw a steamboat
coming up the river; it soon stopped, for it
could not get over the rapids, the water is so
low, but I could not see my dear little Carry
and Loui; if I had, your Uncle Hiram would
have taken his paddles and little canoe and
gone to fetch you to me; but he says to tell you
to grow fast, and come west and help him hunt
the buffalo and deer; they are plentiful where
we are going.
	 I hope in my heart that I shall see you all
good children. Mind your father and mother,
and this Scripture always, too; do not forget it:
“Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth;” then the blessings of peace will follow
you all the days of your lives, May the Lord
bless you all, my beloved children, and have
you in His holy keeping, is my daily prayer
for you, and in His own good time bring us all
together again.
	Oh, I do long to hear where my boy is now!
Where has Manson gone? You wrote the
family that they were to go with Mr. K—
and Rice this fall; I do hope that they are all
together now; I am very anxious to hear how
they are and where. Tell me all you know
about them; if Manson is with them, as I hope
he is, and as soon as I know where they are, I
will write to him before we leave here. Oh,
my son, I do feel very anxious for thee! Give
my love and kiss those dear little boys for their
grandmother, if they are there yet. Tell your
brother James I will write to him before we
leave here. Oh, my son James! if he had come

[column 3]
and gone with us a mother’s blessing would
have been more to him than all  the treasures
of this world. Give our love to him, and re-
member us to all friends left behind. We
have had letters from all the children left but
Manson and James; I think it very strange,
and wonder that they do not write. I shall be
more than glad to hear from you all soon again.
Do write, Lucy!
	Good news has come in from the camp of
Israel; all are well and happy; they are going to
winter on the Bluffs, only three hundred miles
from here; the journey will be shorter than we
expected, and the horses will be back the
sooner, if the weather is favorable.
	August 6th. It is very hot and dry here at
prosent. Maria is not at home to-day;  she has
gone to Brother Gorlie’s to teach Louisa to
braid hats. O my Lucy! I must now tell you
something new (under the sun) that has hap-
pened to me; your industrious, busy mother has
been out of work; had nothing particular to do
—I bought a skein of cotton yarn, and am knit-
ting for myself. Please give my love to Fanny
Granger; tell her I think she has done well to
bear a son to her husband in his old age. May
the child become a staff and stay to them both.
Remember us to Calvin Wilson; tell him to
keep his promise and come west next fall. He
can have all the painting he can do of any
kind. There are some excellent painters and
first class mechanics from all parts of the
world. He can hunt and fish, play the violin
—we believe in innocent amusement and recrea-
tion, “a time and season for all things,” accord-
ing to the Scripture. We may have a sumptu-
ous feast and merry time yet together, kill the
fatted calf—at any rate, when my children
come I will make merry for them. Give my
love to Mr. Hinckley, poor old man! Try to
be patient, and I am sure you will Lucy, and
all will come out right in time. I would like
to write more, but my pen is nearly worn out,
and I want you to be able to read what I do
write, so I will draw to a close.
	Do not forget to watch and pray. You
have a very precious charge, and many cares,
but put your trust in God, and strength will
be given you according to your day and your
need. May the love of our Father and the
blessing of His peace abide with you ever, my
dearly beloved children.
		This from your affectionate
			MOTHER AND GRANDMOTHER.


THE SCOTCH GIRLS.

	The Scotch people are very fine looking, and
their faces have great strength of features and
at the same time much refinement. The Scotch
girls are exceptionally fine looking, and even
among the lower classes you see very many re-
fined faces. In the stores there are lady clerks
who would pass muster as well bred girls any-
where, and many of the barmaids in the whisky
shops are beauties. The women of Scotland
do a great deal of work. A white-capped,
middle-aged, rosy-cheeked lady usually pre-
sides over each of the largest hotels, and near-
ly all the railway restaurants are managed by
women. Both sexes in Scotland have, as a
rule, good, healthy physiques. There are
more tall men and women than in America.
They have better complexions, a more active
walk, and are, as a rule, stronger and
healthier.


The fact is that a certain class of men love
to be quiet, and are ready to sell their country
to the evil one himself, that they may live at
ease and make no enemies. They have not
the manliness to plead for the right, for it
might cost them a customer or a friend, and so
they plead a superior holiness as an excuse for
sulking.—Spurgeon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HOW LONG, O LORD?

			BY M. J. TANNER.

My spirit is with thee, my heart is oppressed
With the sorrows of Zion, my home in the west;
And the voice of thy mourning is with me to-day,
For the tears of His children the Lord will repay.

I will turn to the mountains, my footsteps once more
Shall tread in thy green grassy vales as of yore;
And my song shall arise as an anthem of woe,
For thy sons that are chased as the wild mountain roe.

He has hardened the hearts of the Pharoahs, to-day,
And their hands are upheld by Thy beloved ones to stay,
And the cries of thy orphans are borne on the gale
And the tears of thy widows no pity avail.

Great Spirit Almighty! how long wilt thou prove
The hearts of Thy children, the sons of Thy love;
How long shall the tears of Thy daughters arise,
And the prayers of the martyrs ascend to the skies.

How long wilt thou suffer their blindness and lust
To trample the hearts of Thy Saints in the dust;
How long will the light of Thy smile be withdrawn,
Ere the darkness of night be dissolved in the dawn.
	East Saginaw, July, 1885.


ADDRESSED

TO SISTER FANNY BROWN, ON HER DEPARTURE
			FROM OUR HOUSE.

	Sister dear!  I hate to lose you
		From my home, where long you've staid,
	And my heart would ever choose you
		Of friendship as a timely aid.

	Let me tell you how I've found you—
		Ever kind and ever good;
	Meek and kind to all around you,
		An honor in the place you stood.

	Often were you left alone;
		Business call'd your love away;
	Yet none heard, or sigh, or groan,
		But filling duties of the day.

	Faithful wife and loving mother;
		As a neighbor good and kind;
	Nought to vend about another,
		Of their doings—faults to find.

	Lady! Sister, I present you
		To your Sisters; aud would say
	Here is one to represent you
		If you'll follow in her way.

	Now the unpleasant word farewell
		I must speak it for a time
	May love and peace forever dwell—
		And God be with you Sister Mine!
							HANNAH T. KING.
Dernford House, October 1, 1874.


[For the EXPONENT.]
			MARRIAGE.
	We learn from the Bible that the first com-
mandment given to our first parents was, "Be
fruitful, and multiply and replenish the earth."
There has also been much instruction given
in this dispensation in regard to this very im-
portant subject. Doctrine and Covenants,
page 197, verse 15, says: "Whoso forbiddeth
to marry is not ordained of God."
	I firmly believe if there is a people on the
earth, who are trying to carry out this divine
commandment, it is the Latter-day Saints. I
am very well acquainted with the people, and
have been a close observer, and being an assist-
ant in the Primary Association, and a mem-
ber of the Young Ladies’ Association, I have
a good opportunity to see the pains taken with
the children of the Latter-day Saints, by both
parents and teachers, and indeed it is wonder-
ful the intelligence that is manifested by these
precious children, in reciting, singing and

[column 2]
writing. It makes me think there are not many
pleasure seekers among the mothers, if frivolity
is the leading feature with some. It really
seems there are many who endeavor to make
duty a pleasure. I feel that those who seek
much after the pleasures of this world get
their reward as they go along. I sometimes
think if the mothers of the United States
could only see the beautiful sights I so often
see, not saying anything about Sunday School
and day schools, which are well attended, we
would never hear of such assertions as I will
copy from J. H. Kellog's Doctor Book, page
35. "From a very large verbal and written
correspondence in this and other states, I am
satisfied that we have become a nation of
murderers." Said a distinguished clergyman
of Brooklyn, in a sermon, "Why send mission-
aries to India, when child murder is here of
daily, almost hourly occurrence; aye! when the
hand that puts money into the contribution
box to-day, yesterday, or a month ago, or to-
morrow will murder her own offspring?"
	"Whether this gigantic evil can ever be eradi-
cated is exceedingly doubtful. To effect its
cure would be to make refined Christians out
of brutal sensualists; to emancipate woman
from the enticing, alluring slavery of fashion,
to uproot false ideas of life and its duties, in
short to revolutionize society. The crime is
perpetrated in secret. But the evil is a des-
perate one, and is increasing. Let every Chris-
tian raise the note of warning. From every
Christian pulpit let the truth be spoken in
terms too plain for misapprehension. Let
those who are known to be guilty of this most
revolting crime, be looked upon as murderers,
as they are, and let their real moral status be
distinctly shown." Could not the Latter-day
Saints consistently enough say, "Why send
officials to Utah, if this is the condition of af-
fairs?" Are they not planning their own de-
struction in these murders of unborn infants?
Can they expect that they will always be pros-
pered when they are "lovers of pleasure more
than lovers of God," and neglect to "multiply
and replenish the earth," for marriage is but a
low mockery except we endeavor to carry out
that which our Father in heaven intended we
should.
	The great excitement which prevails at the
present about the Mormons, as they generally
call them, puts me in mind of the expression,
"Little troubles are noisy, but big ones are
dumb." According to predictions made by
Isaiah, the big ones have not come yet. Isaiah,
49th chapter, 26th verse says: "And I will feed
them that oppress thee with their own flesh;
and they shall be drunken with their own
blood as with sweet wine; and all flesh shall
know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and thy
Redeemer, the mighty one of Jacob." Of
course the Saints believe this applies to them,
and they sometimes say, as is often remarked,
"It is necessary that offenses come, but woe!
unto those by whom they come."
	Who knows but the present crusade is in-
tended to take away those things from the
daughters of Zion, which Isaiah the Prophet
said should be taken away. Of course it is
very natural for us to love the things of this
world, but we should not let ribbons and laces
become stronger fetters than iron chains, caus-
ing us to neglect our more important duties
in the marriage relation.
	I will conclude by saying, my venerable
grandmother has told me many little incidents
which occurred when she first came to the
valleys, when she was raising her large family,
and if nothing happens more than I expect, I
may say more about the marriage question at
some future time.
	Ever praying for Zion's triumph, I remain,
as ever,			Your friend,
						M. J. MORRISON.
	Nov. 6th, 1886.


FROM ONE WHO KNOWS.

	Having read in the WOMAN'S EYPONENT
a request of the sisters to furnish some sub-
stantial testimonies upon the subject of plural
marriage I will here say I have had a long and
happy experience in that celestial order of
marriage.
	In the spring of 1851 my husband married
a second wife in obedience to the counsel of
those, that had a right to counsel him and be-
cause he sincerely believed the principle to
be true. I was willing and even anxious that
he should do so for I know he did it to be
obedient to the law of God and not from any
spirit of selfishness, and we lived together, the
second wife and myself, for two years; then it
pleased God to call her from this world and I
felt her loss deeply. I was glad when my hus-
band married another wife and although we
have passed through some trials during the
twenty-two years we have lived in this order
together yet we know it is the will of our
Heavenly Father that we should be tried in
all things and I am fully convinced that it is
right and that the principle is a divine one.
	In any of the trying scenes that I have
passed through I never have said I was sorry
we had entered into that order of marriage or
obeyed that principle for I have had testi-
monies in my own experience that have con-
vinced me of its truth. I cannot give the
event or the evidence  in writing that have
convinced me but the spirit of the Lord has
enlightened my mind and borne witness to its
truth. My husband has been dead now five
years and we, his wives, both of us, look for-
ward to the time when we will meet him in the
resurrection. We expect to be reunited with
our husband in the celestiel kingdom of God
having kept the celestial law.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						C. H. Martin.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The New York Bureau of Labor Statistics
reports that 200,000 women in New York City
represent ninety-two trades.

	The nineteenth annual Washington conven-
tion of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation will be held Jan. 25, 26 and 27. Head-
quarters at the Riggs house.

	The House of representatives of Vermont
passed the bill granting municipal suffrage to
women by a vote of 135 to 82. Rhode Island
has also passed a bill of the same character.

	Dr. Newman has permitted the introduction
of a novelty in his Washington church, in the
shape of a reply from the members of the con-
gregation to the statements of the preacher.
Much good might come from such a plan in
many churches.

	The Liberal ladies of England recently held
a great demonstration at Cheshire, at which
time it was decided to form a Woman's Liberal
Association to combat the work of the Prim-
rose League and to contribute to the return of
Mr. Gladstone to power at the next election.

	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
will celebrate at Washington, D. C., in 1888,
the fortieth anniversary of the first woman
suffrage convention ever held. At this time a
World's Woman Suffrage Association will be
formed, and advocates of this reform in all
countries are invited to participate.

	A Vermont correspondent informs us that
women in that State must own taxable property
in order to vote for school committee, but need
not own two hundred dollars’ worth. The pay-
ment of a tax on proporty, however small,
qualifies women to vote. Men, on the other
hand, can vote upon payment of a poll-tax.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, 		  - 		  Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						   SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 		-		DECEMBER 1, 1886.


MR. CURTIS' LETTER.

	George Tickner Curtis Esq. an able and
learned as well as brilliant lawyer of Washington
has written a letter to the Secretary of the Interior
giving his opinions and views of the Mormon
question, and making specific recommendations.
Mr. Curtis has carefully studied and
examined the grounds and has arrived at his con-
clusions without prejudice. He has manifested a
liberal spirit and feelings of humanity in setting
forth his arguments upon this matter. It is to be
hoped that the people of the United States gen-
erally will have the opportunity of reading and
considering his letter. It will be edifying to any
one and cannot fail to do a large amount of good
wherever it is circulated. His reasoning is hu-
manitarian to say the least. He has no idea of
advocating the methods of modern warfare.
	It will be remembered that this gentleman of
the law made a very candid and exhaustive speech
on the Snow case before the Supreme Court in
Washington last spring and is expected to appear
in the segregation of cases that is to come up
there before the Supreme Court sometime
in January. It is a consolation at a time
when the country seems flooded with bit-
terness and prejudice against our people, to
find a man so clear-headed and large-souled as
well as fair-minded and honest as Mr. Curtis, and
one, too, who is disposed to speak for the perse-
cuted and oppressed, even though his belief is not
in harmony with theirs.
	Mr. Curtis is a thorough gentleman of the old
school and has a most wonderful memory of both
dates and events; his knowledge of facts and
figures so many years back was a perfect surprise
to us; he is a most agreeable, animated and enter-
taining conversationalist, and never seemed to tire
of Mormon subjects.	
	Mr. Curtis' letter speaks volumes to those who
are trying to rob an unoffending and unpopular
people of the freedom to which they are entitled
as citizens of the United States, and the rights
they have so dearly earned in settling the desert.
Everybody should read it and cannot fail to be
edified.


[Column 1]
		THE INDUSTRIAL HOME.

	During the summer we devoted much space to
the discussion of the introduction into Congress
of the bill of Mrs. Angie F. Newman, asking
that Honorable Body to appropriate $100,000 to
the Industrial Christian Home Association for
the construction and equipment of an institution
such as the bill specified.  Congress made an ap-
propriation of $40,000 for the purpose designated,
viz. to provide means "for self-support of the
dependent classes in Utah and to aid in the sup-
pression of polygamy therein." Such an institu-
tion might perhaps be made self-supporting and
even a money making affair if the Mormon women
[---] be induced to become recreant to the prin-
[---]r religion, and deny the faith.  But

[Column 2]
Mrs Newman and the other ladies interested in
this institution will find, and Congress will also
comprehend in due time, that the offer made them
and terms specified will be rejected in the same
sort of way as the proposals of His Excellency,
Gov. West, to the brethren in the Utah Peniten-
tiary, imprisoned there for conscience sake.  Mor-
mon women are as true, as loyal and as constant
to the principles they have embraced and in
which they steadfastly believe as their brothers,
and are also as willing to suffer for the truths’s
sake and have proven it again and again in days
that are past, and at the present are giving abund-
ant testimony of integrity and selfsacrifice.
	With the Mormon woman her religion is more
than her life, more than food or raiment and cer-
tainly she will not prove false for the sake of
these.  The family ties and associations are some-
thing so sacred that they cannot be broken with
impunity.  Even were they as unhappy as they are
represented, they would still cling to the faith and
the principles which they know are of divine origin.
Happiness is not the highest object to be attained
here ,or, at any rate, happiness in the common
acceptance of the term.  To do the greatest good
to the greatest number, to be instrumental in en-
lightening the human family in regard to the way
of salvation and an exaltation hereafter is an ob-
ject worthy self-denial and even suffering.  No
one will tell us that those who possess the great-
est amount of knowledge are the happiest; not at
all.  It is said “knowledge is power” but we have
never heard anyone say knowledge is happiness.
Yet there have been many striking instances of
the true happiness of Latter-day Saints under the
most trying circumstances.  Every day,almost,we
come in contact with women,who bear the strong-
est testimonies possible of the happy condition of
large patriarchal families.  But were it not so
what will not woman do for her religion,her family
and her home.  And when these home ties, these
holy obligations extend into eternity reaching out
into the future ages beyond the finite conception,
is any sacrifice too great to make in order to se-
cure the blessings of the family relationship and
of progression for the ages to come?
	Mrs. Newman and the other would-be benevo-
lent ladies know so little of the hopes that ani-
mate Mormon women,that it is impossible for them
to give any verdict in the case.  Time will prove
how much endurance, fortitude and courage these
women,many of them young,possess; and whether
they have not as much real, true, genuine love for
the husband they have chosen, as those who have
“a man all to themselves,” which is brought for-
ward as the strong point in favor of the opposition.
Women in all the ages of the world have proved
their love and constancy in the marriage relation
to be of superior quality so far as enduring trials,
privations, sufferings and even cruelty for love
alone, but love joined with religions principle
must be of even a stronger character.
	The Woman’s Indusrial Home in this city will
remain empty, unless women of other denomina-
tions find employment and means of a livelihoud
within its walls.  It may be that some who have
once been members of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints may be willing to accept the
conditons of “The Home,” but it will be those
who are in darkness who have not the Holy Spirit
abiding in them.
	We understand the place in the Twelfth Ward
formerly occupied as the Deseret Hospital has
been leased and that a very competent woman
from Kansas, Mrs. Dr. Wood, is to have charge
of it as matron.  In the city of Washington or
almost any large city in the States, and at any rate
in several towns in Kansas such an institu-
tion would be largely patronized no doubt,
but in Utah there is not the least need of
it.  There is more household and other work
for women than there are women to do it, and

[Column 3]
it is a needless appropriation by Congress, for
a purpose that has no real existence.
	History records notable incidents of women who
have made the most heroic efforts to save one be-
loved, a husband or a lover.  There is probably
no instance upon record of the devotion and hero-
ism of any women that might not have a parallel
in Mormonism.  Certainly their record has already
proven that they are capable of making sacrifices
such as are unequalled by any other women in the
present day at least.  Queen Elinor, wife of Ed-
ward the First of England, sucked the poison
from the wound her husband had received in the
Holy war from a poisoned arrow.  She considered
not her own life in the matter but only to save one
dearer than life itself.  There are things one
might feel to do under pressure or a complication
of circumstances brought about by the persecu-
tion against one’s religion for the sake of a princi-
ple,  and  for  the  one  beloved  that  would
be still more of a sacrifice than to
lay down one’s life. There is no such
thing as setting any bounds in reference
to woman’s devotion to the man she loves
It is one of the things that it would be entirely
impossible to tell.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly rooms on Thursday December 9th, com-
mencing at 10 a.m., and at 2 p.m.  A verbal re-
port from each branch in the Stake will be ex-
pected and it is most desirable that the President
or one of her counselors should be present to
make the report and clearly represent the con-
dition of the respective branch over which she
presides.  It is earnestly hoped that this advice
will be acted upon that the President may know
as much as possible of the spiritual as well as
the temporal condition of each of these organiza-
tions in the Stake.
	ON Friday December 10th the Young Ladies’
Associations of this Stake will hold their quarter-
ly conference at the same place,the meetings com-
mencing at 10 a.m., and at 2 p.m.  The presidents
are expected to make verbal reports personally
or through one of the counselors.
	ON Saturday the Primary Associations of the
Stake will hold their regular quarterly conference,
and it is expected there will be a good attendance.
The exercises will be interspersed with singing
and reciting.  All who are interested in these or-
ganizations are cordially invited to attend the
conferences.
	The regular meeting of the officers of the Y. L.
M. I. A. in this Stake, which occurs on the first
Saturday in every month, will be held hereafter
(for the present) in the Relief Society Hall in the
Fourteenth Ward instead of the residence of Mrs.
E. S. Taylor; the attendance at these meetings
is so large that Mrs. Taylor’s parlor proves too
small a place.  The Relief Society Hall is in
the upper part of the brick building just west of
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on first
south street.  All those interested in mutual im-
provement are cordially invited.  Meetings com-
mence at 11 a.m. The next one will be December
4th.  The entrance to the hall is in the rear of the
building.


HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

     We have reason to believe that many things
were introduced among the Saints, before God had
signified the times; and, notwithstanding the princi-
ples and plans may have been good, yet aspiring
men, or in other words, men who had not the sub-
stance of Godliness about them,—perhaps under-
took to handle edge tools.  Children, you know,


[Column 1]
﻿are fond of tools, while they are not yet able to
use them.
   Time and experience, however, is the only safe
remedy against such evils.  There are many
teachers, but perhaps not many fathers.  There
are times coming when God will signify many
things which are expedient for the well-being of
the Saints; but the times have not yet come, but
will come, as fast as there can be found place
and receptions for them.
   And again we would suggest for your considera-
tion the propriety of all the Saints gathering up a
knowledge of all the facts and suffering and
abuses put upon them by the people of this State;
and also of all the property, and amount of
damages which they have sustained, both of
character and personal injuries, as well as real
property; and also the names of all persons that
have had a hand in their oppressions as far as
they can get hold of them and find them out; and
perhaps a committee can be appointed to find out
these things, and to take statements and affidavits,
and also to gather up the libelous publications
that are afloat, and all that are in the magazines,
and in the encyclopedias, and all the libelous his-
tories that are published, and are writing, and by
whom, and present the whole concatenation of
diabolical rascality, and nefarious and murderous
impositions that have been practised upou this peo-
ple, that we may not only publish to all the world,
but present them to the heads of government in
all their dark and hellish hue, as the last effort
which is enjoined on us by our Heavenly Father,
before we can fully and completely claim that
promise which shall call him forth from his hiding
place, and also the whole nation may be left with-
out excuse before he can send forth the power of
his mighty arm.
   It is an imperious duty that we owe to God, to
angels, with whom we shall be brought to stand,
and also to ourselves, to our wives and children
who have been made to bow down with grief, sor-
row and care, under the most damning hand of
murder, tyranny and oppression, supported and
urged on,and upheld by the influence of that spirit
which hath so strongly riveted the creeds of the
fathers, who have inherited lies upon the hearts
of the children, and filled the world with confusion
and has been growing stronger and stronger, and
is now the very main spring of all corruption, and
the whole earth groans under the weight of its
iniquity.
   It is an iron yoke, it is a strong band; they are
the very hand-cuffs, and chains and shackles and
fetters of hell.
   Therefore it is an imperious duty that we owe
not only to our own wives and children,but to the
widows and fatherless, whose husbands and
fathers have been murdered under its iron hand; 
—which dark and blackening deeds are enough
to make hell itself shudder, and to stand aghast
and pale, and the hands of the very devil trem-
ble and palsy.  And also it is an imperious duty
that we owe to all the rising generation, and to all
the pure in heart, which there are many yet on
the earth among all sects, parties and denomina-
tions, who are blinded by the subtle craftiness of
men whereby they lie in wait to deceive, and only
kept from the truth because they know not where
to find it; therefore that we should waste and wear
out our lives in bringing to light all the hidden
things of darkness, wherein we know them; and
they are truly manifest from heaven.
   These should then be attended to with great
earnestness.  Let no man count them as small
things; for there [--] much which lieth in futurity,
pertaining to the Saints, which depends upon
these [---]gs.  You know, brethren, that a very
large sh[-]p is benefited very much by a very small
helm in the time of a storm, by being kept work-
ways with the wind and the waves.
   Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us

[Column 2]
cheerfully do all things that lieth in our power,
and then may we stand still with the utmost as-
surance, to see the salvation of God, and for his
arm to be revealed.
   And again, I would further suggest the impro-
priety of the organization of bands or companies
by covenant or oaths, by penalties or secrecies;
but let the time past of our experience and suffer-
ings by the wickedness of Doctor Avard suffice,
and let our covenant be that of the Everlasting
Covenant, as is contained in the holy writ, and the
things that God hath revealed unto us.  Pure
friendship always becomes weakened, the very
moment you undertake to make it stronger by
penal oaths and secresy.
   Your humble servant or servants, intend from
henceforth to disapprobate everything that is not
in accordance with the fullness of the gospel of
Jesus Christ, and is not of a bold, and frank, and
upright nature.—They will not hold their peace as
in times past when they see iniquity beginning to
rear its head, for fear of traitors, or the conse-
quences that shall follow by reproving those who
creep in unawares, that they may get something
to destroy the flock.  We believe that the experi-
ence of the Saints in times past has been suffici-
ent that they will from henceforth be always ready
to obey the truth without having men's persons in
admiration because of advantage.  It is expedient
that we should be aware of such things; and we
ought always to be aware of those prejudices
which sometimes so strangely presented them-
selves and are so congenial to human nature,
against our friends, neighbors and brethren of the
world, who choose to differ with us in opinion and
in matters of faith.  Our religion is between us
and our God.  Their religion is between them
and their God.
   There is a tie from God that should be exer-
cised towards those of our faith,—who walk up-
rightly, which is peculiar to itself—but it is with-
out prejudice, but gives scope to the mind which
enables us to conduct ourselves with greater lib-
erality towards all others that are not of our faith
than what they exercise towards one another.
These principles approximate nearer to the mind
of God, because it is like God, or godlike.
   Here is a principle also which we are bound to
be exercised with, that is in common with all men,
such as governments and laws and regulations in
the civil concerns of life.  This principle guaran-
tees to all parties, sects and denominations, and
classes of religion, equal,coherent, and indefeasi-
ble rights; they are things that pertain to this life;
therefore, all are alike interested; they make our
responsibilites one towards another in matters
of corruptible things, while the former principles
do not destroy the latter, but bind us stronger and
make our responsibilities not only one to another
but unto God also.  Hence we say, that the Con-
stitutiou of the United States is a glorious stand-
ard; it is founded in the wisdom of God.  It is a
heavenly banner—it is to all those who are privi-
leged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cool-
ing shades and refreshing waters of a great rock
in a thirsty and a weary land.  It is like a great
tree under whose branches men from every clime
can be shielded from the burning rays of an in-
clement sun.
   We, brethren, are deprived of the protection of
this glorious principle, by the cruelty of the cruel,
by those who only look for the time being, for
pasturage like the beasts of the field, only to fill
themselves; and forget that the Mormons as well
as the Presbyterians; and those of every other
class and description, have equal rights to par-
take of the fruits of the great tree of our nation-
al Liberty.  But notwithstanding we see what we
see, and we feel what we feel, and we know what
we know, yet that fruit is no less precious and de-
licious to our taste; we cannot be weaned from the
milk, neither can we be driven from the breast;
neither will we deny our religion because of the

[Column 3]
hand of oppression; but we will hold on until
death.	
   We say that God is true; that the Constitution
of the United States is true; that the Bible is
true; that the Book of Mormon is true; that the
Book of Covenants are true; that Ghrist is true;
that the ministering angels sent forth from God
are true, and that we know that we have an house
not made with hands eternal in the heavens,whose
builder and maker is God:—a consolation which
our oppressors cannot feel, when fortune, or fate
shall lay its iron hand on them as it has on us.
Now, we ask, what is man?  Remember brethren,
that time and chance happeneth to all men.
   We shall continue our reflections in our next.
   We subscribe ourselves, your sincere friends
and brethren in the bonds of the everlasting gos-
pel, prisoners of Jesus Christ for the sake of the
gospel and the Saints.	
   We pronounce the blessing of heaven upon the
Saints who seek to serve God with undivided
hearts, in the name of Jesus Christ.  Amen.
				JOSEPH SMITH, jr.,
				HYRUM SMITH,
				LYMAN WIGHT,
				CALEB BALDWIN,
				ALEXANDRR MCRAE.
   Deseret News, Feb. 2d, 1854.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

			SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Semi-monthly meeting, held August 21st,
Prest. M. I. Horne presiding.  After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. Elizabeth Howard.
Continued by singing, after which the
minutes of previous meeting were read and
approved; also minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 4th Ward, and P. A. of the 4th, 15th and
16th Wards.
	Prest. Horne, in her opening remarks, ob-
served that this was a time when we ought to
be specially united.  Compared the people to
the children of Israel when they thought the
Lord had forsaken them, as we sometimes
think He has forsaken us.  God has designed a
dividing line to be drawn between this people
to separate the clean from the unclean; had
heard Prest. Young say that if he did not re-
prove the people and check them he would be 
held responsible.  Surely the Prophet's words
were being fulfilled; that the very air was
filled with evil spirits.
	Coun. Sarah M. Kimball had been reading
the history of ancient days, and thought we
were situated similarly to what they were,
easily led astray; the distressing news of various
nations, which she had heard on her return
from her "out" in the mountains, where she
had been for several weeks, had shocked her
greatly.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks upon faith
and the practice of the principles which we
have embraced.  "We are to be judged by our
works, and not alone by our faith."
	Coun. Howard was glad she had the privilege
of spending a few more days in the Logan
Temple. Thought if we would remember the
counsel that we receive in the Temple, and put
it into practice, we would be a better people.
Made some remarks on Sabbath breaking;
counseled the sisters to keep the Sabbath day
holy, and to reason with their children. Re
ferred to the united order; thought it was go-
ing to be a great trial to the people.
	Coun. M. W. Snow spoke of her recent visit
to Idaho, where she had attended the meetings
of the sisters, and found them improving.  Had
also visited the Temple at Logan; said many
good things.
	Coun. B. W. Smith wished we could lay
aside all our follies and meet together more
often.
	Sister Young thought we had had a feast of


good things; testified to the truth of all that
had been said.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox said we should not
shrink beneath the chastening rod, and bore
a faithful testimony.
	Sister L. G. Richards had been visiting in
the country, and had enjoyed it very much,
and made a few remarks on Sabbath breaking.
	Prest. Horne reminded the Presidents and
Secretaries of the Relief Society Conference,
and adjourned the meeting for two weeks.
Singing.  Benediction by Sister M. Brown.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

			WASATCH STAKE.
	The Semi-annual conference of the Wasatch
Stake was held at Heber, Nov. 5th.  On the
stand were Prest. Emma Brown and Counselors
and the presidents of the different branches,
Coun. Thomas H. Giles, several bishops and a
number of the other brethren.
	The choir sang,  "Sweet is the work,” prayer
being offered by Sister Mary E. Cluff.  Minutes
and written reports were read and approved.
Prest. Emma Brown and her Counselors, Sis-
ters Daybell and Alexander, dwelt strongly on
the subjects of the word of wisdom, and train-
ing the minds of the young to fit and prepare
them for future use in the kingdom of God.
	All the branches, eight in number, were
most ably represented by their presidents; also
a large number of members from each place.
The verbal reports were as usual, showing no
decrease in either members, or energy on the
part of the sisters.
	Coun. T. H. Giles encouraged the sisters;
Bishop R. S. Duke also spoke well of the ener-
getic enterprise among the sisters.  Said, “We
must strive to fulfill every duty required of a
Latter-day Saint.”
	The meetings were well attended, the sing-
ing by the choir excellent, and a good spirit
prevailed  throughout.   Each  went  home
strengthened, edified and encouraged.
	Conference adjourned for six months.  Sing-
ing.  Benediction by Bishop R. S. Duke.
			JOSEPHINE CLUFF JONES, Sec.

			JUAB R. S. AND P. A.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As I have never seen anything in the
columns of our valuable paper about the Relief
Society of Juab, I thought I would send you
a few items.
	The 30th of October was the third anniver-
sary of the organization of our Relief Society
and Primary Association.  We had a very en-
joyable time; the programme occupied two
hours, with songs and recitations, dialogues and
reports of the Associations, by members of
both.
	After the exercises were over, we had some
very good instructions given us by Sister Pitch-
forth and Bishop Taylor, and at one o’clock a
meeting was called of the sisters, and addresses
were made, in which encouragement and much
good and very valuable instructions were given
from Prest. Pitchforth and Brother and Sister
Bigler of Nephi.
	In the afternoon we had a dance for the
children, and for the older folks at night.
	The Relief Society here was re-organized on
the 16th of last April, with Sarah M. Boyack,
President; Christina Jenson and Mary E. Tay-
lor, Counselors; Frances Jackman, Secretary;
Bell Taylor Assistant Secretary; Christina Jen-
son Treasurer.  The Primary of this place
was re-organized on the 13th of last September,
with Ruth E. Chase, President; M. Boyack and
Annie Jennings, Counselors; Jane Olerton,
Secretary; Retta Olerton, Assistant Secretary;
May Wilson, Treasurer.  The Relief Society
have nineteen members enrolled, and the


Primary have twenty-five.  Both organizations
are in a prosperous condition at present.  I re-
main,
	Yous co-laborer in the cause of truth,
						S. M. BOYACK.
Nov. 8, 1886.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.]
		HENRIETTA’S PARTING.

			BY EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Time passed on.  The meetings were the de-
light of Henrietta’s heart, and the brethren of
the Saints and the sisters in the Church were
as dear to her as her own relatives.  Her heart
was filled with love and peace, and the spirit of
gathering rested upon her, and she longed to
journey to the far off Zion, to the valleys of
the mountains.
	Her lover, to whom she had plighted her
troth, bade her good bye, starting ahead of his
parents and relatives, so as to make them a
home in the Far West.  The parting was not
very sad, for Henrietta expeeted to follow in a
few short months.
	They passed away quickly.  The time had
come when the agonizing parting between
mother and daughter, brothers, and sis-
ter took place.  The carriage was at the door.
Her mother was weeping, wringing her hands
and tearing her hair in grief at parting with
her beloved daughter, and brothers and sisters
were crying.  Henrietta’s heart filled with
sorrow, for she knew it was parting from them
until they met in the great hereafter.
	Giving parting  kisses and words, she ran
from the house and jumped into the waiting
carriage, that bore her swiftly away from her
childhood’s home, her dear and loved mother,
her brothers and sisters.
	Nothing but the love of the Gospel could
have induced her to part with them, and it was
this love that gave comfort to her sorrowing
heart.
		HENRIETTA'S VOYAGE
	The ship lay at anchor.  It was to be the
home of many a Saint for the long weeks they
floated upon the broad ocean to the western
land.
	It was late in the afternoon when Henrietta
came on board, and on the crowded deck order
had not reigned.  She sat on her trunk watch-
ing the fading shore, the blue waters, the many
ships, the tired groups around her, until the
twilight faded, and royal night, bejeweled with
stars, was her companion.
	Through the long hours of the night watch
she thought of her mother, brothers and sisters,
her lovely Scotch home, and many friends.
	Farewell! she had said to all a long, long,
long farewell, and well might her youthful
heart feel sad, as she realized that it might be
a last farewell.
	Then came the comforting assurance that
she was only obeying the command of God,
whose spirit impelled the Saints to leave their
native land and flee to Zion, afar off in the
tops of the mountains.  The cheering influence
of His Spirit fell upon her heart, and as she
mused-upon His goodness and merciful kind-
ness, in restoring the Gospel to the earth, and
in bringing her to a knowledge of the same,
her heart with happiness overflowed.
	Then came the thoughts of the future, and
glad anticipation swelled her bosom, as she
dwelt upon the meeting with her lover in a city
of the west.
	Stars rose and set.  The great dipper wheeled
around the polar star, and at last the brilliant
morning star arose to herald the approach of
day.  Faint bars of light appeared in the east,
widening and brightening, until the fleecy
clouds blushed rosy red, then turned to purple

[Column 2]
and gold, as the king of day asserted his sway,
and smiled once more upon the world.
	But as his rays lit up the shore and beach,
the busy city and calm ocean, the beautiful
panorama of the skies faded, and distinctly
every object was presented to the observant
eye.  
	Soon the deck was cleared of boxes, trunks,
bundles and people, and eyerybody knew where
their own little home was portioned off, and
order was restored.  The ship moved slowly
out to sea, the land was lost in the receding
distance, and the first day of the voyage be-
gan.


ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Although so far removed from “head-
quarters” we do not wish to be considered by
our northern friends as out of the world, and
so I take my pen to give you a few items con-
cerning the sunny south.
	The health of the people is generally good,
although, during the fall quite a number of
children were afflicted with a kind of intermit-
tent fever, all of whom recovered.
	During the past few days three of the mem-
bers of our ward have been laid away to their
final rest, viz.:  Sister Annie Burgess Syphus,
from the effect of puerperal convulsions.  She
leaves a husband, a new born babe, parents,
brothers and sisters to mourn her sudden de-
mise.  She was a good, true woman, and much
sympathy is felt for her friends in their afflic-
tion.
	A few days later Sister Mariette Calkin
passed away after a few days illness.  The
cause of her death was a cold, which settled on
her lungs, though she has been very feeble for
a long time, being kept up only by her strong
will.
	Her face will be missed from among us, still
we feel that she is happy, having joined her
husband and children, all of whom died many
years ago.
	Following closely upon Sister Calkin, Bro.
Wm. G. Perkins, Patriarch, or, as he was more
generally known, “Uncle Billy,” was gathered
to his fathers.  Old age and general debility
was the cause of his death.
	He has been in a very low state for a long
time, and there is a general feeling of relief
that so good a man is relieved of his sufferings;
also of sympathy for his aged companion in
her lonely condition.
	On the 18th inst. a very enjoyable time was
spent by the members of the Fourth Ward Re-
lief Society and their friends, the event being
the 70th birthday of Sister Anna L. Ivins,
Stake President of Relief Society.
	The Sisters planned a surprise for Sister
Ivins.  Tables were spread in the Lyceum, at
which a hundred people sat down.  After sup-
per, Sister Eyring, in behalf of the R. S., pre-
sented “Aunt Anna” with a nice shawl.
	Speeches were made by a number of the
brethren, which were listened to with great in-
terest.  At dark the party broke up, all feel-
ing amply repaid for their efforts to do her
honor.
	We are having a snow storm to-day, an un-
usual thing in Dixie.
		Wishing you success, as ever,
							CACTUS.


A SIMILAR INCIDENT.
SISTER WELLS:
     In perusing the EXPONENT of October 15th,
I noticed an article signed "Aunt Em," the
caption “When we were Girls.”  It brought to
mind an incident similar, only "When we were
Boys.”


Some four or five years ago, I had been ab-
sent three or four days; on my return I was in-
formed that a fine old gentleman had called to
see me, claiming acquaintance in the days of
"Auld Lang Syne."  I not being home, he left
his address:  Orrin W. Giles, Lyons, Wayne
Co., N. Y.  Judge of my feelings.  He and I
were boy and young men associates until I left
New York for Nauvoo in 1843.  The day I
celebrated my twenty-first birthday, he was one
of the party.  At my wedding, in 1825, he
was one of the guests. He came to Ogden to
visit a son, Frank Giles.  He said he happened
to think I had come to Utah. The first man
he made inquiry of informed him of my place
of residence.  We had not heard of each other
for verging on forty years.  He died three
years ago, aged eighty-one years.  I was seven
months his senior.  I am this day eighty-five
years, four months and twenty-eight days.
						   T. COLBRON.
	Peterson, Morgan Co., Dec. 1st, 1886.


Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon was in Utah
several weeks in the fall of 1882, at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Amelia F. Young, and is one of
the few, who, after being entertained and kindly
treated here, has never, to our knowledge,
spoken a word against the Mormons, but wrote,
about that time, some very strong letters to
eastern papers, that were published in full.
She has a kind heart, and although she did not
accept the Mormon doctrine, she saw much to
admire and praise, and was not afraid to say
so.—ED.
	"Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is soon to publish a
corrected and revised edition of her "Sonnets,"
with the addition of some not hitherto printed.
She will have a paper in the December num-
ber of the Contemporarg Review, on the rela-
tion to health and physical development of the
higher education and the intellectual effort of
women."
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer visited Utah in 1884,
and we had the pleasure of meeting her two or
three times.  She and her husband dined with
President Taylor and a number of his friends
at the Gardo.  She spent an evening at our
home, and gave us a very good idea in her
conversation of George Eliot's evening recep-
tions, where the Literati of London were wont
to assemble.  She spoke in the highest terms
of praise of George Henry Lewes.  At that
time Mrs. Pfeiffer was greatly interested in
dress reform, and wore that evening a dress
which was simply a silk shawl, so arranged as
to be a graceful and perfect dress, which she
explained to us as her idea of symplicity and
elegance. Mrs. P. has written some of the
best articles on woman's suffrage we have ever
seen, and they have attracted a great deal of
attention by members of Parliament.  Since
her return to England she has published an
interesting book, charmingly written, entitled,
"Flying Leaves From The East and West."—
ED.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE TO MARGARET
			FULLER.
	Mr. Herbert M. Sylvester, speaking last
week before the Quincy Woman Suffrage
League, paid a high tribute to Margaret Ful-
ler, He said:
	"As we recall Emerson and Thoreau and 
others of the early Transcendental school,
there comes to mind another within that
charmed circle whose influence upon the
women of America was not the least in im-
portance: I mean Margaret Fuller. Perhaps
no woman of cis-Atlantic reputation has left
a more marked impression of her own indi-
vidualism upon the literary history of her
country. The character of Margaret Fuller
is one to be studied by every young woman
of honest purpose and honest ambition. Every
nerve and fibre of her grand womanhood re-
sponded to the desire to make the name and
vocation of woman honorable not only in the
household but in the world of letters. Her
great sincerity was her passport to the success
which has been awarded to her in latter years,
and which has given her a memorable name
and place among the 'men of letters' who have
made their country famous.
	"No woman possessed a more marked indi-
viduality, and no woman of an earlier or a
later date has made a more lasting and benefi-
cient impression upon those who knew her
personally or upon those who have become ac-
quainted with her through her writings. Not
every one  may have benefit of such stern
training as fell to her lot; not every one may
be formed in such trenchant mould, mentally,
as she; and yet without such she might have
lost her poise and even her noble purpose in
the grander struggle she was making in the di-
rection of woman's emancipation from the
then senseless and unjust discrimination which
greeted her efforts.	*	*	*	She 
was the pioneer in woman's work, and as such
she has won the highest honor. Every woman
ought to feel it in her to say, "God bless the
memory of Margaret Fuller." It is from such
that humanity learns the lessons of its better
living. As the powerful blows of the smith
shape the metal, hot and glowing upon his
anvil, so the Margaret Fullers, the Emersons
and Thoreaus of to-day will leave the impress
of personality upon the material which is to be
wrought into the thought of the days to come.
Let no woman fear to do her best, for her re-
ward is sure."—Ex.


[column 1]

		NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge has resumed the 
editorship of St Nicholas, at a salary of $5,000
a year.

[column 2]

	Mrs. P. D. Armour, of Chicago, is a practi-
cal philanthropist. One of her works is a
mission school, the maintenance of which costs
$10,000 a year.
	Miss Rose Coglan began her professional
life as a witch in “Macbeth,” and when the
time came for her to speak she ran off the stage
in a fright.
	Mme. Adam, who is in failing health, is
about to retire from the editorship of the Paris
Nouvelle Reveu. She will be succeeded by
Doctor Cryon, an intimate friend of M. Kat-
koff, a Russian physiologist. Dr. Cryon was
formerly co-editor with Jules Simon of the
Gaulois.	
The Princess Louise has made several draw-
ings for the Youth's Companion to illustrate in
anticle on “Salmon Fishing on the Casca-
pediac,” by the Marquis of Lorne. They use
the money which they receive for their work
in helping poor English and Scotch families to
emigrate to Canada. 
Miss Jean Ingelow has met with a deep
affliction in the sudden death of a beloved
brother, William Frederic, Ingelow, whose
home was with her in London. Writing to a
friend, she hopes that her correspondents in
the United States will not feel hurt because of
her apparent neglect in answering their let-
ters.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Merriam Putnam, who cele-
brated her 102d anniversary at her home near
Danvers, a few days ago, still lives in the
house to which she came as a bride eighty-two
years ago. Mrs Putnam is believed to be the
oldest living teacher. She taught school for
two summers before she was married—the
summers of 1803 and 1804.
	It was a Chinese empress, See-heig, who,
somewhere about 2,800 years B. C., first dis-
covered and utilized the product of the silk
worm. Finding the fibres fine and strong, she
prosecuted her researches, learned how to breed
and rear the worms and initiated a new industry
The world is thus indebted to a woman for one
of its great manufactures.—Chicago Tribune.
	Miss Alice R. Jordan, the young lady who
took the degree of L. L. B. at Yale College
last June, and who is the first and only lady
who ever graduated from that institution, is
but twenty-three years old. Two years ago
she was admitted to practice in the Circuit
Courts, and last week was admitted to practice
in the Superior Court. Michigan is her native
State, and it is proud of her.
	According to Fraulein Louisa Lauw, Mme.
Patti deliberately proposed to the Marquis de
Caux, and not he to her. One evening, while
they were sitting chatting alone, he innocently
mentioned that Paris reported them to be en-
gaged, and he laughed. “Very well—why not?
I should be very happy, I am sure,” returned
Adelina; and with some pleased confusion the
Marquis, accepted her hand then and there.
	A meeting of women who are lawyers and
government clerks was held October 19th, at
the residence of Belva A. Lockwood, Washing-
ton, D. C., to offer a tribute to the virtues, the
statesmanship and the beneficence of the late
Chief Justice, Salmon P. Chase. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln presided at the meeting. Complimen-
tary resolutions were offered and remarks sus-
taining them were made by Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. McPherson, Mrs. Dennison and Mrs.
Chambers, after which the resolutions were
adopted.	
At the close of a woman suffrage meeting in
Kansas recently, “Mrs. Saxon held a mother's
meeting, at which she moved many to tears
and all to a new appreciation of the responsi-
bility and dignity of womanhood.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	History is the revelation of Providence.—
Kossuth.
	We cannot conquer fate and necessity, but
we can yield to them in such a way as to be 
greater than if we could.—Hannah Moore.
	A book is a living voice.  It is a spirit walk-
ing upon the face of the earth.  It continues 
to be the living thought of a person separated
from us by space and time.  Men pass away:
monuments crumble to dust—what remains
and survives is human thought.—Smiles.
	That was a sweet thought by the child who 
said:  "Mother," one cold, windy night, wak-
ing up as her mother went through the chamber,
"mother, I asked God to take care of some
poor child, to-night, and I told Him, to-morrow,
I would try to hunt her up and help her, too."
Prayers, without individual effort, are as use-
less as the power of steam without a master
hand to guide and control.—Ex.


Patents have been issued to women during 
the week ending Nov. 2., 1886:
	Dora Mitchell, Ottuwa, Iowa, Picture-
hanger.
	Lillian Whitefield, Reading, Mass., Com-
pound for transferring designs to surfaces from 
perforated patterns.
	Katie Williams, Providence, R. I., Hair-
curling device.
				---
	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 9:--
Addie Bond, New York Cuff-retainer.
	Christenia C. Donnor, Ionia, Mich., Steam
Cooking Vessel.


Laura S. Gott, La Grange,Ohio, Fire Escape.
	Mary A. L. Hine, Chicago, Ill., Bottle Mop-
per.
	Sarah L. Hunter, Little Rock, Ark-, Flower
Pot.
	Serena E. Norton, Chicago, Ill., Flour-
Sifter and Safe.	
	Mary Ruggles, Saratoga Springs, N. Y.,
Cooking Attachment for Heating Stoves.
	Emma J. Lawrence, Philadelphia, Pa., De-
sign for Rug.


104			WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


From the annual report of the New York
Exchange for Women’s Work it appears
that during the past year nearly $40,000 has
been paid to consignors of work in the several
departments, which include all varieties of
painting and fine needle and lace work. In
the order department 1,100 orders were re-
ceived and filled. The exclusive object of
this society is to assist reduced “gentlewomen."


CORRESPONDENCE. 

Meadow, Utah, Nov. 9, 1886.
Editor Exponent:
	It is some time since our settlement has been represented
in your valuable paper, and it would have afforded me
more,pleasure to write you now if I was not called upon to
report the death of one of the officers of our Relief Society.
I append an obituary and resolutions adopted at our last
meeting, The Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. are in
good working order, and their influence for good is felt in
our community.		
	Our brethren have recommenced work on our new meet-
ing house with a determination to finish it for use this winter,
and all who have visited us, and noticed our present incon
venient and dilapidated house, will certainly say, “God
bless them!" Our Young Ladies’ Association have pre-
sented the Building Committee with ten dollars, and are
working zealously to raise means to purchase a Sacrament
set.	
	The EXPONENT reaches us regularly, and we highly ap-
preciate your efforts, and trust that you may be abundant-
ly blessed in your labors.
			Yours in the cause of truth.
										EMMA.
				OBITUARY.
	Sister Hannah Lees Fisher was born near Rushworth,
Yorkshire, England, in the year 1824, and was baptized a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in 1841. She emigrated with her husband in 1849, and
came to Kanesville, Iowa. In 1852 they moved to Fillmore,
Millard County, Utah. Seven years later they located at
Meadow to assist in building up the settlement. When
the Relief Society was organized Sister Fisher was set apart
as First Counselor to the President, which office she held
till the time of her death. She has been ailing for the last
year and was taken to Provo to be treated by Dr. Pike, but
she grew gradually worse, and passed peacefully away
Oct. 4th, when her body was brought home for interment.
The funeral services were held in the school house, which
was very tastefully decorated for the occasion. Our de-
parted sister has passed through many privations with the
Saints, and died in full faith of the Gospel and the hope of
a glorious resurrection. She leaves a husband, three
children and several grandchildren to mourn her loss.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT ADOPTED BY THE MEADOW
			RELIEF SOCIETY NOV. 4TH, 1886.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst one of our respected officers, Hannah Lees
Fisher, who, for many years, occupied the position of First
Counselor to our President, and
	Whereas, In the death of our respected sister, Meadow
Ward loses one of its earliest settlers and oldest, members,
and our Relief Society one of its first officers, and a loving
husband and children are called to mourn the loss of a
faithful wife and affectionate mother, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we tender the family of our departed
sister our sincere sympathy in this hour of their bereave-
ment, in the hope that these expressions of respect and con-
dolence may tend to console them when they realize how
the labors of their beloved wife and mother are acknowl-
edged and appreciated by her co-workers and associates;
and, be it further
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the


minutes of the Meadow Relief Society, that a copy hereof
be presented to the bereaved family, and that a copy be
furnished the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARTHA BENNETT, Prest.,
						JANE ROWLEY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Mrs. Mary Dunsten, born August 1st, 18—, died
September 22nd, 1886, were unanimously adopted and
sustained by the members of the Relief Society of the
Sugar House Ward, of which she was a member.

	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from this sphere of action our beloved sister, Mrs. Mary
Dunsten, we feel that we have lost an efficient member of
our Society, a kind neighbor and loving sister; and while
we deplore her loss, we feel to bow in humble submission
to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we extend to the sorrowing family our
heartfelt sympathy, and trust that they will feel to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in this visitation, that she is not
lost, but gone before.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the Society, and that one be sent to the EXPONENT for
publication.
	Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore,
	Thoughts of her virtues increase more and more;
	'Twill be long ere the sting of the parting be o’er—
	God grant we may meet her on heaven’s bright shore,
	Where sorrow and parting shall greet us no more.
				SARAH B. GIBSON, Prest.,
				CATHERINE STAKER,
				ESTHER S. HARDY, Counselors,
				BETSY BOLWINKLE, Sec.


A GOOD WOMAN GONE TO REST.

	Sister Judith Bellows departed this life Sept. 30th, 1886,
at the residence of her son, John F. Bellows, Lake Shore
Ward. The deceased had been failing for some time, and
died without a struggle, at seven o’clock p.m. She had
her share in the mobbings and drivings of the Saints. Her
husband, father of her children, was poisoned, and died
from the effects of it, administered by the mob that came
up against the Saints; after which she, with her children,
suffered the privations in common with the Saints in those
terrible times, remaining true and faithful to the Church
and kingdom of God; she has borne many true and faithful
testimonies to the restoration of the Gospel; this knowledge
was her chief joy by day and night. Did considerable
work in the St. George Temple, in 1883. She became so
feeble in health that she had to leave, much against her
will, having enjoyed her labors so much. On every oppor-
tunity she would exhort all to faithfulness. Her integrity
to the truth and her many good qualities are worthy of
imitation.
	She was a member of the Relief Society, and as such
was highly respected and esteemed.	
						EMMA CURTIS,
						ANN NEBEKER, Committee.
						M. A. HARDY,
	We don’t feel to mourn
	For our sister departed,
	She has gone to the rest
	That	remains for true hearted;
	She has gone to her husband,
	Who long has been waiting
	To clasp her with joy to his bosom again.
	
	She has suffered, but borne
	All her sorrows in patience—
	Her troubles and trials
	Have all passed away;
	She has won the bright crown,
	By faith and endurance,
	Her reward is obtained, her joy is complete.

	Farewell, then, dear sister,
	We would not recall thee,
	We know thou art safe in the haven of rest;
	Thou hast finished thy work,
	Thou hast fought the good fight,
	Henceforth thou wilt dwell
	With the good and the blest.
							EMMA CURTIS.


OBITUARY.

To the memory of Elizabeth Dutsen, who departed this
life of old age at Goshen, Utah Co, August 19th, 1886,
after laying upon her bed suffering with paralysis for one
year and ten months, during which time her daughter, Sis-
ter Mary Johnsen, our beloved President, waited upon her
with untiring zeal. Our aged sister was baptized by Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff in 1840, in Herefordshire, England.
She emigrated to Utah in 1862. Was the mother of eleven
children, grandmother of forty, and numerous great-grand-
children. She endured many trials for the sake of the
Gospel; embraced the law of celestial marriage, and died
at the advanced age of eighty-three years in full faith and
hope of a glorious resurrection.
	We feel to acknowledge the hand of God in relieving her
of her sufferings, in taking her from this weary world to a
higher and better one.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her children
and friends; and further, be it
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread upon the
record of the Relief Society, and that a copy be sent to the
EXPONENT, and also her family.
						MARY DEDDS,
						LOUISA TAYLOR, Committee.
						SARAH ROBEETS,


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Bcr 306. SALT LAKE CITY
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
	Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 15.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1886.	No. 14.


CHRISTMAS NIGHT.

In all this boasted land of happy homes,
   How many circles are complete to-night?
How many round their festive firesides come
   Without a vacancy or sorrow’s blight?
Fancy paints many brilliant, happy throngs,
   Where beauty, wealth, and splendid grandeur beam;
While feasting, music, dance and joyous songs,
   Make bliss upon the earth, 'twould seem;
But could we look into each secret soul,
   Would we there find response to this display?
Would we not see behind this self control
   That bleeding hearts in agony hold sway?
Thus incompleteness seems to be to man,
   While on this earth a common legacy;
Let him seek perfect joy where’er he can,
   For from earth’s ills he never will be free,
Because our Father did not so ordain.
   That our brief lives should be devoid of ill,
Nor free from disappointment, care and pain;
   Ah, no! He had an object greater still.	
Here on this earth, created for man’s sake,
   He placed, with agencies, His chosen few,
That they might of the good and ill partake,
   And learn to judge between the two.
But there will come a Christmas holiday—
   The glorious natal day of heaven’s Son,
When all the world combined will stay
   To give their praises to that Holy One.
Then every land in perfect joy’ll abound,
   No mortal fears will then beset the soul; 
Nor will there in immortal hearts be found
   One weakness that demands control.
Then every nation, people, kindred tongue,
   With one accord will bow the pliant knee;
And glorious praise and anthems will be sung,
   Whilst Gods and angels shout, “Oh, Zion’s free!”
							     E. R. SHIPP.
Philadelphia, Dec. 25, 1876.


[Column 1]
	CHRISTMAS TABLEAUX.
		
	I sat and looked into the fire on Christmas
Eve, when all the folks in the house were fast
asleep, and I saw some queer things, and heard
some strange noises, and shadows flitted about
me, which made a very great impression upon
me, and I scarcely knew if I was awake or
dreaming.
   I heard the prattle of little children, and
the merry laugh, that rang through the rooms,
and the silvery echoes of childish voices seemed
to vibrate in the air, and picture after picture
framed themselves so vividly that I could al-
most fancy they were real.
   One was a very large kitchen, with an im-
mense fireplace, and great pine logs were
blazing high, and on the ceiling overhead, on
long strips of wood, there were rows of yellow
pumpkin cut in rings and hung to dry, and on
the wall, bright pewter pans and cups, polished
until you might see your face in them.  A long
handled, brass warming-pan, and many other
things familiar to my childhood were there,
and the little children were playing hide and
seek, and calling out of corners and closets
that seemed innumerable.  They had such a
jolly game! and an old man, very old—they
called him grandpa—was watching them and
laughing as heartily as any of the crowd when
one was caught and dragged from the hiding
place.  The wind was whistling shrill outside,
and the great elms fairly groaned, but the
children heeded it not, only now and then they
stopped for a moment to listen to the music of
the night wind.  Such rare music borne on the
wind in a winter night!  What voices there

[Column 2]
are, and what wonderful things they tell to
those who listen.	
   I pause, and close my eyes to shut out the
sight, for it is all too real, and another, just as
true to life, but different, presents itself on the
instant.
   I wander in the woods.  A crowd of boys
and girls are there, and they are gathering
long trailing vines of evergreens and twining
them round each other.  How beautiful they
look!  They have filled their baskets with
these woodland trophies, vines and boughs kept
green all the long, cold, dreary winter, and they
laugh and talk and sing snatches of songs, and
their notes die away in the distance among the
rocks and trees, and I listen for the last faint
echo, and start again, trying to remember the
words of the song I once knew so well, and I
ask myself, “Where are those boys and girls”
—companions of my youth?
		"I call to mind, but cannot find
		   The forms I once loved well;
		Where have ye fled ye vanished?
		   I ask, ye do not tell;
		I search, I roam, abroad, at home,
		   I seek each much loved spot;
		My labor ends, but ye, dear friends,
		   Like Rachel's babes, are not.”
I reach out my hands in utter unconsciousness,
but they fall heavily down, and a great sob
swells up in my throat, and I feel as though I
were stifling.  Outside the wind is moaning, and
every now and then the dry leaves come whirl-
ing up in little clusters like a flock of living
things, and beat against the windows of my
room.  My pen has fallen from my hand—I
was trying to write, and breathless I listen, as
though some one were coming long expected.
My heart beats quickly, and solemn thoughts
of loved ones long departed to that other, bet-
ter land stir my soul to its inmost depths.  But
they come not, even though we long to get but
a glimpse of them, a clasp of the hand, a sign,
a word, a token only of their love and recogni-
tion.  We almost feel their presence near us
when we are quite alone with our own commun-
ings, but there is no visible, no tangible form
or figure.  Memory can recall their faces and
their loving words, and it is blissful even to
recollect the saintly guise they wore on earth,
and feel that now they are freed from the sor-
rows and trials through which we who remain
are passing.
		“Life is real, life is earnest,”
and so we find it, with much that is painful to
bear, and many disappointments, but now and
again, in the sharpest suffering of mind, there
comes a respite, given in mercy to the weary
soul; hours when God seems near in a living
presence to soothe and comfort.  It comes some-
times in answer to prayer and supplication,
and we are strengthened unconsciously for the
renewal of the battle of life.  But more often
we are left to grope our way along, calling in
vain for help, because our Father wills that we
should walk alone, that we may learn to be a
guide to others.
   How still it is, this house once so full of life
and gaiety.  What a change has swept like a
burning, scorching fire over the place.  No
wonder I sit like one entranced; and yet the
fire burns just as brightly as it did when all
was happy and joyous, years ago.  I hear the
night wind shriek and howl, and then the low,
mournful dirge that follows is like a hymn for
the dead, plaintive and thrilling.

[Column 3]
Once there was so much noise within we
could scarce hear the sounds outside, but now
they mock me with their incessant din, when I
am soliloquizing as to-night, and all alone with
my own thoughts.  And yet the wind is a relief,
I would not have it otherwise; a dead calm is
monotonous; there is no poetry, no romance in
it.  But I have been digressing, talking of my-
self; let me come back to the tableaux, that
come for a moment, and then vanish one after
the other.
   The room is full of beautiful young faces,
and there’s a sound of music, now soft and
sweet it ripples along, and I distinguish two fa-
miliar voices, that blend in perfect harmony,
and a voiceless melody, that keeps perfect time
to these,played with a lovely hand.  I can even
see the sapphire gem upon it, that sparkles in
the faint light; that hand, thin and white,
sweeps across the strings of the guitar, and not
a discord mars the sounds that float around
me like enchantment; but they die away slowly,
growing fainter and more indistinct, and other
music, not so dreamy, but more bold and full
in tone, strikes upon my ear, and with it there’s
a sound of whistling; can it be the wind?  Per-
haps it was, but I fancied it was more human
and not quite so weird withal.  O memory!
what sanctity thou bringest with thee, when the
mind is “thrown back upon the past;” what
hallowed reminiscences are those that accom-
pany the shadowy tableaux from out of the in-
visible.  A sweet influence, a holy peace is
diffused around me, and for the moment I am
so absorbed that I take no note of the present.
   Yet there are many happy homes to-night,
where mirth and festivity reign, and little
children look for Santa Claus, and with the
enthusiasm of mystery, question and listen and
peep here and there for tokens of his coming.
The children’s Christmas! Their full happiness
is more than aught else to the older ones, save
it may be to those who sit and dream like me,
and live over again the scenes that waken such
delightful retrospections.
   Hark! there comes a low rich music like that
of an aeolian harp, so tender and pathetic that
it brings the tears, soft tears, that fall like
summer rain, and do me good.  I pause and
listen; there is no one else astir.  I creep care-
fully up the stairs; the music is above me still,
but it is weird enough to frighten one more
courageous than I am.  I climb another flight,
and the wind puts out my light.  The moon-
light streams in pale upon the bare, cold floor,
and the wild, irregular melody comes, as it
were, from some unknown source.  I look
around me; there are many quaint old things,
that have been thrown here from time to time
as useless rubbish, and the night breeze plays
in and out the broken window panes, and the
loose casement rattles, but ’twas none of these
that brought me to the garret at this unseemly
hour.  Again the trembling, quivering notes
sweep past me, like what we read of in old
castles among the towers and turrets, rude, per-
haps, but more thrilling than the exquisite
touch of one accustomed to the finest ivory
keys; and though I have a taste for the mysteri-
ous, yet I discover--and it pleases me as well--
the music comes from the guitar so often
played upon by one now known no more among
the living; the wind has strayed in through
some crack or crevice, and has swept across
the threadbare strings and through the time-
worn instrument, and in the stillness of the
night, when one's nerves are overwrought with


emotions that flood the soul to overflowing, one
might well mistake it for a strain of music out
of the unknown realms, played by a seraph's
hand.
	While I retrace the way to my corner by
the fire, to resume my soliloquy, my thoughts
have flown far, far away to another land, to
one, an exile, who sits alone, perchance, and
out of the solemn silence of the night fancies
he hears the music of the past over again, and
the dry leaves rustling and "the voices in the
wind" may be to him, as to me, not only re-
minders of the past, but prophetic harbingers
of the future, when those now cruelly separated
may clasp hands again, and the desolate homes
be filled with glad songs of praise and thanks-
giving.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		DECLINE OF POPULATION IN
		     RURAL MASSACHUSETTS.
   We return again to this sombre subject.
We are to deal mostly, in this article, with dry
statistics, but they will show whether people
are crowding into cities and villages, or spread-
ing out over the land to till the soil, or, at least,
to have quiet residences.
   I suppose the reader to know that small
manufacturing places are becoming obsolete.
Business has been going to the cities and into 
the hands of large corporations.  Those de
lightful dells and groups of houses, where once
axes, or shovels, or scythes, or something else
were made, with not a large shop, nor a great
factory--places in and around which there
used to be centered so much that was genial,
social, so much of the very nectar of human
happiness--have largely become silent, going
to decay.  We will be thankful they are not
utterly extinct.  The city, or a large, noisy,
ambitious village, has drawn the business to
itself and concentrated it into great, towering
affairs, all  under one capital and head.
	The census of Massachusetts for 1875 says:
"The number of towns in which the popula-
tion has decreased is 142.  The losses have 
taken place in small farming towns, as a rule,
remote from markets, and not well accomo-
dated by railroads.
	"Massachusetts, of the United States, stands
seventh in rank as to total population.  For
density of population this state stands first in
rank, having, in 1875, 211.78 persons to the
square mile.
	"The population of Massachusetts for 1885 
is put down as 2,153,597.  Now notice what 
follows:  The centre of population of the state
is within one mile of the State House, while
the geographical or territorial center is near
Lake Quinsigamond, within the city of Wor-
cester."
	What a preponderance Boston has!  Its
population is 390,406; voters, 89,851.  Again:
"The cities of Boston, Cambridge, Chelsea, and
Somerville, and the towns of Arlington, Bel-
mont, Brookline, Everett, Malden, Medford,
Melrose, Revere, Watertown, Winchester and
Winthrop, comprising territory within a radius
of eight miles from the State House, contains
480,419 people, or 29 per cent of the whole
population of the state.  The same cities and
towns, in 1865, had a population of 352,577,
showing a gain of 127,842, or 36 per cent.  If
the radius be extended to twelve miles from
the State House, and to the cities and towns
enumberated there be added the cities of Lynn
and Newton, and the towns of Braintree Ded-
ham, Hyde Park, Hull, Lexington, Lynnfield,
Milton, Nahant, Needham, Quincy, Reading,
Saugus, Stoneham, Swamscott, Wakefield,
Waltham and Woburn, it is found that Boston
and territory within twelve miles have a popu-
lation of 603,909, or 36 per cent of the whole
population of the state."  Still again:   "The 
relative population in cities and towns in the

[Column 2]
state has changed the balance, in 1875, to the 
side of the cities; in 1865, the towns had 762,
344, and the cities 504,687; now the cities
show 836,933, and the towns 814,979; balance
in favor of the cities was 257,657.  To sum-
marize, the gain in the whole state since 1865
has been 30 per cent; in the cities 44 per cent,
in the towns 18 per cent.—"Census of 1875.
	The contrasting tendencies are growing
more divergent, as we shall show by a few ex-
amples:  Adams from 1865 to 1875 nearly 
doubled its population.  It has large manufac-
turing interests.  Florida, a farming town east
of Adams, on the mountains, had in 1865, 1173;
in 1875, 572; a decrease of 601 in only ten
years!  In the above decade Worcester gained
19,262; Fitchburg, 4,171; Spencer, 2,427; South-
bridge, 1,609.  Since 1875 Worcester has
gained 19,066.  In the same time Charlton,
twelve miles from Worcester, has lost 30.
	Charlton is one of a line of fine farming
towns, beginning with North Orange, going
south-east through Athol, Petersham, Barre,
Brookfield, and Dudley, and across Connecti-
cut to the Sound.  On this stretch, as else-
where, wherever the sustentation of the num-
ber of inhabitants has depended upon the in-
terest in agriculture there has been a decrease,
no matter what the contiguity to markets, or
the excellence of the soil.   "Of the towns
and cities in Worcester county, 19 show a gain
and 39 a loss."  And this is the central county
of the state, reaching from New Hampshire to 
Connecticut.  The counties of Barnstable,
Dukes and Nantucket have lost as counties.
The soil is sandy, but they have the glorious 
advantages of the sea.  Were the country new,
and to be settled by such as the ancient Greeks
or Phoenicans, into these counties would they
crowd the most.  The town of Barnstable de-
clined 626 in population within ten years;
Sandwich, 741.  Sixteen towns in Franklin
county, 17 in Berkshire are losing inhabitants.
In the former, Shutesbury, not unknown to po-
litical agitations of earlier days, sitting upon
its  high hills, in ten years fell away by 230
persons.  In Hampshire county, Cummington,
where Bryant was born, Pelham, which heard
the notorious Burrows preach, and thirteen
other towns are on a decline.  In Middlesex
county such towns as Dracut, Groton and Sud-
bury are losing.  In Essex county we have to 
pity the townships, as Amesbury and old An-
dover, not to extend the list.  In Norfolk
county we must compassionate Dedham itself,
sweet Milton, peaceful Sharon, Randolph,
Houghton  and  Wrentham.   In Plymouth
county Abington has almost committed suicide,
and we must commiserate Bridgewater, Dux-
bury, East Bridgewater, Halifax, Kingston,
Lakeville, Marion, Mattapoisett, Pembroke,
Plympton, Rochester and West Bridgewater.
In Suffolk county even Winthrop is on a de-
cline.—Ex.					 L. H.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM SHOW LOW,
ARIZONA.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that perhaps a few items from our
little place in the pines would not be amiss, I
will try to pen a few thoughts and ideas upon
paper.
	Our little place begins to look somewhat
lonesome since so many have moved away,
only eleven families remaining, and we do not
expect to keep our dear President long, as she
is expecting to go to her husband, who, like
many more, is an exile from his home. In the
beginning of June the scarlet fever broke out
here, causing lots of sickness and quite a num-
ber of deaths among the children. Sister
Laura Wood from Bountiful, Davis Co., buried
all her children—three beautiful little girls and
one sweet baby boy—this making six they have

[Column 2]

had pass away to a better world, having had
two die in Utah with the diphtheria. It does
seem hard to part with the dear ones we love
so well, but we must be tried as gold seven
times, to purify us for our Maker's presence. I
have eight children, and they were all sick
with the fever, but all recovered except my
little babe. I send a few lines that I composed
to his memory.
	The sickness and deaths in the community
have caused quite a melancholy time. There
were seven deaths in less than two months, and
there being so few in this place, and fewer still
who care to attend their meetings, we are like 
the parable of the fish, we are mixed and of 
many kinds.
	There has been but one Relief Society
meeting held this summer, and that was held
on the 7th of this month, there being only four
present, which was very discouraging to Presi-
dent Whipple. She is a good woman, and so
are her Counselors. We have held several
meetings consisting of President, Counselors
and Secretary, but we enjoyed the Spirit of the
Lord whenever we met. Some of the sisters
live quite a way off, perhaps that is one cause
of their not attending more; but, hoping that
we may all live more closely to the Lord, and
see the error of our ways—for the time has
come when we must do right ourselves whether
our neighbors do or not, and, hoping to always
enjoy the good spirit, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		HARRIET WHIPPLE,
		MARY A. MCNEIL.

HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	At Pima, Arizona, a pleasant and enjoyable 
surprise was given to Stake President of Re-
lief Society, Wilmirth East, on Wednesday,
Nov. 17th, it being her sixty-second birthday,
by the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of the St. Joseph Stake. About 250
of the brethren and sisters were present, among
whom was President Layton, who spoke in
high terms of praise of the way in which Sis-
ter East had performed her labors as President
of the Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake; said
she was truly a mother in Israel; always on
hand to administer to the sick and needy, and
give words of encouragement to those who were
called to mourn, or to those who were inclined
to stray from the path of duty. Said he hoped
all would enjoy themselves, and be benefited
by coming together on such a pleasant occasion,
The remainder of the afternoon was spent in
singing and giving recitations, and in pleasant
conversation.
	Sister East was the recipient of some hand-
some presents from the branches of the Relief
Society of Pima, Central, Thatcher and Layton,
and from the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the
above named settlements. Sister East spoke
a short time; said it had been a complete sur-
prise; thanked all for the honor they had
shown her, and for the gifts bestowed, and
hoped with the help of God to be always
worthy of their love and esteem, after which
all partook of the plentiful repast that was
spread before them, and then returned to
their homes, feeling benefited by meeting to-
gether.
	LAURA NUTTALL, Sec.


﻿The second "Mother's Meeting" of this sea-
son, at the Woman's Educational and Industrial
Union, 74 Boylston Street, Boston, will be
conducted by Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
	One of the leading charities of New Orleans
is called the "Society of the Ladies Servants
of the Poor." It was established in 1861, the
first year of the rebellion, to assist destitute
families of respectability and provide for the
wants of old and infirm "gentlewomen."—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For	the EXPONENT.]
EPITAPH.

Life was full of pain and tears,
	And hopes doomed to defeat,
Of grief-rent hours and bitter years,
	That death, at last, is sweet.
Dear Lord, a heap of helpless clay,
	Fettered and prison-walled,
Lies here until the promised day,
	Waiting to be called.

Sweet dreams of how I shall rejoice,
	And burst these prison walls,
When first that loved and loving voice
	In heavenly music calls.
Make every atom of this dust
	To thrill with deep delight;
Oh! call me with the pure and just
	To dwell with thee in light.

		LUELLE.


THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.

A REVERIE.

BY M. J. TANNER.

	As I gaze upon the ocean,
	Thrilis my heart with fond emotion,
And the wind is blowing chilly on the shore;
	While the waves are secrets telling,
	And their bosoms gently swelling,
As they dash upon the breakers with a roar.

	And I think upon the rhymes
	I have read so many times,
For surely they are written by the score;
	And I think how grand a theme
	It must be for poets dream,
As I bring to mind some long forgotten lore.

	And I listen here and ponder,
	For my heart is growing fonder,
As I think of all the tales I've read of yore,
	And I know that when I leave thee
	My heart will often grieve me,
For I'll listen to thy beating never more.

	Oh, thou great, mysterious ocean!
	Holdest thou no warm emotion—
Holdest thou no secret sigh in mem'ry's store?
	Can your heart, without pulsation,
	Hold the secrets of a nation,
That we read not as we search your bosom o'er?

	Who shall tell the wondrous story,
	As the world with ages hoary
Binds the pride of many nations gone before,
	And the spirits o'er thee gliding,
	And the souls their time abiding,
When the trumps shall sound their requiem evermore.

	When thy depths shall not be hidden.
	Nor the argosies unbidden
Sent to sleep beneath thine ever sounding roar;
	And a great and mighty power
	Shall unclose thee in that hour,
When you will not keep your secrets any more.

Sea Plain, Monmoith Co., New Jersey, May, 1885.


ESSAY ON CHRISTMAS.
     Christmas time, of all the year, is a time of
rejoicing for all Christian sects.  It is a time
of festivity and merry making, and I sometimes
think that in our mirth and pleasure we are
apt to forget the real and most worthy cause of
joy and rejoicing—the birth of our Savior, the
babe in Bethlehem, the meek and lowly Jesus,
who came to this earth in the meridian of time,
as it had been ordained in the courts above, be-
fore the creation of this world, to be despised
and ridiculed among His own, and finally offer
up His life for the sins of the world.  This is
something worthy of contemplation, because
upon His mission depends our eternal salvation,
and, also, to a great extent, our temporal salva-


tion; for His is the only name in which we can
approach the Father and receive the blessing;
and our temporal and eternal welfare are so
closely connected that they are not easily
separated.
	Now, there are many things that are worth
considering in connection with Christmas.
There is one thing which those who are blest
with a goodly portion of this world’s goods
should not forget; that is, the poor.  The Savior
said, in His day, in speaking of two classes of
people in the day of judgment.  Of one class
He said: “When I was naked ye clothed me;
when I was hungry ye fed me; when I was sick
and in prison ye visited me.” They shall an-
swer: “Lord, when saw we Thee in this condi-
tion?” He shall answer: “Inasmuch as ye
have done it to the least of mine, ye have done
it unto me.” To the other class he shall say:
“Depart from me, I know ye not.  When I was
naked ye clothed me not; when I was hungry
ye fed me not; when I was sick and in prison
ye did not visit me.” This would be a severe
rebuke. 
	Let us try to remember the obligations we
are under, that when we have finished our
work on earth it may be said of us: “Well
done, good and faithful servant, enter into the
joy of thy Lord.”
								M. M.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	MY DEAR SISTER:—I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to write a few lines to our
little paper. I have taken it ever since it was
published, and I am sure I would not know
what to do without it, but I find several have
had the paper discontinued because of hard
times. It seems to me this had not ought to
be. I think we should exert ourselves to sus-
tain the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, not only by sub-
scribing for it, but in writing to the paper.
There are many gifted women among us, that
have language to express their views and senti-
ments on subjects of very great importance,
and they should let their light shine through
the EXPONENT. I feel, for one, willing to lift
my voice in defense of truth and right.
	Shall we not protest against the falsehoods
and slanders that are heaped upon us by our
enemies? They say we are serfs in bondage,
and so on. Well, we know better; there is no
bondage in keeping the commandments of God,
which we are striving to do, but it is our ene-
mies that are exerting themselves to the utmost
to bring us into bondage, by trying to take
away every right and privilege bestowed upon
us for our benefit and well being; but the Lord
has said, "Thus far shalt thou go and no far-
ther;" but let them do the work for him they
have listed to obey, the reckoning day will
come, and all will be rewarded according as
their works have been. We know that our
trust is in the God of Daniel, whom the angels
delivered from the lions' mouth, and He will
deliver us if we are faithful and true. To be
sure it annoys us when the marshals come
hunting around, searching not only for men,
but for our sisters and daughters, dragging
them before jurors and into courts to testify
against fathers, husbands and brothers; it is
very unpleasant, but nothing to be compared
to the fate of our accusers; surely they are the
ones to be pitied, for they know not what they
do. As for us, as Latter-day Saints, we expect
to be tried and tested. The Lord has said He
would prove us to see if we would abide in
Him.
	Sisters, let us keep the Spirit of God for our
constant companion, that we may not be over-
come, but endure, for these light afflictions,
which are but for a moment, will work out for


us a far more exceeding and eternal weight
of glory.
	Success to every effort to do good, and to
the EXPONENT.
		N. M. TRACY.
Mariotts Ward, Weber Co., Dec. 3d, 1886.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Tis not genius so much as ability that carries
one through the battles of life.—A. B. Street.
	A man may talk continually and not be elo-
quent; sound and substance are not twins.
	Faith in God hallows and confirms the union
between parents and children.—Pestalozzi.
	Hope without action is a broken staff; we
should always hope for things that are possible
and probable.—James Ellis.
	Stories heard at a mother's knee are never
wholly forgotten.  They form a little spring
that never quite dries up in our journey through
scorching years.
	Youth is not rich in time; it may be poor
part with it, as with money, sparingly; pay no
moment but in purchase of its worth; and
what its worth, ask death-beds; they can tell.—
E. Young.
	I want to see all in a flame of fire. You
know what kind of fire I mean.  I desire that
none of my wild fire may be mixed with the
pure fire of holy zeal coming from God's alter.
—Whitefield.
	The very source of true poetry is love; a di-
vine glow and vision, conscious of the radiant
glories belonging to all surrounding things in
God's creation whether in the heavens above
or in the earth.—J. A. St. John.


﻿NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	
	Queen Victoria has now thirty grandchil-
dren.
	Mrs. Rachel Frances, who died lately in At-
lanta, Georgia, left about $30,000, most of
which she had made out of her dairy and truck
farm.  She was an excellent business woman.
	Mrs. Senator Henderson, of St. Louis, has
offered to the students of Kirkwood Seminary
a prize for the best composition on the subject
"Woman, Considered Industrially and Politi-
cally."
	Miss Katherine D. Blake, daughter of Mrs.
Lillie Devereux Blake, was chairman of the 
committee of teachers through whose efforts,
in a large degree, the appointment of two
women on the Board of Education in New
York City was secured.
	Mrs. Lucy H. Hooper has been investigating
the fate of American girls who go to Italy to
learn to sing, hoping to succeed on the Italian
stage.  Of the hundreds that she has known
during the last twelve years, only three have 
been successful—Marie Van Zandt, Emma
Nevada, and Ella Russell.  Of the rest, some
few are making a precarious living, ill paid,
working hard.  Others have gone home tired
out.—Ex.
   Mrs. Sarah Sampson, formerly of Bath, Me.,
has been appointed by the President notary
public for the District of Columbia.  This ap-
pointment was made in recognition of her
faithful services as clerk in the pension office,
as well as for her devotion to the sick and
wounded soldiers during the late war. Mrs.
Sampson has recently received her second pro-
motion since she entered the pension office as a
clerk three years ago.  Her present salary is
1,400.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret New Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1886.


[Column 1]﻿

COMMENTS.

	It is a sort of query in the minds of the people,
why the President of the United States has not
specially singled out and mentioned Utah in his
late message. Those most deeply interested in
the welfare and prosperity of Utah and its people,
accept it as a specimen of the good sense and
sound policy of the Chief Executive of the nation,
that he refrained from joining in the general out-
cry against this already much abused and maligned
Territory, in his annual message. Surely there are
laws enough already against those deemed fit sub-
jects for his special measures, and officers author-
ized to enforce them, and a court that interprets
the laws to "fit the cases." What more, in all
conscience, can anybody want? The representa-
tives of the "Liberal" party were on hand at the
great capitol before the message was completed,
no doubt, and would have been more than willing
to give Mr. Cleveland advice in regard to what he
ought to say about Utah.
	Congress don't seem to be fixing up Utah affairs,
either, and unless something is developed soon,
what will become of the two dignitaries who went
away so jolly-hopeful of impressing Congress and
the President with the immediate necessity of hav-
ing something done to give them and their clique
an opportunity to display their patriotism and
loyalty in defense of the rights of the "liberal"
party as against the veritable citizens of the Terri-
tory, who came here when there was no vestige of
civilization, and planted the American flag on the
Rocky Mountains in this vicinity.
	While the home-loving and industrious "Mor-
mons" are defending their rights, human and
divine, to the best of their ability, and trying, in
the midst of an accumulation of difficulties, to
facilitate the growth and progress of education,
manufacture and agriculture, and using their best
endeavors to maintain a footing in the land to
which they came a band of poor, humble exiles,
men who have lived in their midst, and who have
partaken liberally of the advantages accruing from
the economic manipulations of the early pioneers,
are ready and willing, yes, even anxious to go
down to Congress and rob the Mormons of the
few rights not yet taken away. Why these few
men in office here should so vigorously pursue
the "Mormons to the death," would seem incredible
if one had not strong and unmistakable evidence.
If  there were not so many meddlers in Utah
affairs, it is barely possible the people of Utah
might have a short respite, a breathing space in
the attack the opposition is waging, but every now
and then one of the political clique pops up with
some new remedy for the terribie evils that they
represent exist here in Utah, when the fact is that
the people are not at all in need of a remedy where
all is peace and tranquility, or would be, were it
not for such men and women as have come here
on purpose to despoil the people of their rights
and possesions.
	And not content with seeking to wrest political
power and influence, and "lobbying at Washing-

[Column 2]

ton, women, have professed great interest in
reforming the morals of the Mormon people,
whereas, at home, in their own towns and cities,
their moral influence is doubtless greatly needed;
and the money they are so anxious to obtain could
be used to good advantage in actually relieving
want; it certainly could in the District of Colum-
bia. The combined efforts of those ladies who
have associated themselves together, and incor-
porated articles to establish an "Industrial
Home," will fail to have any effect upon the religion
of "Mormon" women; Congress and the President
may rest assured of that, and plural wives will
never place themselves under their direction, and
their HOME will stand empty unless filled by
others than women who can be induced to re-
nounce any principle of their religion.
	The same disappointment awaits all those who
are advocating their various methods to overthrow
a principle and order of marriage, that is as eter-
nal as the heavens, and as far above their compre-
hension.
	There has been a great disappointment in the
ranks of the enemy lately, in their failure to con-
vict President Angus M. Cannon, and that is
only a beginning of the crosses they will have to
endure in seeing their wisdom come to naught.
They have woven a fine web to catch the silly
"Mormons," so they think, but it is flimsy and
will break in pieces; it has no strength nor solidity.
It is a web of lies and deceit, which they have set
as a snare, but though here and there one may get
entangled in its meshes, the Lord will stretch
forth His hand, as He has promised, and the evil
they desire to do will be averted, and they will fall
into the snare they have set for the Saints of God.
If such people would observe the Mormon creed
—"Mind your own business"—peace and happi-
ness might be restored in the homes of the Saints,
and the government of the United States might
save the money now expended in employing men
to hunt down Mormon men and plural wives. It
is a marvel that the tax paying public of these
United States are willing that public money
should be appropriated for such unnecessary pur-
poses as establishing a home for women who are
already better off than the great majority of the
women of the nation; but they will see, by and
bye, how foolish this scheme is, and wish the
money had been kept for some laudable purpose.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Some minutes of conferences, and other matter
of that kind, has been laid by until another issue,
as we cannot well devote more than one page of
each paper to reports of organizations.
	A THEATRICAL entertainment is to be given at
the theatre by the Old Folks' Committee, on Fri-
day afternoon, a matinee, and also in the evening.
"Confusion" is the title of the piece to be pre-
sented, and it will be sure to please the old folks,
as it is very showy in stage appointments, and not
wanting in character acting.
	THE Old Folks' Committee are energetic work-
ers, and deserve to be popular, as they certainly
are, for the interest they manifest, and the pains
they take to please and happify those who have
not the opportunity, for various reasons, of asso-
ciating socially and partaking of the enjoyments
and amusements of life, like those who are younger
and stronger physically. Success to the Old
Folks Committee and "blessings on them," for the
good they have done, and the happiness they have
given to the aged fathers and mothers in Israel,
widows and orphans. Let the good work con-
tinue, for it is a praiseworthy one.
	TO the subscribers of the EXPONENT we wish to
state that the pictures of Mother Smith, promised
during the holidays, have not yet been received
from New York, where the work had to be done

[Column 2]

but we have ordered them by express, which wil
bring them quicker and safer than coming by
freight, and as soon as they arrive we will forward
them to the persons for whom intended. It will
take some time to mail so many carefully, and in
places where there is an agent it will be more con-
venient to send all together to her for distribution,
but where single copies are taken, each one will
have to be put up and mailed separately. Care
will be taken that the picture may not be creased or
defaced in any way. We are very sorry that they
are not ready to issue with this number of the
paper, but on our part it is wholly unavoidable.
	CHRISTMAS preparations are being made by the
merchants and shopkeepers, and the great display
of holiday goods gives the city a decidedly cheer-
ful and business like appearance. Christmas trees
and holly are for sale in various parts of the town,
and the greengrocers and butchers seem to have
taken special pains to decorate, and they have not
failed in the attempt, either. The large window
in the Z. C. M. I. makes a fine show in the grocery
department, and Savage's Art Bazar makes an ele-
gant and artistic showing of books, pictures and
fancy goods in his line. Dwyer has a very elabor-
ate assortment of toys and little articles of every
sort for Christmas gifts, as well as an excellent
variety of books, well chosen, and appropriate
for holiday presents, and a full and complete stock
of goods, which cannot fail to give satisfaction to
the purchasers. Pembroke has a fine variety also
of this style of goods, and however fastidious the
purchaser may be, he will be able to choose from
the large assortment of goods and notions in Salt
Lake. Teasdel's the Eagle House, always makes
a fine display of goods at very reasonable prices,
and they serve their customers with the utmost
politeness. Their Christmas decorating and orna-
menting is neat and in good taste, and one is sure
of a good article if purchased at this very popular
house. Whatever is wished, the one thing need-
ful is the means, and it is better to be economical
even in the matter of giving, as it is not so much
the gift itself one esteems, as the spirit and feeling
that accompanies it. In the primitive days in the
valley, when everything was home made, and the
children played with rag dolls almost exclusively,
they were quite as happy and contented as the
little folks are now with the variety of toys of all
kinds, and so much candy and sweetmeats.


GENERAL DANIEL H. WELLS.

	Next in rank, in the hierarchy of the Latter-day 
Saints, to the Presidency of the Mormons is Daniel
H. Wells, whose portrait we publish to-day. In
Gentile circles the veteran of the Church is still
spoken of as a "Danite," and a "Destroying
Angel," for the fiction of that avenging Vehm-
gericht dies hard. Among the Mormons, how-
ever, he is known as General of the Utah Militia
—no longer extant, at any rate, on paper—and
Second Counselor to the Apostles. It is in the
latter capacity that he has addressed to us the
letter which will be found on another page.
	A very remarkable man is General Wells. Rug-
ged of countenance, laconic in speech, of com-
manding stature, he is always a striking figure in
the meetings of his people, while his qualities of
mind have made him one of the most conspicu-
ously distinguished characters in their history.
Well born, and descended from men who have
held the highest offices in the Eastern States, he
began his own official career under good auspices
and at a very early age. His father, however,
died when he was a mere lad, and the widow, sell-
ing her landed estate, migrated to Illinois. At
the age of twenty-one he had so won the confi-
dence of his fellow citizens that he was made a
justice of the peace, and to a very singular extent
filled a position as general umpire and arbitrator
in disputes of all kinds between all classes and


creeds of people, that has its only parallel in the
Cazi of Eastern cities. When thus rapidly rising
to place and power he came into contact with
Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, who,
with his people, had been hunted out of Missouri
by a mob of fanatics who murdered women and
little children. Young Wells, with that severely
just American spirit which distinguished him, was
furious at the inhuman treatment which the
wretched people had received. He was not a
man of any sentiment, but the sight of the harm-
less Mormons hunted with bloodshed out of the
townships which they had built up with honest
industry by bands of vagabond bigots, made him
so indignant that he extended to them all the pro-
tection his position enabled him to do. Again the
Mormons established themselves, and again they
were broken up by combinations of loafers and
fanatics. It was then that Daniel Wells threw in
his lot with the persecuted people. He took a
leading part in the battle of Nauvoo, and his
white charger is as familiar in Mormon chronicles
as any other historical war-horse; and, upon the
surrender of the city, it was he who covered the
retreat of the Saints, and manoeuvred them across
the river. Ever since then he has been a pillar of
the Church; and the Americans will never forgive
him for the part he took; under Brigham Young's
orders, as commander-in-chief of the Mormon
troops when the Federals sent down an army to
coerce the Saints in 1857.—Court and Society Re-
view.
	London, England, October 14, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HAVE THE MORMONS ANY RIGHTS?

	Joseph Smith, Jun., the Latter-day Saints'
Prophet, predicts, among many other occurrences,
the coming of a time when the Constitution of the
United States would be practically worthless be-
cause of a violation of its principles that contend-
ing political parties might gain a temporary advan-
tage, to make way for subversive expediencies,
and to satisfy the clamor and unrighteous appetite
of a headstrong nation. He predicted further,
that the Mormons would defend that Constitution;
and though driven, persecuted, despoiled and
murdered under its protection, they would even-
tually rescue and rehabilitate it, and offer an asy-
lum to the oppressed and God-fearing of all na-
tions. The painful fulfillment of the greater por-
tion of this prophecy, stamps—if there were no
other proof—Joseph Smith gifted with almost
divine foresight. And this I shall prove section
by section, article by article.
THE FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof." Every Act passed by Congress
which directly or indirectly affects the religious
principle of Mormon plural marriage is a clear
and incontrovertible violation of this article of
the Constitution. Polygamy is an integral part of
the Mormon faith. It is a sacrament. The
United States' officers have themselves so declared
it. Not only has the Constitution been infringed,
but, in order to justify the enactments against the
Mormon faith, Congress has been compelled to
declare that "Mormon" polygamy is not religion,
and in that very declaration have legislatively
stated what is religion; for to say what is not is
emphatically to declare what is religion. No
power exists under the Constitution which gives
the right to force Mormons to accept a system of
marriage foreign and repugnant to their faith be-
cause it happens to be the pet method of modern
and existing Christianity.
	In clause 3, Sec. 9, Art. 1, we read,
"NO BILL OF ATTAINDER OR EX POST FACTO
LAW SHALL BE PASSED."
But the Edmunds Law of March, 1882, says that

[Column 2]

"if a citizen believes it right for a man to have
more than one living and undivorced wife at the
same time, or to live in the practice of cohabiting
with more than one woman," this "shall be suffi-
cient cause of challenge to any person drawn or
summoned as a juror or talesman." Thus, without
even the farce of a trial, a man is deprived of a
right that belongs to him as a citizen. This is at-
tainder—this, the Constitution distinctly forbids.
Moreover, the Edmunds' Law forbids any polyg-
amist voting at any election, and declares him
"ineligible for election or appointment to any
place of public trust, honor, or emolument;" and to
carry this out Commissioners were appointed who
"reversing the presumption of law and declaring
the whole population to be guilty, proceeded to
convict individuals by a test oath of their own
fabrication,', and thus, without trial, they are de-
prived of a right, which Judge Black says is the
inalienable part of citizenship. It is both attain-
der and ex poste facto, operating against those
who entered polygamy long before opposing meas-
ures were ever dreamt of. Section 8 of the Edmunds
Law regarding the holding of offices is a most
painful and palpable infraction of the sixth article
and third clause of the Constitutional Amend-
ments. "No religious test shall ever be required
as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States."
	Article VI. of Amendments provides that
"IN ALL CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS
the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and
and public trial by an impartial jury of the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been
committed." This provision the fifth section of
the Edmunds Bill contravenes by excluding from
a jury any man who may even believe it right for
another to have two wives living and undivorced
at the same time; and as there are, notoriously,
only two classes in Utah—Mormons, and those
who hate them heartily—an impartial jury is an ab-
solute impossibility. As a result, the arrest of a
Mormon is equivalent to conviction. Proof of the
act which consummates marriage is not necessary
to conviction. If a man has lived apart from his
wives for an indefinite period, but fails to disown
them, he is convicted. Marshal Fred Dubois, of
Idaho Territory, admitted under oath, before the
Court of which he was an important officer, that
he had made use of the language here given: "I
have now got a jury that will convict every Mor-
mon brought before it on a charge of unlawful co-
habitation, innocent or guilty. It would convict
Jesus Christ himself if he were brought into Court
on that charge." The crusade is a religious one,
in every respect. It is not only unconstitutional,
but anti-constitutional; but the United States' Su-
preme Court has sustained and continues to sus-
tain these fatal violations of the Constitution.
JUDGE BLACK, THE GREATEST DEMOCRATIC CON-
STITUTIONAL LAWYER OF HIS AGE, 
referring to this act in a speech before the Judici-
ary Committee of the House of Representatives,
February 1, 1883, predicted: "To carry into effect
the laws already passed, it is necessary and proper
that you should have a police force composed of
spies and delators, who will thrust themselves
into the kitchens and bed-chambers of all families;
employ eavesdroppers, who will watch them at
keyholes and windows; or in default of that,
change the rules of evidence (as a committee of
the Senate has actually proposed), and compel the
lawful husband and wife to testify against one
another in contemptuous defiance of the great
principles which protect the sanctities of the
family, and lie at the basis of civil society." This
warning has been realized to the very letter, not
only as to spies, but to forcing the lawful wife to
testify against the husband. Scarcely a day passes
that does not witness the degrading fulfillment of
Mr. Black's ptediction; against this, also, the

[Column 3]

fourth article of the Constitution stands. It pro-
vides that "The right of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses,papers, and effects against
unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be
violated." Sick women and tender children, at
all hours of the day and night, are dragged by
coarse and vulgar officers from their beds, forced
to give evidence against the husband and father,
and subjected to such vile and indecent question-
ings as would cause the blush of shame to mount
to the cheek of a libertine; and this, too, in open
Court, before vulgar mobs, by the demand of the
public prosecutor, and with the countenance and
sanction of the judge. It is impossible that Eng-
lishmen could comprehend the infamous depth to
which the prostitution of justice has gone in
America where the Mormons are concerned..
	Article 2 of the Amendment says:—
"NO PERSON FOR THE SAME OFFENCE SHALL
BE TWICE
put in jeopardy of life or limb." But Lorenzo
Snow was three times convicted for the one offense,
unlawful cohabitation. The only proof against
him was furnished by himself, wherein he admitted 
having more than one woman to be entitled to the
name of wife. He had never violated the Ed-
munds Law. That was distinctly proven. Yet,
he is now suffering imprisonment under three con-
victions for the same offence. By a system of
segregation, if a man live with two women as his
wives for one month, according to the rulings of
the lesser and sanction of the higher Courts, he
may be convicted, in the discretion of the court,
for an offence for every hour. Thus, allowing
thirty days in the month, a man could be sent to
jail for a period of 360 years, and be fined £34,200
whereas the law puts the extreme penalty at six
months’ imprisonment and £60 fine. Besides, this
action necessarily involves the infraction of still
another constitutional principle (Article 8 of the
amendments) that "excessive fines" shall not be
imposed, "nor cruel and unusual punishments in-
flicted." The first part of this article reads: "Ex-
cessive bail shall not be required." Yet Geo. Q.
Cannon, one of the first Presidency of the Church,
was arrested under three indictments for unlawful
cohabitation. If, on trial, he were convicted, and
the extreme penalty which the law provides were 
inflicted, he could have been imprisoned for
eighteen months and fined £180. He demanded
to be admitted to bail, but before being released
the judge required him to furnish the unimpeach-
able security to the sum of £9,000. The custom-
ary bail in cases of manslaughter, assaults, and
forgery is from £100 to £300; but, because of his
prominence, Mr. Cannon had to give £9,000. The
Constitution says: "Excessive bail shall not be
required." And this is a country where liberal in-
stitutions and freedom are the basis upon which
the Constitution and Government are founded,
and where all men are equal!
THE MORMONS,
though citizens of the United States,
ARE ALLOWED NO MILITIA.
The legislation against them is special and class;
the rules of evidence have been outrageously per-
verted and practically destroyed; the fundamental
right of local self-government is largely denied
them; attempts are being made to rob and despoil
them as a religious community, and this with the
weight of sanction which the United States Con-
gress gives, and to deprive them of the last ves-
tige of citizenship; the organic law which the
parent Government gave them has by that authori-
ty been viciously violated; test-oaths are imposed,
no constitutional provision behind which they
could take the slightest refuge has been respected.
They are harassed, and worried, and hounded,
and despoiled of liberty, property, peace, and
character, by a set of impecunious, incapable,


ignorant, fanatical and dishonest, blackguards;
who, under the sanction of the "greatest Govern-
ment on earth," would rob, malign, and assassin-
ate them literally as they have done to their-
characters.'
	To crown all, a new proposition has been made
in Congress with the approval and applause of the
leading newspapers, to pass an amendment to the
Constitution, making it constitutional to deal with
the subject of polygamy. If the laws already
passed, and now doing such effective work against
polygamy, are constitutional, why this proposed
amendment? But if the proposed amendment be
necessary to justify anti-polygamic legislation,
what becomes of the enactments already passed,
now in full operation, and which the United
States Supreme Court has held to be constitu-
tional? If these acts are constitutional, the pass-
ing of the proposed amendment is like saying,
"We did right in doing what we have done, and
now we will make it more right by saying we did
right in doing right;" which is sheer and unmiti-
gated idiocy. Inconsistency is the inevitable and
invariable result of departure from principle. The
inconsistency may be long delayed, but it is of
unerring certainty. No truth could be more clear-
ly exemplified than in the dealing of American
statesmen (save the mark!) with the Mormon
problem.
	How long will a Government last, when men
who profess to love it can sanction its prostitu-
tion.
	How much respect can a Government claim
where it shakes its angry locks over the imprison-
ment of a common brawler, and threatens a war
unless he is released, as in the case of the man
Catting held recently by Mexico, and yet pays no
heed to the wail and petition of 200,000 of its op-
pressed and down-trodden citizens at home,
whose only desire is that their charge of insuffer-
able grievances may be investigated? In this un-
hallowed and unconstitutional persecution the
Mormons, in defending their own rights, are fight-
ing the battle of human liberty and constitutional
rights, and seem to be the only friends the Con-
stitution has left. When grave and thoughtful
men, who live in and love America, who are
among its chief intellectual and literary lights,
freed from the prejudices and the excitement inci-
dental to active political strife, hold it to be merely
a question of time, when it shall be disrupted and
overthrown because, of internal and political im-
morality, the weight of, Joseph Smith's prophecy,
that the end hastens, receives a weight of testi-
mony that should make those who are wise in
their generation pause.
		D. H. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake of Zion was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday,
Dec. 9th, 1886, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, the Secre-
tary called the roll; sixteen presidents, six
counselors, one treasurer and three teachers re-
sponded, representing twenty-six branches.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted, after which a very affectionate and
interesting communication was read by the
Secretary from the President, E. R. S. Smith.

To the officers and members of the Relief So-
	ciety of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, in Con-
	ference assembled, President M. I. Horne
	presiding.

BELOVED SISTERS:
	Not anticipating the pleasure of being with

[Column 2]

you in person to-day, I feel that I shall be
with you in spirit, and take the liberty to ad-
dress you through the medium of pen, ink and
paper—very briefly, being aware that your
time is very limited.
	I thank our Heavenly Father that I am as-
sociated with you, not only in the precious and
everlasting bonds of the glorious Gospel of
the Prince of peace, but also in the sacred,
God-revealed organization of the Relief Society,
which places us in position to accomplish more
good, both temporally and spiritually, than
otherwise would be possible. The performing
labors of love and duty, relieving the wants of
the poor—administering to the sick—lifting up
those who are bowed down—strengthening the
weak—encouraging the desponding—arousing
the dormant, etc., etc., is productive of the
purest and noblest pleasure enjoyed in mortal
life.
	May you, my sisters, in this Conference, real-
ize a copious refreshing from the presence of
God. May the spirit of instruction, consola-
tion, love and union rest on those present—
every heart be cheered, and each soul resolve
anew to draw closer to God, and lean firmly on
Him, that you may see beyond the dark cloud
that rises before us, and rejoice in prospect of
the blessing that comes after the tribulation.
May the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, be your
constant companion, and you be enabled to ac-
knowledge the hand of God in all things.
What He will not overrule for the good of the
Saints, He will avert.
	Your Sister, 
		E. R. Snow Smith.
	Thursday morning, Dec. 9, 1886.

	The first seventeen wards of the city, and
Pleasant Green, were represented in their
order, and the showing was particularly good
so far as activity in benevolent work is con-
cerned, and a desire to be diligent and faithful.
	Prest. Horne made some timely suggetions,
and encouraged the sisters to perform every
duty and be firm and steadfast. 
	Morning session closed with singing the
doxology, and benediction by Mrs. M. McMas-
ter.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
the 18th, 19th, 20th, Sugar House, Farmers,
Big Cottonwood, South Cottonwood, Draper
and North Jordan Wards were represented; all
in a very prosperous condition financially, and
an increase in memebrs and endeavors to do
good.	
	Prest. Horne addressed the sisters for a
short time, referring to many important mat-
ters, and giving much good counsel. She
stated that she was on hand to visit any  of
the branches in the Stake when  the sisters
could make arrangements for her to go. Ad-
vised the sisters to consider the weather at this
season and try to have these meetings when the
people could come out. She gave some instruc-
tions to the sisters upon washing and anointing
the sick, as some had understood that those
who ministered in these ordinances must be
specially set apart, otherwise it was not in the
proper order; told them that this was an errone-
ous impression; all good, Latter-day Saints,
who had received their blessings, in the house
of the Lord might officiate when called upon.
	Coun. E. S. Taylor presented the names of
the Central Board, and the presiding officers
of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and all
were sustained in position by unanimous vote.
The presidents and officers of each branch in
the Stake, as now enrolled, were also sustained.
Coun. E. S. Taylor was glad to hear that the
members of the Society in its several branches
were improving spiritually and temporally;
glad to find interest in the Society increasing
among the people. She made some very excel-
lent remarks upon  talking and gossipping
about other people's affairs, and urged the sis-

[Column 3]

ters to try and refrain from these things and
"mind our own business."
	Mrs. M. W. Snow made a few remarks; said,
"Let us all try and be more cautious, more
wise and more silent upon sacred things; keep
things that are holy in our own bosoms, and
pray for wisdom. We have persecution, but
the hand of the Lord is in it, and the time is
drawing nigh when the Son of Man shall 
come. Who is ready to welcome Him? Let
us be merciful, even as our Father In heaven
is merciful, and aim to attain to that which we
were placed here for, even eternal life."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells expressed herself as glad
of being associated with the Relief Society;
bore her testimony to the truth of the Latter-
day work. Said, "Let us observe the Savior's
teaching, to do unto others as ye would that
others should do unto you.'" Said she had
read and believed the truest politeness was that
which the Savior taught—"whatsoever ye
would that men should do unto you, do ye
even so unto them." Thought we should be kind 
and tender to each other, and never wound the
feelings of anyone knowingly. Spoke of the 
subscription for the family of one of the
brethren in Arizona, who had been an Indian
interpreter, and had died, leaving his family
in poor circumstances; invited the sisters who
could to contribute even ever such a small
sum.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox bore testomony to the
truth of the Gospel, and rejoiced to be num-
bered with the Saints.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "Let us be watchful
all the time, and let us not do any unnecessary
talking, and not speak of things that would
hurt any one's feelings; let us live so that we
can bless each other and do good to each other,
and seek to do our duty at all times."
	Dr. E. R. Shipp: "I can say of a truth that
I know this to be the work of God; let us put
into practice the instructions we have heard;
it is not what we hear. but what we do by
which we shall be judged. I often think we
could hardly live if it were not for the Gospel;
those that leave this church are very miserable; 
they have nothing to live for."
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp: "Let us be careful
not to hurt each other's feelings, but overcome
this propensity of speaking harshly and judg-
ing others, and let us be more kind and tender
and merciful, that we, too, may obtain mercy.
I am one with you, my sisters, and wish all the
time to do what is right."
	Prest. Horne entreated the sisters to be
awake to duties, and not be caught napping
"Cultivate the Spirit of the Lord. It is a
good thing to have a fund on hand in each So-
ciety, and not expend all. It might be called 
a relief fund. Let the teachers be sure that
no one belonging  to the  families of those
brethren who are in prison is neglected, or
suffers for any comfort." She was glad the
brethren had appointed meetings on the blocks;
"they will do a great deal of good; our
young people will have an opportunity to hear
the testimonies of the brethren and sisters.
We have to be diligent for ourselves. We
cannot borrow the Spirit of the Lord; we must 
have it in our own hearts; every means is made
use of by our enemies to annoy and distress us.
I want to say a few words about this "Indus-
trial Home," that our enemies are getting up
for the "down-trodden women of Utah." We
don't want any of our poor taken care of by
the Gentiles; we take care of our poor our-
selves. Let us not be overtaken by the snares
that are laid for our feet and the feet of our
children. Let us guard them and guide them.
The Lord looks favorably upon his daughters,
and it is our privilege to know that we are in-
deed His daughters." Referred to the daughters
of Zelophehad, mentioned in Scripture, who
asked concerning their inheritance, and even
Moses was not able to answer them, but in-


quired of the Lord, who instructed him to give
them inheritances with their brethren, showing
He acknowledged their rights and privileges.
Prest. Horne closed with an earnest desire that
we might have grace sufficient for our day.
Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, "The time is far spent." Benediction
by the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard.

Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Synopsis of minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference of this Stake of Zion, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Dec. 10, 1886, Coun.
M. Y. Dougall presiding.) After the usual
opening exercises, reports of the several asso-
ciations were given. Nearly every association
in the city was represented, but very few of
those in the country, probably on account of
the disagreeable weather. The reports plainly
showed that the young people were taking
more interest in their meetings than ever be-
fore; in the programmes for exercises, as given,
there is a decided preference shown for testi-
mony meetings, and to aid those who are diffi-
dent in speaking subjects are often given, and
the members are allowed to write their
thoughts and read them. Twelve manuscript
papers were reported.
	The Stake Board was represented by Coun.
Nellie Colebrook, who expressed her pleasure 
at the condition of the Officers' meetings; there
was now a larger attendance than had ever
been before.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt gave the financial report of
the Stake.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor explained the use of the
Stake fund, and urged the presidents to have
their accounts kept accurately. Meeting ad-
journed till 2 p.m. with singing and prayer.
(Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
Coun. Dougall made the opening address. She
spoke of never having had  any marvelous
manifestations to convince her that this is the
work of God, but many little things tended to
prove the truth of this Gospel, and that she
now feels it in her inmost soul.
	This subject of testimonies was followed by
the other speakers, Mrs. Mattie H. Tingey and
Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor, who felt that they
daily received manifestations to assure them
of the divinity of this work, but thought we
were apt to be careless and overlook them.)
	Mrs. B. W. Smith referred to the time when
she received her endowments, and said although
the sons of the Prophet deny that the ordin-
ances were performed in the days of their
father, she was a witness to the contrary. She
had also heard the Prophet speak of plural 
marriage, and knew that it was revealed to
him.
	Mrs. Mary P. Young made a few remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. M. I. Horne. She
advised the young women to read the Bible
and converse upon religious subjects, and be-
come better posted. She felt God honored his
handmaidens, for He gave a revelation for
Emma Smith, in which she was told to teach
and expound the Scriptures.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt thought our religion the
best, and that it compared with the Bible better
than any other. Referred to the inconsist-
encies of the Methodists; spoke of conversations
she had had with Gentiles upon these subjects.
An interesting letter from Prest. Mary A.
Freeze was then read.
	(Mrs. Clara James spoke in the gift of tongues,
and was listened to by an almost breathless
audience, and Mrs; Rida C. Taylor, who had
never before addressed an assembly of the
Saints, gave the interpretation.
	A few remarks were made by Coun. Nellie
Colebrook, expressing her gratitude for the
meeting, and that she obtained a strong testi-
mony, and thought that everyone there had.
	Conference adjourned for three months with 
singing and prayer.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:	
	I have intended for some time to send you
some leaves from my journal hoping a few ex-
tracts will be interesting to your readers.
	My parents joined the Church in Ohio and
came to Nauvoo when I was four years old.
Since then my life has been identified with 
this people. I came to this valley in 1847, the
first year of its settlement, consequently my 
knowledge of the great world outside of the
mountains has been somewhat limited.
	It had long been my darling ambition to 
visit once more the land of my nativity and
the relatives of my parents. I had held cor-
respondence with the older ones of the families,
but those of my own age I knew very little
about. They were passing away one by one
until all were gone but one on each side of our
house. My father's sister and my mother's sis-
ter were all that remained of that generation.
	On the 14th of April, 1885, I started out
with a company of missionaries to visit my
friends in the east. It seemed a great under-
taking to start alone on such a journey. I felt
safe as far as New York and after that I would
trust to providence. With my husband's bless-
ing and the kind wishes of my friends, I left
the depot at Provo at one p.m. Spring was
early, and the fields were already green with
grain and lucern, the orchards were in bloom, 
and the valley looked like a vast garden, and
the air was laden with perfume. Passing into
Spanish Fork Canon, the change is soon felt.
The air is quite cool and snow is on the
ground.
	Soldier's Summit, 3 p.m. We have passed
through the snow sheds and left an engine—it
required two engines to bring us up the hill.
We leave Spanish Fork River, after which the
water sheds the other way and we are over the
rim of the basin. Rain is falling, and the
mountains are white with snow.
	Castle Gate, 4:15 p.m. Raining hard; the 
scenery is grand; the rocks look as if they had
been broken open on purpose for us to pass
through. Immense cliffs rise above the track,
and look as though they might fall and crush
us in atoms. The rocks and hills as we pass
look very picturesque. One can imagine them
feudal castles. Terraces and battlements rise
one above another, solid and impregnable—
huge monuments of God's power, contrasted
with man's feebleness and decay. The scenery 
is wild and grand, and baffles my powers of
description. The tops of the mountains are
flat, and extend back as far as the eye can
reach, only broken here and there by additional 
castles and turrets or towers. We pass a set-
tlement of seven houses.
	Another small town called Price. There is
a nice station house. We are in Castle Valley.
It seems mostly hills and hollows, interspersed
with the gigantic castellated rocks, from which
the valley is named, and which impresses the
idea that it has at some period of time been
inhabited by a race of Titans or giants, and
that these have been their fastnesses or strong
holds. 5:35, Sunny Side; so called because the
sun shines there sometimes. The valley grows
narrower, and we enter a canon.
	Grassy Trail, 5:45. A few spears of grass
are said to grow here. Water runs down the
rocks from snow melting on the mountains, and
Price River is very muddy. Lower Price is a
very pleasant station, terraced rocks rising on
one side to a great height. Looks as if it had
stormed here all day.
	Wednesday, the 15th, 5:35 a.m. Cimeron.
Twenty minutes for breakfast. Bro. Nelson
makes some tea in our tin cups on the heating
stoves for Sister Harrison and I. We eat
breakfast from our lunch baskets and feel re-

[Column 2]

freshed. We made ourselves as comfortable as
possible in our reclining chairs, but I think
none of us slept very soundly. It stormed
hard and was very dark, and many a yawning
chasm waited the least misstep of our iron
horse. The fires went out and we were rather
cold. Every little while some one would speak
then a general conversation would follow.
Some complained of cold, some asked the time,
while others turned over and tried to look out
into the darkness. After three o'clock I went
to sleep, and waked at daylight to find that we
were on the tops of the mountains, the ground
covered with snow. 
	Leaving Cimeron, we came to the Royal
Gorge, where the rocks tower to a great height
on each side of us. A rock has fallen on the
track, and the train is run back behind a curve
while it is blasted and cleared away. It is
marvelous how the ingenuity of man could
make a road over these awful mountains; and
to think that we should travel so quietly along,
up and down, where the rocks almost meet
over our heads, and look as if they might drop
on us any moment and crush us from existence.
It is called the Black Canon of the Gunnison;
and black and dismal it looks, except the tops
of the mountains, which are covered with snow,
The road seems cut in the side of the rocks,
while the river foams and dashes below us.
The telegraph wires are fastened to the rocks,
it being impossible to set poles for many miles.
It is not storming to-day, but the wind blows
so cold that we cannot use the observation car,
where we could get a better view of the scenery.
Some of the men button their overcoats and
go out a little, but I do not venture.
	Stop a few minutes at Curicanto. We hear
another blast, and suppose there must be
another rock in the way. An engine runs
ahead of the train, presumably to look out for
danger. 
	Sapinero, 8:10. Cloudy, but not storming.
We are out of the gorge or canon, which is fif-
teen miles long. The mountains are low, but
look high ahead of us. There is quite a distin-
guished company in our end of the car. It in-
cludes an artist, a poet, two bishops and a
professor. Gunnison, 9:15. Croylan, snow
covers the ground and is still falling. Crocks,
10:15. Ground covered with snow. It grows
monotonous. Sargent, 10:25, a mining town.
Shawano, 11:15. We are winding around the
tops of the mountains, so high. Away above
the clouds are some of them, for there are still
plenty above us. Such a fearful height can 
only be realized by looking at the awful chasms 
below us. Here are snow sheds; twenty-three
in succession, with scarcely a minutes ride be-
tween them. It is called "Marshall Pass," and
seems on the very tops of the mountains, but 
there are higher mountains in the distance to
the left. We look down on the tops of tall
fir trees. It is fearful to look down so many
thousands of feet. I shall never forget the im-
pression.
	To be Continued.


﻿THREE WOMEN MINISTERS.

EDITOR WOMAN'S JOURNAL:
	Our city has been quite excited over the
ordination, of Miss Ida C. Hulten. A large
and fashionable audience gathared in the
Unitarian Church, on the 10th inst., to witness
her installation as pastor of that congrega-
tion.
	It was a beautiful and deeply impressive
ceremony. Beautiful, because a woman minis-
ter stood in the pulpit ready to extend the
right hand of fellowship. In the joy and glad-
ness of her heart she extended both hands,
clasping in hers the hands of another woman
minister, and showing by this loving clasp how
willing women are to help one another. Rev.
Mary A. Spafford, of Sioux City, was fitly


chosen for this pleasant duty, and Rev. Marion
Murdock made the ordination prayer, in words
so tender and trusting that every heart was
touched. The sight of three women conse-
crated to the ministry made the ceremony
doubly impressive. The suffrage workers take
new courage and grow strong under such an
inspiration as this.
	MARIA S. ORWIG.
Des Moines, Iowa, Nov. 19, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	The friends and relatives of Sister Ann Mur-
dock, of Heber City, in honor and respect,
gave her a surprise on her fifty-seventh birth-
day, bringing with them picnic and presents.
There were speeches, songs and recitations, and
they all seemed to feel well and enjoy them-
selves.
	HARRIET LUKE.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	A large number of the Pleasant Green Relief
Society met at the house of their President,
Alvira Spencer Hirst, on her twenty-eighth
birthday, recently, and gave her a thorough
surprise.
	When we were all seated to partake of the
bounties of the earth, the Bishop presented her
with a handsome book, entitled; "History of
Salt Lake City," in behalf of the Relief So-
ciety. Our President was almost overcome
with surprise and gratitude, but she arose and
made a short speech, in which she thanked all
the sisters for showing so much love and re-
spect to her, although she did not feel herself
worthy of so much respect. 
	We had a very happy time, spending most
of the day and evening in singing, recitations,
etc. We had some very good remarks from
the bishop and his counselors; also some of the
other brethren.
		FANNY BROWN,
		FANNY JENKINS, Committee.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	It is rumored that a newspaper is to be
started in London, owned and run entirely by
women. Editors, reporters, proof-readers, com-
posers, stereotypers, and even the "devil" are
to be women or girls.
	The women of Wisconsin are hereafter to
vote upon school affairs. This amendment
was carried at the recent election by a majority
of 4543. Thus, quietly but surely, does the
world move along, and woman will be more
womanly when man recognizes her equal indi-
viduality and woman dares assume the high
prerogatives which this recognition involves.—
Unity.
	The National Woman Suffrage Association
has established a woman’s lecture bureau at
Chicago, with Mrs. I. H. Roby as manager.
She desires to get all first class lecturers to
place themselves in the hands of this bureau,
and would like them to have at least two lec-
tures on the suffrage question.  For further
particulars, address Mrs. I. H. Roby, No. 2106
Wabash Avenue, Chicago.
	Francis Minor has an article in the Decem-
ber Forum arguing that women have the right
to vote at Federal elections under the U. S.
Constitution, and that the Supreme Court of
the United States ought to revise its decision
to the contrary. It would be delightful if the
Supreme Court would do so, but until the
present judges die off and a new set come in,
there is not much hope of it.—Woman's Jour-
nal.


﻿Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 16, 1886:
	Maria E. Beasley, Philadelphia, Pa., Mak-
ing Barrels.
	Mary Lane, Hot Springs, Ark., Hose-nozzle-
holder.
	Susanna Oldberg, Washington, D. C., Rub-
ber boot.
	Florence M. Reynolds, Los Angelos, Cal.,
Adjustable Skirt-holder and Rack.
	Harriet W. R. Strong, Oakland, Cal., Win-
dow-sash holder.


Never deceive your children. The most
essential point in our intercourse with our
children is to be perfectly true ourselves.
Every other interest ought to be sacrificed to
that of truth. When we in any way deceive
a child, we not only show him a pernicious ex-
ample, but lose our own influence over him for-
ever. Parents cannot be too guarded in this
respect.—Mrs. J. M. Brining.


IN MEMORIAM.

	At a meeting of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City, held Dec. 8th, 1886, the following resolu-
tions were unanimously adopted:
	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Ann
Jenkins, First Counselor in the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, Salt Lake City, who died suddenly at her
residence, Nov. 13th, 1886, aged fifty-three years.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from us by the hand of death our beloved and respected
sister and co-laborer in the Relief Society, therefore,
	Resolved, By the members of the Relief Society of the
Fourth Ward, that in the death of Sister Ann Jenkins, we
have lost a wise counselor, true friend and faithful laborer
in the Relief Society; one who was ever patient, zealous in
her religion and faithful to every duty, and her many good
qualities will ever remain as a monument to her memory.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a true and loving wife, a kind and
affectionate mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed
on our minutes, printed in the WOMEN'S EXPONENT, and
a copy given to the bereaved family.
		Jane S. Smith,
		Susan M. Sperry, Committee.
		Mary A. Lambert,

	Thomas Biggs, son of Johnathan Biggs and Elizabeth
Edwards, born October 29th, 1815, in Bona, Inverness
Scotland. Married Syrina Billings Piercy in London
England, Dec. 25th, 1847. Baptised into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at Welling, Kent, Eng-
land, March 24th, 1848. Ordained a Priest April 16th,
1848, at Woolwich, Kent, to which branch they belonged.
Ordained an Elder August 29th, 1849. Emigrated to the
United States the same year. Came to Utah from Council
Bluffs in 1852. Settled in Provo that year and built a house,
then came to Salt Lake City and was ordained a Seventy,
and received into the Twenty-fifth Quorum of Seventies
April 17th, 1853, and moved his family to Salt Lake City
in May, 1853. Worked at blacksmithing on the Temple
Block. Received his endowments March 17th, 1854.
Moved to Sugar House Ward and worked with George
Bywater and others in building and fitting up Sugar House.
he came again to Salt Lake City and labored in the
Tithing department until the fall of 1858, then joined his
family in Provo, and worked in the Tithing Office, 1859,
then moved to Salt Lake City and again worked in the
Tithing Office, then moved again to Provo, and from
there went to the Promontory and worked on the railroad;
then to Weber Canyon; and labored on the Union Pacific
R. R then to the C. P. R. R., having worked on the
different railroads in all about four years. In 1873 moved
into the 16th Ward, Salt Lake City, and worked at his
trade, being a boiler-maker, and had charge of that depart-
ment for the Utah Central, which position he filled for
about four years, then being called on a mission to Arizona,
leaving Salt Lake City in 1877, and arriving in Arizona
March, 1878.
	Having had poor health for the last four years, he left for


Logan to continue his temple work, which he left unfinished,
but his health being so poor, on reaching Salt Lake City,
he stopped with his son-in-law, John Wm. Keddington, in
August, 1886, and departed this life Dec. 1st, 1886, having
labored faithfully for the cause of truth from the day of his
baptism until his demise, believing in the principles and or-
dinances of the Gospel as revealed through Joseph Smith
the Prophet.  He died like one going to sleep, without
even a gasp, in the hope of a glorious resurrection, leaving
a loving wife, eight children and twenty-nine grandchildren.
He was a devoted husband and a wise and tender parent.
	SYRINA B. BIGGS.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.

 East Temple Stre

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2, 	-  	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 40c,
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1, - $1,00 
		" Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 1.25
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, - 1.50


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1886.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]

MY CHRISTMAS GIFT.

It was Christmas morning, fair and bright,
	The happy day had come;
God's sunshine shed its golden light
	Alike on every one.

From many lands the merry bells
	A joyous greeting hurled,
Until a mellow, silver sound
	Encircled all the world.

I walked alone, in foreign land.
	For me no Christmas cheer,
I clasped in mine no friendly hand,
	No loved ones hovered near.

I marked how sweet on every face
	A smile of gladness beamed,
And wondered why to me alone
	The day all sadness seemed.

Wondering thus, I breathed a prayer-
	That some sweet hope be given
To lift my thoughts from worldly care.
	And draw me nearer heaven.

In answer to the silent wail,
	A heart-cry half expressed,
A wondrous calm fell o'er my soul—
	I knew that I was blessed.

As evening came, in happier mind, 
	I sought my lonely room.
Thinking in sleep the peace to find,
	In dreams the joy would come.

Not so, it was there before me,
	My precious Christmas gift,
Lighting the darkness around me.
	Casting my sadness adrift.

It was a letter, only a letter.
	But to me a priceless boon,
For its pages revealed glad tidings
	Of loved ones left at home.

With sacred touch I raised it,
	And I kissed it o'er and o'er.
For of all the gifts the day could bring,
	Not one would I love more.

As I read the gladsome message
	The tender words implied,
A picture rose before me
	Of the HOME at Christmas-tide.

And I saw the happy circle,
	All the loved ones gathered there.
And I heard the joyous greetings,
	That I knew I could not share.

The dance, the games, the frolic.
	The songs, the wondrous stories,
The laugh, the jest, the merriment,
	And all this day's sweet glories

Passed before me like a vision
	In the firelight’s flickering gleam,
Filling my soul with gladness—
	Oh, wondrous happy dream!

As I listened in my dreaming,
	One sweet voice I seemed to hear,
In faintest accents whisper,
	"Oh, would that he were here!"

My humble prayer was answered,
	I felt the sweet relief;
The dreary sorrow vanished,
	I knew no further grief.

[Column 2]

Oh, blessed day to every heart!
	May such sweet peace be given,
To cheer along the weary way,
	And bring us nearer heaven.

		SHIRLEY.


[Column 1]

﻿A NEW YEAR'S VISIT.

	In staid old New England, New Year's Day
is observed with considerable enthusiasm. Of
late years it has been and is customary to re-
ceive calls, but in the country villages, the
same simple habits prevail as formerly. I speak
from experience.
	There is no place on earth more beautifully
quiet, orderly and pleasant than an old
fashioned country home, and on New Year's
Day there is always good cheer and welcome
greetings for all. Friendly neighbors, with
glad faces, exchange brief visits and allude
to current topics, and everywhere plenty and
cheerfulness abound. The tables are loaded
with well cooked viands, and the great fires of
pine knots still glow upon the hearthstone and
cast the flickering shadows upon the dimly
lighted walls at eventide.
	To be sure the improved methods of heating
by means of radiators, etc., are in vogue in the
country places, but the real New Englander
always has one room "with rights reserved"
for a fireplace in which to burn the pine knots
on special occasions. Sitting by a fire of this
sort, with the smell of the woods around you,
for there is invariably the pine and hemlock
boughs hung in nooks and corners, one can
better recall the happy past and tell over again
the tales of other days, than in a room warmed
with steam and radiant with the light from
gas jets.
	No matter how good the bank account may
be of these country gentle folks, the same
primitive simplicity still characterizes many of
their homes, and in the rooms where the family
gatherings are held on Thanksgiving and New
Year's evenings, after the dinner has been
served, there is still a remnant, at least, of the
furniture of the olden time. Occasionally one
finds the "settle," on which six or seven people
may sit comfortably. They were invented in
the early days for ease and practical use, and
were found in the great kitchens and living
rooms, a century or more ago, and were in
keeping with the large wide open fire-places,
where our great-grandmothers used to roast
their turkeys and geese, and even young pigs,
on festive occasions, hung up before the fire
and turned round and round and "properly
basted," with a pan underneath on the hearth
to catch the gravy. They had not the modern
labor-saving contrivances in those days that we
have now in the poorest homes, and the great
wonder is how those dear old souls managed to
get through so much work. I have rattled on
so that I forgot to finish describing a "settle."
They are straight backed and very high, almost
like a partition, and perfectly solid. The
arms at each end are wide enough to set a
basket of fruit or a pitcher of cider, and the
seat has lids to lift up, in sort of sections all
the way along, in which nuts and apples are
kept for the winter evening's refreshments, in-
stead of going into the cellar or pantry to fetch
them.
	Every sort of quaint, old-time furniture is
brought out and displayed with a great deal of
pride since the centennial celebration.  In a
number of houses, where I visited last winter,

[Column 2]

I saw very queer old-style articles, gilded, orna-
mented and decorated with ribbons and trim-
mings. This rage for the antique is carried to
a foolish extreme, but the custom of sitting by
a fire of pine knots on a winter evening is sug-
gestive of stories, legends and ballads, such as
we all love to listen to at times, forgetting,
meantime, the eares and drudgery of the work-
a-day world. It is good to have such seasons of
enjoyment, and the simple pastimes, that
brought no undue excitement, are still in-
dulged in "away up in the country," and the
actual game of "fox and geese" on a board
marked off with chalk, and played with grains
of corn, is still played, occasionally, with the
same enthusiasm as it was hundreds of years
ago.
	To go back again after forty years of Western
life and meet with old friends, gives one a very
peculiar feeling. In some respects great
changes have taken place, and again, some
things never seem to have changed at all. Last
year I spent both Christmas and New Year's
in good old Massachusetts. Christmas in one
small factory town, and New Year's in another.
It was like going over some old romance, and-
I fairly reveled in the delight of meeting with
and visiting loved ones from whom I had been
so long and widely separated; and in going
over the scenes of childhood's days, there were
many things to tell, and no end of explana-
tions to be made, and questions to be answered,
and yet on Christmas and New Year's we
talked of the same themes and told the "old,
old stories" over again, and sung snatches of
love songs and ditties without meaning, just as
of yore, and to hear us, one would have sup-
posed we were the same glad, happy children,
except for the quiver in our voices, who clus-
tered round the family hearthstone more than
forty years ago; but had a true vision of the
olden time and of now been presented, what a
strange contrast the two pictures would have
made.
	One would be of a group of a dozen or
more around a clean-swept hearth, with a
bright, glowing wood fire, the mother wearing
a smile of sweet contentment, and the children
ranging from eighteen and twenty down to
"wee little ones;" boys and girls with bright,
happy faces, on which no cloud or shadow
seemed to have fallen. The room, long and
low, the walls of oak wood, paneled, carved
and smoothly polished; no ornaments, scarcely,
except the festooning of evergreen and hemlock
boughs. The chairs, spindle-legged and straight
backed, make one tired to look at them. A
long settee, with rockers, and half a dozen
children sitting in it—though one end is used
exclusively for baby's cradle. The children
teasing the mother or older sisters for stories,
and the young people too much occupied in
singing songs, telling riddles and conundrums
to notice the little ones. Who would think, in
looking at this gathering, that in a few years
the inmates would be scattered far and wide,
and never again sit by the same hearthstone,
and some never look into the faces of those so
near and dear—their very own "kith and kin."
Yet so it was; and so it is in this changeful life
with many a one. The old home! the memory
of it clings to us as long as we live, especially
if it be a home in the country—the orchards,
the pastures, the lanes, the groves, the brooks
the ponds, and above all the woods, haunt us in
dreams and meditative moments forever. The
thoughts aud feelings associated with the places


where we have roamed and the scenes through
which we have passed in tender years are all
too deeply engraven ever to be eradicated.
Bryon, in "The Dream," says, and truthfully,
too, what it seems to me applies to the beauti-
ful past as well, childhood's hours particularly:

	"They have a weight upon our waking thoughts,
	They take a weight from off our waking toils;
	They do divide our being; they become
	A portion of ourselves, as of our time;
	They pass like spirits of the past—they speak
	Like sybils of the future; they have power—
	The tyranny of pleasure and of pain;
	They make us what we were not—what they will,
	And shake us with the vision that's gone by."

	The other picture is of New Year's Eve,
1885, and a day of 1886, and is, indeed, not a 
shadow, but profound reality.
	It is almost like revisiting another world to
go back to the scenes of one's childhood after
more than forty year's absence. Meeting and
embracing brothers and sisters, whom one can-
not recognize, the feeling is a strange one in-
deed. There is something decidedly pitiful
in meeting those of one's own immediate family
and not knowing a feature or a tone of the
voice, though it does come back to you after-
wards, little by little. To be viewed from top
to toe, and every feature scanned critically,
and then to be told "You are not a bit like
yourself," is almost as comical as Mother
Goose's version of the little old woman who
was so bewildered and dazed that she ex-
claimed, "Lauk a mercy on me, this surely
can't be I."
	New Year's Eve I sat and watched the old
year out and new year in with my sister and
her husband in a cosy parlor in New England,
profusely decorated with fresh flowers,and ever-
greens from the pine woods near by. We
three sat around the fire together, as we three
shall never meet again in this life. We chatted
of the old and the new, the old Yankee cus-
toms and the new Western habits.
	How widely different the lives of those reared
under the same roof often are in their experi-
ences and development. How tame the lives
of some, how tempestuous those of others. Like
the ships that sail out on the great ocean, some
glide smoothly over, almost without an effort,
others encounter severe storms, and are tossed
about and beaten hither and thither.
	We talked of the past and the future, of our
strange meeting now, and of that other meet-
ing and greeting in the hereafter. New Year's
Day we called on dear friends of my sister's,
and some schoolmates of mine, who were per-
fectly familiar with my name, invariably call-
ing me "Emmie," and telling me incidents I
could not recall. There were real cousins, too,
whom I had never even seen, who furnished
me with historical data and stories of our fore-
fathers and foremothers, the half of which,
though it  was  told me, I cannot remember.
One thing I never shall forget—the perfume
of the pine and hemlock woods, through which
we drove, though it was the dead of winter,
and the ground white with snow, nor the sweet,
pale face of my darling sister, and the heavy
masses of her silvery silken hair, as she sat
and talked to me of our blessed mother and
the old, old home, of those that had gone, and
others who are scattered east and west, and of
the time when we should meet again, where
there will be no more sad partings.
		AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	We leave the snow sheds, at some of which
the section men tell us the snow is still thirty
feet deep. We wind around on the mountain,

[Column 2]

doubling on our track, going up aud down, but
still descending. We meet the western bound
train, and shortly after, looking out, we see it
traveling in the same direction as ourselves; it
turns a curve and is out of sight.
	Shirley, 12:30. Going down the cañon.
Poncha, 1 p.m. A lovely little valley and
pleasant little village. Salida, twenty minutes
for dinner; a nice little town, pleasantly situated.
A mining town, I should suppose, for there are
no gardens or trees, nor any sign of vegetation.
	3:30. Now we reach the Grand Cañon of
the Arkansas River. It is a dark, gloomy
gorge, with rocks towering to a great height
on either side. It is grand beyond description,
but my pen could not possibly convey an idea
of its appearance. Above us the jagged cliffs
and below us the roaring river. One moment
we are on trestle work, and the next turning a
curve so short that the engine looks as if it
would  meet the back end of the train. It
gives one a feeling of suspense to see how little
stands between us and eternity.
	Cañon City, 3:50.  Here we leave the Rocky
Mountains. The country is lovely as it meets
our view coming down the hill. One could
hardly imagine a lovelier view. The city is the
nicest I have seen since I left home; well laid
out with sidewalks and shade trees. Here the
country changes; the hills are solid piles of
white sandstone rising one above another. The
road passes between the rocks, which rise above
us on either side, and we see extensive stone
quarries, where people are working on the sides
of the hills with derricks and machinery for
moving the immense rocks which they quarry
for building or other purposes. There is some
picturesque scenery as we pass along. Occa-
sionally the ruins of an adobie house. Very
little population until we near the old town of
Pueblo, a town of considerable historical inter-
est for me, as here our Mormon Soldiers were
left when they could travel no further on that
long and memorable march, when they were
torn from their families to fight for the country
that was powerless or unwilling to protect
them. Here my husband staid with those
helpless ones, suffering from overwork, priva-
tion and disease.
	The town is a singular mixture of architec-
ture, from the cabins made by standing boards
or logs on end, and covering them with clay,
to immense brick houses, built in a square,
solid form, and having the same general ap-
pearance. It covers considerable country, but
I could gain no information, except what I saw
in passing. It is, however, different in style
from any city I have ever seen. Here we
change cars and take the Arkansas and Topeka
line. They are broad guage cars, but we miss
our chairs and are mixed up with strange peo-
ple. We feel this unpleasantly as we note the
appearance of some females who are drinking
beer and laughing and talking with loud voices.
	Thursday, April 16. 242 miles to Kansas
City, 6:30 a.m. How strangely everything
looks. No green trees, or fruit blossoms, or
fences or door yards. The town is called Nicker
sen, and is built entirely of frame or board
houses. Scarcely any farming is yet under
way.
	We made beds with our seats, and rested
some last night, though we were annoyed by
the conductor calling out to us the names of
the towns we passed. When we awoke this
morning the conductor told us we had got
down in God's country now. It struck me as
rather ludicrous. I told him we had just come
from God's country.  "Where was that?" "Up
in the tops of the Rocky Mountains." If God
did not own that country, I did not know who
did; I thought it was as near God as some of
us would ever get. Some one asked where we
were. "In sunny Kansas," was the reply. We
thought that a misnomer, for it was dark and
cloudy, and there was not a green tree, nor

[Column 3]

field of wheat, or lucern, or fruit blossom to be
seen.
	Hutchinson. A nice pleasant town, with
brick houses and broad streets; the door yards
are fenced, and there are some nice orchards.
It has a general business air, but no look of
spring. The general appearance of the coun-
try improves.
	Newton, 9 a.m. Twenty minutes for break-
fast. My watch is an hour too slow. I send
out for potatoes, but get none; pay twenty
cents for a cup of tea, and make a comfortable
breakfast; the rest of the company eat, and we
are all merry and hearty.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	On Saturday morning of Oct. 23d, 1886, the
members of the Primary Association of Lehi
City, held their yearly conference. Present on
the stand were Bishop T. R. Cutler, A. K. 
Smoot, Stake President, R. Standring, Assist-
ant to Stake President, C. Ball, President of
1st District, E. Smuin, of 3rd District, and
Sister Thomas.
	After the usual opening exercises, the
minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also the statistical and financial re-
ports. The programme consisted of recitations,
essays, songs, questions and answers. Miss
Jezell Gibb gave a recitation refering to the
brethren in prison, which was so well recited
as to cause many to drop a tear.
	President A. K. Smoot being the first speaker,
stated that the mothers could not but realize
that great credit was due to those who had been
training these children; the Primary was doing
a great work.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was the next speaker;
was well paid for coming; the singing had
been very good. Exhorted all to attend their 
choir meetings.
	President R. Standring said the time had
been well spent; it would not be wise to detain
the children longer.
	E. Smuin endorsed the remarks that had
been made by the former speakers. Benedic-
tion by Isaac Fod.
	The officers then made their way to Sister 
Conner's, where tables were spread with a
sumptuous repast.

FAIR.
	At one o'clock the fair was opened, and the
pleasant sight that attracted your gaze on the
right was a table filled with cookery, home-
made candies, etc. Farther up was a great
display of agriculture; also a number of bot-
tles filled with different varieties of fruit, to
be donated to the Deseret Hospital. On the
left was the needle work of the little girls—
quilts, tidies, mats, knitting and other varieties,
showing what their busy little fingers could ac-
complish. Some of the cookery was sold, and
the means thrown into the treasury to help
meet expenses.
		SARAH A. BALL, Secretary.


To rule without regard, to urge without rea-
son, and to laugh immoderately, are manifest
signs of ignorance.—W. Bellenden.
	Who could live surrounded by calamities,
did not smiling hope cheer him with expecta-
tion of deliverance?—J. Hamilton.
	Law is like a sieve; it is very easy to see
through it, but a man must be considerably re-
duced before he can get through it.—G. S.
Morton.
	The aggregate happiness of society, which is
best promoted by the practice of a virtuous
policy, is or ought to be the end of all govern-
ment.—Washington.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HE WILL DEFEND HIS PEOPLE.

Our flag's unfurled to all the world,
	Proclaiming peace and freedom,
We're trusting still in God, who will
	Defend His Saints and lead them.

Our foes He staid, and round us spread
	Rich blessings from His bounty,
Which makes them hate and persecute
	So filled are they with envy.

We've welcomed all the great and small,
	To view our thriving cities
Where order reigns, and God sustains
	His people in their duties.

We know that He will ne'er desert—
	Though He will scourge His people,
And set them right, with power and might,
	He'll make the traitor tremble.

While they may seek to prostitute
	And sink us to their level,
They'll only take the hypocrite,
	And those whose deeds are evil.

Their wicked lies will advertise
	Us widely to the nations,
Who'll learn the truth and real worth
	Of Saints who've borne oppression.

Thousands to-day, in darkness lay,
	And will not heed the warning
Of men of God but spill their blood
	For truths they are proclaiming.

But such will claim the martyr's crown,
	Glorious lives immortal;
While doomed are those who've shed their blood.
	To misery eternal.

We know that God will keep His word,
	And sorely scourge this nation.
Oh! that they might, by doing right,
	Escape His indignation.

But we shall strive through life to make
	Our cause a ture and just one;
And to their shame, our rights we'll claim,
	Enjoying full possession.

		HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


[Column 1]

FOREIGN LETTER.

	HONOLULU, Nov., 23rd 1886.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We came here about a week ago to witness
the grand festivities which were to commence
on the King's fiftieth birthday, Nov. 16th, and
extend over a period of two weeks. We came
in a drizzle, and the drizzle has since turned
into long unvarying rain. Sometimes it has
really poured down in tiny streams. The
grand celebration has turned out into a grand
failure. What may be done when it stops
raining can only be conjectured.
	You see there was to be, beside the recep-
tion and fireworks on the 16th, a regatta, a
grand ball, an historical procession, historical
tableaux for evening, a magnificent feast etc.,
etc., ad lib.
	We have witnessed the fireworks and proces-
sion, but were disappointed therein. I have
seen better fireworks in the city, and the pro-
cession far excelled by some of our "twenty-
fourth" affairs.
	The rain has kept everybody indoors. And
I am inclined to think, from personal observa-
tions, that everybody's temper has not been 
bettered thereby.
	Last Sunday, after being shut up in the
house for nearly a week; we managed to get
across the yard into the meeting house and
enjoyed meeting with the native saints. Mon-
day morning according to a previous appoint-
ment, Brothers Wm. King and J. F. Gates
went to the Palace to present the set of ele-
gantly bound Church works which the Laie

[Column 2]

people had purchased for the occasion. They
were shown up stairs, and into an immense
hall, the walls hung with beautiful pictures
and the heavy doors elegantly carved and
polished. A smaller hallway led to the room
occupied by the King, where the books were
presented with a few appropriate remarks by
Elder J. F. Gates. This room was gorgeous
beyond description, and walls and furniture
showy with glossy peacock blue satin hung
with golden rods.
	The whole inside of the Palace is said to be
magnificiently gorgeous, furnished with a true
savage love of all that is gaudy and brilliant.
But everything is certainly genuine if gaudy,
for the building cost over four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars.
	The afternoon of the King's birthday, the
"populace" were allowed to go through the
lovely rooms; but as I had the baby I did not
attempt it; I hope to, however, before return-
ing to Utah, and if so I shall try and give you 
some idea of the place.
	Sunday evening I persuaded the brethren
to go down to Fourth Street Church, where the
music is beautiful. But on arriving there,
after our long walk in the mud and dark, be-
hold there were no services.
	We started back, but stopped in front of the
Chinse Christian Church, and decided to enter.
The hall was spacious and well lighted, with
wooden seats and a pulpit at one end, with a
gallery for the singers at the opposite end.
	There were only a few present, but they
seemed very devout, reading their bibles, which
were plentifully strewed all along on the
benches.
	The services commenced with an old fash-
ioned tune to Chinse words. We looked very
curiously up at the row of Chinse girls and
boys in the singers' gallery who nearly all
seemed full of the suppressed merriment of
youth under like circumstances. The singing
was very fresh and clear and much like our
own country choirs. The funny hair-dressing
of the women is growing upon my eyes. And
indeed I am beginning to be able to see some
attraction in these bland smiling celestial faces,
especially when young and fresh.
	The preacher or pastor then offered up
a prayer. Another song followed, the organ
trying in vain to keep the congregation some-
where in its own key. This over, the pastor
opened his bible, and read a chapter as his
text, A young Chinse across the aisle, direct-
ly handed us a couple of English bibles opened
to a chapter in Matthew. We were pleased to
read along in our own tongue. A short ser-
mon followed on the text, the deep musical
tones of the speaker, and strange unknown
sounds of the Chinse tongue, all contributed
to render sounder the inevitable nap of one of
our members. However, the choir soon woke
him up with its closing hymn, and a short
prayer dismissed us to our homes in peace.
	The pretty bias-eyed girls peeped down at
us from the gallery, and we frankly looked up.
Then out again on the muddy, dark streets,
and we reached home all right at last.
	It is still raining. Goodness only knows
when we'll get back to Laie for our best horse
has fallen seriously lame.
	Please give my best love to all my friends
in the city.
	Yours as ever,
		HOMESPUN.

Susan Young Galis


[Column 1]

MY VIEWS ON CELESTIAL, PLURAL
MARRIAGE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since you made the request in the EXPON-
ENT that the sisters who had individual inter-
esting experience in the order of celestial, plural
marriage would write something concerning it

[Column 2]

that would tend to satisfy the inquiring minds
of the strangers traveling in our midst, I have
thought of giving my views on this important
subject.
	I entered into the order of plural marriage
twenty-three years ago. I was then a girl of
eighteen, and I believe I can truthfully say
that I have never had trials enough to make
me repent of the course then taken; on the
contrary, I must say that as years have in-
creased my faith has been strengthened, and I
have been able to see more and more the
beauty and benefit of this order.  But I will
tell you, kind readers, that I am not the first,
and as they say in the courts, "legal wife."
No; the man that I desired should be my com-
panion for time and eternity had already been
married for more than twenty years.  Some of
our readers may say, "Well, it cannot be so
much of a trial to enter in as the second wife
as it would be to the first." I will leave this 
to the reader's own opinion, as I consider that
only those who have had an experience are
capable of judging. I believe that all who
enter into this exalted order will have trials
sufficient, if they honestly desire to do right, to
cause them to seek unto the Lord for an in-
creased portion of His Spirit, which is the
only means that will truly smooth the rugged 
path. And I am convinced that even in 
monogamous marriage there are just as fre-
quently trials that can scarcely be borne with-
out faith to lean on the Lord; and I know
from my own experience, that the Lord takes
notice of the prayers of His faithful daugh-
ters.
	Undoubtedly there are many faithful sisters
in this Church, who can bear testimony that
this is true; but the strangers may say, "You
assert this, and I am not quite convinced of
its truth." I will cite you to the Bible, the
standard guide for all Christians. In Genesis,
21st chapter, 15th to 20th verses, we learn that 
the Lord sent His angel to Hagar, and he
spoke unto her words of comfort and consola-
tion; and God was with the lad, Ishmael, the
offspring of plural marriage.
	It appears, also, that the Lord took notice 
of the wives of Moses, for we read in the book
of Numbers, 12th chapter, that the anger of
the Lord was kindled against Miriam and
Aaron, because they had something to say
about Moses marrying an Ethiopia woman.
he (Moses) was evidently a polygamist, for we
read in Exodus, 2nd chapter, that he married
Zepporah, a daughter of the priest of Midian.
Now I will just mention one more instance,
where the Lord has heard and answered the
prayers of the plural wife.
	In the first book of Samuel, 1st chapter, we
read how the Lord heard and answerd the
prayers of Hannah, the wife of Elkanah, and
gave her a son, even the Prophet Samuel,
Now, I will briefly say, that although my path
may not have been strewn with roses, yet my
faith has continued to grow, and I can truly
say that there is not enough enticement in the
whole monogamous Christendom to induce me 
for one moment to give up my position as a
plural wife.
     And now, dear Editor, I pray God to bless
all the efforts you make to encourage truth
and to break down the errors that hold the
civilized world as in chains of iron.
	Yours truly,
		A PLURAL WIFE.
	Riverdale, Dec. 22, 1836.


The law was given to men, not to angels.—
Talmud.
	Tranquil pleasures last the longest; we are
not fitted to bear long the burden of great joys.
—Bovee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE D. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 1, 1886.


[column 1]
THE NEW YEAR.

     How little any of us know, unless by the spirit
of prophecy at the commencement of a new year,
what awaits us, or our friends, or our people, ere
the year shall draw to a close.  Standing upon the
threshold of this new year, it is easy to see what
barriers have been thrown up in the past one to
environ about the Lrtter-day Saints, and to hinder
their temporal and financial progress.  But the
spiritual advancement, these foes to the Saints
cannot stay in its onward march; that is not in
their power.  They cannot curtail the freedom of
the soul, not even when the body is incar-
cerated in prison; of this there has been abund-
ant proof during the year now just drawn to a
final close.  The work they now seek to destroy is
still marching forward gloriously, notwithstanding
the many obstacles thrown in the way.  Faith in
God, humility and patience will overcome and the
right will triumph, though the storm of hate and
error may rage fiercely and the days and times
grow darker still in the near future.  Though much
has transpired during the year that is past and
gone that may with all propriety be called perse-
cution, yet the enemy has not accomplished that
which was anticipated; the Lord has taken charge
of His chosen servants who are in exile, who stand
as pillars in the structure of the Church, and has
preserved them in safety, if not in peace, and not
a hair of their heads has been harmed.  To be
sure one of the apostles was taken but that very
thing has preached the Gospel and taught the
principle of plural marriage in the highest court
of the country, and in this the hand of the Al-
mighty is plainly visible, in that the Judges of that 
Court are left without excuse.
     In view of the great good being done by the
persistent persecution and oppression of this peo-
ple in several directions, perhaps after all there is
more reason to rejoice than to mourn, for many of
those whose faith was waning have wakened up
and are growing brighter and more earnest in
their endeavors to live their religion.  Union is
increasing and there seems to be less fault-finding
than in the days of prosperity.  No doubt the
tendency of the weekly prayer meetings has
helped to produce this effect, and the people really
feel, taken as a whole, the necessity of leaning
upon the Lord more on account of being deprived
of the constant advice and suggestions of the
Presidency of the Chcrch. It is very apparent
that Mormonism is coming to be better understood,
because of the opposition.  It causes people to
read and enquire who never would have thought
seriously of the matter, had it not been so loudly
proclaimed against, and the very persons who are
doing their utmost to tear in pieces the Church
and its institutions, are, by their vehemence and
animosity, spreading the truth.  And though it is
not expected all who hear will believe, yet the
Gospel must be sounded to all nations and the
opposition are paving the way for the Elders and
Church literature to reach a greater number than
could otherwise have been aroused to read and

[column 2]
hear.  That this year will be fraught with great
interest to this people no one can doubt who has
studied the prophecies concerning the latter day
work.  The one thing all should endeavor to do
is to prepare himself or herself for the day that is
coming, lest he or she be taken unawares.
     The events transpiring among the nations are
indicative of strife and rebellion.  The tendency
to monopolies is arousing the working people,
who are contributors to wealth, and the inattention
of those in power to redressing grievances and
suppressing wrongs that exist is a continual source
of agitation and will tend, at least, to uprisings
among a class who will be defiant and perhaps
cruel, the rumblings and mutterings one hears
from time to time in reference to these matters
ought to be remedied if possible to avert such a
terrible calamity as a serious outbreak would be
to this nation.  The people of the United States
have a great deal to say about the majority ruling
but if the matter at issue of Labor vs. Capital
were to be tested it would be found that labor was
the vast majority.
     A sort of co-operative labor system, such as
might be inaugurated by men of influence, would
do much toward bettering and elevating the work-
ing classes, and confidence might be created, and
a better and broader humanity be the rule, instead
of the exception.  If men of great personal and
public ability would pattern after Brigham Young
and the Mormons, instead of Jay Gould and rail-
road magnates, they might become public benefac-
tors, and receive the prayers and the blessings of
the laborer, instead of his deep muttered curses.
     The love of money and display, the luxuriance
that is the outgrowth of these two propensities, is
detrimental to the best interests of any community,
and these are growing stronger and spreading in
America.  The Lord is not pleased with those 
who selfishly aggrandize themselves to the exclu-
sion of the higher and nobler sentiments and
attributes that benefit all mankind, and He has
never yet prospered a nation for any great length
of time that gave itself up to the abandon of
wealth and pleasure seeking and extravagance.
In all the revelations given to the Latter-day
Saints, the observance of the rules of strict
economy has been enjoined upon them, and the
preservation of health and prolongation of human
life; and luxuriant living is the very opposite.
Excess of amusements and late hours, with the
consequent results, are in their tendency de-
moralizing, and should be discountenanced by all
those who are aiming for moral and social purity,
and the development of the higher and nobler at-
tributes of head and heart.
    It is to be hoped that in the year now opening
up great progress may be made in Zion, spiritual,
mental and moral, as well as temporal, and that
the oppressor’s chains may be broken, the prison
doors be opened, and the captive, Imprisoned for
conscience’ sake, go forth free and unmolested.
And with the most earnest prayer for all who suf-
fer persecutions, and for all the tried and sorrow-
ful ones, let the prayers of the faithful Saints as-
cend day and night, that all may go on to perfec-
tion, and arrive at the unity of the faith.  And
coupled with this wish, the EXPONENT extends
congratulations of the season and a happy new
year to all.
		“What thou hast in store
		   This coming year I do not stop to ask;
		Enough, if day by day there dawns before
		   Me my appointed task."


[column 1]
EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES.
	For some years a great deal has been said
about Bro. Stephens' wonderful faculty for teach-
ing singing, and it is well known that his efforts
in behalf of the youth of Zion have already been
attended with the best success, "though the half
﻿
[column 2]
has not been told." The greatest work, however,
in this direction, is probably still in the future as
he has already laid a substantial foundation on
which to build a musical structure, and among the
youth of Zion he has all the good material neces-
sary for the fine work he has undertaken. The
public has heard through the daily papers some of
his plans now in progress in regard to the training
of "our boys and girls," being much interested in
the cultivation of music, and especially the human
voice, we have watched from time to time the
course Bro. Stephens has pursued and noticed his
desire to perform public service in his particular
line of work and we feel an intense interest in the
matter.
The writer had the pleasure of meeting Bro.
Stephens in Boston at the New England Con-
servatory of music last winter, and found he had
won the admiration of his fellow students as a 
musical genius, as well as by his genial manners
even though he was known to be a "Mormon."
At his invitation and in his company we attended
one of the entertainments given by the students, and
saw the magnificent new hall beautifully illumin-
ated, and listened to the cultivated voices of the
young men and women, who make music a pro-
fession. In the midst of the enjoyment of the
hour our thoughts wandered back to Zion, and we
could not help feeling that we had as good ma-
terial here as was gathered there, or even better,
and that the future would develop here at home,
melody of voices that would fill the sacred tem-
ples, tabernacles and halls of Zion with vocal
music of the highest type.
But to accomplish this the student must be in-
terested in the work as well as the teacher. It is
impossible to perform a labor of this kind without
united effort, and to cultivate a taste for music and
develop the voices of the young will tend to refine-
ment and social elevation of character.
Bro. Stephens has kindly favored us with a few
items that the readers of the EXPONENT may per-
haps use to advantage in aiding him by their in-
fluence in the generous labor he has striven so
industriously to perform.
Brother Stephens has at present the following
classes: First, one of one hundred children both
sexes reading music from the notes and learning
chorus singing. Second, one of twenty-five ad-
vanced children students studying solo singing
and advanced reading. Third, about 100 just 
starting to read music and part singing. Fourth,
five hundred children selected from Sunday School
to learn alto to Sunday School pieces. This class
is taught free. There is also a class of about fifty
young men and young women at the the Deseret
University studying vocal music and how to teach
it in the public schools and elsewhere.
An evening class, numbering over 100 young
men and young women, studying classic music and
opera, in connection with advanced reading and
expression, etc., and a class of adults just starting
to read music. The  school teachers of 
the country also receive some instructions in read-
ing and how to teach.
Another large class for the purpose of teaching
all the brethren attending the Sunday Schools
of the city to sing tenor and bass, is shortly to be
organized. The whole now numbering something
over a thousand. The children of widows and
those in poor circumstances are always received
and made welcome to Bro. Stevens' reading
classes, free of charge, and quite a number attend.
He has in mind the establishing of a fund to aid
in giving such permanent instruction in classes,
and also free scholarships to such as show
great talent and deserve special recognition of
their efforts to study. Some concerts will be given
between now and Spring in order to raise means 
for this object. An afternoon class for ladies 
only is to be organized early in this year.
Bro. Stephens earnest and ardent desire is to
lay a foundation for the future musical progress


of teaching the youth of Zion, how to be practi-
cal musicians. Like many other professional
men, he needs encouragement, and enthusiastic,
as well as practical support from the community
in which he is so preservingly laboring to promote
a public interest in musical culture. Bro. Stephens
sometimes feels he has to almost force his labors
upon the people, although personally he is treated
in the kindliest manner, but to make his labors
effective of the best results and his own strength
and endurance lasting, to accomplish a noble work
ia this department of culture, he should, most cer-
tainly, receive the hearty cooperation of those
who desire to see the youth of this people elevated
to the highest rank in all that will tend to build
up and glorify Zion. To teach children is not the
easiest task, and there are but few musical men
who have the adaptability or the patience to un-
dertake, or at any rate, continue as Bro. Stephens
has done. In this particular he stands almost
alone, and should be fully appreciated. An old
saying “poets are born not made,” will as aptly ap-
ply to musicians and teachers for although much
may be acquired yet one must have natural gifts to
succeed to any marked extent. Those who are inti-
mately acquainted with Bro. Stephens will probably 
agree in saying, that he was born with a wonderful
talent for music, and he certainly possesses a rare
faculty of adaptability for teaching. Men of his
type incline to melancholy if not given encourage-
ment and support, and when one considers how
few there are who have the ability and the dispo-
sition to do so magnificent a work, it seems in-
credible that people should not enthusiastically 
appreciate the undertaking.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 					
117


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE several wards of this city, and the country
wards, as far as we have learned, have been
specially mindful of the poor, the aged and the
sick during the Christmas season.

	THE pictures of Lucy Smith, the Prophet
Joseph’s mother, ordered from New York, have,
for some unknown reason, been delayed, but will,
no doubt, soon arrive, and at our earliest possible
convenience will be distributed to the subscribers
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE theatrical entertainment given free by the
“Old Folk’s Committee,” in the Salt Lake Theatre
Christmas week, was a most enjoyable affair,
and well patronized by the aged, the widows
and orphans, and it was indeed a pleasing and
agreeable sight. The real enjoyment depicted on
the countenances of the assembled multitude must
have been highly gratifying to those who had
taken so much pains to interest and amuse those
who have more of the sober realities and fewer
enjoyments than those in more prosperous cir-
cumstances, or who are not so far advanced in
years.


﻿A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If you will accept them I would like to write
you a few lines concerning my dear mother, Sister
Ann Jenkins, who passed suddenly and peacefully
away on the evening of the 13th of Nov., 1886.
I desired to do so sooner, but sickness and other
causes have prevented.
	She was a faithful mother in Israel, and as such
I think worthy of mention in our EXPONENT
which she highly valued and diligently read and
from whose columns she derived much pleasure.
She, like many other faithful women in Zion, passed
through many trials and scenes of suffering, which
are known to none but God and their own hearts.
She was well known as an exceeedingly patient


woman, duty was always a first consideration with
her, and one of her earliest teachings which I can
remember was, “It is better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.” She accepted plural marriage
early in her life with submission and thankful-
ness, and taught her children with earnestness to
respect and revere that sacred principle. I never
heard one doubting word pass her lips in regard
to the truth of this work to which she was devoted.
She was a careful economical and industrious
house-keeper, and although her children have
been for some time all married, yet her fingers
were ever busy knitting and stitching for her
grandchildren (thirteen of them) whom she dearly
and impartially loved, indeed on the day she died
she took care of the youngest of them for two
hours and she was stitching on a little dress about
twenty minutes before she expired. Her hus-
band was sitting by her; she had lain aside her
work and was reading the evening paper when
she fell forward at his feet and showed no sign of
life after. Her face wore a pleasant peaceful ex-
pression. Her life was one of unassuming merit
and fruitful with quiet acts of kindness. Although
we miss her gentle presence, her words of loving
advice and her sweet and blessed influence, yet
we are reconciled and would not recall her, for we
know all is well with her and she is free from the
suffering and cares which we are left to contend
with. In her life, we her children, have a noble ex-
ample to emulate. 
					MARY ANN LAMBERT.


NEW HALL OPENED.

	The upper hall of the Eighteenth Ward Inde-
pendent school house, the new and handsome
building which has been in course of erection for
the past two years, was opened Dec. 27 with
a social party. A happy and congenial multitude
thronged the interior, most of them being mem-
bers of the ward. Among the guests were Apos-
tle F, D. Richards and President Angus M. Can-
non, both of whom, during a lull in the dancing,
made some excellent and timely remarks. The
people of the ward were warmly praised for the
energy and taste displayed in the erection of so
beautiful and convenient a hall, designed for lec-
tures and entertainments, etc., in connection with
the principal object of the building, viz: a Latter-
day Saint school. The past with its primitive
scenes and crudities, was contrasted with the ad-
vanced educational facilities of the present, and
the changes in Society and in the country general-
ly since the early days of Utah were dwelt upon.
The young were counseled to avoid excess of gai-
ety and the pursuit of pleasure, and indulge in
dancing and recreation moderately, not only out
of deference to the trials their parents and friends
were undergoing at the present, but for their own
souls’ good, and to turn their thoughts to re-
ligion and the soberer things of life, principally,
using parties and kindred entertainments as a
means of rest and recreation, which was their
proper utility and significance.
	Bishop Whitney added a few words to what had
been said, speaking in praise of the building com-
mittee, the donors to the school fund, and refering
to the objects in view in the completion of the new
hall and building.  Dancing was then resumed
and kept up to a reasonable hour, when the assem-
bly dispersed. A vocal quartette was finely ren-
dered during the evening by Miss Deanie Caine,
Mrs.Vilate C. Young, Messrs. H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, accompanied on the organ by
C. S. Burton. Toronto and Thomassen’s 18th
Ward band, supplied the ball music in excellent
style, and Thomas Goodman was prompter.
Everything passed off happily and the party was
voted unanimously a very pleasant affair.—Deseret
News.


SEQUEL TO MY LAST.

	I have given my views very freely on celes- 
tial marriage, substantiating it by Bible proof,
quoting Scripture from the old and new Testa-
ment. But the enquirer often asks the ques-
tion, “How can you women whose husbands
have other wives endure it? I should think
you would quarrel and be jealous of your hus-
bands.”
I will answer these questions by giving my
own experience. When I first began keeping
house after marriage, there were two of us,
and we agreed to have family prayer, each one
taking her part; we also asked a blessing upon
our food. This was in the absence of our hus-
band. We prayed night and morning vocally
and in secret. We prayed for each other, for
our husband, our children, brothers and sisters
in the Church, and for all mankind. We asked
our Heavenly Father to preserve us through
the day, to bless our labors, to preserve us
from sickness, give us our daily bread, and
enlighten our minds by His Holy Spirit, and
to give us grace to enable us to overcome all
evil thoughts, jealousies, hatred and malice.
We are all weak of ourselves, but through
the Savior's redeeming grace, and through
charity, that covers the imperfections of others,
we are able to endure, to discipline ourselves,
and live in peace in the marriage relation. We
 each had a child; the sister wife a daughter,
and I a son. We had a double cradle made
to hold the two children, one lay at the head
and one at the foot. One of us would take
our sewing and care for the children, while the
other would do the housework, alternating the
work according as we saw fit. This made the
work light and easy for both of us. We lived
together until we had three children each.
	We were good and kind mothers to one
another’s children; we could go out and enjoy
ourselves and leave our children in the other’s
care. Our children grew up with the same
love for each other as though there were but
one mother. We studied each other’s comfort
and happiness, and few, indeed, were the hard
words between us, and our children never
quarreled; they were united, and they have
ever loved each other. All who became mem-
bers of the family observed the above rules.
As soon as our children could utter a prayer,
when old enough, they took their part in the
family devotion, both the boys and the girls.
We also taught our children the gospel of our
Lord and Savior according to St. Matthew, St.
Mark, St. Luke and St. John, and we teach
them to contend earnestly for the faith once
delivered to the Saints; not many faiths, many
times delivered, but the one.
	But I forget myself; I must not let my mind
run into doctrine in this article; I undertook
to tell you my experience in the Patriarchal
family relation; and when I tell mine, I tell
the experience of all true Latter-day Saints.
Yet it is all doctrine to me. What pertains to
this life affects the hereafter.
	When the family became large, each wife
had a home provided for herself and children.
I have a comfortable and happy home. I am
the mother of five children and twenty-two
grandchildren, and I rejoice in all the revealed
principles of life and salvation.
	So you see, dear reader, that the wives that
“choose the better part,” like Mary of old,
have that peace of mind that the world can
neither give, nor take away. They have no
desire to quarrel; they have confidence in their
husbands, and the husbands are true to their
wives, and their wives to them, in the marriage
relation. If they are not true to their covenants
that they make in the Lord, they forfeit their
wives and their standing in the Church. Those
who are cut off from the Church for ungodly
conduct are employed by officials to do wicked
and vile acts, and they have been known to


shoot down innocent men, and thus add another
sin to their doom; a sin that cannot be forgiven
in this world nor the world to come. Why?
because God had commanded him and he
obeyed. The man that was killed, or the man
that is deprived of his liberty for marrying
more wives than one, is only responsible to his
God, and not to his fellow man nor to his ex
post facto laws. The Latter-day Saints are on
a higher plane; they do not descend to the low
and grovelling passions that rule and govern
so many who wear the human form.
	If all are true to their God, then all work
together in unity, peace and love. But the
world sees not the true status of this peculiar
people. The scum will always rise to the top,
and this is always seen, and is not fit for use in
the kingdom of God; only fit to bring offences,
"But woe unto him by whom offences come,"
sayeth sacred writ. I have been a close ob-
server of these matters. They who oppose
this work, which is of God, are like the troubled
waters, casting up mire and dirt. Let the op-
poser take warning and cease.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 26, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.
		TOOELE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The quarterly conference of the R. S., Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. Associations of the Tooele
Stake was held in the Grantsville meeting
house, Dec. 11th and 12th, 1886, commencing
Saturday at 10 a.m., Mrs. Mary A, Hunter
presiding. After the opening exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sisters Minerva W. Snow and
Elizabeth Howard, who were here from Salt
Lake City, addressed the meeting.
	Sister Howard was the first speaker, and
gave very good instructions to the sisters, both
old and young, in her usual good way, and in
that good spirit that comes from every true
Latter-day Saint.		
Sister Minerva Snow spoke to the sisters in a
kind and motherly way, that will encourage
all who desire to do the will of God and keep
His commandments, and Sister Ann Tate gave
a verbal report of the Tooele Relief Society,
as Prest. Delamare was not in attendance. The
choir sang, and meeting was dismissed by Bro.
Wm. Rydalch.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, at which there was a large attendance,
Sister Sarah Hale presiding. The children
gave, in a very creditable manner, songs, recita-
tions and essays, and Sisters Minerva W. Snow
and Elizabeth Howard instructed the children
to obey their parents, and not forget their
prayers, and they would grow up to be good
men and women in the kingdom of God.
	On Saturday Evening the Young Ladies
held their Conference. After the usual opening
exercises, reading of reports, etc., Sister Tate
reported the Tooele Y. L. M. I. A. in not so
good a condition as it should be, but they had
started to meet again.
	Miss Melinda McBride gave a report of the
Grantsville Y. L. M. I. A. It was in a good
condition. Met in Conjoint session once in two
weeks, and had very interesting meetings. 
Sister Howard and M. W. Snow again ad-
dressed the meeting, and encouraged the young
people to do right and live up to their privil-
eges.
Bro. Wm. Collet endorsed the remarks of
the sisters, and said he had been very much
interested in the good instructions, and desired
to do the will of God at all times.
	Singing by the choir. Benediction by Bro.
Alma Hale.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from the city
attended Sunday School.  At the close of the
exercises, the sisters spoke in a very able man-
ner on the principles of the Gospel; encouraged
the children in attending Sunday School, and


to keep the Sabbath day holy. The sisters
also met with the meeting in the afternoon, and 
gave much good instruction to all present.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. of Stake.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Regular meeting held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, Oct. 2nd,
1886, Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. After the
usual exercises, minutes of the last meeting,
held in August (conference intervening) were
read and accepted; also minutes of the P. A.
of the 5th, 20th and 8th wards; also minutes of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th and Mill Creek
Wards.
	Prest. Horne then addressed the meeting for
a short time in her usual motherly and instruc-
tive way, after which Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith occupied a short time. Said Latter-day
Saints ought never to look sad; that God would
overrule everything that is not for our good,
for He loves every one of us. Spoke of the
weaknesses we all have to overcome in our-
selves, and the progress we must make; that
there was no standing still in this kingdom,
but going onward; God will have a tried peo-
ple, and those that are of pure minds and con-
trite hearts. Sister Eliza made mention of
the family of Bro. Jacob Hamblin, who died
lately, and thought it would be well for the
sisters to give a trifle to help them.
	Coun. M. W. Snow spoke of the pleasant
time she had had recently visiting in the set-
tlements; thought the people were improving,
and rejoiced that she was a Latter-day Saint,
and associated with this people. Gave a few
items concerning the family of Bro. Jacob
Hamblin, and ended by praying that we might
all fill our missions. 
	Sister E. S. Taylor spoke of the necessity of
meeting together and getting comforted and
strengthened; that the Lord knows how to
mete out our trials, and will give us strength
according to our day. Exhorted all to set a
good example.
	Sister Emma Terry of Draper, Sister Julia
Pack, Sister M. Brown and Sister Nellie Cole-
brook of this city, each occupied a few minutes,
speaking upon interesting subjects to the edifica-
tion of all present.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks with sing-
ing, and benediction by Sister M. E. Kim-
ball.


[Column 1]

VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS. 	

	Once in a while, even if very busy, random
suggestions will shoot across one's mind, that
are, perhaps, worthy of note.
	It has occurred to me many times how gener-
ally the plain qualifications of every day use-
fulness are neglected in the education of young
persons; mothers doing themselves many ordin-
ary duties because they can perform them bet-
ter and quicker than their daughters, and can-
not spare time to instruct them in these mat-
ters. I have seen a delicate lady, the mother
of eleven children, beautifully darning the
stockings for her grown up daughters, while
they were practising their music lessons. I
wanted to express myself, but had to "hold in,"
as I was not on sufficiently intimate terms to
take such a liberty.
	I often ask myself, "Why should a girl
marry until she knows something of house-
keeping? I know of young wives who have
wasted enough bread in their first year of
housekeeping to have fed them another year;
bread that was quietly conferred to the pail at
the back door for a neighbor's pig. Why
should a girl hire out and receive good wages,
when she is unqualified to cook a plain meal
There are laboring men who work hard, and

[Column 2]

furnish abundance for the pantry, yet never
see a well kept table. They will sit down op-
posite a pretty face, with carefully prepared
banged hair, and eat burned up meat, soggy
potatoes and yellow biscuit. I know of one
good natured man, who hands his beloved sixty
dollars a month to provide for the house. He
sees no end of flounces and embroideries, but
is ashamed to open his dinner pail before his
fellow workmen. I regard him as one of the
martyrs, who live unpraised, and will bear up-
on his headstone no record of his cross and
heroism.
	There seems, after all, to be in this earthly
economy a beautiful adaptation of natures,
whereby the inefficient wife is provided for by a
diligent and indulgent husband, and again,
where an economical, industrious and managing 
housewife is the prop, inspiration and savings
bank of the meagre earnings of an occasional
income through an indifferent husband. If
such couples were otherwise mated, it looks as
though one pair might go clear to the foot of
prosperity's hill while the other was resting on
the summit.
	Some years ago I heard President George Q.
Cannon say in public, that in choosing a wife
he would rather take one who could make good
bread and could not play the piano, than to
take a good pianist who could not make good
bread.
	At the time I heard this declaration I had
 no experience in eating poor bread, and sup-
posed that a good quality of that article was
an easy enough production, requiring no special
attention, and commanding no special praise,
and felt it almost an affront to my sex that we
must all be expected to qualify ourselves in
cooking especially as I had a particular aver-
sion to kitchen work. Of course I had forgot-
ten an ignominious experiment of mine some
years before, which brought about my dismissal
from the pantry, and remanded me to the sew-
ing room. I have since learned the real merit
of President Cannon's remarks, and know that
that brief portion of his sermon, if cultivated
by every household, where needed, would be-
come a universal blessing. I recall a visit
once made to a lady who was a frequent guest
of my mother's; one whom we thought much
of. She was nearly all the time in delicate
health and in a state of despondency. Her
case seemed very sorrowful to me, for I was
much attached to her personal and mental at-
tractions. One day I visited her, and her help
being absent, she cooked the dinner—one to be
remembered. As she took the bread from the
oven, and turned it out of the baking pan to
cool for dinner, I remarked: "It is not quite
done through, is it?" and she replied: "No; I
always bake it underdone, good bread gets
eaten up so quick." The dinner began with
an Irish stew, and her husband, after tasting
his, soliloquized, drolly: "Two pounds of beef,
ten potatoes, six onions and—how much Scotch
—Adeline?" I never wondered afterward at
her poor health, and remember making a rush
for the pantry when I got home. Imagine the
effect of such a cook upon the health of an in-
valid.
	It has come to my notice upon several occas-
ions how needful it is for hired nurses to be
able to prepare tastefully and economically the
food for the sick room. Very often the hus-
band is a poor man, and the matter is of great-
consequence to him that the few delicacies he
can afford be used to the best possible advan-
tage. The success of the physician, too, de-
pends much upon the cook. I very much fear
that when the doctor and cook are in opposite
scales, the doctor's chances are with the patients
—downwards. I do pity the doctor, when his
or her reputation hangs as much, perhaps, upon
the cook's performances as upon his or her own
ability and anxious endeavors.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS.

	In the large cities of the Union benevolent
ladies have established what are called "kitchen
gardens." That means a school where little
girls are taught to keep house. They are the
daughters of the very poor people, mostly
foreigners. Their mothers from over the sea
had frequently not any decent houses even to
live in, and so they knew nothing about our
kind of neat Yankee housekeeping.
	The ladies gather up the dirty, ragged,
hungry little girls from the streets and tene-
ment rooms where they live so wretchedly.
They are first bathed, scrubbed from head to
foot, combed, and then given some food. After
that they come every day to the housekeeping
school. They are given luncheon. The change
that takes place in them is wonderful. They
become neat, orderly and ladylike. They soon
begin to try to tidy up their wretched homes,
and in many instances whole families become
happier and more prosperous, just because the
little daughter goes to the kitchen garden.
	At the close of their school for the summer,
the girls have an exhibition showing what they
have learned. They have miniature tables,
tiny dishes and little beds and mattresses—all
the furniture and belongings of a house, and
with these they practice till they are first-class
workers and housekeepers.
	When they have finished the course of in-
struction, the children are given diplomas, and
are regular graduates. It is a very useful sort
of learning they have, too. A class graduated
in Chicago not long ago, whose exhibition the
newspaper men went to see. The class con-
sisted of twenty-four little girls, ranging in
age from 12 to 15, and representing almost
every European country. Their long white
pinafores, fluted muslin caps, and prim little
ties gave them an appearance that was very re-
freshing. They entered the room in single
file to a military march, carrying miniature
tables and boxes. In the latter were linen,
cutlery and small table furniture. Brought to
a halt, the teacher put the little housewives
through a catechism like this:
	"How often should a room be swept?"
	"Thoroughly once a week," answered a wee
bit of a Swede with a voice bigger than her-
self.
	"What kind of a broom is best for the cor-
ners and edges of a room?"
	"Whisk broom," sang out a maid with yellow
pig-tails, who seemed to be having her throat
sawed by the well laundried tie under her
chin.
	"Why is a dust rag better than a feather
duster?"
	"Because the feathers scatter the dust instead
of gathering it."
	"After this part of the programme the girls
took out their little table cloths, the piano
struck up a series of popular tunes, and the
board was spread beautifully.
	Before the beds were made the class had an
oral recitation, one question being: "What
three things are necessary for nice bed mak-
ing?" The answer being: "Level mattress,
smooth clothes and square corners. Then the
mattresses were whipped into shape, the pillows
knocked into form, and in an incredibly short
time every bed was flat and smooth, and the
children retired under a murmur of applause.
On their return they carried trays, with which
they went through a series of pretty maneu-
vers. Dishes were washed, and after the
place was "tidied up," brooms were used for
an exercise in calisthenics. The visitors ap-
plauded the neat and pretty girls and were de-
lighted.
	It takes two years to learn all the things in
the course. Cooking and laundry work are
part of it, and the girls learn to bake bread

[Column 2]

and cake, and iron muslin and laces that are
as beautiful as the prettiest picture.
	As soon as they get their diplomas there are
always ladies waiting to hire them to work.
Their teacher keeps a list of these, and they
go directly from the kitchen garden into good
places. They know all the branches of house-
keeping, so they can be cooks, laundress, cham-
bermaids, nurses, or dining room girls. They
also learn plain sewing. They get better
wages than ordinary houseworking girls can,
because they know their business so perfectly.
But that is always the way. They keep house
so nicely that it is like poetry to look at them
and their homes.
	No girl can get a diploma unless she under-
stands reading and writing and arithmetic. It
would be a good plan for rich girls to attend
such schools, too.—Ex.


[Column 1]

CANDIES AND CREAMS.

	A cream made of confectioner's sugar is the
basis of uncooked candies. Take a good sized
bowl, and break into it the white of one, two
or more eggs, and add to it an exactly equal
quantity of cold water Then stir in confec-
tioner's sugar slowly until you have it stiff
enough to be moulded into shape by the fin-
gers. Flavor to taste with any essence liked
best. Vanilla is always safe. Mould the
paste into balls about the size of a large mar-
ble, or lozenge-shapes, and lay upon a platter
or waxed paper to dry.
	Flavor a part of the French cream made
with peppermint or winter-green essence to
taste, mould into lozenges, set to dry, and you
will have three varieties of candy finished.
Mould some of the cream flavored with vanilla
into balls about the size of a twenty-cent piece,
have ready some English walnuts, cracked
so as to divide nicely in halves, and press half
of the nut on each side of the ball of cream.
Set to dry, and they will be ready to eat in a
few hours.
	Chocolate creams are a favorite kind of
candy. To make, mould small bits of cone
shape, and set to dry. Melt some baker's
chocolate in a bowl set over a boiling tea-ket-
tle. When the creams are dry, take them one
by one on a hair pin or fork, and roll in the
melted chocolate until thoroughly coated. Set
aside to dry. Should the chocolate cool be-
fore you have finished, place over the tea-ket-
tle again, or better still, stand it while using in
a pan of hot water.
	Another delicious variety may be made by
working into the cream the juice and grated
rind of an orange. Should the juice make the
French cream too thin, add more sugar before
moulding into shape. Make into balls the size
of a hickory nut. Lemon creams may be made
in the same way, by substituting lemon juice
and rind for orange.
	Another kind of sweet is easily made by re-
moving the seeds from the nicest and freshest
of dates, and inserting in place of the seed a
long narrow roll of the French cream, and
closing the date over it. Fig creams may be
made in the same way, or by cutting the figs
into four or five length-wise strips, and insert-
ing them in a piece of the cream moulded in
an oblong shape, and then cut open and closed
over the fig.
	Most melting candies may also be made by
using fruit jellies and jam (especially currant
and plum jelly and berry jam) or pine-apple
preserves. Cut the fruit into small squares or
oblongs, and inclose it in a coating of the
cream; or make squares of the cream, and
press a small square of the jelly against it be-
fore drying. A tempting candy is made by
making the cream into cakes about half-an-
inch thick (which may be done with a rolling-
pin on a marble slab, or making it into a flat
ball, laying it on a platter, and patting it un-

[Column 2]

til of the right thickness. Make each bar
about three inches long, and spread with a
layer of jelly or jam; place on this another
layer of the cream, then a layer of the filling
and then one of the cream. Press well to-
gether, and set to dry. If desired, this candy
may be cut into squares. In either case trim
the edges smoothly with a sharp knife, so that
they may not have a ragged look.
	In making cocoanut creams use, if possible,
fresh cocoanut; if not, the best brand of desic-
cated. If fresh cocoanut is used, prepare it the
day before using. While mixing the French
cream, and before making it thick with the
sugar, stir in the cocoanut, then add more sugar,
and mould until the cream is stiff enough to
make into balls or cakes. If you like, some of
the creams may be colored pink, and then
rolled in grated cocoanut before set to dry.
These are very pretty-looking candies. Grated
maple sugar added to the French cream, and
moulded into squares, also make a toothsome
candy.
	A nut candy, which is a great favorite with
most children, is made by chopping several
kinds of nuts, say almonds, walnuts, and but-
ternuts, fine. Make a soft cream, and stir in
the nuts. Then add enough sugar to mould
into shape. Make into large squares or bars,
and wrap in waxed paper to keep fresh. Fruit
candy, which is not as rich as the nut candy,
is made in the same way. Currants, raisins
seeded figs, and a very small quantity of citron,
chopped together. make a very nice fruit mix-
ture to put with the French cream. Make in-
to balls; or use first a bar of the cream, then a
layer of the fruit, as in the jelly candies. If
you wish to color any of your candy brown,add
melted chocolate.
	Of boiled candies, perhaps none is liked so
well as molasses candy and molasses taffy. If
the following recipe is followed exactly, success
is promised every time. Two cups of sugar,
four cups molasses. Use the same sized cup to
measure both molasses and sugar. Two small
table-spoonfuls of butter, two table-spoonfuls
of glycerine. Put into a kettle, and boil fast
twenty-five minutes. Take care not to scorch.
At the end of the time for boiling, put a few
drops in cold water. If it hardens and is brit-
tle, remove from the stove. Have ready be-
fore the candy stops boiling pans thoroughly
buttered, and just before pouring into the pans
stir in one tea spoonful of cream of tartar.
After putting into pans, pour a few drops of
lemon or vanilla on top. When cool enough,
pull until white, and make into sticks. Half
this quantity will make enough for a small
family.
	Taffy is made by boiling hard one cup of
molasses, one cup of sugar, and a small table-
spoonful of butter. After boiling twenty
minutes, test by dropping a little in cold water.
If it is brittle, pour into buttered pans, and
mark into squares with the back of a case
knife.
	To make peanut candy, first prepare the
nuts by taking off the shells and the brown
skin that covers them. Then boil two cups of
molasses, one of brown sugar, a piece of butter
the size of a small egg, and a table spoonful of
vinegar. Boil until nearly brittle, place the
peanuts in a buttered pan, pour the candy over
them, and cut into squares or bars.
	Butter-scotch, the most powerful rival of
taffy, is made by using a coffee cup of brown
sugar, half a cup of water, and a desert-spoon-
ful of vinegar; also a piece of butter the size of
a hickory nut. Boil twenty minutes. Pour
into buttered pans, and cut into narrow strips,
	Chocolate caramels are as popular with
grown up children as taffy and butter-scotch
with little ones. To make them, use a cup of
molasses, a cup of brown sugar, a cup of milk,
and a small table-spoonful of butter. Add to
the ingredients a table spoonful of glycerine,
as in molasses candy. Let the mixture boil


fast for twenty minutes, and when nearly done
add a cup of grated chocolate. When nearly
brittle pour into buttered pans; crease in squares
with the back of a knife when nearly cold.
Flavor, if desired, in the same way as molasses
candy. If the flavor is put into the candy
while cooking, it is lost before the candy is
cold.
	A cooked French-cream candy, which is very
nice and more economical when eggs are scarce
than the uncooked cream, may be made by
using two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup
of hot water. Put the sugar and water into
a good tin basin, and let it boil ten minutes.
Then test by dropping some from the spoon.
If it draws into threads, take the pan from the
stove, and try rolling a spoonful into a ball. If
it is creamy and moulds easily, pour into a
bowl and flavor. If it will not cream when
first taken from the stove, boil two or three
minutes longer. After it is poured into the
bowl, beat rapidly with a large spoon until it
all creams. This cream may be rolled or cut
with a knife into any shape desired, and be
used as the foundation of many kinds of can-
dies, in the same way as the uncooked cream.
If in working the cream gets too cold, set the
bowl in a pan of hot water.—Mrs. Henry
Brown in Cosmopolitan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DANCING IN THE WHITE HOUSE.

	Since Mrs. Cleveland has returned home it
has turned out that she went to New York, to
shop and buy dresses. The report is that the
new dresses have been ordered without train,
or dancing length, as the dressmakers say; and,
what is more startling yet, it is said that Mrs.
Cleveland intends giving one or two dancing
parties in the White house as soon as the offi-
cial mourning for Arthur is over. Mrs. Cleve-
land is passionately fond of young folks' society.
She loves to dance, and enjoys all the pleasures
of young debutantes. She is not much more
than a debutante herself, because she went to
Europe just after leaving school, and came
back to America to be married. She has had
no chance to go into society, and she intends to
do so this winter, and her friends think she is
right.
	When the subject of dancing parties was
broached to the President he would not listen
to it. Then Mrs. Cleveland got out some old
books showing pictures of dancing in the exe-
cutive mansion during former Presidents' terms,
and finally she mentioned that a stately minuet
or square dance would be no harm, and finally
she carried her point with the President, as she
always does. Naturally, there is much flutter
in society over the rumor that there will be
dancing parties at the white house, and many
say they will not believe it until they receive
invitations.—Ex.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Kaysville, Nov. 8th, 1886, Alice Ellison, wife
of John Ellison, of consumption. Deceased was born at
Waddington, Yorkshire, England, Nov. 25th, 1820. Was
baptized in July; 1838, by H. C. Kimball. Emigrated to
Nauvoo in the spring of 1841; shared in the persecutions in
common with the Saints; crossed the plains in 1852; settled
in Kaysville, Davis Co., Utah, 1853. She was the mother
of eleven children, seven of whom still live to mourn her
loss. She suffered much pain during her last sickness; she
was confined most of the time to her room nine weeks pre-
vious to her death. Her family were kind and loving, and
rendered her every assistance in the hour of affliction.
Sister Ellison was President of the Teachers in the Relief
Society from their organization; was always at the meet-
ings whenever her health would permit. She was truly an
example to her sisters with whom she met from time to
time. She often bore a faithful testimony to this great
work, and the Prophet Joseph Smith as being a man of

[Column 2]

God. Her faith in the Gospel was firm and unshaken up
to the last time she ever spoke to the sisters: she was full
of the Spirit of God, and bore a faithful testimony, and
said she knew that this work in which we were engaged
was the work of God, and that the Saints, if they proved
faithful, would overcome the world. The same day, in
private conversation, she said she felt she had not done her
duty in bearing her testimony to the truth of celestial
marriage. She said she knew that principle was as just
and true as any other principle which had been revealed 
from heaven, "and it cannot be doubted." She felt glad
that she had lived in that principle for a number of years.
She has gone to a higher sphere, and to mingle with those
that have gone before, yet her memory will still live in the
hearts of the sisters of the Relief Society. She leaves a
husband, seven children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
nine great-grandchildren to mourn her loss. Rest in
peace, dear sister, until we meet again, when our parting
will be no more.
		SARAH B. LAYTON.

	At a recent meeting of the Relief Society of American
Fork, a committee was appointed to draft Resolutions of
Respect and condolence to the memory of our dear friend
and sister, Alice Greenwood, First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, who died at this place Nov.
13th, 1886, after a lingering illness of nearly two years,
which she bore with great faith and fortitude, manifesting
throughout a strong reliance on the promises of the Lord
made to the faithful; her mind was clear to the end, and
her faith in the Gospel bright and unwavering, and when
her vitality was exhausted, she sweetly fell asleep without
a struggle, thus fulfilling the promise, that to the righteous
death is sweet. Sister Greenwood has been identified with
the Relief Society since its organization, and has been a
great comfort and support to the President in her capacity
of Counselor. She was among the early Saints who were
compelled to flee from Nauvoo, having at that time three
small children. She endured many privations incident to
the journey. She came to Salt Lake City in the second
company of 1847, resided four years in the city, and then
removed with her family to American Fork, which she
assisted in founding, and has been affectionately associated
with the interests of that place up to the time of her
demise. She was the mother of fourteen children, twelve
of whom she saw honorably married, one having died in
infancy, and one while on a mission to help the emigration
across the plains.
	The funeral was held on the 15th inst., at the meeting
house, when, notwithstanding the extreme severity of the
weather, there was a large attendance. The body was
borne to the meeting house by her seven sons and five son-
in-laws, followed by the family, and accompanied by the
Relief Society in procession, and numerous friends. Words
of comfort and consolation were given to the mourners by
the brethren who took part in the services.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call to a
higher sphere our beloved sister, Alice Greenwood, there-
fore, be it 
	Resolved, That we, the Relief Society of American Fork,
do sincerely mourn the loss of our beloved sister, and feel
to tender our sympathy and condolence to the husband
and numerous relatives who are called upon to lay down
an affectionate wife and mother, and with them we ac-
knowledge the hand of an Almighty God in our bereave-
ment; and;
	Resolved, That we do fully appreciate her services, and
her untiring devotion as a co-laborer, as worthy of respect
and emulation; and,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a faithful and efficient officer of our Society; but
we feel comforted in the assurance that she enjoys the rest
of the faithful, and we look forward to the time when the
grave will give up its dead, and a reunion take place with
those we love, when earth will be purified and become the
glorious home of the redeemed.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be placed
upon our records, that one be tendered the bereaved family,
and one sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		CHARLOTTE SHELLEY,
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Committee.

	Another soul has gone to rest,
		Another faithful spirit flown;

[Column 3]

	Gone now to dwell among the blest,
		Where there's no grief nor sorrow known.

	Not alone a lasting memory
		Will her faithful deeds procure,
	But in God's celestial mansion,
		Eternal recompense is sure.

	Though hard it seems to part with friends,
		Yet we've the sweet assurance given,
	That ties so dear we form on earth,
		Will reunite in heaven.

			M. E. S. ABEL.
American Fork.


DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	 Agent for RUMSEY's celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on a short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306 SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I. 
SALT LAKE CITY., Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
			MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west. 
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 

in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

For Sale at this Office. 

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW. 

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,   - 	25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"	 POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,      - 		$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow, 
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -  	1.50		"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1887. NO. 16.


[Column 1]

A CHRISTMAS POEM.

THAT SAD YET BEAUTIFUL STORY.

Christmas dawns again in gladness,
	Quick the years of earth roll round;
Banished now the thoughts of sadness,
	Happy thoughts to-day resound!
		Bless the day, the happy day!
			Christ's sweet birth forever may
		Brighten hearts of chastened hoping 
			Into love and joy, we pray!
 
Ne'er forget we in our joyance
	Them whom persecution doom
Unto suffering for obeyance
	To their God, in a living tomb.
		Brethren. sisters, let us pray
			That our faithful brethren may 
		Drink the cup of brightest gladness,
			By God's Spirit all this day.

'Tis night. Judea's throngs have gone to rest;
	A wandering pair for shelter seek in vain;
The crowded inn holds not another guest,
	And deafened ears are turned to cries of pain.

My Father! must I die?" the Virgin cries,
	While tears of anguish mark her fair young cheek;
'None careth for mine heavy agonies;
	Oh!give me aid—the humblest roof I seek!"

"None careth for thee, dear one? O, my love,
	My Virgin Bride, mine Angel, say not so!
For aid I've sought in vain; but, as a dove,
	Shall Peace soon bless thee; seeking it I go."

And faithful Joseph soon returns to say:
	"No other shelter than a stable's roof 
Can here be found, this night; content thee, pray, 
	And from this one, dear heart, stand not aloof,

"For cold the winds do pierce thy gentle form,
	And thy dear head is bowed in sickening pain;
Come, loved one, shelter from the raging storm
	At least 'twill give—and from the threatening rain."

She leans upon his arm, and sweetly tells,
	In looks, her gratitude for even this;
And from her heart a prayer of pure love swells,
	As on her cheek she feels a husband's kiss.

And through the weary, wakeful, lengthened night,
	Our Savior's mother strives with nature's chain,
As only mothers know; that heavy fight
	For life, and its belov'd reward through pain.

But all hours pass, the blackest and the bright;
	And those hours passed for her, and morning found
A nestling babe, that, born with dawning light,
	Caused heav'n and earth with brightest praise to sound.

And who but mothers know the happy thought
	Of her, the favored of all women blest?
Nay, mothers, even we, who have not brought
	The world a Savior, know not how she pressed

Her darling in her arms. The gentle one,
	Whose innocence was proof 'gainst all earth's wiles—
Oh, none can tell how gazed she on that son,
	As, charmed, she lingered on his baby smiles.

And never mourned her tender heart, for ruth
	Her little boy did never stray from right;
Truth, justice, righteoueness attend His youth,
	And these, with knowledge, make His manhood bright.

And ever and anon the tempter's darts
	Are hurled with vengeance at that head in vain;
And well He knows the griefs of human hearts,
	And well He feels life's keenest, heaviest pain.

[Column 2]

But God-like strength dwells in that holy breast;
	No wiles succeed, all righteous laws He gives!
Succeeding ages by His laws are blest,
	In Him alone a world's salvation lives.

Alas! for thee, Judea! Can thy ears
	Still close to moaning cries of pain and grief?
Thy hardened heart resisteth still those tears
	Of God-like manhood, pleading heav'n's relief!

Beersheba to Dan unite to call
	Upon their heads the curse of holy blood—
Alas! and still they clamor for the fall,
	Upon their children, heaven's vengeful flood.

Ascending lone the mount, the Suff'rer cries,
	"If it be possible, my Father great,
Then let this cup pass by!" His heart replies
	Quick to the prayer, "Thou hast not long to wait!

"Thy Father's glories soon shall shine around Thee;
	Bear up, my Son, for yet a little while;
Amid temptations, faithful have I found thee,
	Be faithful still and win Thy Father's smile.

"For myriads watch Thee now, mine own belov'd,
	Their fate eternal upon thee is laid;
Then stand thou firm, nor from Thy path be mov'd,
	A few short hours—the sacrifice is made!"

"Thy will be done, not mine! Forgive the weakness,
	O Father kind and wise, that in my grief
Petitioned Thee, in lowly, earnest meekness
	To send; e'en now, Thine aid for my relief.

"I go, I go, to meet a doom of suffering,
	Oh, well I know mine hour hath come to die!
Great God! receive in heaven my lonely offering—
	To save mankind, my Father, here am I.

"I have not sinned; my heart is pure; the wicked
	'Gainst me find no complaint. Alone I tread
The wine-press. O, my Father! by Thy Spirit
	Pour forth Thy strength upon my suffering head!"

The hour had come; the dreadful, awful time;
	So great that darkness covers all the earth!
Yet who can read the solemn depths sublime,
	That burst from dying lips of suffering Worth:

"And am I thus forsaken, O, my God!"
	While torment holds that pure and youthful form.
"And so, 'tis finished!" As that high head bowed,
	And death released Him from earth's blasting storm!

He dies, and we are saved! Ah, who can tell
	The gratitude we owe to that pure life!
And pray we e'er that we may serve Him well,
	And that, untarnished, we may win earth's strife.

For through that Savior glorious things are giv'n,
	To him that overcometh in the strife—
Pure rest eternal in God's highest heaven,
	And chastest joys amid eternal life!

		RUBY LAMONT.


WHAT TO DO WITH YOUR
EXPONENT.

	Sisters, save your EXPONENT. Do not waste
or destroy them. After you have read them
you can put them to much valuable service by
sending them to your friends in the east, or
elsewhere, or if you happen to have no relatives
or friends with whom you correspond, procure
from some one of our missionaries abroad the
name of an inquiring friend, and furnish her
with this beam of light from Utah. You have
no idea what an amount of good you can do
in this way until you have once tried it.
	A missionary brother writes, "Send me all


your EXPONENTS, they are better than tracts,
Many times when I call upon a family, and
am refused the privilege of bearing my testi-
mony, I say, "Would you like a paper published
by the sisters of our Church?" They say, "Oh,
yes; by all means give me one. I did'nt know
your women knew anything of literature. Why
I thought your women knew nothing but
drudgery. I thought the Mormon women had
no voice, were not allowed to speak," etc.
	Printed matter is now carried very cheaply
through the mails, and when at the cost of so
very few cents we can do so much towards en-
lightening the world as to our real condition,
by sending our EXPONENT abroad, it does not
pay to either sell them for wrapping paper, as
many do, nor to destroy them. If we are live
Latter-day Saints we will be on the alert for
every opportunity to promote the Latter-day
work, and will not overlook these, what many
may call small matters, but which, when looked
upon in the right light, are very great ones. I
consider that if we can say or do anything to
dispel one erroneous idea entertained against
us as a people, we have done a great thing.
	We, the women of Latter-day Israel, are the
promoters and sustainers of the great law or-
dained of God for the saving of the women of
this nation, as well as those of other nations,
and we should not be slow in our endeavors to
publish this fact to their ears. The ignorance
that prevails among the women in the east
with regard to the women of Utah, and the
erroneous ideas they have of our real condition,
is astonishing, and it is our duty to dispel these
false ideas as far as it lies in our power to do
so.
	The EXPONENT is not the voice of its editor
and the writers of its columns alone, but it is
the voice of every woman who professes to be
a Latter-day Saint, and it is the duty of every
one of these to help send this voice abroad,
and there is no sister so poor or so illiterate as
to be unable to do her part. We see from the
quotation made from the missionary's letter
that the Exponent can find its way into many
homes where our Elders are not admitted.
This fact ought to stimulate us to follow the ad-
vice I have given above, and let this paper
accomplish all the good that it can.
	Perhaps I have said enough, at least I hope
I have said enough on this subject, that at least
some sister may act upon the advice I have
given with regard to the disposition of this
valuable paper.
	Mc.


A WOMAN’S QUESTIONING.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Don’t you think we have fallen on very
curious times? I want to know if this is the
land of the free and the home of the brave, or
is it only a boast? Is this the land where all
are declared to be free to worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their consciences? Also,
where no laws should be enacted that should
hinder a man (or a woman I suppose) from
seeking happiness as best suited them, provid-
ing they did not tread on any body elses toes?
Is this the country that has invited immigra-
tion to help develop its vast resources, and de-
clared all men equal before the law, or have I
had a beautiful dream that these things were so,
only to awake and find it only a dream, a
phantom, a shadow, without substance?


A few days since, a celebrated prosecuting
(persecuting) attorney declared in open court
that the Mormons must be convicted whether
they could obtain proof of guilt or not. Phew!
is this justice? And recollect, cohabitation is 
only a misdemeanor, while Hopt, the murderer,
is still alive, and, judging from appearances,
will be pardoned when it can be done on the
quiet. But then, he is not a Mormon; oh, no!
Then we have that noble, brave deputy marshal,
Thompson, that hides in houses and shoots
men down (in the back, remember) as they pass
along the streets, and who has a jury ready at
his command, and more than willing to do his
will, for so much per diem. This is called
manslaughter, and he is admitted to bail; we
may look for a verdict of justifiable homidice
or some such trash; but then the murdered man
is a Mormon, that makes all the difference; had
it been the other way the Mormon would have
had to die, but they will make their verdict to
please the howling wolves that would like to
devour us body and soul, if they could. The
fable of the wolf and the lamb was never more
verified than in the present crusade.
	When Senator Logan was here with the G.
A. R., he said in his speech, if we did not like
the treatment we are getting we might emi-
grate. Kind, very kind! but he has gone first.
I should not be surprised if more of the wolves
were stopped in their mad career. Has the 
whole nation got hydrophobia?
	Those that live longest will see most. If we
are only true we shall come out of the furnace
purified of all the dross.
							MARY.
	Grantsville, Jan. 10, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
	SHALL WE BE LIKE THEM?

	BY ELDER H. E. BOWRING.

	"Why can't they be like the rest of us?"
This remark was made by Grover Cleveland,
President of the United States of America, in
reference to the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in Utah, and was no doubt
elicited by the thought that if that people
could be induced to give up their faith in the
revelations of the Almighty (which the Presi-
dent and the majority of mankind do not
recognize), it would save the government and
himself much trouble and expense, and the
people vexatious prosecutions, imprisonment
and much suffering. There is no doubt that
the President was honest in the thought that it
would be for the benefit of those alluded to;
but let us consider the question, and see what
we would be like. Would it benefit us to be
like their corrupt politicians, pettifogging law-
yers, and time-serving priests? Shall we con-
form to the practices and vices that appear in-
separable with the boasted civilization of the
present age, and be like "the rest of them" in
their licentiousness, debauchery and drunken-
ness; their swindlings, robberies and defalca-
tions? Shall we adopt their dreadful practices
of infanticide, fœticide and abortion; their
assignations, seductions and adulteries; their
murders, suicides and pollutions? Shall we
copy them in their man-made systems of reli-
gion, having a form of godliness but denying
the power thereof; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
Shall we heap to ourselves teachers having
itching ears, and turn the truth into fables?
Shall we, like them, transgress the laws, change
the ordinances, and break the everlasting
covenant? Shall we imitate them in what is
admitted by themselves to be a social evil, and
have our beautiful cities infested with thousands
of prostitutes, bringing disease, death and per-
dition to our once happy homes, corrupting our
chaste, virtuous and lovely sons and daughters,
and instead of a comparative heaven, bring a
very pandemonium of evils into our midst?

[Column 2]
Shall we repudiate our wives whom we have
covenanted to love and cherish not only for
time, but for eternity? Shall we turn them
out, and trust them to the tender mercies of a
cold-hearted and cruel world, and have them
branded with the name of harlot, and consign
them to a life of shame? Shall we allow our
much loved and cherished sons and daughters
to be branded with the name of bastard? those
whom we have reared in happy homes, taught
to be strictly chaste and virtuous, bringing
them up in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, teaching them to be sober, industrious,
honest, God-fearing and law-abiding? Shall
we disobey the commands of God, and ally
ourselves with the world, the flesh and the
devil? Our answer is No, no, no! a thousand
times No! Now in the celestial order of mar-
riage, to which, evidently, the President was
alluding, who is injured? Who complains?
Who murmurs? Have the parties who of
their own free will and choice have entered
into the covenant of eternal companionship,
asked for protection from the courts or the
federal government? Have they complained
of cruelty, desertion or neglect, unhappiness,
misery or want? Are not our wives and child-
ren well fed, housed and clothed, and sur-
rounded with the necessaries, comforts and
many of the luxuries of life? Will not our
people compare favorably with those of any
State or Territory in the Union? Let our
wives and children answer, for they are direct-
ly interested. Let the disinterested traveler,
merchant and statesman, who has had the
opportunity of visiting our happy homes, our
comfortable firesides, our thrifty farms, factories
and workshops, tell of our brotherly love, our
hospitality, our love of hearth and home, our
affection for our wives and children, and our reve-
rence for our country, our religion and our
God. Thousands could testify of the truth of
these things if they had the moral courage to
proclaim themselves friends to an unpopular
religion and people. The writer of this article
has seen in the past four months in England
more contentions, jealousies, evil speaking,
angry passions, unkindness, envy, malice and
uncharitableness in the monogamic relation,
than he has in all his thirty years' experience
among the despised, but happy Latter-day
Saints in Utah. Who, then, shall we imitate?
Shall we not strive to be like the ancient
worthies, who, through faith, subdued kingdoms,
wrought righteousness, obtained promises,
stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the
violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword,
waxed valiant in fight, and put to flight the
armies of the aliens? Like them, and like
those noble Saints of latter days, when persecu-
ted, imprisoned or tormented, we will not ac-
cept deliverance at the expense of our honor
and integrity to our covenants, knowing that
we will obtain a better resurrection and an ex-
altation in the kingdom of our God. We will
rather follow in the footsteps of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, of Moses, Elkanah and
Hannah, of ancient apostles and prophets,
also those of our own day. We will imitate
the example of those noble women of Utah,
who recently met in convention at the Salt
Lake City Theatre, where thousands of our
wives and mothers, sisters and daughters,
young and old, protested against the prosecu-
tions and persecutions of their husbands and
fathers for their faith in, and obedience to the
commandments of the Almighty. Their resolu-
tions and protestations were echoed and en-
dorsed by their sisters in every city, town and
hamlet of the Latter-day Saints. In the
words of our immortal poetess, "Our hearts are
fixed; we know in whom we trust" We will
follow their noble examples; our faith is as firm
as the everlasting hills, as unchangable as the
immutable laws of Jehovah. Through obedi-
ence to the everlasting Gospel we have obtained

[Column 3]
a perfect knowledge that the Almighty lives;
that through the atonement of our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ we can obtain salvation by
obeying the laws and ordinances of His king-
dom; that He does and always will reveal His
mind and will to His servants the prophets,
when He has a Church upon the earth; that
He has given us laws to obey in the age in
which we live, and revealed them to his apos-
tles and prophets; that the angel has come to
the earth who was spoken of by John the
Revelator (Rev. xiv, 6), and delivered the
everlasting Gospel to the Prophet Joseph Smith,
who came forth with the same promise the
Savior gave in His day when upon the earth,
that if any man would do the will of his
Father, he should know of the doctrine,
whether it was of God or not, and that the
signs should follow and be enjoyed by those
who believed and obeyed the message of life
and salvation, with all the gifts and blessings
that were enjoyed by the ancient Saints.
	The Elders of the Church have gone forth
proclaiming the message of life and salvation
to the inhabitants of the earth, warning them
of the judgments that will be poured out upon
those who will not know God nor obey the
Gospel of His Son Jesus Christ. After their
testimony the prophet declared they should
have the testimony of plagues, pestilence and
famine, earthquakes, bloodshed, secret combina-
tions, wars and rumors of wars. Desolation
and death should stalk through the land, until
the inhabitants of the earth should be destroyed
and but few men left. Knowing these things,
who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall tribulation or distress, or persecution  or
famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? "For
I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life,
nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor
things present, nor things to come, nor height,
nor depths, nor any other creature shall be
able to separate us from the love of God which
is in Christ Jesus our Lord."—Millennial
Star.

		NOTES AND NEWS.

	Tennyson's new book of poems contains the
three act play "The Promise of May." which
was produced in London some years ago. The
greatest interest in the volume centers in
"Locksley Hall," in which the poet reviews
the life of mankind during the last sixty years
and comes to the conclusion that its boasted
progress is of doubtful credit to the world in
general and to England in particular. A
cynical vein of denunciation of democratic
opinion and aspirations runs throughout the
poem, in marked contrast with the spirit of
the "Locksley Hall" of the poet's youth.
	John G. Whittier, the venerable Quaker
poet, celebrated his seventy-ninth birthday
December 17th, at Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.,
where he received the congratulations of hosts of
friends. The day was observed in Amesbury
by some of the schools in reading and reciting
selections from his works and also in a like
manner by some of the literary societies. Mr.
Whittier was the recipient of a large number
of callers. The poet is in good health, but
passes most of his time indoors.—Ex.


Mrs. Dinah Mulock Craik, the English
novelist, is now an elderly woman, given to
wearing caps over her snow-white hair. She
lives in the country, and occasionally goes up
to London to visit with literary people.
	The first statue of a woman, not of royal
birth, set up in England, was recently erected
in memory of Miss Dorothy Wyndham Patti-
son, better known as "Sister Dora," the famous
hospital nurse."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STAND SIDE BY SIDE.

If God should judge us as we judge one another,
	How hard our lot would be;
If He shows no more mercy than we show to our brother,
	How much of hope have we?
If He should criticise our most earnest labors,
	With just as cool regard
As we oft criticise our nearest neighbors,
	Oh! where is our reward?

All things that can be shaken, will be shaken,
	So says the word of God;
And should we feel that we are almost forsaken,
	"Passing under the rod,"
How much it would increase our heaviest trial,
	And every pain renew,
If loved ones pass us by with cold denial,
	And friends should prove untrue.

When wicked men are seeking to decoy us,
	To gain their selfish ends,
By strange devices and inhuman laws destroy us,
	'Tis then we need our friends;
When even the grand old Constitution trembles
	Beneath their wicked sway,
And every human prop beneath us crumbles,
	O, Saints, be true, I pray!

When all the world rejoices in our sorrow,
	And all our hopes deride,
Aud speak of harder times for us to-morrow,
	We should stand side by side.
When our best men are led as to the slaughter,
	Confined in loathsome dens,
Or else renounce their wives, their sons and daughters—
	How can we falter then?

Our Lord has given us one great, gracious promise,
	That, though we stand alone,
His grace and strength will be sufficient for us,
	He will sustain His own.
As gold is tried in seven times' heated furnace,
	So must the Saints be tried;
Then will our God work out a great deliverance—
	Till then, stand side by side.

		E. A. BENNION.
Vernon, Dec. 14, 1886.


[Column 1]

A LITTLE PLAIN TALK.

	"Man's inhumanity to man
		Makes countless thousands mourn"

	The above quotation applies equally to
women. How surprising it is to an intelligent,
far-reaching mind to note the injustice done
to one another by our own sex.
	A number of speeches made in my hearing
by some of our sisters (I am sorry to say) in
my opinion go far to substantiate this fact.
	Some of these I will take the liberty to re-
peat in this little article, for the purpose of
showing what a habit some of us are uncon-
sciously falling into; instead of observing the
Mormon creed and helping to sustain the in-
telligent women that are among us. and that
have qualified themselves to occupy positions
that require education and intelligence, we
let jealousy creep in, and when this unruly
tyrant once takes possession of the citadel of
our hearts, we find he is very hard to conquer,
and we say and do that which we ought not.
If we will only try to possess ourselves of a
magnanimous disposition it will be of far more
worth than any of us can imagine; it will
strengthen and fortify us against such low,
petty views, that are constantly trying to take
possession of us, and we will possess a charitable
heart toward all our fellow sisters. The Bible
says, "Hatred stireth us strife, but love cover-
eth up all sins." Again: "A man shall be
commended according to his wisdom, but he
that is of a perverse heart shall bedespised."
Therefore, let us be willing to accord to each
one the mission they have to perform with all
magnaminity of heart.
	One sister says, in answer to an inquiry,
"No, I am not a subscriber for the EXPONENT;
I do not get much time to read, in fact I do
not believe much in woman's rights. I believe

[Column 2]

that a woman's mission is in attending to her
household duties."
	Oh, dear!  what a pity to have been born a
woman, if the name but serves to stay our pro-
gression intellectually. Our ideas of woman's
rights are a little different to those the world at
large entertain on the question, but we are not
the down-trodden, ignorant women we are re-
presented; we would have the world understand
that we are willing to and do stand by our
husbands, fathers and brothers in every princi-
ple, and especially the one grand principle of
our religion—celestial marriage—and this has
been accomplished most effectually through
the columns of the EXPONENT, edited by a
woman, and contributed to by such gifted
sisters as Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Hannah T.
King, Helen Mar Whitney, and many others
I might mention, would time and space permit.
It is through the columns of this little paper
that the world in general have received much
enlightenment concerning the misrepresented
people of Utah, and I feel thankful to our
Heavenly Father that we have sisters capable
of assisting in this great work.
	Another sister said, "What! paid her as
much as you would a male physician?" in
speaking of a woman doctor, "the very idea of
paying a woman as much as a man. If I had
occasion to engage the services of either I
should certainly employ one of the opposite
sex."
	Just look at the absurdity of such a speech;
because one happens to be born a woman, she
should receive only half salary, or perhaps it
would better please jealousy and envy, who go
stalking abroad arm in arm, if she endeavored
to gain a livelihood by playing at rub-a-dub-dub
at the wash tub. This feeling should not exist
among the women of the Latter-day Saints.
	Let us strive to be up to every duty, and
hearken to the Scripture, "Get wisdom; and
with all thy getting, get understanding." If
we do this, each striving to help the other, we
will have a calm and contended mind, and be-
come noble, intelligent women. One author
says that the moment we acknowledge jealousy
in our hearts towards anyone that moment we
acknowledge them our superior.
	So let us be on the lookout, ever prayerful
and humble, willing to help sustain all that are
doing a good work, and whatever our station
in life, or the mission we are called upon to fill,
we will reap our reward in time to come.
		I. H.


A WORD TO THE SISTERS.

	I thought I would try and write a few words
to my sisters. My mind is crowded with sub-
jects, and yet I do not feel able to do any of
them justice, but in my weak way I may speak
upon several, and the first one that is in my 
mind is this: Whose duty is it to teach the
principles of the everlasting Gospel? Well, I
should say it was the duty of every Elder in
Israel; and should we stop here? No. Accord-
ing to my understanding it is the duty of 
every Latter-day Saint, both male and female,
to teach every pure and holy principle, and
not only teach it, but practice it, too. We are
the light of the world; we claim to be God's
people. Then it becomes our duty to let our
light shine to the world, and to do this we
must set an example worthy of imitation, by
our conversation, our actions, and our dealing
one with another. We should also set this ex-
ample before our family, our neighbors and
the world at large, and when we are doing this
we are preaching the Gospel.
	Some will say, "Well, I can do all this, but
to stand up before a congregation to speak, I
can't do that." I would ask you, my sisters,
why you cannot do this? Are you ashamed
to stand up before your sisters and bear your 
testimony to the work of God. Haven't you
had sufficient evidence that this work is true?


If so, then why can't you tell it to others? Let
me be plain with you, my sisters; it is no good
spirit that prompts you to feel that way, and I
would advise you, for your own good, to throw
off such feelings as that, and ask the Lord to
strengthen you, that you may be able to tell
the world of His goodness and mercy. If you
will do this, it will strengthen you and also
your sisters to hear you bear your testimony.
We must work for the promised reward; we
must strive for the crown we expect to wear,
and whenever we are called upon by our Lord,
we must work for him faithfully there.
	Now, there has been a great deal said to
mothers in regard to training their children,
which is a subject that too much cannot be
said upon; it cannot be spoken of too often,
but at this time I wish to speak to wives. I
would ask you, "Have you acted in a way to
make your husband love you and have full
confidence in you?" If so, you have it in your
power to control that man to a great extent,
to make him either good or bad, for the
woman, though she is considered the weaker
vessel; has more power and influence over man
than many may suppose.
	Then, knowing these facts, and considering
our position here on earth, that we are given
to man by God for helpmates—for what? To help
exalt him ourselves. Still we are dependent on
man to resurrect and exalt us; yet there is a
great deal depending on us whether we help
that man to be worthy of an exaltation. We all
want good and noble men, kind and affection-
ate husbands; then let us make them so by
kind words, noble deeds and good example.
When he feels despondent and low-spirited,
speak kind and comforting words to him; keep
your house and your person clean and tidy,
make everything look comfortable and pleasant,
and then your husbands will love home and
your society.
		M. O. BRADY.
	From the Advocate manuscript paper, Erastus.


TO MOTHERS.

	BY GRANDMOTHER.

	Now, I suppose you will think, what has
grandmother got to say now; I should think
she had said enough by this time; but that is
all a mistake; she has got a great deal to say
yet, for I love the little ones that God has
given to the daughters of Zion, for bright and
shining lights in the kingdom of God, and I
want to see every mother noble and true, and
teach the little ones noble principles--to be
virtuous, honest and industrious, for the more
the mind is kept employed, the easier children
can be governed. How the mother's heart
will rejoice to see her children grow up without
a spot or blemish on their pure and good name.
Oh! how different to see them take the other 
course, and bring their parents' grey hairs
down in sorrow to the grave; and when it is
too late they can look back and see where
they might have done better. The time to sow
the good seed is in their infancy.
	Some will say, "Oh! let them come to the 
years of understanding before you teach them
too much;" but you leave them that long to
themselves, and they think then that they
know too much to be taught, and they will
have no respect for their parents, nor for the
aged of either sex. But the mother who
teaches her children correct principles, and
rears them in the fear and admonition of the
Lord, and teaches them to respect and honor
old age, they will respect their parents and be
good children; they will be loved by everybody
and they will make good Latter-day Saints,
and be good citizens.
					CLARISSA WILHELM.
From the Advocate manuscript paper Erastus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from. 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15,1887.


[Column 2]			
	COMMENTS.

	The Edmunds Tucker Bill, of which so much
has been said of late, passed the House of Repre-
sentatives by a large majority with a "whoop and
a howl," on Wednesday, January 12th.  This out-
rageous bill derives its name from two leading
men in the Congress of the United States, and it
is greatly to their discredit that they should thus
degrade the talents given them, and subvert the
aims and intentions of all law-making and good
government by yielding to a popular clamor and
prejudice born of rumor and misrepresentation.
Senator Edmunds formulated the bill at first, and
it passed the Senate last session of Congress, and
was sent to the Lower House, where it was referred
to the Judiciary Committee, of which John Ran-
dolph Tucker is the Chairman, and in this way
this compound anti-Mormon, anti-American bill
received its double name.  Hon. John T. Caine,
Delegate from Utah, occupied an hour and a half
in opposing the passage of the bill, and exposing 
its inconsistent and iniquitious measures, and the
cruelties it would inflict upon an unoffending, and
already oppressed and persecuted people.
	His speech was able and eloquent, and he was
greeted with many congratulations at the close.
It was a strong protest against adverse legislation,
setting forth in a forcible manner facts and condi-
tions as they actually exist, as against false reports,
slanders and mis-statements.  Mr. Bennett, of 
North Carolina, spoke one hour upon the worst
features of the bill;  we remember this gentlemen
as the only one with whom we conversed, who 
said he would consider the bill prayerfully, and
we made a note of it at the time.  Reed, of Maine, 
who approved the bill, spoke in its favor for twenty
minutes, traducing and villifying the Latter-day 
Saints in the bitterest manner.  Reed might with
all propriety be termed a hot-headed Mormon-hater.
He was followed by John Randolph Tucker, the
god-father of the bill, who succeeded in arousing
sufficient antagonism to the Mormon people to
push the bill through under the excitement of the
hour, just when in the mist of clouds of dark mis-
representation and slanders it was rendered possi-
ble. 
	It seems incredible that such an outrageous bill
should pass without further protest;  there were a 
few negatives, but not enough to demand the
yeas and nays.  Doubtless Mr. Tucker is proud of 
that day's work, but, after all, if the bill should fail
of passing the Senate, or the President refuse his 
signature, he will not succeed so admirably in 
gaining popular favor at the close of his public
career by his attempt to crush out the Mormons.
	Mr. Tucker is a Presbyterian in faith, and
illiberal and bigoted in his religious views, as most
of that sect are.  He is strongly opposed to 
woman's suffrage, and after a hearing before his
Committee on that question, last winter, when
some of the ablest and most eloquent women in 
the land presented arguments and logical reasons
for the support of such a measure as the ballot in
the hands of women, Miss Susan B. Anthony,

[Column 2]
anxious to know what effect the speeches had made
upon him, inquired what he thought of the cause."
He replied, he was "too old to change his views."
"Then," said Miss Anthony, with the ready wit
which never forsakes her, "aren't you too old to
sit in the Congress of the United States?" Mr.
Tucker, who is very good natured, only laughed
at the joke, as he possibly considered it, though
Miss Anthony was in sober earnest.  Perhaps he
looks upon the Mormon question as only a possible
joke, but he will yet find that the Mormons are
most solemnly in earnest about adhering to their
religion.
	Senator Edmunds is, in every respect, a differ-
ent kind of man.  He is proud, rich, cold as an
icicle, aristocratic and arrogant.  He would never
have been half as famous as he is, and as widely
known, had it not been for the Mormons.  But
such popularity will not avail him much "in the
long run."  People who build themselves up on
the ruin of others are sure to have a terrible fall,
some day, and his will assuredly come.  There
are men here in Utah—"Liberals" they falsely 
style themselves—who are urging Congress to do
this great wrong against the people of Utah, and
deceiving the general public and members of Con-
gress, who are not themselves acquainted with
facts, by means of messages, telegrams and frac-
tional statements of things, elaborated and em-
bellished with falsehoods to suit their purpose.
Senator Edmunds and John Randolph Tucker are
not deceived, however; they know the situation
having heard the facts from those who are author-
ized to speak for the people, and therefore they
cannot plead ignorance, and are left without ex-
cuse.  On the question of woman's suffrage, Mr. 
Tucker holds the Southern view that women are
too good to dabble in politics or enter the field of
field of public matters in any such way.  But it is
very doubtful about his considering Mormon
women too good;  he likely thinks they are not
good enough, the same as he does Mormon men,
who are not in his bill thought good enough to
have the right to do anything to defend their rights
to the homes and inheritances, which their own in-
dustry and almost superhuman perseverance have 
made in a desert land, previously unknown, ex-
cept as uninhabitable.  But there are some things
neither Senator Edmunds nor the Hon. John Ran-
dolph Tucker, nor others of the same stamp can
do.  They cannot stamp out Mormonism from the
hearts and souls and consciences of those who
have embraced it honestly, and have received a
testimony of its sacred truths.  Persecution can-
not kill a principle, nor can imprisonment, or tor-
ture of any kind, and though laws are made to
root up and abolish it, the seed is sown and will
bear its fruit, notwithstanding all the influence of
the great, the noble and the wise of the kingdoms
and governments of this world combined together.
He who holds the nations and kingdoms and
kings and rulers in His hand has decreed, and
His words cannot fail.
	Even this extremely tyrannical bill, that makes
Mormons, one and all, little better than slaves,
unless they subscribe to an oath, which denounces 
the principles of their religion wholesale, is not
bad enough to suit such men as Baskin, he him-
self stated 'twas not what he wanted; he wants
something more like the Hailey Bill, and could, 
doubtless, see every Mormon hung or put to the
sword.  The spirit of hatred and vengeance, that
characterizes the men who oppose Mormonism in
the present day, is just as vindictive and quite as
cruel as the spirit that sought to destroy the
ancient Saints, when they cast the Prophet Daniel
into the lions' den, and the three Hebrew children
into the fiery furnace;  but even as they were
thwarted in their attempts to take the life of the
chosen of God then, so will they be in this day,
and all their cunningly concocted schemes will
fail, and the principles of truth stand firm as the
rock of ages, and those who abide in the principles

[Column 3]
revealed through the Prophets of God in this dis-
pensation will come off more than conquerors
There is no danger, so great as that of falling away
or becoming indifferent to the voice of the Holy 
Spirit, that leads into all truth, and which, under
all circumstances, is a sure guide and shield and
protection to the Latter-day Saint.


TO SISTER ELIZA R. S. SMITH.

	On the 23rd of December, having had a reunion
of the Nauvoo Saints and others, on the eighty-
first anniversary of the birthday of Joseph Smith,
the Prophet and Seer of the nineteenth century,
the committee most respectfully desire you to
accept the accompanying token of regard, which
will be presented by Elder Jacob Gates. The
article referred to is the artistic work of the
widow James Snow, and her daughter, widow
Sarah K. Young.
	PERCIA BUNNEL,		DIANA SMOOT,
	DEBORAH BILLINGS,	MARILLA DANIELS,
	FRANCES CLUFF,		LOUISA NEWEL,
	EMELINE MILLER,		HARRIET BEAN,
								Committee.
	Provo.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
	With many thanks, and gratitude that words can-
not express, I acknowledge the receipt of the
beautifal cake, politely presented by Elder Jacob
Gates, in behalf of the Committee.
		E. R. SNOW SMITH.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I would like to place a few of my thoughts on
paper, peradventure it should meet the thoughts
of some one else.
	In the year of 1852 I received the Gospel of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, knowing that it
was the power of God unto salvation to all those
that will believe and obey the same in all things,
as fast as it is made known to them. It was on
the 6th day of June that I went down into the
waters of baptism; I then met with many a conflict;
it was then that I upheld the principle of plural
marriage. I did not know that plural mar-
riage was in the Church at that time, but I said
that all good men in olden times had more wives
than one, and why not now? I thought it was a
good principle; it has always looked right to me,
and I have tried to live in accordance with the
same, and live according to the dictates of con-
science, trusting in the God of our salvation for
the outcome. Light and truth must be carried
unto all the world, that every ear may hear the
sound thereof, and the world left without an excuse,
and to clear the way before the consummation of
all things, which is fast hastening on.
	Every principle in its proper place, inasmuch as
the Gospel requires it—faith and repentance, and
obedience to every principle and commandment
that pertains to the salvation and exaltation of all
the human family that dwell on the earth, inas-
much as they will obey the same, and live accord-
ing to these requirements. I know that the
principle of plural marriage is a righteous principle.
I upheld it before I ever heard it was practiced in
this dispensation. It is upheld in the Bible so
plainly among the patriarchal order of families, as
they were acknowledged by the Father of the
Faithful in that day. The Scriptures speak of
faithful Abraham, and represent him as the
"Father of the Faithful." He did all things that
the Lord required at his hands, and it was ac-
counted to him for righteousness, and his children
followed after him. It was said that "I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob." They were
called Abram and Sarai, (Genesis, xvi, 3). "And
Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the
Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the


[Column 1]

land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband
Abram to be his wife." (xvii, 5). "Neither shall
thy name any more be called Abram, but thy
name shall be Abraham, for a father of many na-
tions  have I made thee; and God said unto
Abraham, "And as for thy wife, thou shalt not call
her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be."
Now, you see that the Lord visited them and
talked to them and ate with them and changed
their names. The Lord did not forsake Abraham
and Sarah because he (Abraham) had two wives,
but He blessed him, and told him that his posterity
should be as numerous as the sands on the sea
shore, or the stars in the firmament, that they
could not be numbered. Now Abraham took
Keturah for a wife to enlarge their families, that they
might increase according to the blessing that was
promised him. If we expect to have the blessings
of Abraham, we must do the works of Abraham,
for Abraham, in the Scriptures, is called the
"Father of the Faithful," of which I want to be
one.
	PLURAL MARRIAGE was an ancient order,
though men ignore it now. It was when the Lord
visited His servants the prophets. Men say that
we have no need for the Lord to talk with us, for
such things are done away now; but if He will
not speak to us there must be something wrong; it
must be that we are in the wrong, not the Lord
but I would like to be as good as the ancient peo-
ple of God, and be worthy to go where they
are, I would like to talk with them and enjoy my-
self with them, for I expect to know them and en-
joy their company, which we cannot do if they
will not speak to us, or if we are not worthy to be
spoken to; nor can we learn of their ways or
walk in their paths, that we may be like them. I
would rather be taught of the ways of the Lord
and walk in His paths, let them be ever so thorny,
for without trials what are we? Not worthy of
His notice. I could have no joy if I knew no
God and no hereafter. How could we advance in
the things of the kingdom?
	 I rejoice in knowing that there is a future state,
with all of its organizations, and I realize that I
am responsible for the knowledge that He has
given and blessed me with. Inasmuch as baptism
is necessary, so is the laying on of hands for the
gift of the Holy Ghost, and all the rest of the
ordinances of the Gospel. Plural marriage is as
necessary as any other principle of the Gospel.
If I did not believe in practising plural marriage,
I should not think that I was worthy of any, for
if one principle is wrong the others are wrong also.
How would we feel if we should pass behind the
vail and see those who were not allowed any
privilege to speak to us? I should not expect the
privilege of their society. We must do the work
that will claim the same blessings, then. Where
are all the faithful Prophets and Patriarchs of old,
as well as modern? I want to be worthy to meet
them and enjoy their company; I love them, and
the words that they have taught. We can go to
the Bible and read the words of Abraham, that
good man—he said that he married his sister.
(Gen. xxii, 12). "And yet, indeed, she is my sister.
She is the daughter of my father, but not the
daughter of my mother, and she became my wife."
Now this goes to prove that his father practised
plural marriage also. Abraham, whom the Lord
especially favored, had more wives, and his grand-
son is the same Jacob that, when traveling on his
journey, (Gen. xxviii, 11), "lighted on a certain
place, and tarried there all night, because the sun
was set; and he took of the stones of that place
and put them for his pillow, and lay down in that
place to sleep." (12). "And he dreamed: Behold,
a ladder set upon the earth, and the top of it
reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God
ascending and descending on it." (13). "And, be-
hold, the Lord stood above it, and said, 'I am the
Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and the God of
Isaac; the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I

[Column 2]

give it, and to thy seed." (15). "And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt
spread abroad, to the west, and to the east, and to
the north, and to the south, and in thee and in thy
seed shall all the families of the earth be
blessed."
	Do we belong to the families of the earth?
Mark, He said that all the families of the earth
should be blessed. Now, where is one that it does
not reach? Have we not all sprung from the
patriarchal families, and how can we expect to get
along without obedience to the same law? There
is no blessing promised without obedience. Jacob
worked seven years for Rachel, and was deceived
and got Leah, and then he worked another seven
years for Rachel, and Leah and Rachel each had a
handmaid, and in time they gave each of them to
their husband for wives. This shows to me that
they loved their husband. Jacob, whom the Lord
named Israel, was the father of twelve sons, one
of them was called a dreamer, and his brethren
sold him. He was taken to Egypt, and he became
a savior to all his father's household, and had do-
minion over all things, and all Canaan, where the
famine reached them; and how many of us are of
the seed of Joseph, through the loins of Ephraim,
on whom greater blessings were conferred under
he hands of his grandfather, whom the Lord
talked with, and said his name should be called
Israel from this time forth.
	Moses was conversant with the Lord, and he
was the great law-giver of Israel. In his laws
especial provisions were made for polygamists; it
is not mentioned as one of the crimes for which
penalties were provided.
	Elkanah was a polygamist, yet his son Samuel
was a great prophet and judge in Israel. He was
born and lived under the special favor of God.
	David, king of Israel, was chosen of the Lord.
(1 Samuel, xvi, 12-13). "He took Abigail and
Ahinoam, and they were also both of them his
wives." 1 Samuel, xxv, 72-73. "He took him
more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem."
(2 Samuel, v, 13), we are further informed that,
"David did that which was right in the eyes of the
Lord, and turned not aside from anything
that he commanded him all the days of his
life, save only in the matter of Uriah, the Hittite."
(1 Kings, xv, 5). In this passage we have an as-
surance that David did right in taking all his wives
and concubines except in one instance, for which
he was severely chastised. When Nathan, the
prophet, reproved him for this sin, he said to him,
"In the name of the Lord I gave thee thy master's
house, and thy master's wives unto they bosom."
(2 Samuel, xii, 8).
	I might quote the passages from the beginning
of the Bible to the end thereof, and all would prove
these things, the purposes of the Lord, which are
one eternal round. Search the Scriptures; in
them ye think ye have eternal life, but they are
they that testify of these things. It has not for-
bidden these things for which many have to endure
the penalty of a broken law, and imprisonment
without a just cause, and with a conscience void
of offense toward the laws of man. God has com-
manded and we must obey. In this life only can
we prepare for the next existence, and because
we try to keep the commandments of God, our
fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are placed
before the tribunal and unjustly condemned, and
doomed to stay in prison for months or years, and
they will and do submit for conscience' sake. We
have endured many things, and hope to endure all
things. We feel sorry for our persecutors; they
know not what they do; they are measuring arms
with the Supreme Being, who has said He would
not be mocked nor hold them guiltless that oppress
His Saints. He has said that offenses must come,
but woe! unto them by whom they come. Jesus
said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged, condemn not,
lest ye be condemned." He said, "Let him that

[Column 3]

s without sin cast the first stone at her, and they
all fled."
	We have no hardness in our hearts toward our
oppressors; their lot is hard; they will condemn
themselves in that day when we all shall meet at
the bar of God; where none can say that God is
not just. We pity them, and say, "Oh Lord! have
mercy on them, for they know not what they do."
We fear not, for the Lord is at the helm of the
ship Zion, and He can steer it through the storm
that rages wild and fierce; we have nothing to fear
if we are faithful to our God. We must be tried
and proven until we are like gold seven times
tried in the furnace, and the dross is all con-
sumed.
		SARAH SUDWEEKS.
	Junction, Piute Co., Dec. 29, 1886.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Y. L. M. I. A. CIRCULAR.

To the officers and members of the Young Ladies'
	Mutual Improvement Associations of the
	Oneida Stake of Zion:

DEAR SISTERS:
	As we are unable to meet with each Association
as often as we desire, we take this opportunity of
letting you know our thoughts and wishes con-
cerning the young ladies of this Stake. We are
engaged in the same great cause, and it should be
our greatest object to improve in all good things.
	The Presidency of the Church, in their wisdom,
have seen fit to organize these Associations for
the benefit of the young people of Zion, and it is
our duty to live up to the privileges we have. We
should learn the will of the Lord and then do it.
The Lord loves those who diligently serve Him,
and will help those who help themselves. The
Savior said, "The pure in heart shall see God."
	We would like to ask you, as daughters of Zion,
"Are you living pure and honest lives, so as to be
able to claim all the blessings in store for the
faithful?" We realize that a non-performance of
duty deprives us of the Spirit of God; therefore,
we would exhort you not to give way to evil in-
fluences, but heed the good instructions given you
from time to time.
	Are we, as young ladies, seeking to improve 
our minds as much as we are striving to adorn our
bodies with all the fashions of the day? If we
are not, now is the time to commence. Study the
best books you can get, especially those treating
upon our holy religion; also the laws of life and
health. Seek good society; use your influence
with the young men you may be associated with to
refrain from habits that are not in accordance with
the mind and will of God. Young ladies, you
have more influence than perhaps you are aware
of. President Young stated on one occasion that
young ladies had more influence than he, "For,"
said he, "you can put a stop to round dancing and
I cannot." If we have such an influence as this,
let us use it for good, and in the direction suggested
by him.
	Beware of those who are not of our faith, or
who speak lightly of sacred things. Be polite and
courteous to all, and respect old age. Avoid
speaking evil of others. Do not criticise the
authorities, but pray for them, and for all who are
in trouble or distress. Pay your tithing and fast
offerings, that you may be blessed. Keep the
Sabbath day holy. Be industrious, prayerful and
humble, for we are living in a most eventful age,
when much depends upon the youth of Zion, and
the young ladies are now called upon to pre-
pare themselves for the different positions and
labors they will have to perform, in helping to re-
deem Zion. Let us set our mark high, and faith-
fully and zealously work to it. Be patient, modest
and faithful, and study closely the spirit of the
times, and the sentiments of the living prophet,
that light and truth may be your guide through
this important epoch of our history. Hold your


meetings regularly and at the appointed time.
Have, if possible, one or more representatives
present at our conferences and officer's meetings.
The programme committee will find suitable
lessons to bring before the members from the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine and Coven-
ants. Use a portion of your money made at en-
tertainments, and so forth, to purchase books for
your library. Send the money with list of books
you have, and those you want, to Esther C.
Parkinson, and she will complete the list and
order the books for you. By ordering a number
they can be purchased cheaper.
	May the Lord bless you in your desires to do
right, is the prayer of,
		  Your sisters in the Gospel,
				ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
				RUTH H. HATCH.
	Of the Presidency of the Oneida Stake of Zion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of Utah Stake, held Nov. 26th,
1886, Prest. Mary John presiding, with her
Counselors. No visitors present. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. As there were no written reports to
be read, the presidents of the various branches
of the Relief Society throughout the county
were called upon to give verbal reports.
	Prest. John said she was pleased to meet
with us again, and "although, owing to bad
weather, we are few in numbers, the Lord has
promised to meet with us, and hence we will
claim a blessing. This is a trying time for us.
Sometimes there seems to be a dark cloud hang-
ing over us, but then we can see a rift in the
clouds and the sun appears, shining. Our
enemies are on the alert to overthrow us; let us
be humble and prayerful. I pray the Lord to
bless us, that we may be worthy of His smiles;"
etc.
	The presidents then gave in their reports,
after which Coun. Marilla M. Daniels gave a
great deal of good instruction to the sisters.
Said, "Straight is the gate and narrow the way
that leads to eternal life, but all that work for
it will gain it. We do not wish to falter and
faint now, but press on to the end," etc.
	Sister Moody, from Arizona, made a few re-
marks, and bore her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	She was followed by Bishop Myron Tanner,
who said he was pleased to hear the sisters
bear their testimonies to the truth of this 
work. "There is joy in these times; the hand
of God is over us for good. We cannot see
 the cause of these things, but the hand of op-
pression laid on the parents is doing more to
convince our children of the truth of Mormon-
ism than anything else could have done. They
are riveting the truths of Mormonism on
them." The speaker here recounted some of
the persecutions of Missouri, and told how he
witnessed the mob strike his father on the head,
and the effect it had on him. The speaker
was affected to tears in relating the occurrence,
but said, "we are called upon to pass through
these ordeals to purify us. Do not let us give
way to anger in regard to these things, but
bear the cross with humble hearts.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing.
Benediction.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister Emily G. Cluff, the first speaker,
spoke of the duties of mothers in regard to
their children. Thought the mother's influence
over them was more than the father's. Ex-
horted the older sisters to speak in Society
meetings; as it encouraged the younger sisters,
and gave them confidence in themselves to
speak.

[Column 2]

	Prest. A. O. Smoot said, "I cordially respond
to the call of Sister John. I am pleased to
meet with you again in a conference capacity.
The adversary is abroad in the land, and it is
time the line of demarcation was being drawn
between good and evil. Evil communications
will corrupt us and our families." Spoke very
strongly against round dancing, as being ex-
pressly forbidden by the First Presidency of
the Church, and asked the co-operation of
mothers and heads of families in discountenanc-
ing it and putting it down; also spoke of the
threatened evil of having saloons opened in
our midst. Exhorted mothers to watch over
the youth committed to their care. "We
should watch in the days of our temptation.
God will purify His people. He whips us in-
to line. I trust the inspiration of the Gospel
will lead us aright, and may the peace of God
be with us. Amen.
	Prest. David John endorsed the remarks of
Prest. Smoot. Said, "The subjects mentioned
are of great importance." Reviewed the
liquor question and other subjects. Said, "Let
us care for our poor and feed and clothe them;
comfort those who mourn, and if any are sick
and not able to attend meetings, it would be
right and proper that the sacrament be taken
to them." Spoke of the class distinction that
was rearing its head among the people. "The
Lord will not permit it. We must be humble.
We are baptized by one baptism; we must love
and esteem our brethren as ourselves; not by
words alone, but by works also, and in minis-
tering to their necessities. It seems to me in
the face of all our persecutions we have no
time to spare in dances. Let us meet often in
houses of prayer, and ask God to preserve us
from the power of our enemies. Let us put
away our vanity and turn to the Lord, for un-
less we do there are worse days in store for us
yet. Everything that can be shaken will be
shaken. We will all be tested. We are pass-
ing through a crisis that will prove us. No
power can crush us but our own weakness. All
these clouds will result in blessings. My
prayer is, that God will bless us and give us
His Holy Spirit.
	Anna K. Smoot made a few remarks in re-
gard to the Primary Association.
	Prest. Mary John felt that the Spirit of the
Lord had been with us. Said, "We will now
adjourn for three months." Singing. "The
time is far spent," etc. Benediction by Prest.
Smoot.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake con-
vened on the 14th of December, 1886, in the
tabernacle at Brigham City, Sister Harriet
Snow presiding. After the opening exercises,
Prest. Harriet Snow arose and said, "I feel
thankful we have the privilege to meet once
more in a conference capacity. I trust we
may have the Spirit of the Lord to guide us in
transacting business pertaining to our duties."
	The Secretary being absent, Sister Annie
Wixom was appointed Secretary pro. tem.
Minutes of previous conference were read and
accepted.
	Susannah P. Boothe, Prest. of 1st Ward,
said, "I realize we have to make an effort in
meeting together, as well as in other respects.
We are living in a time that we need all the
teachings we can gather. Let us remember
our brethren and sisters who cannot be with us.
We can do a great deal of good in cheering
those who are down-hearted, besides doing
good to the poor. It behooves each and every
one of us to lift up our prayers early and late
in behalf of the youth of Zion; try to lead
them along, but not drive them. I hope we
will not be weary in well doing, that when we

[Column 3]

leave this existence we may leave a good re-
cord behind us."
	Mary Anderson, Prest. of 3rd Ward: "I feel
almost proud of our sisters who take an active
part in our ward, although we should not feel
proud, still it is a great encouragement. I
think the families in exile have just as hard
times as the brethren in prison. We don't
need to fear our enemies; they can do us no
more harm than the Lord will permit."
	Sister Bigler represented the 2nd Ward.
	Sister Keller, Prest. of Mantua: "I think
we are doing a little good, but we need to do
still better. This is a time when we need to
live near our God."
	Sister Watkins, Prest. of 4th Ward: "The
Lord is overruling all things for our good.
When we do good and show kindness to the
poor, we always reap blessings in return that
are of more worth than money." Bore a
strong testimony to the truth of celestial mar-
riage; felt thankful to have passed through
former persecutions, and hoped to faithfully
pass through the present.
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: "I am not a very
proud woman, but I am proud of my religion."
Spoke warmly on the principle of celestial
marriage. Said, "I feel to praise my Heavenly
Father for my experience in this order; it has
learned me to strive to root out selfishness. We
would not be perfected if we had no trials."
Reported the Scandinavian Society.
	Bishop Hansen, of the 4th Ward: "Those
present are enjoying the influence of the Holy
Spirit, and their hearts are uplifted. There
are but few of the human family who have
this privilege. The life beyond is of far more
worth than the pleasures of this world. The
principle of celestial marriage is intended as
the greatest exaltation, but we cannot under-
stand all things in one day. There is nothing
that gives more comfort than to do good to
others in need. If we have done good here on
earth, that will follow us; anything else we
must leave behind.
	Sister Perry, Prest. of Three Mile Creek:
"My sisters, I am pleased to meet with you;
my health is poor; I came to get a blessing."
Compared the life of the Latter-day Saints to a
high school, "where they may gain intelligence.
What good we have learned will follow us into
eternity. There is nothing that looks more
beautiful to me than to see two wives of one
husband coming into this house together. The
young and the middle-aged have to prepare
themselves to be able to teach the women of
the world. Let us be kind and helpful to
those in trouble. Let us do all in our power
to share their trials and comfort them.
	After singing and benediction, adjourned
till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: After the usual opening
exercises, Sister Hubbard, Prest. of Willard,
addressed the meeting: "I feel to ask the help
of the Lord, for of myself I am nothing. How
could we change one principle of our holy re-
ligion. Our Father has blessed us with so
many things. No evil will befall the faithful;
all will be for our good. We who have em-
braced the principle of plural marriage have
reason to be humble, as families. Let us do
to others as we would that they should do unto
us. The Gospel never looked more beautiful
to me than it does now."
	Sister Harper, of Calls Fort: "We all have
our weaknesses to combat with." Spoke of
the principle of plural marriage. Said, "Let
us be united with each other, that we may be
strong; disunited we are weak. This is a day
for both men and women to prove themselves.
We should be very careful to pray for our sis-
ters as well as our brethren. I want to live so
as to meet the smiles of my Heavenly Father.
	Sister H. Hunsaker, Prest. of Honeyville:
"This kingdom will roll on, whether we follow
or not. Shall we enter into plural marriage?


Yes, let us not be afraid to do so, nor speak
against the principle; the Lord has given it for
the good of the human family.  We are co-
workers with our brethren in the kingdom of
God.”
	Emilia D. Madsen felt thankful to be
counted one with the Latter-day Saints.  “What
a beautiful spirit is here to-day; such a heavenly, 
warm feeling swells our bosoms and fills the 
atmosphere.  When we look at these sisters 
who have testified be strongly to the truth and
beauty of celestial marriage, how can we help
but believe them?  They are growing old,
but there is a light in their eyes, and a
sound in their voices, when they speak as 
they have done, that we are compelled to look
up to them with reverence and respect.”
	Bro. George Cook said, “I have felt the
good spirit in your midst.  We are called upon
to keep ourselves unspotted from the world.”
	Bro. Daniel Zundle: “There is a good spirit
present here.  We may labor trying to do our
very best, but when we lay down these bodies,
and we can look back, we will realize -that it is
but very little we have done to inherit the
great blessings that are before us.” 
	Bro. Wixom said, “I have heard some fine
instructions here; God is with you.  If the
world could realize the prospects that are be-
fore this people, they would rush in here by
thousands, by millions.  I believe we cannot
feel exactly the same as a woman.  She is the
helpmate and co-laborer with man in this great
work.  The man is not without the woman, nor
the woman without the man.”
	Sister Minnie J. Snow: “This is a time of
trying scenes, when we look back and realize
what has transpired within the last three years.
I feel an interest in the progress of this work.
I am led to believe, that more trying times are
to come yet.” 
	Sister Hardy: “These older sisters who have
addressed us are faded; their faces are wrinkled,
but there is something beautiful about them;
they are worthy examples, and we ought to
follow them.  The testimony of the older sis-
ters who have lived in plural marriage seems
to have more effect upon the young people than
a sermon from the brethren.”    
	Prest. Harriet Snow showed some beautiful
green homemade silk, sold at the same price as
the imported, and recommended the Relief
Society throughout to sustain this home indus-
try. “We have had a good conference, and I
feel thankful for the interest manifested.  We
need temporal food often, so do we also need
spiritual.  I like to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies to the principle of plural marriage.
I have lived in it for forty years. 	     *		*
I don’t know what our enemies will do with us.
We are the daughters of God; let us live, then,
as becomes His daughters.  May God bless all
our sisters, in all their efforts, and may we
meet again in three months.  If we are humble
we shall receive knowledge and wisdom to
guide us.”  Singing.  Benediction by Father
Box. 
			ANNIE WIXOM, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Semi-monthly meeting held Oct. 16th 1886,
Coun. D. H. Young presiding. After the
reading of minutes of previous meeting,
minutes of the P. A. of the 21st, 20th and 15th
wards, and Y. L. A. of the 21st, 2nd, and 3rd
wards were read; and Sister Zina then addressed
the meeting. Said, "This is the day that the
day the prophets foretold," and thought we
would have grace to stand if we lived near to
the Lord. Referred tenderly to the decease of
Sister Hannah T. King, and said, "Our older
sisters are gradually passing away, one by one,


but we should not  mourn  for  them, for,
'Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.'
Sister King has gone triumphant and victori-
ous, and has left behind her a tangible record
of her life and labors." After many interest-
ing remarks, the meeting was given into the
hands of the sisters.
	Sister Harriet Woodbury spoke in the gift
of tongues, and the interpretation was given
by Sister Zina.
	Sister Sinah Bishop bore testimony that the
interpretation given had been dictated by the
Spirit of the Lord, and made many excellent
remarks.
	Sister Dyer spoke a few words in tongues,
and the interpretation was given by Sister
Bishop.
	Sisters Emily Stevenson, Grix and Morten-
son bore faithful testimonies. Sisters Evans,
Watmough and Brown each spoke, bearing
testimony and exhorting to faithfulness. Sis-
ter Mary Silver made a few remarks about
Sister King, and recited one of her poems.
	Sister L. G. Richards, after a few timely re-
marks, asked that the sisters would unite their
faith and offer up a prayer for our afflicted sis-
ter, Sister Wilkins. Sister Zina asked Sister
Richards to be mouth in prayer, and the sisters
all joined in the amen.
	Sister Zina then spoke a few words, and the
meeting was adjourned for two weeks. Closed
with singing Doxology, and benediction was
pronounced by Sister M. Snow.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	10:50. The country grows pleasanter. Fields
are green, and land is being plowed; trees are 
beginning to leaf out, and low mountains or
hills form a background. The sun shines for
the first time since I left home. Things are
not as forward as in Utah, and I miss the irri-
gation ditches.
	Strong City, 11:15. Another wooden town;
wooden houses, wooden fences, and a general
wooden look. There is considerable timber in
this section of the country, but we cannot de-
termine just what kind it is.
	Emporia, 11:55. Quite a large city; street
cars, omnibus and hacks, the first I have seen
since leaving home. Houses of frame and
brick. Depot house of white sandstone. Pleas-
ant streets and fine stores and dwelling houses.
Looks, as we pass through, as if it might com-
pare favorably with Salt Lake City, but it does
not cover so large an area. Inhabitants given
at 4;500. It lacks one of the elements that
constitutes the beauty of Salt Lake City, and
that is, orchards and shade trees. There are
some orchards in the suburbs, but not in bloom.
There are quite a number of churches which
would denote a Christian population.
	Passing through the country we see large
corn fields from last year, the stalks still stand-
ing. It looks strange to see so much level
country. One fancies it must be cloudy, and
the mountains will be there when the clouds
clear away.
	Osage City, 1:15 p.m. Another wooden
town.  It looks so strange to see all the houses
of frame.  No more adobies and very little
brick.  Mrs. H—— is asleep, but I rouse her
up to look at the negroes—a house full of
them.  Black faces of all sizes peering out of
the doors and windows, and standing on the
porch.
	Topeka, 2:45 p.m.  Twenty minutes for
dinner. Topeka is the capitol of Kansas It
is a city of thirty thousand inhabitants. All
is bustle and confusion, but very little of the
city can be seen from the depot.
	Lawrence is a pretty town on the Arkansas

[Column 2]

River. Nice houses, with lawns and yards
nicely laid out. We are passing through a
timber country. New clearings are being
made, and the farms are full of stumps. We
travel for some time through woods.
	Kansas City, 5 p.m. Here we change cars.
It is a lovely city. The houses are built on
the hillside in terraces, one row above another.
The effect is very fine, but I should not fancy
the climbing. We cannot see all the city, but
the depot is very large and filled with cars.
Here we meet Bro. John Morgan, and Bro.
Nelson leaves us to go with him south. They
go to Chattenooga, after visiting New Orleans.
Three of the other brethren go with them.
Here we cross the Missouri River.
	Muscatine, 7 a.m., Friday, April 17th, 188—.
It seems to be a great lumber emporium and a
large city. Here we strike the Mississippi
River, the father of waters. We passed a hard
night; the cars are not so comfortable as the
ones we left, and we got but little sleep. We
have re-arranged our seats, and made ourselves
as comfortable as possible, when the river meets
our view. I remembered the days when I
lived on its banks, and the happy hours I had
spent searching pebbles on its shore. The last
time I saw it was when we crossed it in our
exodus from Nauvoo. My heart thrills as I
watch it, and I forget that I am weary or hun-
gry. There is a steamboat passing.
	Davenport, 7:45.  Cross the river to Rock
Island, and soon lose sight of it. We pass
through Moline, and see the large factory
where the Moline plows are made. We are in
Illinois now, and the country is level and wet.
It stormed hard last night, and is cloudy now.
Very little land is plowed, and no wheat up
yet. The country is covered with water and
mud.  I think the country must be pleasant
when the weather is fair. We pass hills and
woods, farms and vineyards. At Peru we ran
over a cow and killed it. We are traveling
along the Illinois River, and nearing Chicago.
We go to the dressing room and wash and
comb preparatory to changing cars.
	Jolliet. Here the States' Prison is situated.
It is a fine looking city. We pass a beautiful
cemetery, and immense stone quarries and
groves of timber. The ground is green, but
the trees are bare yet. The whole country is
covered with rain and mud.
	Chicago, 3 p.m. We have been duly trans-
ferred from our landing place to another depot,
and have to wait there three hours for the
train. It is raining hard. Some of the
brethren go out to see a little of the city, but
the ladies remain inside. We have seen noth-
ing as yet, for we entered the city between two
rows of freight cars, and see nothing but the
tops of stone buildings and masts of boats
bristling above the cars. We enter a covered
depot, and are emerged in covered carriages,
and see very little but a mass of high stone
walls. Sister Harrison and I go into the
restaurant and get a warm dinner.
	We leave Chicago at 5:15 on the Chicago
and Atlantic. We have a special car. It is
still raining, and all we can see is mud and
water.
		To be Continued.


PRIMARY PARTY.

	The Third Ward, St. George, Dec. 29th,
1886, gave an interesting party. Having an
invitation, I attended the happy children's 
party, given them by the President, Sister
Margaret Mathie, who had provided everything
for their comfort and amusement. Over seven-
ty-five children, boys and girls, were present.
The party was called to order by the President.
The child choir sang, "Happy Children," ac-
companied on the organ by Sister Warren.
Prayer by Sister Mathie. The choir very 
beautifully rendered, "Love at Home."


Then came a time of feasting for the children
on the good things provided for them. A recita-
tion came next in order, by Louisa Cox, entitled,
"Goodbye, Little Bird." Martha Mills and
Ella Bird sang, "Poor Mary came o'er the
Wild Moor," very sweetly, which song was re-
peated. A funny little dialogue, by three little
girls—"What are we good for"showed that
little girls can be of use. "Running away from
home," a dialogue by three boys, pictured
the folly of leaving a good home for the uncer-
tain life of a great city. An original piece by
Sister Mathie was recited as follows:

	O God, the Eternal Father!
		May our faith increase in thee;
	Though our eyes grow dim and shaded,
		May our spirits always see.

	May we e'er be true and faithful,
		And walk in the narrow way,
	May our path to life eternal,
		Grow brighter every day.

	Be kind to the poor and needy,
		The lame, the halt and blind,
	Then in the restoration
		Our place we'll surely find.

	Speak a kind word to the erring,
		For they have the debt to pay,
	And thank God, our Heavenly Father,
		That we've chose the better way.

	Let us teach to Zion's daughters
		To shun the path of sin;
	With words of persuasion and kindness
		Do let us gather them in.

	Say to the gay and thoughtless,
		"It's no time for idle glee,
	For soon the judgments of heaven
		All over the nations will be."

	Next Joseph Mills told what he would do
when a man. "Curfew shall not ring to-night,"
was well spoken by Alma Clark. Two little
girls sang, "Merry Bells," with Sister Warren
accompanying on the organ.
	Then came a recess, and after the children 
came in William Higgins spoke on intoxicat-
ing drinks. Delia Nixon played on the organ,
while the choir sang, "Round the Throne of
God." Mary Cox spoke, very feelingly, "The
Letter." "We're Marching on to Glory," was
sung, Candy, nuts and popcorn were passed
around, and the smiling children dismissed by
Lizzie Cox.
		EMILY B. SPENCER.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HEALTH AND HYGIENE.

	Muchardt, professor of hygiene at the Paris
Faculty of Medicine, declares that aged people
should have exercise for the benefit of all the
organs of nutrition and locomotion as well
as young people. He says that the tendency
to rest brings on a gradual diminution of
strength. Moderate exercise, particularly of
walking, is commended. It is well known that
the disuse of any organ impairs its powers.
Why, then, should not the aged lose the use of
their members the sooner from giving way to
an inclination for rest.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Pima, Graham Co., A. T., Nov. 23rd, 1886,
Caroline Adrianna, beloved daughter of Heber and Caroline
Masham, born May 8th, 1872, at Santaquin, Utah.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,
	Adopted by the Y. L. M. I A, of Pima, to the memory
of Caroline Adrianna Masham:
	Whereas, by the decree of an alwise Providence, our
worthy young sister, Caroline Adrianna has been taken
from our midst.
	Resolved, That we, her associates and co-workers, of

[Column 2]

the Young Ladies' Association, do fondly cherish her
memory, and while we sadly miss her; we feel to bow in
humble submission to the divine will of heaven.
	Resolved, That we condole with the bereaved family in
the loss of their dear one, not, however, without the con-
soling reflection that she has gone in her purity, and is
worthy to come forth in the morning of the first resurrec-
tion.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be entered in the
Young Ladies' record; also a copy be presented to the
parents of the deceased, and one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
		LAURA NUTTALL,
		LUCINDA GUSTAFSON, Committee.
		LIZZIE BIRDNOE.

	DIED, at Ephraim, Colorado, Dec. 26th, 1886, of In-
flamation of the lungs, Bodel Katrine Poulsen, wife of
Andrew Poulsen, born in Denmark, Oct. 3rd, 1820. Was
baptized in February, 1852; started for Utah, in connection
with her husband and family, in Dec., 1852, arriving in
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 29th, 1853. They made
their home in Manti, Sanpete County, where she patiently
bore the trials and hardships of those early days. While
there she gathered around her a host of friends, assisted in
making a comfortable home, which she enjoyed until 1880,
when her husband was called to this place, she arriving
here in 1881. She was ever ready to impart to the poor,
visit the sick and comfort those who mourned. At the
time of her death she held the office of presiding teacher in
the Relief Society, which office she filled with honor, per-
forming the duties with great credit. We have lost a true
helper, her aged husband a faithful wife, and her children
a loving mother. She leaves a husband, seven children,
twenty-five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild to
mourn her loss. Two children and eighteen grandchildren
have passed behind the vail before her. We sympathize
with the bereaved family in their loss, and hope that we
with them may meet her in the morning of the first resur-
rection, where there is no parting.
		ANNE MARTHA RASMUSSEN, Prest. R. S.

	DIED, at Nephi, Dec. 31st, 1886, of paralysis, Sister
Julia Bryan, wife of the late C. H. Bryan. Deceased was
born in France, January 2d, 1812. She embraced the Gos-
pel in 1851; was baptized by Bro. Bolton. Emigrated to
Utah in 1853, and came to Nephi the same year, where
she resided to the time of her demise. She joined the Re-
lief Society at its organization, and was chosen to hold the
office of teacher. She afterwards held the office of Assist-
ant Treasurer until June last, when she resigned that posi-
tion on account of declining health. "Aunt Julia," as she
was familiarly called, was a diligent and earnest worker in
the interest of the Society, faithful in the discharge of every
duty, diligent in taking care of everything committed to her
charge. Rejoiced in meeting with the sisters and bearing
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, as taught and prac-
tised by the Latter-day Saints. She left home and kin-
dred to cast her lot with the people of God. On Sunday,
her seventy-fifth birthday, her remains were followed from
the family residence to the meeting house; by her family
and intimate friends, the Stake and local officers, teachers,
and a number of the members of the Relief Society. After
singing by the choir, "Softly beams," etc., a very impres-
sive prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. The choir sang,
"Mourn not the dead," etc. The congregation was ad-
dressed by President C. Sperry, George Kendall, Andrew
Love and David Cazier. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of citizens, conveyed in
carriages (about forty in number). Singing by the choir,
'Unveil thy boson," and "Wanted on the other side."
	At a meeting of the Relief Society, Dec. 6th, the follow-
ing Resolutions were adopted:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to release
from her suffering our beloved sister, Julia Bryan,
	We, as officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, feel to acknowledge the hand of God in taking
from our midst a good, noble, upright and devoted mem-
ber of our Society, feeling that she has accomplished a
noble mission, lived in the celestial order of marriage, and
with her sister wife labored for the interest of the family. In
blessing, she was indeed blessed, with the love and affection
of her husband's children and grandchildren.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of a faithful member and devoted friend,
and that we, her co-laborers, strive to emulate her exam-
ple.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed

[Column 3]

on the Relief Society records, printed in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and a copy given to the bereaved family.
		MARY PITCHFORTH,
		AMY L. BIGLER, Committee.
		E. R. UDALL,

	Dearest sister, we have loved you,
	We have loved you fond and true,
	And it fills our hearts with sadness,
		That we have to part with you;
	But a crown of royal brightness,
		Waits to deck your honored brow,
	And a robe of purest whiteness
		Waits your body to endow.

	Where your friends await to meet you,
	And your husband waits to greet you,
		For you have been good and true;
	You have been so kind and patient,
		Ever laboring for the poor,
	And for this the Lord has loved you—
		May you rest in peace secure.

	Dearest sister, we shall miss you,
		We shall miss your presence here,
	But we hope again to meet you—
		Farewell, sister, sister dear.

			S. K.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]E
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

			ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1863.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBHODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
12, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 15	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1887.	NO. 17.


[Column 1]		
	WHAT CAN I DO?

"What can I do," says the aged sire,
	As he stands near the bounds of life,
"What can I do other hearts to inspire,
	To help amid earth-care and strife?

"My time is far spent, for good or for ill,
	One moment I cannot recall;
My limbs have grown weary, though strong is the will
	And slowly the night shadows fall."

You can show to the youth where the pitfalls lie,
	And snares for unwary feet,
For we clearer see over days gone by,
	When the web of life is complete.

Those lessons in life are of priceless worth,
	If you've garnered the golden store;
Now bring them forth in the home and hearth,
	While you're nearing eternity's shore.

The mother dear, with silvered hair,
	Whose journey is well nigh done,
Dreams, while she sits in the old arm chair,
	With face toward the setting sun,

Of that other time, when life's sun arose,
	Pure and fresh and bright;
Thinks how the joys were oft mingled with woes,
	How tears oft quenched the light.

"What can I do, what can I do?"
	Is the prayer of her loving heart,
For those whose dreams of life are new,
	Those of her life a part.

She can strengthen the tender, untried feet,
	When the morning shadows fall;
She can teach the young hearts how to meet,
	The cares that must come to all.

She can tell of charity, faith and love,
	And the strength that prayer can give;
She can tell of that peace from heaven above
	Which helps the weary live.

The boy goes forth in the morning's beam,
	With hopes and ambition high;
The future to him is a glorious dream,
	He heeds not the dangers nigh.

Two paths lie before him, the false and the true;
	One is death, the other is life,
Which will he take, what will he do
	In this wonderful conflict of life?

What can he do, what will he do 
	To bless or to darken the way?
'Tis a question for you, boys, a question for you,
	Think well 'ere from honor you stray.

You can bring joy and strength to the home,
	Which God unto you has given,
Aye, strength and joy, wherever you roam—
	You can help to make earth a heaven,

Or you can bend its grey heads down
	So low that they cannot rise;
You can trample in dust life's brightest crown,
	That you might have raised to the skies.

You can break the hearts, most loving and true,
	Plant wormwood where roses might bloom;
A blight or a blessing will aye follow you
	In your pathway through life to the tomb.

And girlhood's dream, too, is bright and rare, 
	With no shadow of cloud or storm;
No thorn on the rose in her sunny hair,
	No cause for a fierce alarm.

But soon she will learn there's a part to bear 
	By each of God's children here,

[Column 2]
That she must have courage and strength to dare,
	To shrink not from danger near.

She can do much, in joy or pain,
	To cheer, to comfort and bless;
Can make sunshine brighter, bring hope again
	To the heart in its sore distress.

And the little ones in the household band,
	So helpless, so loving and dear,
They seem a gift from some fairy land,
	Sent unto mortals here.

Dark is the home with no baby face,
	No pattering feet, no clinging hand;
In every true heart their power we trace,
	As they lead to the Better Land.

Then, let no one think there is naught to do;
	Seek and ye shall find.
Cast in your lot with the good and true,
	And work to save mankind.
					Hope.
		[signature on document] Sarah E. Russell


[Column 1]
		MARGARET FULLER OSSOLI.
	In the present day educational advancement
among women is so common, and their oppor-
tunities for learning are so general and excel-
lent, that when some bright star like H. B.
Stowe, Julia Ward Howe, Miss Woolson,
Adelaide Proctor, or Helen Hunt Jackson,
beams forth and illumines the pages of our
literary life with her sparkling effulgence,
little wonder is shown; we read, we criticise,
and we admire; we behold another name added
to the immortal list in much the same manner
as the calm astronomer beholds the appearance
of a new planet. It is there in the firmament,
shining with the others; it pleases, but causes
neither wonder nor surprise.
	Things are now changed; only a few years
since they were very different. The highest
privilege accorded womankind was but a
meager education, with a few accomplishments,
such as dancing, music, and a little French
added, for the benefit of the social circle, and
the prejudice against further advancement for
women ran so high that few dared venture be-
yond the allotted line and cultivate with higher
learning, the rich and fertile intellect, and feed
with knowledge, the hungry, starving soul.
Now, when annexed to the finest colleges in
the world, are schools for women, when women
own and conduct such colleges as Vassar, for
the sole purpose of the higher education of
their sex, when they own and publish promin-
ent newspapers, and are gladly admitted as
contributors to the finest magazines of the age,
when every little town can boast its "Ladies'
Literary Club," do we stop to consider how
much is due those few brave souls, that pierced
the veil of prejudice and paved the way which
led to this glorious result? Foremost among
these daring women stands the subject of this
sketch, a rare and wonderful woman—Margaret
Fuller Ossoli. Often, as we observe some vain
woman seeking fame, we think what a mistake
her life is; how beautiful it might have been in
the sphere of home; there she would have
been a queen, while in seeking for public notice
in the world, she is lost. This idea must be re-
versed with Margaret Fuller, for had the
world to which she rightfully belonged seized
her from the narrow, binding home, which
sacrificed her very life to its little exacting self,
it would possess, among its literary gems, the 
purest and loveliest of Pearls.
	It is, indeed, sad to behold her struggles,

[Column 2]
ever reaching, ever aspiring for refreshing
draughts from the cup of knowledge, and as
constantly being drawn back and bound to the
rack of sacrifice; yet, with all her longings
for knowledge, and aspirations to make a bene-
ficial use of her talents, in no way did she ne-
glect those homelier duties her home required,
but with a truly noble grace bore all her bur-
dens. Those who knew her best describe her
as "equal to doing everything at once," and it
was known, that she could rock a cradle, read a
book, eat an apple and knit a stocking all at
the same time.
	Margaret Fuller was born May 23rd, 1810,
in Cambridge, Mass. Her father was a gradu-
ate of Harvard, highly cultivated, but stern,
proud and exacting; full of candor, independ-
ance and self-conceit. Her mother, beautiful
as a flower, but also as delicate and frail. The
daughter, resembling more the father, still
possessed the mother's sweet disposition.
	And perhaps it was due as much to her
training as her nature, that she possessed so
many of her father's traits, for from her early
childhood he conducted her education and took
full charge of her outward life. It was he
who decided what dresses she should wear, and
what society she should cultivate. Her educa-
tion was carried on by a "forcing process;" at
six she studied Latin, and from that time on
was forced through all the harder and most
difficult tasks of learning. Added to such ex-
treme mental training, an unconscious neglect
of her health, her constitution was undermined
and ruined, a fact which she in later years felt
deeply, for she wrote, "I cannot help mourning,
sometimes, that my bodily life should have
been so destroyed by the ignorance of both
my parents." Still, this hard student life
could not have been disagreeable to her, for
later, when she had the management of her
own time in her hands, we read of her as active
and busy as when under her father's tutelage.
At the age of fifteen, after two years diligent
study at a private school in Groton, she de-
voted herself more assiduously than ever. Her
time was systematically employed; she rose
at five in summer, walked an hour, practiced
an hour on the piano, breakfasted at seven,
read "Sismondi's European Literature" in
French till eight, then "Brown's Philosophy"
till half past nine, went to school for Greek at
twelve, and then practiced again till dinner.
After the early dinner, she read two hours in
Italian, and the remaining part of the day
devoted to the family until eleven, when she
retired to write in her diary. Such a busy life
is indeed wonderful in any one, much more
so in a girl at the age of fifteen and sixteen, a
time when most girls prefer amusement to
study.
	It would be the highest pleasure to trace her
life from this time on, and repeat the many
bright, touching and interesting anecdotes con-
nected with her history, as we read them in her
biography, but here we have only space to note
the main issues of her life, and must pass
carelessly by her interesting girlhood at Cam-
bridge, where she studied in the same classes
with Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes and Richard
Henry Dana, assisted her father in the enter-
tainment of President John Quincy Adams,
and reigned a queen in the society of the class
of 1829, said to be the most eminent class that
ever left Harvard, including, as well as the
two before mentioned, William Henry Chan-
ning, James Freeman Clarke, and others of


[Column 1]
equal note; also only glance at her life at
Groten, where the family moved in 1833. It
was there her father died, and there, also, be-
gan that never ending series of gentle sacrifices,
which so enrich, yet sadden her life’s history.
Cold and stern as this father had been, she felt
the fullest appreciation for his devotion to her
education; and though she missed, as a child,
that innate tenderness a father usually be-
stows on his children. in later years she realized
his true worth, and attributed his austere and
restrained manner more to the nature inherited
from a race of proud and opinionated men,
than to a want of an affection for herself. She
maintained herself and educated her brothers
and sisters principally by school teaching in
Providence and Boston. Whatever her task,
she worked laboriously and well, and left 
nothing unfinished. 	
	When men and women grown, these brothers
and sisters needed her aid no longer, and she
was free to select her own course, to begin to
live her true and perfect life, we behold her no
longer young, vivacious and able, in all respects,
to launch forth in her true sphere, the critical,
exacting, but loved literary world, but in
health, completely broken down, and impover-
ished in wealth, still rich in the posses-
sions of a well stored mind, and of
firm friends and admirers, such as
Ralph Waldo, Emerson, Elizabeth Hoar
Horace Greeley, Dr. Holmes, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne, Theodore Parker, and many, many
others of the leading minds of the age. It
must have been a woman of great ability who
could found the first literary club in America,
and conduct with ease and grace conversations
on such subjects as only interest philosophers
and the deepest thinkers. Yet Margaret
Fuller did this, and more. She was a reformer;
she wasted no time in "small talk," but inter-
ested in the leading subjects of the world the
leading minds. To think well, and to speak
understandingly leads to a desire to advance
thoughts to the universe, and out of the literary
club grew The Dial, the first really literary
magazine on this side of the Atlantic, and
Miss Fuller was given the position of Editor.
The magazine was a quarterly, and though it
claimed as contributors names which now hold
the highest rank in American literature, it
lived only four short years. Its early death
was certainly due more to an uneducated, un-
appreciative public than to a want of genuine
worth.
	After the beginning of The Dial Margaret
Fuller’s literary career was fully assured, and
from that time many rich and perfect gems of
thought have delighted the literary world.
She was a great lover of German literature,
and we are indebted to her for some of the
finest translations of Goethe and Eckermann.
She assisted Horace Greeley in 1844 in editing
the New York Tribune, and won great praise
for her literary criticisms and philanthropic
discussions. After nearly two year’s labor on
this newspaper, Miss Fuller realized the fulfil-
ment of one of her early dreams—a journey
to Europe. She was charmed with her visit to
England, where she was most hospitably re-
ceived, and had the pleasure of meeting so
many prominent people, among these, Words-
worth, Dr. Chalmers, De Quincy, Johanna
Baillie and Carlyle.
	After a pleasant and most interesting sojourn
in Paris, she hastened to Italy, the country
which had always held for her, beyond all
others, the greatest charm, and, though she
knew it not, her destiny as well. Here all the
fullness of her feminine soul found a sweet,
abiding place, and we behold Margaret Fuller
in the sweet aspect of a wife and mother. A
strange love story ’hers, but simple and beauti-
ful in the extreme. Her life in Italy was full
of adventure and saddening phases, but it was
crowned with such a perfect love, that her days
there were certainly the happiest of her life.

[Column Two]
She met the Marquis Ossoli at St. Peters, while
searching for some missing friends; he,observing
her discomfort, assisted her, and, failing to find
her friends, accompanied he home. After this
first chance meeting, the Marquis was fre-
quently seen to pass up and down before the
house, and slowly a more familiar acquaintance
began, which finally ended in avowal of
his love, and an offer of his hand in marriage,
which she at first declined; not because she
lacked in affection for him, but she scarcely
dared think him in earnest; and many have
wondered at so strange a union. He a young,
handsome, Italian soldier, of high rank, and
she an American lady of thirty-seven years,
plain, literary and poor; but one would never
doubt his sincerity after a perusal of the letters
exchanged between them, the only records
saved of her Italian life save a few reminisences
of personal friends, who describe him as his
wife’s adorer, and her married life as complete.
The exact date of her marriage is not known,
but her babe was born September 5th, 1848.
She was in Italy during the exciting time of
the Revolution, and her husband bore arms
on the side of the Republic, against family
and friends. She performed a most noble part
in influencing her friends on the people’s side,
and devoted herself, during these trying times,
to nursing in the hospitals. Always a leader,
—in mind and the literary field a George Eliot;
in the hospitals and battlefield, a Florence
Nightingale; in her home and heart, a wife
and mother—such as her own sweet mother had
been before her. Just at the sublime moment
when her future looked so bright, how sad that
the end of all should come.
	She had strange forebodings concerning her
homeward voyage, and greatly dreaded the un-
dertaking, but they finally sailed May 17th,
1850, from Leghorn, and after a long, periious
and unpleasant journey (the captain having
died of small pox, and her own [----] child
only saved from the same fate by the most ten-
der watchfulness) they came in sight of the
shores of her "own America," only to lose
sight of them forever more. On July 19th,
at four o’clock, the vessel was wrecked off the
coast of New Jersey, and the Ossolis found in
each others arms an ocean grave. With true
love for her little one’s life, she wrung herself
from its tiny clasp and consigned him to the
steward, with the hope that his life, at least,
might be saved from the wreck, and borne to
her friends at home, but, alas! when the shore
was reached, his little life also had gone to
that other, higher home, and all the friends re-
ceived of their dear Margaret was the lifeless
body of her boy, and the touching letters
written by herself and husband.
	It was a most tragic end, but her life, though
short, was well spent, and we can truly say,
"She did not live in vain."
					A. W. C.
				[signature on document] Annie W. Cannon


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM OHIO.

DEAR MRS. WELLS:
	I have been mad, and sulking all this time,
because you did not come to see me when you
went to Washington; but, as the children say,
" 'Taint no fun to be mad at a person. if the
person don’t know you're made," so I now
write to tell you; and to tell you, too, how
glad my heart was to-day when the EXPONENT
came. I had been thinking of you all, and
wondering if the Edmunds-Tucker bill would
really affect your daily lives or not, feeling
sorry at the turn affairs had taken, and wishing
to know just how you felt, when here comes
the little messenger from you, containing:
"My Christmas Gift," "A New Year's Visit,"
"Candies and Creams," Views on Celestial 
Marriage," "Singing Lessons," "A New Hall
Opened," "Fragrant Leaves," "A Tribute of


Love,” “Various Qualifications,” “The Sequel,”
etc. How well acquainted I feel with dear
Helen Mar Whitney, Augusta Joyce Crocheron,
Sister Roxie and many others. Hannah T.
King—I never in life saw her face, never
heard the sound of her voice, yet when her
life came to an end, I felt the deep loss of a
friend.
	It seems to me that this agitation will adver-
tise your people widely to the nations,
		“Who'll learn the truth and real worth
		Of Saints who’ve borne oppression."
One of the G. A. R. ladies, who went with
the excursionists to California, said to me the
other day, “Come and spend the day with me,
and I’ll tell you all about my visit to Salt Lake
City.” “I will; and then I shall write to the
Mormons and tell them what you say about
them,” I answered. “Well, I cannot say any-
thing bad about them,” she said. She passed
by the Exponent office, and now regrets that
she did not pay you a visit.
	I, and many others, watch every phase of
the great Mormon issue with the greatest inter-
est. Whether Mormonism is to be, or is not
to be, is a question of vital importance.
	Wishing you well, and God speed in all
that is right, and asking God to preserve and
protect the good and innocent among you, I
remain,
	Your friend,
		Emily Scott.
Jan. 18, 1887.


PROTESTS AGAINST THE DISFRAN-
	CHISEMENT OF WOMEN.
	
	Hon John D. Long deserves the special
thanks of Massachusetts women for his effort
to have a separate veto taken upon that clause
of the anti-Mormon bill which disfranchises
the non-polygamous and Gentile women of
Utah.

	Woman Suffragists everywhere, both indi-
vidually and as organizations, should write at
once to the President, asking him to veto the 
Utah bill which disfranchises the non-polyga-
mous women of Utah. To punish the inno-
cent for the guilty, and to deprive thousands
of American citizens not convicted of crime
of the right of self-government, is the acme of
political injustice.

	One clause of the anti-Mormon bill which
passed the U. S. House of Representatives this
week, and is still pending, will, if passed, dis-
franchise the women of Utah. As has often
been pointed out in the Woman's Journal, this
measure is objectionable, for two reasons.
First, it is unjust; second it is useless. It is
useless, because the male population of the
Territory is overwhelmingly Mormon, and after
 the women are disfranchised the Mormons will
still have a political majority of nearly three
to one. If taking away the votes of the women
would give the Gentiles a majority,there would
be some inducement to do it; but no one claims
that it can make any practical difference in
the result of elections Hence it is a purely
gratuitous wrong. The measure is unjust, be-
cause it decrees an unequal penalty for an
equal crime; or, rather, it inflicts a gratuitous
penalty for no crime at all.	*	*	*
*	*	*	Some years ago, an ignorant
English peasant was convicted of selling his
wife to another ignorant man for a few shill-
ings and a pot of beer. The judge before
whom the parties were brought sent the
woman to prison, in order, as he said, to show
the men that the majesty of the law must be
respected. This is not the first time that
women have been punished to teach a lesson to
men; but it ought to be the last.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RETRIBUTION.

	The olden homes, of peace and pride,
		Are left without protection now,
	And grief is felt on every side,
		While sorrow clouds the mother's brow;
	The precious one she loved so well
		Is banished from her fond embrace,
	And weeping children often tell
		How much they miss a father's face.

	One meek Apostle of the Lamb,
		In bondage with the murderer cast,
	Will soon surmount the tyrant's sham,
		And gaze with pleasure on the past.
	Upon his head there shall be set
		A crown of glory, bright and fair,
	For Christ will mark His jewels yet,
		And with His hand shall place them there

	How God-like is the free born will,
		Which purest liberty doth show
	And shackles forged by human skill
		Can never bind or bring it low.
	The noble souls, so tried and true,
		Eternal liberty shall own,
	And with the firm and faithful few,
		Shall kneel before the Father's throne.
	
	Our lovely, peaceful mountain home,
		Is blighted by the despot's sway,
	While fiends incarnate, fearless roam,
		To make her noble sons their prey.
	The sickly babe's or mother's tear
		Falls heedless on their hardened Hearts;
	They know no pity, love nor fear-
		Theirs yet shall be a bitter part.
	
	A day of retribution yet
		Upon their hardened hearts will fall;
	For them a judgment will be set,
		And soon upon the rocks they'll call
	To hide  them from the face of Him
		Who comes in glory, power and might,
	To smite the wicked in their sin,
		And put His enemies to flight.
						Jeanette Paton.


DON'T WAIT.

		L.M. HEWLINGS.

Don't wait until I'm gone, dearest
	Before you tribute pay,
Till the spirit has departed, 
	And left but lifeless clay;
Do not wait till all is over,
	And then, with mournful lay,
In a voice of trembling sorrow,
	Regret the long delay.

Do not tarry, but remember
	That time is on the wing;
That long since it brought me over
	The budding days of Spring,
Through blossoming of Summer,
	With Autumn's fruit and sheaves
Where the naked branches quiver,
	And sigh o'er withered leaves.

Where the heavy frosts of Winter
	Turn the green and gold to gray,
And crown the heads once radiant
	With wreathes of silver spray,
Scattering snowflakes thickly
	Round temples that were fair,
And broad furrows deeply planting,
	On freshly tablets rare.

O'er stateliest form recrossing,
	Till it must bend and bow,
Weaving lines of finest tracing
	O'er once fair cheek and brow.
Ah! vainly we pause to question,
	Ask swifter speed, or stay;
Time will ne'er heed love's entreating
	To hasten or delay.

Silently bearing us onward,
	Nearing the bound'ry line-
A world is too poor to purchase
	E'en one moment of time.


Don't wait, the end is approaching,
	The years will soon be told; 
The silver cord will be loosened,
	Broken the golden bowl.

Don't wait till the lightning message
	Speeds through the startled air,
To wing forth the cry of anguish,
	Strike with a dumb despair,
While you strain your eyes with weeping
	Over the lifeless clay,
In vain for one word of greeting
	From lips now closed for aye.


A HUMBLE TESTIMONY.

	It seems that the time has fully come when
the daughters of Zion are called upon to raise
their voices and declare unto the nation and
the world the testimonies which God has given
them of His work in these last days. I believe
that a sense of duty, prompted by the Holy
Spirit, is resting upon many of our faithful
sisters, to not only speak in their meetings, and
bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, but
to write and send it abroad in the world, that
all mankind may fully understand that they
are united with their husbands in bringing
about the glorious plan of salvation.
	When I read in the EXPONENT the humble
testimonies of my dear sisters, I know what
they say is true, for the same spirit has revealed
the same to me. I claim no praise or honor
for having submitted to the law of celestial or
plural marriage. I could not do otherwise, for
the simple reason that, through faith in God,
and prayer, I received a testimony that it was
true; and this was the testimony: “That it will
exalt the human family to a joy and glory that
they cannot attain to in any other way.”
	Soon after receiving this testimony I was
shown in plainness that I was called upon to
enter into that order. I informed my husband
of this fact; he said he had no idea who it
would be that he would ask to come into our
family; he was afraid of hurting my feelings,
and was also fearful that he could not do right.
He was afraid of his own weakness.
	One month had not passed since this time
until we found ourselves living in this order of
marriage with a young woman that neither of
us had seen since she was about seven years of
age. Surprised as I was, I can truly testify
that it was the happiest announcement that
ever came to my ears. Yet it was not I—
poor, weak, frail human being—that could as-
sure happiness upon such an occasion; but that
same spirit which had given me the testimony
also gave me joy and happiness, which the
world knows not of. Did I think less of my
husband? I can say, no! but, on the contrary,
I loved him more, for I felt that he had a true
heart, that he was willing to obey God’s laws,
and I said, “By the help of my Heavenly
Father I will help you to live according to the
law of God.” The woman he married, no one
can say aught against her; she is a true Latter-
day Saint, and many times have I felt to thank
my Heavenly Father for such a worthy, good
woman, and I have tried to make her happy,
and hope that I may always be found worthy
of the constant companionship of the Spirit of
God, for I know that He lives, and that His
hand has been over me from my earliest recol-
lections, and that He will help all those who
put their trust in Him, and I feel to say to all
those who are living in this holy order of mar-
riage, “Lift up your heads and rejoice, for you
are serving a good Master, who will repay in
His own due time, and you will rejoice and
your happiness will be sufficient for you, and
exceed all you ever anticipated.”
	Let women, who belong to the same family,
pray for one another; sustain your husbands; 
teach your children to respect each senior 

[Column Two]
member of the family; do not allow your
daughters to speak reproachfully of the sister-
wives, and God will bless you, and His Spirit
will be with you always, which will cause your
burden to seem light unto you, for God has
said that He would have a tried people; for
how will he know that they love Him above
all other things? We should acknowledge
His hand in our trials as well as in our joys.
We must learn to overcome all things that try
us here; if we do not, we will have them to
overcome when we find ourselves in another
sphere.
	I was once sorely tried, and I said to myself,
“I feel as though I could not go one step further
in this world, and I don’t care if I die!” Some-
thing instantly whispered, “If you cannot
overcome in this world, how do you expect to
in the next?” which caused me to stop and
think that I had better learn more patience
and try again. But how merciful is our Hea-
venly Father; if we could only be so merciful
to each other, and always be willing to forgive
—we must learn to forgive even our worst
enemies, to say nothing about those with whom
we expect to spend all the endless days of eter-
nity. The Lord has said, “Vengeance is mine,
and I will repay.” We should leave all
things in His hands; even all our troubles, if
we go to Him in the hour of need, He is able
to make us strong, and if we desire it, He will
give us wisdom, that we will be enabled by our
own actions to escape much trouble.
	Sisters, above all things, trust in God; have
faith, and cultivate and exercise patience, and
we will overcome, which is the desire of, 
			Your sister in the truth,
								PHENA.
	Jan. 18,1887.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Anthony has become the sole proprie-
tor of "The History of Woman Suffrage."

	Henry B.Stanton, the husband of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, died this week at an advanced 
age.

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has written a
narrative poem of 400 lines, which is called 
"The Dilemma of the Nineteenth Century,"
and treats on the woman question.  

	Dress reform is taken up with much earnest 
ness by the Scandinavian progressive women.
In Christiana, it is already taken up in prac- 
tice by some independent individuals. Eye
witnesses have declared that the Norwegian
reformed dress has the great advantage of es-
caping the spirit of mockery, because its char-
acter is of the greatest simplicity. In Stock-
holm is a Dress-Reform Association, and it has
offered a premium for hygienic boots and shoes
for women. Lectures about women's dress, 
the need of reform, and how to reform, are
frequently given by intelligent women and by 
humanitarian men physicians in the Scandi- 
navian countries.—Ex.	
	A new Portia, who defended, however, not
her lover’s friend, but her own father, has ap- 
peared at Montpelier, France. A farmer
living near that town had been tried and con- 
demned for breach of trust. He took an ap-
peal, which was granted, and on the day ap-
pointed for his hearing he walked into court
accompanied by his daughter, a tall, good-
looking, and intelligent young woman, about
twenty-six years old. To the surprise of the
judges, the young woman opened her father’s
case in a masterly manner, argued the defence 
with the sill of a practical lawyer, and finally
gained for her client a verdict of acquittal. 
She then walked triumphantly out of the
court, hanging on her father’s arm.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 				FECRUUARY I, 1887.


IMPORTANT TELEGRAM.
	Washington, D. C., January; 21.—The support-
ers of the anti-Mormon bill are much concerned
at the interest which they say Mr. W. L. Scott is
manifesting in the bill, and in the efforts which he
is making, as they understand it, to induce the
President to veto it. Mr. Scott was active while
the bill was under discussion in the House, to
have certain amendments adopted, which should
preserve what he called the rights of the Mormons
and which should provide for the submitting a
constitution to them forbidding polygamy. Chair-
man Tucker, who has charge of the bill, and who
made a speech so strong in support of it that the
anti-Mormons have telegraphed here for 3,000
copies of it has said to some of the friends of the
bill that he does not fear the influence of any man
with the President in opposition to the bill, except
that of Mr. Scott.


SUFFRAGE WOMEN PROTEST.

				"WASHINGTON, D. C., Jan. 28.
	"The committee appointed for the purpose by
the National Woman Suffrage Association called
on the President to-day and presented him a
memorial asking him to veto the Edmunds bill or
the Tucker substitute therefor, whichever shall
pass Congress, proposing the disfranchisement
of the non-polygamous women of Utah. The
President said he would give the mememorial his
careful consideration. He recognized that it was
a serious matter to disfranchise any class."
	The following dispatch was immediately tele-
graphed:
MISS SUSAN B. ANTAONY RIGGS HOUSE, WASH-
		INGTON, D.C.
	In behalf of the women of Utah, we, the un-
dersigned, respectfully tender our grateful ac-
knowledgements to the officers and members of
the National Woman's Suffrage Convention for the
able and timely effort made in exercising their in-
fluence with the President and the people of the
United States in opposing the disfranchisement
of the legal woman voters of Utah and the ob-
noxious Edmunds-Tucker Bill.
	[Signed]
			ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH,
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			M. ISABLLA HORNE.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL,
			JANE S. RICHARDS,
			EMILY S. RICHARDS,
			JOSEPHINE R. WFST,
			ELLEN B. FERGUSON M. D.,
			ZINA Y. WILLIAMS,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Miss Susan B. Anthony, the President of the
Association, to-day received a telegram from
Kansas, stating that the Municipal woman suffrage
bill had passed the Senate of that State by a veto
of 25 to 13.


[Column 1]			
		COMMENTS.

	We have republished, from the Woman's Jour-
nal, several notices of the Edmunds Tucker Bill,
or, at least, that part of it which relates to dis-
franchising the women-voters. It will be observed
from the tenor of these extracts that the woman
suffrage people are not afraid to speak their minds
on this subject, though prejudice is rife in the
land, and even men in high places are swayed by
it, against the principles of equal rights for all be-
fore the law, who have not been even accused of
crime. How men dare do the things that have
been done, and that they have actually sworn not
to do, is astonishing, They will uphold the Con-
stitution of the United States, so they solemnly
affirm, and yet, invested with the power that the
people give to them, to sit in the Congress of the
United States, they boldly acquiesce in a scheme
to take away from one portion of the citizens of
the United States the liberty of conscience and
the right to an establishment of the religion in
which they most profoundly believe. 
	The noble band of suffrage women, who assem-
bled in National Convention at Washington, on
25th, 26th and 27th of January, have shown their
independence and fearlessness of spirit in memor-
ializing the President of the Great Republic, and
asking him to veto a bill which deprives women,
not in any sense under the ban of an unconstitu-
tional law even, of a right and privilege bestowed
upon them in strict accordance with the law of the
Territory, and which has become to them a right
of possession of seventeen year’s standing. These
grand, heroic women stand forth as champions of
justice, and deserve the praise of all men and all
women throughout the land for the step they have
taken to defend the rights of those, who are, as it
were, powerless to act in their own defense, be-
cause of the bigotry and prejudice which exists in
this boasted age of enlightenment, and in the
country which has proclaimed religious liberty to
all mankind. No convention, or conference of
men, no, not even ministers of the Gospel of
Christ, have done as much; and yet their motto is,
and they emblazon it forth, “Do unto others as ye
would that they should do unto you,” and, “What-
soever ye would that men should do unto you do
ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.” This is the law of the Savior, the
pattern for all to follow, but O how far men fall
short of this divine law!
	The bondage that the Congress of the United
States seems willing and even anxious to force the
"Mormon" people into, is little better, if any, than
the slavery of the South, for even the slaves
could believe as they pleased without any limita-
tion by law. To be sure they were bought and
sold for a price at the will of their masters, while
this people are given, with all their possessions,
into the hands of a minority, who, it is well known,
would rob and despoil them of all that is sacred
and dear in this life.
	It is argued that those who have not practically
accepted plural marriage uphold and sustain those
who have, and for that reason they should be dis-
franchised and not allowed the privilege of free
men. This is an assertion, but, granting it were
true, look at the facts. Those who are known or
suspected to have obeyed this law of marriage as
a sacred duty and obligation devolving upon them,
through revelation from God, are, through the law
of 1882, subject to bonds, to fines and imprison-
ments and indignities of this nature, brought be-
fore commissioners, courts and juries, their names
cast out as evil, and their wives and children sub-
jected to insults which makes one’s blood boil to
think of. Are they to be cast off by those of the
same faith? Is there to be no succor, no hope for
them from this persecution that is being so relent-
lessly and cruelly waged against them? 
	Many of these women and children, aye, and
the husbands and fathers of them, are of the very

[Column 2]
best blood of this proud Republic! Yet it avails
them nothing. In the fear of God they have
made eternal covenants, that cannot be broken,
and yet, because they will not belie their own con-
victions, they must be made the victims of oppres-
sion, which makes every drop of free blood in
their veins tingle with indignation to think of.
Only the Spirit of God could support them under
these trying circumstances; the humility born of
faith with which every true Latter-day Saint is im-
bued, is what sustains them in the ordeals through
which, as individuals, and as a people, they are
now passing, for they know their cause is just and
will eventually triumph.
	It is gratifying, however, to know, in the midst
of such a state of things as exists at the present
time, that President Cleveland is not to be hood-
winked by even the ablest and most popular mem-
bers of Congress. He has already shown his
pluck on more than one occasion, and if he will
carefully consider the serious matter of affixing
his signature to the Edmunds-Tucker Bill, he will,
in all probability, refuse to commit so flagrant an 
outrage upon a class of citizens simply for their
religious belief. But if he does, or not, do this
gross wrong, Miss Anthony and her coajutors
have performed a duty in this regard, that entitles
them to the honor and respect of all the world.
	The convention may be proud of the success of
the committee who presented that memorial, for it
has elicited from the Chief Executive of the nation
more of his views upon the matter than has before
been given publicly, at least. Some of those ex-
ultant champions of the Edmunds-Tucker Bill
may, perhaps, think they were a little too sure of
the co-operation of every one who denounced
polygamy. Miss Anthony denounces polygamy,
too, but she believes in human rights, nevertheless,
and does not sanction the taking away, without, at
least due process of law, privileges from those
who have been denied the right to vote and hold
office, etc., under the law of 1882 and have had no
opportunity to defend their position. It is an as-
sumption on the part of those who have interpreted
the law, there has been no criterion to judge by, 
except as the Utah Commission have appointed
certain registrars, who have refused to register
people whom they suspected, or have erased their
names from the list of voters.
	Not only does Congress impose great hardships
upon the people of Utah, but seems determined
to make a strong point against the admission of
any other Territory into the union unless it will
make certain Constitutional provisions against the
practice of polygamy. And yet, the very men
who ask for this believe the Bible and know that
men of God in ancient times practiced polygamy.
Men who have been held up as examples and rev-
erenced all down through the ages of the world.
Jesus himself said, "Except ye do the works of
Abraham." and what would that convey? The
Lord said unto Abraham, "Thy posterity shall be
as numerous as the sands upon the sea shore.'
This was the blessing of Abraham from the Lord,
and yet the Congress of the United States would
prohibit a man having any posterity at all, if his one
wife should fail to give him offspring. And in-
deed the popular thing now and in many in-
stances the practice is, not to multiply and re-
plenish the earth, in place of fulfilling the first
commandment given to our first parents.
	But to come back to the original subject of
suffrage or the ballot in the hands of the women
of Utah. Where is the first person who can say
they have abused that privilege? There is not
one. They have held the ballot sacred and have
always been on hand to exercise the right and
cast their votes for the men of their choice, those
whom they knew to be worthy the positions to
which they were nominated, and like wise and
prudent citizens they have voted for their friends
and not for their enemies.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending a little meet-
ing of about twenty-five sisters gathered at the
residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp on Thursday
afternoon, January 27th. It was a brief season of
enjoyment in the outpouring of the Holy Spirtt.
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith was present and her
very presence was inspiring to others. Sister M.
Isabella Horne was chosen to preside and at her
invitation Sister Eliza spoke to the sisters, en-
couraging them to labors of love and to renewed
diligence in the duties devolving upon them, and
among other things she congratulated the younger
sisters present upon the rich experience they were
sure to gain in the present trials of the Latter-day
Saints. Many of the sisters present spoke ex-
pressing their desires to be useful in this Church
and Kingdom and to hold out faithful unto the
end whatever trials might come. During the
afternoon Sister Eliza exercised the gift of
tongues, and a part of the interpretation was given
by Dr. E. S. Barney. The spirit of blessing
seemed to rest upon Sister Eliza and the sweet
influence was diffused like a soothing balm, bring-
ing consolation to those in sorrow, or who were
passing through deep trials, as many are at present,
whose husbands, sons, sisters or daughters are in
exile for conscience sake. Such times of re-
freshing are indeed spiritual feasts.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. in the 14th Ward cele-
brated their anniversary with a very pleasant re-
union on Tuesday evening, January 25th, at the
ward hall, which was handsomely fitted up with
carpet, sofas and easy chairs and beautifully decor-
ated for the occasion. The Prest., Miss Nellie
Colebrook presided with grace and dignity and
the exercises were of an intellectual and spiritual
character. After singing, prayer was offered by
Prest. A. M. Cannon, and the members  each re-
sponded to the roll call with a motto or verse.
Minutes of the last annual meeting were read by the
Secretary and the manuscript paper entitled Our
Thoughts" was read by Mrs. Rida Taylor.
It contained many excellent articles and
expressions of thought. A recitation was given
by Mamie Morris—"I'm  Going to be Married;"
also one by Mrs. Hollings—"The King's Choice."
Interesting and instructive remarks were made by
Mesdames M. A. Freeze, M. Y. Dougall, Zina D.
H. Young, E. B. Wells, Z. Y. Williams, followed
by a speech from Prest. Cannon, in which he por-
trayed in a touching manner the conditions of
this people, and the necessity of moral purity and
spiritual advancement. Closing remarks were
made by Bishop Geo. H. Taylor, who praised the
young ladies for their efficiency, and spoke of
these associations as helps to the kingdom of God.
The President, Miss Colebrook, spoke of her
earnest desires to fulfill the responsibilities of the
position in an acceptable manner, etc., and the
meeting was adjourned for one year. Delicious
refreshments were then served to all by the young
girls of the association, friendly greetings were
exchanged, and social conversation indulged in.
During the meeting two Counselors were appointed
to assist Miss Colebrook in the duties of the Asso-
ciation; they were Mrs. C. H. Clayton and Mrs.
E. R. Shipp, M. D., two very able and intelligent
young women. The reunion was one ever to be
remembered by those who participated.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Following closely on the receipt of the lovely
expression of respectful remembrance from my
dearly beloved sisters of Provo, a notice of which
appeared in your last issue, on the morning of my
eighty-third aniversary, I received a heart-cheer-
ing and soul-enlivening telegram, which, like the
Provo cake, speaks for itself what its words are
altogether inadequate to express.


My highest ambition in life, has been, and is,
to be worthy of the favor of God, and the love and
confidence of the Latter-day Saints. To me it
is wealth.						E. R. S. S.
			COPY OF THE TELEGRAM.
						Ogden City, Jan 21, 1887.

MRS. ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH:
	The sisters of Weber Stake unite in wishing
you continued life, and increasing happiness.
				MRS. JANE S. RICHARDS,
				MRS. HARRIET BROWN,
				MRS. FMILY M. SHIRTLIFF.


[Column 1]
	SALT LAKE STAKE ACADEMY.

	The first examination of this excellent institu-
tion took place on Friday, Jan. 28th, at the Social
Hall.  Prof.  K.  G.  Maeser was present from 
Provo.  Many visitors were present to hear the
exercises which were ably conducted and reflect
great credit upon both teachers and students.
After the close of the exercises remarks were
made by Miss Margaret D. Smith appreciative of
the efforts of the faculty and good feeling which
existed.
	Elder Wm. Done then expressed his feelings in
regard to his labors.
	Prof. Maeser then made some statements in
reference to taking charge of the institution in
addition to the Brigham Young Academy.
	The report of the principal was then presented
which made an excellent showing, but it is too
lengthy for our little paper.  At the conclusion
of the full report, and singing, the remainder of
the time was at the disposal of President A. M.
Cannon, President of the Academy Board of Di-
rectors. 
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards was first called
on to address the assemblage.  He said that it
was with pleasure that he had listened to the ex-
ercises on the present occasion.  When the
Academy was first opened, with Professor Mae-
ser as Principal, the feeling and spirit which ac-
companied its organization was one which augured
success and gave every encouragement.  The
speaker congratulated the Faculty on the progress
the pupils had made and the effective work done.
The great work in which the Latter-day Saints
were engaged was extending on every side.  It
was the desire of the speaker that Brother Maeser
should likewise extend his labors as an educator
among the people.  Not only should this class of
schools for the moral education of the young be
general among the Saints of Salt Lake Stake, but
throughout Zion,  They should be conducted ac-
cording to the plan followed by brother Maeser—
a plan which had been his life study and which, 
in his later years, was proving a most gratifying 
success.  When the Faculty of this Academy
were ready to form a more advanced class, they
would not want for room in which to prosecute
their studies.  The speaker was ready and willing
to aid all he could in the work of educating the
youth of Zion.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams said that as she looked
on the pleasant faces of the students she thought
of the saying of Jesus to His people, "Ye are
the salt of the earth."  She felt that the Lord
thought it was time that the principles of truth
were taught to the children of the Saints. They
should work while the day lasts, and if they im-
proved their opportunities they would look to
their time in school as the most pleasant part of
their lives.  This school was only one of the 
many that would be organized in Zion.  The
young should look to inward adornment, by culti-
vating their minds.  They should not follow fool-
ish fashions and violate the laws of nature, but
should learn true principles and rise above the
follies of the world.
	Elder Francis Cope, Elder A. E. Hyde, Elder

[Column 2]
Wm.  B.  Dougall each made interesting re-
marks.
	Sisters Zina D. Young thought the necessity of
educating the youth was not fully realized among
the people, and said the value of proper instruc-
tion could not be too highly estimated.  Her
earnest desire was for the success of this class of
schools which had been inaugurated under Divine
inspiration.
	Sister Lucy B. Young referred to the time of
her youth, when the children of the Saints were
compelled to hide from mobs instead of having
the privilege of attending school.  Those of the
present day could not appreciate the advantages
they possessed in their opportunities of acquiring
knowledge.  She exhorted the students to pre-
pare for the future, when the cloud would pass
from over the Latter-day Saints, and they would
be called forth to exercise powers of government
and labor for the good of all mankind.  They
should be prayerful and watchful, and learn to
obey all proper discipline.  They were followed
by  Elder  Daniel  Harrington  and  Elder  Wm.
Stewart.
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke in praise of
the manner in which the school had been con-
ducted, and trusted that the interest in it would
continue to increase.  Encouraged those present 
to look at the future and be prepared to acquit
themselves as become the sons and daughters of
God. 
	The "Doxology"  was sung, and Elder Daniel 
Harrington pronounced the Benediction.
	On Monday the second term of the Intermediate
department commences.


THE WORD LADY.
			
	There is no one  word  in  the language so
abused as the appellation "lady." It is mis-
placed almost continually, and hence intelli-
gent women exclude it from their vocabulary.
Its misuse makes it objectionable; it is almost
always a misnomer, and has, therefore, lost its
original significance. The definition of the
word “lady” is a woman especially circumspect
in her conduct, specially forbearing towards
others, specially gentle and controlled in tem-
per, specially kind in manner.”  Not all women
according to this standard are ladies; and the
best women, realizing how few comparatively,
are entitled to the term, decline to use it in-
discriminately.  It requires something more
than sex to make a lady; it  demands  much
that is not  always  thought essential in the
family and school training.  It  calls for the
exercise of self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-
control, which three qualities old Polonias de-
fined in his admonition to the players in Ham-
let as follows:
			  To thine own self be true,
		And it shall follow, as the night the day,
		Thou shalt not then be false to any man.
	A woman who is the possessor of absolute
self-control has gained the true liberty that fol-
lows self-subordination,and she is entitled to the
term “lady.”  A better word, where we mean
to express even as much as we do with the
word “lady” is  the  English  term “gentle-
woman.”  It is a noble substitute for the much-
abused “lady,” and until there is a better com-
prehension of the general misapplication of
the latter let us call the high bred and cul-
tured representatives  of  the  sex  “gentle-
women.”  Let all others who will, be women;
and those who prefer to be called “lady,” let
them at least realize that it depends upon
themselves whether or not they are wearing
a title that is alien to their natures and opor-
tunities in life.  It is better to dignify the
word “woman” and let “lady” go, and perhaps
by this courageous course we may correct the
use of the word "female."  To call women
"females" is to be guilty of a vulgarity which
common usage does not excuse.  A woman


belongs to the female species, but she should
be distinguished from the female species of 
lower orders of animals by the proper desig-
nation.  A female may be a cow, a cat, a dog
or a lioness; a woman is neither: hence the
gross ignorance implied in the popular misap-
plication of the word.  Let us have done with 
such debasing use of our beautiful language, 
and call people and things by their proper
names.  It is quite the most important busi-
ness that mothers and teachers can engage in.
The next generation will be ashamed of some
of our solecisms, even if we are oblivious of
our linguistic shortcomings.—The Woman's
World.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

LUNA, SOCORO CO., N. M.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Thinking, perhaps, a few lines from this 
isolated place might be received with welcome
I thought I would drop you a letter.
	We are few in number but are trying to
live our religion. Our Relief Society was or-
ganized, Jan. 7th 1884, with Sister Elizabeth
H. Swapp as President, and Sisters Martha
Williams and Martha C. Swapp as Counselors.
Sister Williams being called to Old Mexico
Sister Gertrude Reynolds was called to fill her 
place.  We are trying to do all the good we
can and as ltttle harm; though our means are
limited and we are in  a scattered condition.
Our meetings are generally pretty well at-
tended and a good spirit prevails.
	We have been called upon to part with one 
of our members, Sister Eveline Lee, who de-
parted this life the 2nd of this month. She
was a faithful member and Latter-day Saint
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of 
this work.  She leaves a husband and three 
small children and a host of friends to mourn 
her loss. The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor 
and we look anxiously for its coming.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I 
will close. 
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH H. SWAPP, Prest.
			EMELINE R. BALDWIN, Sec.

	Y. L. M. I. A., RIVERDALE.

	The Young Ladies’ conference convened at 
Riversdale, Dec. 2nd 1886.  President Russell
presiding.  The meeting opened with usual 
exercises of singing and prayer.  The pro-
gramme was as follows:  A  Song by Annie
Stratton and Lizzie Stimpson; the Young
Ladies’ Instructor, our manuscript paper, by
the editor, Julia Child, Essay, entitled “Watch
and Pray,” by Nellie Child; Song by Jessie 
Bingham.
	President Russell stated that one important
object of the meeting was to select a second
counselor in the place of our former one, who 
had lately been united in matrimony and had
changed her abode.  Felt to ask an interest in 
the faith and prayers of all present that she
might be dictated by the Spirit of the Lord to
choose the right one, and one that would be 
acceptable to  all.  Had fasted and prayed 
considerable that the Lord would make known
to her one,  whom she should choose, and
thought that her prayers had been answered
and that the Lord had blessed her with this
knowledge.  Did not wish to do anything of 
herself but felt to put her trust in the Lord;
for this reason she felt that it was the will of
the Lord to select the one on whom she had cen-
tered her mind; said we will all receive great
blessings through fasting and prayer.
	Counselor Bybee felt thankful for the privi-
lege of meeting with the sisters, and said we
had the Spirit of the Lord in our midst. If
we will continue to fast and pray the Lord will

[Column 2]
continue to bless us with His Spirit and to 
strengthen us.  Gave God the praise for all 
blessings and for His Holy Spirit; and felt as 
though we were all anxious to hear the word 
of the Lord spoken unto us.  Desired that we
might be firm and faithful to the end.
	Sister Edna Stimpson said she was weak
of herself and without the Spirit of the Lord 
she was unable to accomplish anything.  Had
received many blessings from the Lord for 
which she felt thankful.  Had prayed that 
our President might be inspired of the Lord 
to chose a counselor. 
	Sister Martha Bingham said that she de-
sired to live so as to merit the blessings of God.
If we neglect praying to God for His Holy 
Spirit to guide us we will be apt to fall. The
Lord desires us to be faithful and to do away 
with all little evil thoughts and practices; and 
we must try to be pure and honest and strive 
to overcome all our weaknesses, and be united 
in  all things.  Desired  that  the Spirit of the 
Lord would enable us to see eye to eye and be 
as one.
	We have many blessings bestowed upon us
through fasting and prayer; felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things and prayed
for wisdom and faith  to do right.
	By request of the President Sister Bingham 
then presented  Julia A. Child as a second 
counselor to Sister Russell.  She was unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Marian Mitchell thought the selection
of a counselor was a wise one; she had prayed 
earnestly that the President might be dictated
by the Lord to choose the proper one to fill that
place.
	A quotation from a poet was forced upon
her mind to the effect that “We will not only
be held accountable for every idle word but
also for every idle silence.” We are idle
sometimes when we should speak and this is the 
case especially in our meetings.  We should 
rise and speak of God's goodness to us. May 
the Lord bless us both in meetings and at 
home.
	Sister E. V. Thompson thought the previ-
ous speaker had opened a good subject for all.
We should watch our children and families
and when we see them doing something that
is not right we should rebuke them, and not 
remain silent when we see that we should
speak.  We can do so in a mild and gentle
way, thought there were times when even the 
best of us needed rebuke.  We should all try to 
sustain our Presidents and thought the coun-
selor a good one, and felt to sustain her in her
labors.
	Sister McDonald bore her testimony to the 
truth of this work; was well pleased with the 
choice of a counselor and thought the Presi-
dent had been dictated by the Lord to choose
her. Prayed that we might all be united as
one.
	Sister H. A. Child felt as though the Lord had
dictated the choice of a counselor; was thankful
that she had a daughter that was worthy to
hold the position, and was willing to do all
in her power to help the young people along;
wished to give them all the chance while
young, to prepare themselves to hold responsi-
ble positions. Said that God had blessed her 
in her family, and felt a desire to see all her
brothers and sisters do right, and prayed that
the Spirit of the Lord would bless all with
obedience, felt to counsel all in righteousness.
	Bro. Olmstead, Bro. Dye, Bro George
Thompson each made interesting remarks.
	Sister Sarepta Child bore her testimony to 
the work we are engaged in; thought the 
counselor that had been chosen was the right
one as she had always set a good example for 
others. 
	Sister Bingham made a few remarks con-
cerning our religion.  We must obey all the 
laws of God and especially the smaller ones

[Column 3]
and climb the ladder by degrees and not ex-
pect to leap over all the smaller requirements
and then hope to live in the highest ordinances
and enjoy the highest blessings.  Gave many 
good instructions and exhorted all to obey the
commands of God.  She was then blessed
with the gift of tongues, Sister H. A. Child
giving the interpretation in part, Coun. Bybee
giving the remainder.
	Coun. Bybee was then released and Jennette 
Parker was unanimously sustained as First
Counselor to Prest. Russell. Polly Child was
sustained  as  Secretary  for  the association. 
After a few closing remarks from the President
and singing the conference was adjourned for 
six months.  The benediction was pronounced 
by Mary Dye. 
			ELIZA W. CHILD,  Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S VOICE

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have many times wished I could write to
our valuable periodical—the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, and have been advised to do so, but
when I think of the good and able correspond-
ents we have, who have been in the Church so
long, and myself only three years and a half
I do not feel that I ought to place myself
amongst them, and perhaps take up the room of
those who could write so much better than I
can. I am not in a position to subscribe for
the EXPONENT but as it comes to the house
where I live I generally see it, and an article
in the last, “What to do with your EXPO-
NENT,” induced me to write a few lines to
endorse what was there written with regard to
sending them to friends at a distance.
	It is true the sisters do not know what good
they might do by sending copies of the paper
to their friends. I was living in England
when I received the Gospel, and I have not
forgotten the feeling of pleasure which thrilled
in my bosom when by a rare chance I met with
the “WOMAM'S EXPONENT. No matter how
busy I was the work was immediately laid
down and not taken up again until
every word of the paper was read. If it came
near meal time, no food was eaten until it was
disposed of, and I can testify the same of my
sisters with whom I was acquainted. They
are glad of anything referring to the Gospel,
but this little paper is a special favorite. I
trust the hint will be taken and that no one
will ever destroy the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					MARY Y. CORBY.

	It is true that we live in a great and a mo-
mentous age, an age that is pregnant with 
great events. We often think, as Latter-day
Saints ought to, are we preparing ourselves for
these events as they transpire? Seme are and 
some are not. ’Tis true there are a great many
things to try and test the Saints at the present
time—what kind of mettle we are made of—we
realize this each one for herself to a great ex- 
tent. We know if we prove refractory we
shall have to be thrown back into the mill 
again and be ground over to make us more 
pliable to the master workman’s hands as we
have heard Brother Heber C. Kimball speak
about many times. We talk a great deal 
about persecution; well we think we all have
as much of it as we well can bear with forti-
tude and resignation to the will of our Hea-
venly Father. It’s a legacy the Master left us.
He said all those who live Godly in Christ
Jesus must suffer persecution for so they did
to him. Some think and say, too, are we
always to be persecuted and afflicted because
we do and dare believe in and practice plural
marriage, and are trying to govern ourselves 
under all circumstances according to the laws 
given by the Lord of heaven and earth. All 
those that do not live according to the princi-


ples of the Gospel cannot expect peace and
the smiles of an allwise providence. The
principle of plural marriage may well be
called the higher law, it is so high that very
few try to reach it; but those that do live by its
precepts they can obtain a spirit that will give
them more nobility of character and moral
courage.  Talk about courage in Mormon
women, where will you find it if they do not
possess it?  We think that the present re-
ligious persecution has pretty well tried what
kind of mettle they are made of.  We think
they have stood it as well as the men; they
have so far, and we have yet to learn of the
first one proving recreant to their covenants
and their religious obligations when even the
penitentiary stared them in the face.  Yes the
sisters have need to rejoice and be glad at
the stand they have taken for the cause of
God.
	We know that religious convictions are as
strong in women as in men or at least we think
the present religious crusade has developed
those traits in them.  Speaking after the man-
ner of Gentile love of the sexes we claim no
kin to it; our love is of a pure and high kind.
As for plural marriage it is to raise men and
women to a higher plane of knowledge and in-
telligence, when it is carried out with a pure
nature as the Author of it designed it should
be.  Our enemies want to make us believe
that it is plural marriage they are making so
much ado about.  We know better; it is a
covert attack upon the liberty of conscience
and to wrest from us the few constitutional
rights we have left us;  we can see through their
nefarious doings and that without any telesco-
pic aid.  We would not not care so much
about them or be so much annoyed if they
would hold sacred the privacy of our bed-
rooms at midnight.  How can they expect to
get their impudent inquisitiveness gratified by
prowling, spying and sneaking around by
night when all decent people ought to be in
bed.
	"We told them it would have been better
for them if their mothers or wives had given
them carpet rags to sew than for them to be in
our house at midnight." We think they will
begin to learn soon that it don't pay to be
"reckoning without their host" all the time.
We know in whom we can trust, we have
trusted Him in the past and we can for the
present and future too.  He can control all
things well for those that put their trust in
Him.  It may be thought because we have
been persecuted and driven time and again,
that we shall tamely submit to every indignity
they may please to place upon us; but with the
help of Israel's God we will show them, we in-
tend to maintain our integrity against all odds.
Let us pray to the Lord that he will preserve
to us our God-given rights and the inestimable
blessings to worship Him as we see fit.  I will
close this article with a verse from a poem of
M. J. Tanner's.

		"The rise up your voices fair daughters of Zion,
		Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth,
	There's a power above us whose hand we rely on,
		More potent than princes and kings of the earth."

		Your sister in the cause of truth,
			A PLURAL WIFE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM PIMA, A. T.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The festivities of the holidays being over,
we have had a variety of entertainments, com-
mencing with the ladies' fair, which opened at 
10 o'clock, Dec. 22nd, with quite a variety of
useful and ornamental articles for sale.  The
Young Ladies' department was a credit to
them; the P. A. was also well represented.  A
widow, and member of the Relief Society,


Sister Halestrum, reported having made $200
off her city lot; had sweet potatoes that weighed
nine pounds.  Henry Morton had some in the
fair that weighed from seven to eight.
	On the afternoon of the 23rd the fair was
closed, the house called to order to join in the
celebration of the Prophet Joseph Smith's
birthday.  There were several present that
knew him personally, among whom were Moses
Cluff, Henry Morton, Susan Martinau and
others, who testified of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, the great Latter-day Prophet. 
Patriarch McBride had a copy of the last ad-
dress ever delivered by him, when he addressed 
the Nauvoo Legion from the house top.	*	*
This speech was read in a distinct and audible 
voice by M. J. Ransom; an eloquent address
by Wm. Packer; remarks by W. East.  Bene-
diction by Patriarch McBride.
	On the evening of the 24th the Home
Dramatic of Pima presented the historical
 drama, entitled, "Foundling of the Forest," 
which did great credit to the association.
	New Year's day the holidays closed with a 
sumptuous dinner, given by our genial friend,
President Layton and wife, served in elegant 
style, which could not be excelled in older set-
tlements.
	Peace prevails throughout the settlements on
the Gila.  There have been no depredations
committed by the Indians since the hostile 
Chief and his band were captured and sent to 
Florida.
	There is great inducement to settlers who
like mild winters to come to the Gila; come
along, come along; don't be alarmed, Uucle
Sam is rich enough to give us all a farm.
	The people are improving.  There are quite
a number of new brick houses in course of
erection, besides a commodious meeting house
up to the square.
	God has reserved some of the fat valleys of 
Ephraim for His people, and it is only a matter 
of time to make this one of the most desirable
places on the continent.
							W. EAST.


NOTES FROM COLORADO.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We had a very enjoyable time here on
Christmas.  The sisters of the Relief Society
contributed freely for the purpose of trimming
a Christmas tree, and furnishing other amuse-
ments for the children.  There was a fine dis-
play of presents on the tree for both old and
young.  They were distributed on Christmas
Eve, when Santa Claus made his appearance.
We had a very pleasant party on Christmas 
night, in which a number of our outside 
friends participated.  They say they would
rather attend our dances, where good order is
maintained, than to attend those gotten up by
themselves, which generally end in a drunken 
brawl.  None of the so-called Christian re-
ligions are represented here. There are a few 
Methodists, but they have no organization.
Most of our Gentile friends incline to infidelity,
and are not inclined to persecute us, though 
we are, as yet, a small minority, and our influ-
ence, politically, is not felt.
	There are some few that are investigating 
our principles, and we hope they will see the
truth.  The Saints here are few in number,
but are trying to live their religion to the best
of their knowledge.
	The various organizations are in good work-
ing order.  The Relief Society is doing well,
considering its numbers.  The Young Men's
and Young Ladies' Associations meet conjointly
once a week, and the meetings are both instruc-
tive and profitable to all who attend.  Our
Sunday School is in a very good condition.  As
the Saints live so far apart, there are some 
mothers who take their whole family, consist-


ing, in some instances, of eight children, and
their picnic, and remain at the meeting house
the whole day, attending Sunday School and
meeting. The ward meetings are well attended.
On the whole we are trying to keep pace with
the times.
	The weather has been unusually fine this
winter, scarcely enough snow to cover the
ground. This is a remarkably healthful place;
there has been but one severe case of sickness
among our people this winter; the dreaded
diphtheria has never made its appearance here.
We, the sisters of the Relief Society feel to
sympathize with those who are being persecuted
for the Gospel's sake.  It is written, "It must
needs be that offenses come, but woe unto them
by whom they come."  Now is the time of
sifting, when all that can be shaken will be
shaken.  The Church must be cleansed and
purified, and the Saints prepared for the com-
ing of the Son of Man. We should ever be
on our guard, prepared and ready to defend
our holy religion.  The day is not far distant
when every one will have to stand for himself
and know of a surety of the truth of the 
Gospel.
	The young can no longer depend upon their
parents’ testimony, but must obtain one for
themselves.  The evil one is ever on the alert
to lead us astray into forbidden paths.
	Hoping and praying for the continued suc-
cess of our valuable paper, and for the wel-
fare of Zion generally, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MOSELLE HALL.
Mancos, La Plata Co., Col., Jan. 7, 1887.


A CRIME AGAINST LIBERTY.

	The U.S. House of Representatives, on the
12th inst., passed an anti Mormon bill which
proposes to abolish woman suffrage in Utah.
	It annuls all Territorial laws providing for
the identification of the votes of electors at
any election, and all laws conferring on the
Territorial courts the power to determine di-
vorce cases.  Polygamy is defined as a mar-
riage between one person of one sex, and
more than one person of another sex, and
is declared a felony.  The financial corpora-
tion known as the Church of Latter-day Saints
and the Perpetual Emigration Fund Company
are dissolved, and the attorney-general is di-
rected to wind them up by process of court.
All laws for the organization of the militia of
the Territory and the creation of the Nouvoo
Legion are annulled.  Polygamists are, as be-
fore, made ineligible to vote, and a test oath is
prescribed to all persons desiring to vote, that
they will obey the laws of the United States
and especially the laws in respect to the crimes
defined in this and the original Edmunds act.
The bill provides for the immediate appoint-
ment, by the President, of all judges and se-
lectmen of the county and probate courts, and
by the Governor of all justices of the peace,
sheriffs, constables, and other county and dis-
trict officers.
	The bill, as amended by the adoption of
the substitute, has now been transmitted to the
Senate for the action of that body.
	For nineteen years women have voted in
Utah as generally as men:  they have com-
manded the sympathy and the respect of the
community, and no considerable number of
residents of the Territory, except the Federal
office-holders, are in favor of their disfran-
chisement.  In a Democratic House of Re-
presentatives, by the united action of both
parties, the political rights of many thousand
American citizens are to be stricken down,
solely because they are women, and because
they actually use their right of suffrage.  All
the women disfranchised by the bill are inno-
cent of the crime of polygamy, for all poly-


gamists, male and female, have for years been
disfranchised.
	At the opening of the debate it was ruled
that no amendments to the Senate bill, except
those proposed by the Judiciary committee,
should be received, whereupon Governor Long
pleaded for unanimous consent to offer a mo-
tion that the clause against woman suffrage
might be stricken out.  But even this privi-
lege was refused.  Mr. Long would like to
leave the Territorial Legislature free to deal
with the question of suffrage for women.
	The adoption of this infamous bill by the 
Republican Senate is a foregone conclusion.
The President will be urged to veto it.  If he
does not, its next stage will be before the Su-
preme Court on the ground of unconstitution-
ality.—Editorial, Woman's Journal.
							H. B. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mme. Patti has a roomful of parrots in her
castle in Wales, and a maid is hired expressly
to attend to them.
	The death is announced of Miss Havelock,
daughter of the famous general, Sir Henry
Havelock, the hero of the Sepoy mutiny.
	Mme. Zieger, better known as Alboni, is liv-
ing yet, and singing, at sixty-two, as grandly
as ever.  So writes Adolph Houssaye from
Paris to the Chicago Tribune.
	The Princess of Wales has become Patron-
ess of the Scandinavian Sailors' Temperance
Home, and has given $250 toward the erec-
tion of a new building for that institution.
	Miss Chandramukni Bose, a native Christian
lady, has been appointed superintendent of the
Bethune School of California.  The Indian
Messenyer, the organ of the Brahmo-Somaj,
cordially approves the appointment.
	Miss Mary Horton has been elected and
sworn in as recording clerk of the Ohio State
Senate.  This is the first time a woman has
been chosen to fill that position. Miss Horton
is a graduate of the Boston High School.
	The Empress Haru-ko, of Japan, has in-
vited the German Consul at St. Petersburg,
Herr O. von Mohl, to undertake the charge of
minister and head master of ceremonies at her
court, for the purpose of introducing European
etiquette. Herr von Mohl has accepted the
offer, and goes to Japan this month with his
family.
	Mrs.  Alexander, who wrote "The Wooing
O't," is described as a short, stout, elderly 
lady, with a kindly, simple expression, and
snow-white hair, brought down over her tem-
ples in the old-fashioned way.  She looks 
much more likely to make a good flannel shirt
than to write a good novel.
	There has been a good deal of half jesting, 
half-serious talk in the papers about electing 
Mrs. Logan to the U.S. Senate as her hus-
band's successor.  The Austin (Tex.) Statesman
chivalrously says: "This we can say, that if a 
woman is to become senator, no woman is
better qualified, barring her politics, than Mrs.
Logan."
	Italy is to have a new review, given exclu-
sively to the discussion of feminine interests.
Fanny Zampini Salazaro is to be the editor of
this periodical, which is the first to show posi-
tive intellectual progress among Italian women.
The prospectus frankly says that, when she
does not marry and become the centre of a
home circle, "the Italian women is, with rare
exceptions, most unhappy, because she has not 
in herself the resources which are possessed
by educated women in other countries."


OBITUARIES.

	To the memory of Margaret Selmen, born July 23rd,
1814, at King's Wood, Gloucestershire, England. Was
baptized in 1850. Emigrated to Utah in the year 1860.
Was the mother of nine children, eight of whom are living,
five boys and three girls; two of them are in England.
Had forty living grandchildren. Deceased died in Payson
on the 5th of April, 1886, in full faith of the Gospel and
with a sure hope of a glorious resurrection with the just.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT,

	Whereas, it has pleased God in His infinite wisdom to
remove from our midst, by the hand of death, our worthy
and beloved sister, Margaret Selmen,
	Whereas, the intimate relations held during many years
by her with the members of the Relief Society make it
fitting that we record our appreciation of her.
	Resolved, That the sad removal of our sister from our
midst, creates a sorrow that is felt by all members of the
Society in the departure of a good and noble sister.
	Resolved, That with the deepest sympathy, with the
family we express an earnest hope that God will impart to
them consolation and comfort in the hour of their bereave-
ment and deep sorrow.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread on the record
of the Society.

	JANE WOSSENCROFT,
	SARAH SWEAT, Committee.
	CYNTHA JONES.

	DIED, at Payson, Nov. 27, 1886, Sarah, the beloved
wife of John Done. She suffered a paralytic stroke Nov.
17th, 1886. This, coupled with other diseases, caused her
death, after much suffering. She was born at Thornhill,
Lees, Yorkshire, England, in the latter part of 1827, or
the beginning of 1828, being nearly fifty-nine years of age.
Deceased was baptized Dec. 6th, 1852. Emigrated to
Utah with her husband in 1855, being the only one of a
large family to obey the Gospel. Was the mother of eight
children, six of whom are living and grown to maturity,
and grandmother to twenty-two, fifteen of whom are living.
She was very modest and unassuming in manners, patient
in poverty, uncomplaining and resigned in trouble. She
died in full faith of the Gospel and in the hope of a glorious
resurrection. May she rest in peace.

	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, That we, the sisters of the Relief Society of
the 1st District, Payson Ward, tender our love and esteem
to the memory of our sister, Sarah Done. We shall miss
her voice in singing, and also miss her in her accustomed
place; we feel that she has shown us an example worthy of
emulation. We condole with her husband and children in
their bereavement, yet we feel to submit to the will of an
alwise God, who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That we spread these Resolutions on the So-
ciety record, send a copy to the family, and also to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
	ANN PICKERING,
	ARTEMISA WHITE, Committee.
	ANN NEBEKER.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	
	Resolutions of Respect adopted by the Payson Relief
Society, to the memory of our esteemed sister, Elizabeth Knight:
	Whereas, the Great Ruler of the universe has called
from our midst, to take her station in another sphere, our
beloved sister, Elizabeth Knight, and,
	Whereas, her fellow laborers in the cause of truth feel
that we have lost a friend and a sister, be it, therefore,
	Resolved, That we tender to Bro. James Knight and
family our heartfelt sympathy, and pray God, our Eternal
Father, that He will mete out to them His comforting
spirit, and we hope that the motherless children may never
forget the example and precepts of their loving mother, 
and carry the same out in their lives, and thereby be 
honored and blest in their day and generation. And we
likewise hope that Bro. Knight may be comforted, that
God may bless and help him to do his duty in bringing up
his family in the fear and admonition of the Lord, realizing 
that Sister Knight has gone before, and in due time will
welcome him to a state where sorrow and death are un-
known. And, be it further


Resolved, That these Resolutions be given to the family
of the deceased, and that they likewise be entered on the 
records of the Payson Relief Society.
						SARAH BREWERTON,
						ALTA DAVIS, Committee.
						EMILY TANNER.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sarah Ab-
bott.
	Whereas, the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to
take from our midst our beloved sister, be it
	Resolved, That we, her sisters in the Relief Society, feel
the loss of a true and faithful friend and sister. She was a 
true Latter-day Saint. Having embraced the Gospel in
the fall of 1830, six months after its organization, she
shared in all the persecutions and drivings of the Saints.
She died Nov. 7th, 1886, being in her eighty-second year.
She was not terrified at the change. Faithful to the latest
breath was our sister who now sleeps in death; and, further,
have we
     Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be given to
the family of the deceased, and that they be entered on the
records of the Payson Relief Society.

	SUSAN CRANDAL,
	SPEEDY JOHNSON, Committee.
	MARTHA MONTAGUE.


DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER 1868

Z.C.M.I
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
	H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
			
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the lastest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 15		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1887.		No. 18


[For the EXPONENT.]
HARK! THE TIDINGS.

Hark! the tidings rolling, rolling,
To a mighty nation's shame--
Heavy tidings, tolling, tolling!
Freedom's Temple given to flame!
See her ingrate children turn
Her high altar to profane,
Rend and scatter, break and burn,
While she pleads, and pleads in vain.
	
When Religion fled in terror
O'er Atlantic's foaming brine,
Freedom bade her proudly welcome
In the West to build her shrine;
Here she made her resting place,
From all other haven driven;
Here unveiled her holy face,
Here drew down the light of heaven.

Send it over lands and waters
To illume the darkness deep,
Called her scattered sons and daughters,
Israel's lost and straying sheep,
Come, ye waiting souls, rejoice!
God hath found a gathering place,
Hear your Shepherd's kindly voice,
Come, prepare to see His face.
	
Freedom's faith to her was plighted
Heaven and Earth looked smiling on,
Truth divine, her pathway lighted,
With Redemption hastening on;
In her pure white hands she holds
Heavenly gifts, beyond all price;
Free to every upright soul,
More than precious, twice and thrice.

See, the Powers of Darkness gather,
Fill with rage the hearts of men,
That they smite the hand of blessing,
Slay the Heavenly Lamb again.
Eyes they have that will not see,
Ears have they and will not hear;
Souls that will not be made free,
Choose not light, but darkness drear.

 Oh, the light that shines in darkness,
And the darkness sees it not!
Oh, the scorn'd grace of Heaven,
Oh, the schemes of blackness wrought!
On the neck of Israel now,
Falls oppression's iron heel,
But the wrath of God will glow,
Smiters shall His vengeance feel.

Then the lovely fane of freedom
Shall again toward heaven rise;
Then her altar fires, a beacon,
Shine in men's adoring eyes;
Then the Saints shall well defend
That dear Charter, gift of God,
Which the plotting traitors rend,
And 'neath cloven feet have trod.

God of Israel, look with pity
On Thy puny, raging foes;
Blunt the arrows of Thy vengeance,
Sight to their blind eyes disclose.
Speed the stone cut from the mountain,
Haste to fill each promise given;
Plant Thy children by the fountain,
Guide and guard them back to heaven.

LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
 		A NOBLE WOMAN.

	Louisa Ward Higginbotham, better known
as Grandma Higginbotham, died at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. David H. Perry,
in Ogden, Utah, on the 8th day of January,
1887; and the funeral services were held on

[Column 2]
the 10th day of January, 1887. Hundreds of
friends and relatives attended and listened to
tributes of love and of praise to the memory
of this departed sister.
	In her long life, she met such strange events,
and through all the peril of her career she
showed such supreme devotion, that her name
is worthy of being enrolled among the heroines
in the cause of Christ.
	Louisa, daughter of William and Nancy
Thompson Ward, was born at Ward’s Cove, in
the famous Tazewell County of Virginia,
March 12th, 1808. She was wed September
8th, 1831, by William Higginbotham, scion of
another famous Tazewell family. For ten
years following they dwelt at Burkes Garden,
enjoying wealth and public esteem. Elder
Jedediah M. Grant carried the Gospel into
this region in 1841. Louisa Ward Higgin-
botham was his second convert to the Gospel.
Her humble obedience in accepting baptism
was a type of her entire life. She had been
surrounded by worldly influences—pride of
blood and arrogance of wealth; and yet she
was able to cast aside the prejudices of birth,
to brave the reproaches and even the disdain of
kindred and friends, and to accept the Gospel
in gladness and humility. Once convinced of
the truth, nothing could compel her to relin-
quish it. Her husband was impressed by her
steadfastness, and soon demanded baptism from
Elder Grant.
	In 1842 William and Louisa Higginbotham
sacrificed their property and all their prospects
of rich inheritance, by leaving Virginia and
removing to Illinois. In addition to the moiety
which they realized from their considerable
possessions, they carried with them the angry
pity of all their old associates In 1843 they
and their two little ones, Nancy and Simon,
were at Nauvoo. There they offered their all
to God, and partook with other of the Saints
of the persecutions now historic. In the
month of the sublime martyrdom, a daughter
was born to them, but died after a brief and
troubled existence, while Louisa herself was
helpless with anxiety and bodily suffering. On
the 13th day of January, 1846, another
daughter, Elizabeth Letitia, was given to
them; and before Sister Higginbotham had re-
covered her strength, they took part in the
exodus of God’s people from Nauvoo. They
journeyed with the Saints to Council Bluffs,
and were preparing to proceed into the un-
known wilderness, when a message came to
them that Louisa’s father had died, leaving
her a considerable estate in Virginia. They
desired wealth for no selfish purpose; but, be-
lieving that it could be made to bless their
children, to aid the needy and advance the
work of God, they decided to return to Taze-
well before adding to the further difficulties of
the journey by further progress westward.
Their return to their old home was a pilgrim-
age. The natural difficulties of travel were in-
tensified for them, because they had no heart
to turn their backs upon their suffering friends,
even for so good a purpose as they had in view.
In Missouri they were delayed by Louisa’s
serious illness, and by the subsequent birth of 
a son—Francis.
	The settlement of the estate was a tedious
matter. While the affair was pending, Nancy
Cambell, (the eldest daughter of William and
Louisa) was won in marriage by David H.
Perry, a young, but noted merchant of Burkes
Garden. Nancy was devoted to the Gospel,

[Column 3]
but her husband was then a bitter opponent
of the Church.  He knew little about his
wife’s faith; and he knew much about the loss
of prestige, the loss of money, and the gain of
contempt which followed an avowal of belief
in Mormonism, among the aristocratic people
of Virginia. Nancy was Sister Higginbotham's
almost idolized child: she was the eldest living,
and she had been baptized at Nauvoo; besides,
she was in delicate health. When the property
was secured William and Louisa could not de-
part from Tazewell. The prospect of leaving
their best beloved behind them was too grim;
even though she might be in the care of a
wealthy husband, indulgent to her in all things
except in the matter of her religion. Sister
Higginbotham then joined with Nancy in an
effort to convert Mr. Peery to an understand-
ing of the truth. They were engaged in this
effort, and had won him to a consideration of
the Gospel requirements, when the fire of war
broke out, enveloping Virginia in its flames.
Sister Higginbotham and her family met a long
series of appalling disasters:
	Nancy’s eldest child died May 1st, 1861. 
Then David H. Peery and Simon (Sister Hig-
ginbotham’s eldest son) enlisted in the Confeder-
ate army. In the spring of 1862 Simon was
 struck down by army fever. He was brought
to the house of David’s father, which was
nearer the scene of conflict than was Burkes
Garden, and there William and Louisa has-
tened. They found him almost dead; but he
soon recovered, and re-entered the army; The
fever spread. David H. Peery’s father and
mother were attacked, and died in the summer.
William, Sister Higginbotham’s husband, was
seized, and died in July, 1862. The destroyer
also took Nancy in a fatal embrace. She suf-
fered for three months, and then gave birth to
a son. Nine days later, on September 30th,
1862, Nancy died; and on the 12th of October,
her little baby was buried by her side.
	Thus, by a series of calamities, unforeseen
as they were terrible, Sister Higginbotham
found herself robbed of her dearest treasures.
Without a defendant, she was far from the peo-
ple of God; in a country war-cursed; her wealth
was fast vanishing, and she and her little ones
were in daily peril of their lives; while every
hour she feared to learn that Simon had met
his death in battle. Her son-in-law had en-
countered a fate no less sad. Parents, wife
and all his children but one had been taken by
death; and of his vast possessions, but little re-
mained. However, there was one treasure
which was left of the beloved Nancy; this was
a daughter two years old—Louisa Letitia.
Through this little child, the one link now ex-
isting between Louisa Ward Higginbotham
and David H. Peery, much good was accom-
plished. Through all the woes of war and de-
vastation, Sister Higginbothan had kept her-
self and her remaining children firm in the
faith. She now made a fervent appeal to Mr.
Peery, begging him to accept the Gospel, and
to migrate to Utah with her She could not
leave the little Louisa but she made her also
a petitioner. Mr. Peery had not forgotten the
gentle sermons of his wife; his bitterness left
him, and soon conviction was wrought in his
soul. He accepted the Gospel and was bap-
tized in the spring of 1863. Having accom-
plished this work, so dear to her heart, Sister
Higginbotham would have been glad to find a
refuge with the people of God; but she was
hemmed in by the raging strife. In 1863


[Column 1]
David H. Peery returned to the army, and in
his absence the Union troops descended upon
the place and fired his palatial residence and
stores of merchandise. After this succession
of disasters, he found himself still further re-
duced.  His goods were gone; his landed pos-
sessions were rendered comparatively valueless;
and his tens of thousands of dollars in book
accounts and notes were either destroyed, or
rendered temporarily worthless by the death or
financial ruin of his debtors. So situated, the
spring of 1864 found them.
     By this time Mrs. Higginbotham had been
able to impress upon the mind of her son-in-
law her own anxiety to emigrate to Zion.
After much anxious pleading on her part, he
consented to go with her, and she determined
to take the first opportunity, because her pre-
vious delay had been attended by such a series
of awful disasters, that she would no longer
provoke fate. David H. Peery's faith in the
Gospel had now grown active and enthralling.
He and young Simon withdrew from the army
and sent substitutes; but the conscription in
this last epoch of the struggle had become so
universal and so strict in the South, that if
they departed it must be by stealth. Mrs.
Higginbotham gathered the few remnants of
her own property and aided her son-in-law in
accumulating his available means; and then
under her advice David and Simon left Burkes
Garden in the night on horseback, to travel to
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, where they were to
await her coming. She secured two wagons,
into which she packed all the valuables belong-
ing to Mr. Peery and herself which she could
safely carry; obtained a considerable number 
of good horses, and secured a nephew of Mr.
Peery, a young boy below the draft age, to
drive one team, while her son Francis was to
drive the other.  She packed away under the
false bottom of a trunk $1400.00 in coin, be-
longing to Mr. Peery; and $300.00 in gold, be-
longing to herself, she secreted on her own
person.  One night, just before she was going
to depart, envious neighbors broke into the
stables, loosed her horses and drove them away.
Undaunted by this disaster, she soon replaced
the stock, and this time, in order to make her
departure a certainty, she went to one Col.
Swan, a Confederate officer of her acquaint-
ance, and frankly told him of her troubles.
She said that she was a Mormon, and that she
desired to leave for Utah with such little
property as the calamitous war had left to her.
The Colonel gave her a military escort of fif-
teen men to accompany her through the Con-
federate lines; and she journeyed in safety to
the banks of the Big Sandy, where the soldiers
were obliged to leave her.  This was one of 
the most dangerous spots imaginable, for it
was directly on the line between the two oppos-
ing forces; and this was an hour, too, of pecu-
liar peril, because all the original bitterness of
the strife had been intensified by three long
and bloody years.  Besides, the region between
the two armies was infested by guerillas, who
spared neither friends nor enemies, and who
had no regard for age or sex.  Sister Higgin-
botham was a heroine as great as any sung of
in classic story.  Without shedding a tear, she
saw her escort depart and leave her with one
dear daughter, just blossoming into girlhood,
one precious little grandchild, and two young
boys, to face all the dangers of that guerilla-
infested region.  The first night after her es-
cort left her, her party camped on the banks of
the Big Sandy.  In some mysterious way she
received an intimation that robbers had
hovered about her path, and that they were
intending to descend upon her camp, murder
the boys, steal the horses, and escape with all 
the portables of value.  Without a moment's 
hesitation she instructed her son and his com-
panion to take the horses up the river, and
there secure a trustworthy guide who could

[Column 2]
lead them through the mountains over to Cat-
lettsburg, a distance of seventy-five miles, where 
they were to unite themselves with David and
Simon  When Francis remonstrated against
leaving her, she told him that she and her two
girls would stay with the wagons and the
property, and without any earthly protector
they would still be kept in safety, and that
they would join him at Catlettsburg. Some
hours after the boys had departed the guerillas
assailed the little camp.  They ransacked the
two wagons, but failed to find any of the
money.  They took such things as they wanted,
and Sister Higginbotham offered no resistance
and solicited no favor, since she believed that
either would be fruitless.  But finally in over-
turning a trunk the robbers discovered the
clothing and jewelry of her dead daughter
Nancy, and these things appearing valuable,
they exultingly seized and apportioned them
among the members of their gang.  This out-
rage was more than she could bear, and she
screamed with pain and anger.  Fortunately,
she was heard by a Mrs. Blackburn, who lived
in that vicinity, and who hastened from her
residence to answer the call of distress.  The 
robbers, fearing to be identified by one who
could expose them to the vengeance of the
military authorities, fled.  Sister Higginbotham
found entertainment at the Blackburn residence
for a day or two, until a flat-boat came down 
the river; and upon this she took passage with
her two girls and such of her property as was
remaining after the assault of the mercenaries;
and then she journeyed in comparative safety
and comfort to Catlettsburg, where she found
David, Simon and Francis in good health, but 
very anxious concerning her.
     The party went to Omaha by boat, having
previously disposed of their horses. They ex-
pected at Omaha to join a company of Latter-
day Saints and proceed with their friends
across the plains; but they were disappointed
in their hope.  They purchased oxen for their
wagons and united with a company of Missouri
people, who were strangers to them and not of
their faith.  They traveled in peace for some
days, but their companions (some of whom
were from the mobocratic regions of Missouri),
discovered that sister Higginbotham and her
family were Mormons, and the cruel people,
having horse teams, deserted the little party
upon the plains and left them to fight their 
way across unprotected and alone.  Our friends
proceeded pluckily, though slowly; and but a
short time after they were deserted they found
the remains of the horse train.  Most of the
men had been slain, the wagons plundered,
and the stock stolen by Indians.  Only a few
people survived, and they were very glad to
rejoin the party of Mr. Peery and travel with
his ox-teams to the mountains.
     After reaching Utah, Sister Higginbotham
resided at Provo for a brief period, and then
came to Ogden.  In the meantime the strong
ties which had long existed between her family
and David H. Peery were doubled by his mar-
riage with her only surviving daughter--
Elizabeth Letitia.
     The struggles, privations and dangers of
her life were then ended, and she passed twenty
years of serenity.  She enjoyed the blessings
of the Temple, and performed labor there for
her departed kindred.  She was made happy
by seeing her three children, surviving out of a
family of seven, and also the dear daughter
of her departed Nancy, comfortably established
in life, and all filled with love for the Gospel.
Her two sons, Simon and Francis, are mer-
chants, and her daughter is the wife of Ogden's
Mayor and wealthiest citizen; while Nancy's
girl is married to Charles C. Richards, a
young and well-known lawyer of Ogden.
     Sister Higginbotham's descendents number
three children, eighteen grandchildren and
three great-grandchildren, all of whom are in

[Column Three]
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints.
     Louisa Ward Higginbotham has left to her
kindred an unstained memory.  Her goodness
was known wherever her name was spoken,
and will be remembered by hundreds whose
only relationship to her was through the Gos-
pel.  She was strikingly unostentatious in
dress, demeanor and speech; and yet she was so
calm and refined in appearance, in manner
and in language, that one could not fail to
recognize her as a lady of good birth and cul-
ture.  In the home circle her hospitality and
tenderness were unbounded.  Outside that
circle; her gentle deeds and ministrations to
worthy ones in need were constant, and were so
quietly bestowed that they were twice a blessing.
She was conscientious in every word and deed;
and in any matter of right she was as firm as
granite.  It is not often that we meet any per-
son, especially a woman, who possesses un-
demonstrative strength, but Sister Higgin-
botham had this rare quality in a marked de-
gree.  Her persistence in pursuit of a purpose
is illustrated by the great labor of her love
and life. In the days of her affluence and
popularity, she and one sister of all her family
accepted the truth. To it she sacrificed all the
favor and blessing of this world; and she perse-
vered until she brought those nearest and
dearest to her into the Church. Her integrity,
her patience, her tender goodness, her courage,
were sublime.  She has gone to receive an ex-
ceeding great reward.  May those who were 
loved and blessed in her life learn the lesson
taught by her peaceful death.	R.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Maud Howe was married, Feb. 7, to
Mr. John Elliott, the English artist whom she
met first in Rome.

	Miss Ada Kurtz has been re-appointed
Deputy Sheriff of Franklin County, Pa. She
has served one term with credit.

	Miss Jean Ingelow, it is said, is likely to be
awarded one of the annuities given by the
Crown for distinguished literary services.

	Mr. Labouchere hears that Queen Victoria
wants Prince Alexander of Bulgaria to wed
the Duchees of Albany and settle down in
England on $40,000 a year.

	Miss Ellen Scanlan, of Baltimore, has been
sent to Italy by Cardinal Gibbons to pursue
her musical studies. Her father is a poor
laborer, but the cardinal, who is a great lover
of music, will furnish the means for her educa- 
tion.

	Mrs. Logan will make her first contribution
to magazine pages in the Chautauquan for
February. The subject is “Official Etiquette
in Washington.” She has also prepared for
another number of this magazine a paper on
“Women in the departments at Wathington.”

	Mrs. Sallie F. Chapin, of South Carolina,
was chosen president, and Miss M. L. Hatchett,
of North Carolina, secretary, of the Woman’s
Press Association of the South, which was
lately organized at Greenboro’, N.C. The ob-
ject of the Association, as defined in its Consti-
tution, is “to stimulate, encourage and develop
literary talent in and of the South, and to aid
such writers as are found worthy to gain recog-
nition in the world of letters. It proposes,
further, to provide a communication between
women writers, and to secure all the benefits re-
sulting from organized effort.” It already
includes members from North and South Caro-
lina, Virginia, Florida, Texas, Louisana, Geor-
gia, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Maryland
and the District of Columbia.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


IT IS WELL.

Yes, it is well[-] the evening shadows lengthen;
	Home's golden gates shine on our ravished sight;
And though the tender ties we try to strengthen
	Break one by one—at evening time 'tis light.

'Tis well[-] The way was often dull and weary;
	The spirit fainted oft beneath its load;
No sunshine came from skies all gray and dreary,
	And yet our feet were bound to tread that road!

'Tis well that not again our hearts shall shiver
	Beneath old sorrows once so hard to bear;
That not again beside death's darksome river
	Shall we deplore the good, the loved, the fair.

No more, with tears wrought rom deep inner anguish,
	Shall we bewail the dear hopes crushed and gone;
No more need we in doubt or fear to languish,
	So far the day is past, the journey done.

As voyagers, by fierce winds beat and broken,
	Come into port beneath the calmer sky.
So we, still bearing on our brows the token
	Of tempest past, draw to our haven nigh.

As sweeter air comes from the shores immortal,
	Inviting homeward at the day’s decline;
Almost we see where from the open portal
	Fair forms stand beckoning with their smiles divine.

'Tis well[-] The earth, with all her myriad voices,
	Has lost the power our senses to enthrall.
We hear, above the tumult and the noises,
	Soft tones of music, like an angel's call.

'Tis well, O friends!  We should not turn—retracing
   	The long, vain years, nor call our lost youth back;
Gladly, with spirits braced, the future facing.
	We leave behind the dusty, foot-worn track.
						—Chambers' Journal


[Column 1]
	VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS 

	My forte was needlework, to which I was
fairly drilled, my first lessons beginning when
I was so small (four years of age) that ma
used to seat me on the table edge so that my
work might be nearer her own eyes.  My very
fond and indulgent father provided me with a
gold thimble, made by a Spanish jeweler, from
a nugget he had himself taken from the mines,
for he was very proud of my desire to learn to
sew.  Afterward came long lessons from a lady
teacher or governess, who also taught me my
books, singing and dancing.  I remember that
it used to seem a long way across one end of a
napkin or a handkerchief, and I would often
quit when half way across the first end, and
proceed to the other end, foolishly fancying
that thus I was getting along faster by so doing.
The carefully and promptly finished work
brought kindly criticism and increase of work,
so that by the time I was eight years old I do
believe that all the long "over and over” seams
of sheets and pillow cases, all the hemming of
ruffles, towels, handkerchiefs aprons and table
linen were considered my work.
	I am sure my mother never realized the
silent weariness I toiled through during my
regular hours of sewing before I won at last
her “very well, now you can read or play.”
Next came the lessons in “backstitching,”
threads being drawn out of the cloth so the
line should be straight, and the stitches taken
up two threads back each time to insure uni-
formity of appearance.  Then came “sampler
work,” after which everything had to be
“marked” by needle and thread, and I used to
feel very proud over the initials worked by my
own hand, but now I can see it was needless
labor.		
	When I was about twelve, my mother had
in her employ an English sister, who was the
very pattern of neatness and good order.  I
remember that Sarah combed her hair with
exactly the same precision every morning, but
on wash-days it seemed to me she took special
pride in a fresh collar and white apron.  Cer-
tain evenings of hers were devoted to patching,
with such skill that checked or figured patterns

[Column 2]
were matched so that the place could hardly
be found.
	Certain other evenings were employed ex-
clusively in stocking darning, and so important
was the expression she wore, that I regarded
the art as of the highest dignity, and soon ven-
tured to ask for instructions.  Sarah deferred the
condescension until she found a worthless piece
of leg for my lessons, but which opportunity I
most humbly accepted, and in due time was
promoted to practice upon heel and toe.
	Dear good Sarah! what a shaking and scold-
ing she gave me once, when, catching the fever
of her “scouring” example, I, too, began upon
a pie plate.  Snatching it from me she showed
me how to scour it, round and round from the
outer edge in lessening circles to the very
centre of the plate, where she gave it a most
professional twist.  This, I was assured, was
the correct and only way that tinware should
be scoured.  Knives were to be scoured length-
wise.	
	Next came crochet work and plain embroi-
dery, and from then till I was twenty, I never
bought a yard of trimming, but made enough
for us all, even hemstitching and embroidering
our handkerchiefs, a dozen at a time, our
mother occasionally presenting us with a very
fine one.  So inbued was I with the spirit of
industry, that I besought ma to teach me knit-
ting.  She laughed at first, for the climate was
so warm that no one thought of wearing
knitted stockings; but as we looked forward to
coming to Utah some day, I thought knitting
and straw braiding might as well be learned.
My dear mother at last yielded, and “set  up”
for me a stocking of fine cotton yarn on fine
needles, for I wanted the work to look nice.
But oh, how tedious it was!
	By the time I got down to the heel, ma could
not be bothered, and I set out among some old-
fashioned friends and learned the heel and toe.
I endured many facetious allusions, and had
many relapses of zeal, but pushed on to the
glorious end, and had my triumph among other
scenes.
	Before we left California, an old French
shepherd came to ma and said he understood
the people in Utah practiced knitting, spinning
and weaving, and he desired to present to her
three fine fleeces from his best merino lambs,
which he hoped she would have converted into
yarn for her own hosiery.  These delightful
feminine occupatious he had not witnessed
since leaving his own country, and he was re-
joiced to hear of their practice among the Mor-
mon people, and felt that their primitive habits
and industry must insure their happiness and
wealth.  Ma accepted the fleeces with much
appreciation of the Frenchman’s sentiments
towards our people, and on arriving at St.
George (reminded perhaps by the intense cold)
soon had them converted into yarn.  I watched
the carding and spinning with deep interest,
and intefered with the hiring of the knitting
by doing it myself—six splendid pairs of hose.
“Now, aren’t you glad I learned to knit?”  Ma 
was so influenced by my zeal that she bought
me a spinning wheel, but somehow I could not
get the knack of doing any finer work than
doubling and twisting carpet yarn.  This
failure I very much regretted after kind neig[--]
bors had spent much time in vain.  Economy
of material prevented my learning to weave at
this time, but a kind sister promised me that
when she had some material she didn’t mind
wasting, she would let me know, and try to
teach me.  I waited long for a notification,
which never came, but I would even yet like
to learn; I should be proud of cloth or carpet
of my own weaving.	
	I look around upon my almost idle young
friends, their cardboard work, chenille and rib-
bon embroidery, or painting on satin, (no
patchwork in sight), and think of their lack
of knowledge in cutting out and making cloth-

[Column 3]
ing, and contemplate how prominent a figure
the hired seamstress will be in the future family
circles of these dear girls.  I fear their late
lessons in plain needle work will be trials.
Don’t I know a lovely young wife, whose dear
John was out of employment, and whose best
pantaloons of diagonal, colored striped material
had to be partially reseated?  And when those
diagonal patches were put in, sadly at variance
with the main design, and puckered all round
the edges, and he tried to smooth out the
puckers, and couldn’t, and tried to draw those
diagonal stripes to match each other and they
wouldn’t,and he looked at her and she looked at
him,and his coat was a short one,and there could
be no disguise of her needlework, how do you
think they felt?  Well, when John went out
of the gate he kicked the dog, and when she
went into the kitchen to wipe away the gather-
ing tears, the toe of her pretty slipper caught
in the braid that was coming unsewed from
the hem of her wrapper, and the saucepan 
handle caught in the unmended hole in her
apron, and the green peas rolled all over the
floor, besides scalding her pet kitten.   I looked
in her pretty workbasket, and wondered when
the ribbon work chair tidy, for John’s chair,
would get finished, and couldn’t help thinking
now much better it would be if she would turn
her attention  to  plain  work, and say, with a
good will, “If I must do homely work, I want 
it to be a credit to me.”
	Shall  I  tell  how  a  certain young man de-
cided which girl to take?  He did not know 
exactly, and hinted a little for advice from his
grandmother.  “Well, Dan,” said she, “you
just fish up some errand and go around both
places early in the morning, before breakfast,
once or twice, and see what you think after-
ward.”  Early next morning Dan called at
Jenny’s father’s back door, inquiring for him.
A cloud of smoke, issuing from an open oven
door, revealed a badly burnt batch of biscuit.
Without seeing him, Jenny, in unbuttoned
shoes, using her apron for an holder, with
flushed face, frowsy hair and cross ejaculations,
hurried out and threw the whole into the swill
pail. 
	Dan hurried away, surprised, and pursued
his way to the home of Annie Brown.  Answer-
ing to his knock, the door was opened, and
Annie, with pleasant smile, smooth hair and
clean apron, was carefully cleaning the inside
of the bread bowl clear to the bottom. This 
done, she carefully put away the bowl, mould-
ing board, flour scoop aud rolling pin.  On
the hearth a pan of golden biscuit looked very
tempting, the ham and eggs were done just
right, and as Annie wiped her hands, her 
father’s voice was heard in the hall calling the
family to prayers and breakfast   Dan excused
himself, promising to call later in the day.
He hurried home and told his grandmother.
"I don’t think you need any advice now," she 
said, laughing, “you know now just what kind
of a home you’d have with either.”	
	Then she told him of a young cotchman,
who, by dint of industry and economy, had
amassed a comfortable little fortune, and con-
templated marriage.  During an evening's ’
visit, his sweetheart arose and filled the stove 
crowding full of coal.  Allan looked at her in
thoughtful silence a little while, then rose to go.
She looked up at him in wonder, and he an-
swered her seriously and kindly:  “Bessie, I
have seen enough to take warning in time.
You would waste my earnings as fast as I
could bring them in.  It would be rash in me
to shut my eyes to this now, I would have to
see it all my life after.”  “You think more of
your money, than of me," bitterly retorted
Bessie.  “No, lass, I could lavi[-]h it upon you
in comforts but in waste, never! Goodbye.” 
	“Another time, Dan, I’ll tell you other stories,
and true ones, too.”	
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	Fecruuary 15,1887.


APOSTLE LORENZO SNOW AT LIBERTY.

	Washington, D. C., 3:30 p.m., February 7th,
1887.—The Supreme Court to-day reversed the
decision of the Utah court in the Snow case. The
syllabus set forth that where a district court in the
Territory of Utah refuses to issue a writ of habeas
corpus involving a question of personal freedom,
an appeal lies to this court from its order and
judgment of refusal. The offense of cohabiting
with more than one woman, created by the act of
March 22nd, 1882. is a continuous offense and not
one consiting of an isolated act. After giving
the history of the case, the court says: “On ap-
peal to this court it is held—first, there was but
one entire offense for the continuous time; second,
the trial court had no jurisdiction to inflict a pun-
ishment in respect of more than one of the con-
victions; third, as want of jurisdiction appeared
on the face of the proceedings, the defendant
could be released from imprisonment on habeas 
corpus; fourth, the order and judgment of the
court below must be reversed and the case re-
manded to that court with direction to grant the
writ of habeas corpus prayed for.”


[Column 1]
		﻿COMMENTS. 
	The decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the case of Lorenzo Snow was
something of a victory gained, and a cause for
gratitude to God among this people, who have
borne so much injustice from the misinterpreta-
tion of the Edmunds law. Those who have suf-
fered unjust imprisonment, and submitted to it
"willingly, because they were obliged to," being
sentenced by a judge who seemed to think himself
an autocrat, ought certainly to have redress for
such a grievance, but whether this can or cannot
be done is very uncertain. However, "It is better
to suffer wrong than to do wrong," add one need
not envy that Judge his conscience who has sent
men to prison in two or three or more counts, and
made them pay unlawful fines, it must sting
painfully, one would think, when he remembers
the wives and little children that have had to suffer
privation and wrongs for his cruelty, even if he
does not consider the father, and his separation
from those, he loves, as well as his humiliating
position behind the bolts and bars. O when will
men discern the beam in their own eyes, instead of
hunting and probing for the mote in their
brother’s?
	The segregation business is at an end, though
the officers still insist upon full fines, as in the
case of Royal B. Young. Where, the justice of
the thing stands is not apparent, except to those
who are after the dollars and cents of the Mor-
mons, "whom they affect to despise."
	Bro. Lorenzo Snow does not appear to cherish
any ill feeling towards those who have unjustly ac-
cused and falsely imprisoned him, and stands up
in defense of the principles of freedom and liberty
as nobly and as grandly as though the prison

[Column 2]
walls had never environed his freedom, or the
ponderous iron gates had never shut him in from
his family, his brethren and his people. Imprison-
ment cannot crush men’s souls, nor hinder their
communication with God and the Holy Spirit, if
they are suffering for principle, and one would
think that in the example of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow and others, who have been sent to prison
for conscience' sake, this fact would be sufficiently
illustrated for all the world to comprehend it.
Yet Bro. Snow, under the test oath in the Ed-
munds-Tucker bill cannot be accorded the privil-
ege of an American citizen any more than as
though he were actually guilty of a heinous crime
and his lineage, his descent from the Revolution-
ary fathers, avails him nothing. The liberty they
fought and bled for, that their children might en-
joy "the freedom, to worship God according to
the dictates of their consciences” has been denied,
and to their direct descendants, and there is no
alternative, under the present regime, but to sub-
mit to this violation of that sacred principle, as
Bro. Snow has, in such a manner as to dignify
and ennoble the cause he represents, and bring
the greater shame and disgrace upon those who
so ruthlessly trifle with the finest feelings of the
human heart, and scatter misery and sorrow
broadcast over this fair land.

	The Edmands-Tucker Bill is at this date, Feb.
15, still, pending. Hammond of Georgia, ap-
pointed to act for Tucker of Virginia, in his ab-
sence, submitted to-day the Conference report on
this anti-Mormon bill in,the House, and it was
ordered printed and laid over until Thursday.
	There are some very material changes, which
have been made by the Conferees, that will disap-
point the "Liberals” here in Utah, as well as
elsewhere; in fact the Committee have, some of
them at least, shown a little consideration, and
have made some changes that will be in our favor,
or that will not make the Governor of Utah an
absolute monarch in the exercise of political
power. The bill is bad enough as it is, and it is
"devoutly to be wished” that the President will
exercise the privilege of his position, and refuse
his signature and the great seal of the United
States to such an infamous bill, even if the Senate
and the House should both approve the bill as
amended.
	A singular coincidence that has transpired with
the authors of these two outrageous bills is that
during the discussion of the first Edmunds bill,
Mr. Edmunds buried a daughter, and that recently,
while Mr. Tucker was at work upon the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, he has been compelled to leave his
post to go down to Mississippi and attend the
funeral of his daughter. Mr. Tucker, notwith-
standing his present attitude on the "Mormon"
question, is a man possessing an abundance of
affection for his family. This death will be a
severe blow to him, but it is not at all likely
that it will make him any more tender or sym-
pathetic towards "Mormon” wives or daughters.
We sincerely wish it might soften his feelings
and cause him to change his resolve to crush out
the system of plural marriage, of which he knows
so little, yet entertains such bitter prejudices.
	When the new bill, now under consideration,
becomes a law, if it ever should (which we most
sincerely trust never may happen) then it will be
given in full in the Exponent. By and bye, with-
out studying for it specially, the Mormon people
will become pretty well versed in law, practically.
	The taking away of the suffrage from women,
after they have voted for seventeen years, is an
inexcusable wrong; and more especially so in
men, who profess to be the friends of women, and
to protect their rights and "guard their best inter-
ests in the family and the home,” and all that
kind of sentimentalism, that means nothing at all,
but is a lot of political rubbish and bombast, that

[Column 3]
all sensible, women perfectly understand. If such
were indeed the case, they would give women the
right to protect themselves in their own states and
in the District of Columbia, the same as the "Mor-
mon” Legislature did in Utah, and not leave them
unprotected, with drunken husbands to beat them
and squander their hard earned means, and woman
would be considered in the election of officers, be-
cause her vote would count as much as the best
man’s in the country.

	The brave suffrage women, who made a forcible
protest to President Cleveland through their mem-
orial against the suffrage being taken away from
the legal women voters of this Territory, deserve
the gratitude and commendation of all the sup-
porters of the cause of woman’s rights throughout
this broad land. They have shown more interest
for our rights than any man or set of men. We
have not yet learned who all the ladies were,
but we do know that the names we have seen pub-
lished are a sufficient guarantee of the strength of
the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee
was Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, a
woman whose keen Sarcasm and clear cut witti-
cisms are proverbial with all who know her. She
has spoken up in favor of the women of Utah be-
fore, and in her amusing little "Book of Fables"
she has two or three specially significant of the
dealings of the ’United States’ Government with
the Mormons.
	In the Resolutions adopted by the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, during the recent Convention is
the following:
	Whereas, The anti-polygamy bill passed by
both Houses of Congress provide for the disfran-
chisement of the non-polygamous women of Utah,
and,
	Whereas, The women thus sought to be disfran-
chised have been for years in the peaceable exer-
cise of the ballot, and no charge is made against
them of any crime by reason of which they should
lose their vested rights, therefore
	Resolved, That the association recognizes in
these measures, a disregard of individual rights,
which is dangerous to the liberties of all,and while
rejoicing in the majority vote by which the women
of Washington Territory were protected, we
would urge upon Congress that the rights of the
women of Utah should be equally sacred; since
to establish the precedent that the ballot-may be
taken away, is to threaten the permanency of our
republican form of government.	
	The President may disregard the .advice given
to him by these strong minded women—we use
this term in its best and most significant sense—
but he will not be likely to forget their earnest and
emphatic effort in behilf of women, even though
they be far away. All these things make a de-
cided impression, and will have their weight, even,
though the object, sought is not obtained. We
hope to receive full particulars of the memorial,
with the names of the Committee who presented
it, before publishing again. It is only just and
right to recognize and record the event, that all
interested may know there aro some women not
afraid or ashamed to speak in defense of the
rights even of "Mormon” women.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Monday, January 31st, a party of ladies as-
sembled, by invitation, at the residence of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall, to celebrate the birthday anni-
versary of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young. There were
present on the occasion some of the veteran
women of the Church, among the number, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Catherine Horrocks, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. Isabella Horne, Susan S.
Young, and others not so far advanced in years,
nnmberng about twenty-five or thirty guests.
Delicious chocolate and refreshments were ele-


[Column 1]
gantly served early in the afternoon, and later
an informal meeting was held. After singing, and
a prayer by Sister Mary A. Freeze, Sister Horne,
who had been appointed to conduct the meeting,
made a few opening remarks, congratulating Sis-
ter Zina on her having reached the age of sixty-
six years, and having had such a fruitful experi-
ence in the Church, and said many good and
pleasant things, and concluded by wishing her
many happy returns of the day, and joy to over-
flowing.
	Sister Eliza followed, alluding to the intimate
association of Sister Zina and herself, these many
years, their labors together in the Church, and,
laying her hands upon Sister Zina's head pro-
nounced upon her an impressive blessing, in
which she earnestly implored her to take care of
her own tabernacle, that she might have health
and vigor of body, and strength of mind to per-
form the mission which had been given her to fill
before she left the eternal worlds.
	Sister Julia Howe made some excellent remarks,
and related a few incidents that had transpired
during her recent visit to her native country
(England) where she had the opportunity of meet-
ing several clergymen and people of note, with
whom she conversed upon our doctrines.
	Sister E. B. Wells made brief remarks, and
read a few verses she had composed for Sister
Zina in 1872. Dr. E. S. Barney read a poem com-
posed by Dr. E. R. Shipp for the occasion, which
we give in full:
		LOVINGLY INSCRIBED
TO SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, ON HER SIXTY-
SEVENTH BIRTHDAY.

	Dear Aunt Zina! what fond emotions swell
	At sound of that dear name, we love so well;
	Our hearts expand with love whene'er it's heard—
	In homes both far and near, a household word—
	From lisping infant on its mother's knee—
	To sage and bard, from every land and sea,
	All honor her; Ay, more than that, WE LOVE!
	Who has not felt her inspiration move
	The truest, deepest tendrils of the heart,
	And thrilled, with words whose holiness impart
	So much of comfort, hope and heavenly peace;
	And through her aid good works will e'er increase.

	Her hairs have silvered in the cause of truth,
	Since yielding it obedience in her youth.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith, in early years,
	Was her true friend, who shared her joys and tears; 
	And when the wicked sought to shed his blood,
	Firm and unwavering to the truth she stood;
	Companion faithful, too, of Brigham Young—
	With him for years she labored, and has sung
	The holy truths revealed by God to man,
	And aided by her faith and works the Gospel plan.

	In Israel a mother good and just.
	Faithful and true to every sacred trust;
	With sympathetic words and counsels wise,
	She ever helps the sorrowing souls to rise;	
	The burden of her own and other's cares
	She's borne in meek submission, faith and prayers;
	Her name will stand to all a beacon light,	
	For in our hearts 'tis written fair and bright.

	In feeble words we would a tribute pay
	Of love to her on this, her natal day;
	And breathe a fervent prayer to heaven,
	That health and strength and peace to her be given;
	Her joys increase, her days prolonged
	To see God's chosen people crowned;
	And she, among that choice and honored band,
	Be crowned a queen in the celestial land.
									E. R. SHIPP.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 31st, 1887.

	Remarks were made by Dr. R. B. Pratt, S. M.
Kimball;Lucy B. Young and others including Sis-
ters Mary A. Freeze and Zina Y. Williams, whose 
presence among us once more,after their sojourn in
other parts,seemed quite inspiring. The party was
a very pleasant one, and Sister Zina, whose name 
is a household word throughout Zion, must have

[Column 2]
realized that her friends were genuine in their ap-
preciation and acknowlegdement of her labors
of love among the people. She is a woman of in-
tense sympathy, and specially gifted in ministering
to the sick, and comforting the sorrowful. We
feel assured there are many to whom she has
given consolation and advice, as well as minis-
trations of love in sickness, that will join with
those assembled on that day in wishing her every
blessing which the Lord bestows upon His faithful
daughters.
	ON Monday, February 7th, a little party of sis-
ters were gathered at the residence of Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp. Cordial greetings and general conver-
sation was indulged in, and the guests partook of
refreshments, including delicious ice cream, after
which Sister Zina D. H. Young was appointed to
preside over the meeting. A hymn was sung,
and prayer was offered by Sister E. B. Wells, and
after singing again, Sister Zina made a few re-
marks, and then called upon the sisters in their
order as they were seated around the room. With 
one or two exceptions every one present spoke a 
few words at least, expressing their feelings and
appreciation of the little interview, blessing Sister
Shipp, and rejoicing in the faith of the Gospel,
and in the victory gained in the Snow case, of
which news had just reached us by telegram from 
Washington.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze made a very eloquent
speech, alluding to her association with the Sisters
Shipp, and the beneficial influence to herself
through their friendship, encouragement and inter-
est in her welfare. Her remarks were fresh, original 
and inspirational, and must have been particularly 
so to those from whom she claimed to have re-
ceived such an impetus for good.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougall seemed much affected
when she rose to speak, and the spirit of prophecy,
which has more than once rested upon her of late,
inspired her words, and she broke forth in that
gift to the edification of all present.
	Sister Maggie Y. Taylor, Edna Smith, Louie
Taylor and Phebe Y. Beattie, who have not been
so much in the habit of speaking in public as
some others who were present, bore good testi-
monies, and manifested a desire to improve oppor-
tunities for spiritual development. Sister M. J.
Shipp of Beaver, though seemingly very diffident,
bore a good testimony.
	There was a good spirit and feeling, and all felt
blest in coming together and speaking to each
other words of encouragement and blessing. The
meeting was dismissed with prayer by Sister Mary
A Freeze, and each one must have felt benefitted
and strengthened by the little season of rejoicing.
	ON Tuesday, February 8th, Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson, of the 14th Ward, celebrated her
birthday. She invited a few of her intimate
friends to dine at her hospitable home, and spend
the afternoon and evening. There was no pro-
gramme, but many were the congratulations and
good wishes for her future happiness and ultimate
success in her noble endeavors to do good. She
is an admirable hostess, and the dinner, which 
was excellent in every particular, was handsomely
served, and partaken of with a relish that could
not be mistaken.
	From the dining room the guests were shown
back into the parlor, and after some desultory
conversation, Sister M. Isabella Horne was nomi-
nated to preside over the meeting. After singing
a hymn, prayer was offered by Sister Maggie
Y. Taylor, and short speeches were made by Sis-
ters Horne, Z. D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, M.
W. Snow, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and others,
including Aunt Ann Richards (a very aged sister)
Sisters Maggie Y. Taylor, Julia Howe and Jane
Richardson. Many blessings were pronounced
upon Sister Stevenson by the sisters present, and
a grateful recognition of her labors of love was
awarded her by all who spoke. Sister Stevenson

[Column 3]
responded gracefully to every good wish and feel-
ing expressed in her behalf, and invited all present
to come again iu one year to celebrate her jubilee,
the 50th anniversary of her birth, and bring with
them their husbands. This was specially signifi-
cant, as among those present were several whose
husbands were in exile, and some of them in
foreign lands. The enjoyment, we do not hesitate
to say, was mutual with hostess and guests, and
all felt it had been a season of refreshing to the
soul.
	A MEETING of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, in honor of Sister Elizabeth Duncason's
birthday anniversary, was held in the Society
Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 12th, commenc-
ing at 2 p.m., Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun. W. L.
Binder, and after singing another hymn Prest.
Sarah M. Kimball made the opening address, in
which she stated that Sister Duncason was the
first woman appointed to preside over a quorum of
teachers in the Relief Society, and that she had
ever been a faithful laborer.
	Sister M. I. Horne, in her remarke, expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the sisters to cele-
brate Sister Duncason's birthday; thought it was
right to honor those who fulfilled the duties en-
trusted to them, and asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon Sister Duncason in her basket
and in her store, in her incomings and outgoings,
that she might live long to do good to the poor
and needy.
	Prest. S. M. Kimball, in behalf of the commit-
tee, presented Sister Duncason with a handsome
and comfortable easy chair. Sister Ann Brown,
aged eighty-seven, spoke a few words and blessed
the sisters. Sister M. W. Snow occupied a few
moments; thought Sister Duncason was one of
the honored women of these days, and asked the
Lord to bless her in the future with health and
comfort; referred to the kindness of Sister Kim-
ball, and asked the Lord to bless her, and hoped
all present would have oil in their lamps, and be
prepared to meet the bridegroom.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy to meet with the
sisters to honor Sister Duncason. Spoke of the
organization of the Relief Society in the Prophet
Joseph's day; thought women were as willing to
live the principles of the Gospel as men were;
they had duties to perform as well as the brethren.
Felt to bless each one present with all her power.
	Sister M. Lois Morris made some good re-
marks, and blest Sister Kimball for her endeav-
ors to make Sister Duncason happy on her 68th
birthday anniversary.
	Coun. W. L. Binder, in behalf of the Bishopric
of the ward, spoke of the benefit the Relief So-
ciety had been to the ward, not only in looking
after the poor, but in their donations towards
building the meeting house, and other public ex-
penses; felt that the labors of the sisters were ap-
preciated by the brethren. Made other very ex-
cellent remarks, and blessed Sister Duncason
with health and strength of body, that she might
live to do good.
	Sister Ann McAllister spoke of the humble and
good spirit which had always accompanied Sister
Duncason; hoped we would all prove worthy of
eternal life.
	Sister Ann Duncason said, "We have been co-
workers for a long time." Thanked the Lord for
the privilege of doing good to the poor; hoped we
would all stand firm and faithful in this life, and
that we might soon see those that are in exile now,
liberated, and asked the Lord to bless and com-
fort the Saints. Dismissed with singing, and a 
benediction was pronounced by Sister Horne.
	Delicious cocoa, chocolate, sandwiches and
cakes, of which we had the pleasure of partaking,
were served to all present in the most gracefu
manner by some of the young sisters—Mrs. Julia
Taylor, Miss Lizzie Kimball and Miss Minnie
Grey—who seemed to take great pleasure in wait-


ing upon the older sisters, and the most genial
feeling and influence prevailed. Social conversa-
tion and enjoyment for a short time, and the party
dispersed with reluctance, having fully enjoyed
both the meeting and the visit.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DELIGHTFUL AFFAIR.

	January the 15th, 1887, being the anniversary
of Sister Esther B. Fletcher, President of the
Eighth Ward Relief	Society, the teachers and
other members of the Society assembled in a sur-
prise on Sister Fletcher, at her residence, and
spent a very enjoyable time in chatting and con-
versing together. After passing the time in this
manner for a while, they retired to an adjoining
room, where some of the sisters had been busily
engaged in preparing supper, and here they par-
took of the bounties of life. After this they pre-
sented Sister Fletcher with a very nice as well as
suitable present, as a token of the love and es-
teem in which she is held by them. They then
resumed their old-time chatting, after which they
dispersed, with a hearty shake of the hand and
many voices saying, "God bless you, and many
happy returns of the day."
		JENNETTE MCMURRIN.


﻿NOTICE.

	Reports from the Relief Society branches of
this Stake are requested to be sent in by the 1st
of March. Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East,
Fourth South St., Salt Sake City.

	Relief Society Secretaries desiring blanks, will
please send directly to my address, 107, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, and save time. Stake reports are
respectfully requested to be sent in by March 20th
at the latest.
	ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D., Ass't Sec.


ABSENT, BUT NOT  FORGOTTEN.

	There is one face absent from our gathering
to-day, one that we have never missed before;
an honored and respected person, who has al-
ways honored us with her presence on occa-
sions like these.
	Sister Hannah T. King! how familiar the
name sounds to every ear; how the stately and
dignified form rises to our view; we can almost
see the noble and serene face as plainly as we
did a year ago, but it is only remembrance
that is left to us, the reality has passed away.
	Sister Hannah T. King has gone to rest; how
sweet must that rest be to her. She has left
traces of her useful life for our benefit.
	What a noble woman she was; and yet, what
a pure and humble spirit she possessed. To
know Hannah T. King was to honor and re-
spect her. Happy and favored are the persons
whom she called friends. Her heart reached
out in yearning to the young people in the
Church, and she was always ready to commend
all that she found praiseworthy in their
characters; but how often was her sensitive and
refined nature shocked by the rude and boister-
ous manner of some of the young people.
	Talent she could appreciate to its fullest
extent; beauty she admired, if it reached as
deep as the heart; worth she prized far above
wealth.
	The young ladies of the Seventeenth Ward are
indebted to this noble woman for many words
of instruction and advice. She always took a
great interest in their welfare, and only re-
gretted that they would not take a greater in-
terest in themselves.
	Sister King always took a great interest in
intellectual gatherings, and was always prepared
to give for what she received. To reflect upon
the life and character of this great woman
would be of benefit to all. She made sacrifices


of a character that few ever make for religion's
sake, yet how firm and uncomplaining she
stood through it all unto the last. How con-
sistent were her actions with her professions!
She taught by example as well as by precept.
	Reverence formed a large part of her charac-
ter.  Her sensitive spirit was often touched
through the light manner in which the sacra-
ment is partaken of by members of the Church.
She looked upon this ordinance as being as
sacred as the presence of the Savior Himself.
She was often annoyed by the gossip that
is carried on in places of worship among the 
Latter-day Saints. She always thought that
these places ought to be revered as sacred to
the worship of God, so that nothing would in-
terfere with the free flowing of His Spirit.
	Pages might be written concerning Sister
Hannah T. King, but her life, and the way she
lived it, speaks enough; she needs no person's
praise or eulogies. Did we wish to recompense
her for the noble example which she has laid
before us, we will follow that example, and
always hold her name in loving and respected
remembrance.
		ELLA DALLAS
	Written for the Young Ladies' Quarterly Re-
view, and read at the annual meeting of the
17th Ward Y. L. M. I. A., Jan. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]

﻿R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.

BEAR LAKE STAKE Y. L. M. I. A.

	On Sunday, Jan. 23rd, 1887, the young
ladies' of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion held
their semi-annual conference, in St. Charles,
Idaho, Mrs. N. E. Pugmire presiding.
	The conference was well attended, and well
represented by the several Associations. Much
good instruction was given by the Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. A., by Prest. William
Budge and others.
	The President advised the young ladies to
preserve the identity of their own organization
by holding meetings separate and independent
of the Young Men's Association, excepting
occasional conjoint meetings; and gave some
good and sound reasoning th[--]efor.
	Prest. Wm. Budge urged the same policy,
as most beneficial to both Associations.
	Coun. Amy Cook gave some interesting and
importaut counsel to the young ladies concern-
ing industry and self-help, showing how they
may become useful in domestic affairs, and
measurably independent.
	All seemed to rejoice in the great blessings
conferred upon the Saints through the restora-
tion of the everlasting Gospel.
		L. M. HART, Stake Sec.

BEAR LAKE STAKE R. S.

	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake was held in the
St. Charles meeting house, Jan. 22nd and 23rd,
1887, commencing Saturday at 10 a.m., Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop Calder. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial report read
by the Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay addressed the conference:
Felt very thankful for the privilege of again
meeting with her sisters. Did not feel dis-
couraged by any means, "although there are
often obstacles in our pathway to cause us to
feel discouraged, if we would allow them to do
so. We would not occupy this position and
perform our labors and duties with the assiduity
that we do, did we not know it to be in ac-
cordance with the will of God." Desired to
hear the verbal reports of the Relief Society.
They were as follows:
	Coun. Mary A. Virgin reported the St.

[Column 2]

Charles Relief Society; Prest. F. Howell, Fish
Haven; Prest. Ann Cook, Garden City; the
Secretary read a report of the Paris 1st Ward;
Paris 2nd Ward reported by Prest. M. A.
Shepherd.
	Prest. Lindsay continued her remarks. Said
she had not been able to visit the Relief Society
as she desired, as her health would not permit.
Her Counselor, Sister E. Collings "is not able
to attend this morning, as the riding last even-
ing affected her so as to make her quite sick."
Explained her situation to the sisters, but ex-
pressed her desire to perform her duties as far
as she was able. "We are few in number com-
pared to those who are fighting against us, but
we have only to look unto God; the same who
preserved Daniel when, cast into the lion's den,
is our God to-day: We should have charity
for those who are fighting against us. The
Lord says, 'Vengeance is mine, and I will re-
pay.'"
	Prest. Annie Laker, of the Primary Associa-
tion, bore her  testimony. "These organiza-
tions tend to draw us closer to each other, and
closer to the Lord." Thought the time had
really come when there was a famine for the
word of God. "We are living for something
that will be a comfort unto us in the hereafter.
God has never required anything of us that
we cannot do." Spoke of the important mis-
sion of a mother in Israel.
	Prest. Lindsay Stated that Sister Julia
Budge had sent in her resignation as Corres-
ponding Secretary. It was received, and a
vote of thanks given for her past services. Sis-
ter Lottie Price, of Paris, 2nd Ward, was
appointed to occupy the position. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Windlys.
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Coun.
James H. Hart. Singing. Sacrament adminis-
tered, and the hymn, "How great the wisdom
and the love," etc., was sung.
	Prest. Lindsay felt very much gratified with
having the privilege of meeting again this
afternoon. "It is much crowded, but I hope
the people will endeavor to make each other as
comfortable as possible. There are some of the
presidents here to-day who were not here yester-
day; we shall hear them give their reports.
	Prest. Carlson reported the Relief Society of
Ovid; Prest. Dalrymple,Preston; Sister Turner,
Liberty; Prest. M. Vanorman, Bennington.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings expressed the
gratitude she felt towards her Heavenly Father
for once more permitting her to meet with the
Saints. "God only knows how many more
times we may have this privilege. Let us
love one another, and keep this great command
of God; it is one of the greatest He has given.
Let us put aside our selfishness. If we would
all observe the "golden rule" how blest we
would be."
	Coun. L. M. Hart said, "It is with a degree
of pleasure that I again behold the faces of
those before me. We have had our duties
plainly laid before us to-day, and it is left with
us whether we perform them or not." Urged
the sisters to be energetic in attending to all
their duties, such as donations, fast meetings,
etc. Hoped we would come forward and
faithfully discharge our duties. Invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Prest. Lindsay gave more valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters, exhorting them, in her
usual kind and motherly way, to diligence in
attending their meetings, and performing every
duty enjoined upon them. "If we have not
the Spirit of God with us to-day it is our own
fault. Children should respect their parents.
It is the duty of every child to look after his 
parents. Children and grandchildren should
look after and provide for the wants of their 
parents and kindred. Do not acts of charity
for a name, but because it is pleasing to God."
Gave instructions to the secretaries with regard


to making out reports.  Invoked the blessing
and peace of heaven upon all.
	Coun. James H. Hart said, "Such admoni-
tion and instruction as we have heard to-day
must certainly make impressions upon our
minds." Spoke of the blessings we as a peo-
ple enjoy; also to some extent on intemperance.
"A drunkard cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven.  Let us do the work which we have to
do with singleness of heart. 'He who waits to
be commanded in all things is a slothful ser-
vant.' 'He who knoweth the Father's will
and  doeth  it not shall be beaten with many
stripes.' " Said he always enjoyed the ladies'
conference, as a kind and good spirit prevails.
	Conference adjourned for six months.  Sing-
ing, "Nearer Home." Closing prayer offered
by Prest. Wm. Budge.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Prest.,
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
			N.  E.  HUNT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		  M. J. TANNER.

		Continued.
	Saturday, April 18th.  We met some mis
sionaries at Chicago who had come by the U
P. R. R., among whom is a Mrs. Nelson.  She
and I took a bed in the sleeper, but we prefer
our seats in the other car among our friende;
we felt so isolated.  We knew that everything
was so completed, organized and protected,
that we must be perfectly safe, yet we could not
help feeling nervous.
	We are in Ohio this morning.	It still rains,
and everything looks so dreary—water stand-
ing  over  the ground for  miles.  We pass
through a great deal of timbered country, such
tall, straight trees and very little underbrush.
We pass some  pretty farms, but see no one
stirring, and no sign of spring.  The land is so 
hilly that irrigation would be quite out of the
question.  There are forty-nine of us in the
company, and we need a whole car, which we
have most of the time; then we attend our de-
votion night  and  morning.  Bishop Price
offered prayer this morning.
	Akron, 8:35.  A fine city, with pretty resi-
dences in the suburbs.  We can judge but very
little of the main city, as we go in between two
rows of cars, aud we can only catch a glimpse
down some of the streets.  The majority of the
houses that we see are frame, but we pass some
large, substantial looking brick houses.  We
pass immense yards of tile for draining the
land, and the country looks as though it was
needed.  Now we pass miles of rail fence; we
never see such in Utah.
	At Kent we were requested to go in another
car, as they wish to leave the one we are in.
We  gather up our things and rush into the
other car, which we find rather dirty and un-
comfortable, but what troubles us most is that
we are mixed with other people.  Our travel-
ing outfits of blankets, lunch and satchels
marks us as travelers, and all eyes are turned
upon us; we feel indignant, for we are ticketed
first class to New York, with promise of special
cars, which we have had most of the time so
far.  Brothers Smith and Price try to make us
as comfortable as possible.
	Shenango, 11:35.  We have been so con-
fused and broken up that we have not yet
breakfasted.  Poor Sister Harrison wants her
tea, but we see no chance of making any, and 
none of us feel like opening our lunch baskets.
The clouds are breaking, and the country im-
proves.  Ever since leaving Chicago I have
felt as if we were traveling west.  We see a 
little pine timber; so many stumps indicate that
people have to clear the land for their farms.
We see long lines of fence made by turning
stumps on one side, leaving their sprangling
roots to form a barrack; they have been washed

[Column 2]
and bleached by the elements until they look
quite picturesque.  We stop for dinner, and
Bro. Price gets us some tea.  The men of our
party drink water, but we old ladies feel as
though we must have a little tea to refresh us
after being broken of our rest so much, and
the continued racket and jar of the train is
very wearisome to our nerves.  It is not rain-
ing now, but is still cloudy.  We see ice and
snow by the bank of a creek.  The country is
wild and mountainous.  2:40, we pass Chatau-
que, the lake of which is frozen over.  The
sun is shining.
	Jamestown, 3:5.  We expected to change
cars here for Niagra, but they tell us if we
stop to see the Falls we will have to stay all
night there, so we go on to New York.  The
country is still mountainous, and the hills are
nearly covered with snow.  We see but little
stock, and very few children.  5 p.m.  They
have given us a special car, and we pick up
our things and move again.  We feel more at
home and less open to criticism.  We are pass-
ing through the oil regions of Pennsylvania.
	Sunday, April 19.  We have got through
another night; I think it is the most uncomfort-
able one we have spent.  We stop at Jersey
City.  Our journey is done, and we are well
satisfied to leave the cars.  Bro. Hart meets
us in the waiting room; he is the emigration
agent, and has come to show us the way to our
stopping places.  Mrs. Nelson and I walk
around a little, and try to look out of the win-
dow to see what things look like in our new 
quarters.  When we come back the company
have gone, vanished like a dream, and we are
left alone.  Shut in by iron gates, we cannot
see out, nor look after our friends to see which
way they have gone.  It makes us feel rather
queer, but the man at the ticket office tells us
there will be a boat there in fifteen minutes.
We meet a young man of our company who
has waited for us, which is somewhat soothing
to our nerves.  The boat comes presently, and
the gates are opened.  We go on board and
cross the river.  Mr. Hart is waiting for us; he
takes us  on  a  street  car and we go to the
Grand Central Hotel.  Mrs. N—and I take
a room together, and  a  meal  card.  We are
taken   on  an  elevator up  three  stories; our
room is 454.  We are alone now, and have no
idea where anyone else is, but it seems very
comfortable to be in  a quiet room once more,
away from the noise and jar of the train; still
it seems continually rumbling in our ears.  We
have a pleasant room, nicely furnished.  In
one corner is a marble bowl, furnished with
hot and cold water; in another a closet to hang
our dresses in.  We want to clean up and go
down to breakfast, but our trunks have not
come.  We wash and brush and do the best
we can, and find, by the notice on the door,
that breakfast is not yet over.  We get on the
elevator, which is furnished with mirrors on
three sides and cushioned seats.  We tell the
waiter we wish to go to the dining room, and
he lets us off and tells us which way to go.  A
very black specimen of humanity meets us at
the door; we show him ou[-] meal card, and he
hands us over to another negro waiter, who
seats us at a round table, and hands us a bill
of  fare.  We tell him what we will have,
and while he is gone for it we have leisure to
eat oranges and make observations.  We see a
large room hung with mirrors, and lace curtains
at the windows, round tables, large enough for
four persons, which are multiplied indefinitely
as we glance at the mirrors.
	Waiters are gliding about attending the
different tables; some are of pure negro blood,
but most of the younger ones are mixed, and
represent all shades or degrees of consanguinity;
all draped in black, with white bosoms, aprons,
neckties and cuffs.  Their hair is closely shaved,
and I certainly never saw so many good look-
ing colored men.  Some of them are whiter
than many dark complexioned people of the

[Column 3]
white race, but they all show the negro blood.
A couple, whom we judge to be newly married,
have seated themselves at our table; the gentle-
man is fine looking, and the lady is perfectly
lovely, with her paints and frizzes, and her
melting black eyes, and elegant morning toilet
of delicate pink.  She seems very much in
love with her escort, who is very kind and po-
lite to her.  They saved their comments for
their neighbors for an after breakfast relish.
Our breakfast is served, and we get through it
some way to our satisfaction.  We are offered
toothpicks at the door, as we pass out and go
to our room.


PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

	CINCINNATTI, Ohio, Jan. 18, 1887.
MRS. HELEN MAR WHITNEY:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I was away from home
when the pamphlet you sent came to hand, and
it was put aside with miscellaneous papers, and
I only came across and read it last Sunday.
Please accept my sincere, though tardy, thanks.
I enjoyed reading the speeches made by so
many of the Mormon ladies.
	This Mormon question has great interest for
me, and I should like to come out and study it
fully, impartially. I do not pretend to say I
believe in Mormonism, but I do not disbelieve
in it. I know, or at least feel sure, that plurali-
ty of wives would benefit many—most of the
homes of my acquaintances—and as it was the
practice of the olden times, when Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob and the other "men of God"
lived,and when men held direct communication
with God, I do not see how Christians can say
it is so dreadfully wicked in the sight of God.
It seems to me it would be more sensible to
confine. the argument to the expediency, the
moral right of the matter. Intemperance is
wicked, wrong, because it injures the person
who drinks, brings poverty, sorrow and often
death to those dependent on him. But such
results need not necessarily follow polygamy.
*	*	*	My rule of life is, right is
right, wrong is wrong. God cannot look upon
sin with the least degree of allowance, but who
can decide for another what sin is.
	Now, I do not wish to deceive you, and have
you think that I profess to believe in Mormon-
ism. I am, as we Methodists say, only "open
to conviction." Were I to come out there and
be fully convinced against you, I should not
be slow in saying so. But I can honestly, truth-
fully say, that so far as I have read of the sub-
ject, for and against, I believe you are more
than half (to say the least) right, and that
Mormonism will not be obliterated.
	For yourself, Mrs. Wells, Eliza Roxie Snow,
Mrs. Crocheron, the Pratt women, and many
others, whose names do not just now come to
my mind, we, my  husband and I, feel the
greatest respect, I might almost say affection,
and you will always have our best wishes.
	Yours truly,
		EMILY SCOTT.


ANNUAL MEETING OF Y. L. M. I. A.,
SEVENTEENTH WARD.

	(The annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Coun. Mrs. F. S. Richards, on Jan. 21st, 1887.
Nearly all the members of the Association
were present; also a large number of visitors,
among whom were seen the beloved faces of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Young. President J. C. Howe presided over
the meeting with her usual dignified and lady-
like manner.)
	After the usual opening exercises, an histori-
cal and financial report of the Association for
the past year was read by the Secretary, and
accepted by the Association. These reports


showed the Association to be in good condi-
tion.
	The main, feature of the programme was the
reading of the paper, which was read in three
sections, and was very interesting; indeed it
was a credit to the Association.  The articles
contained therein were entirely original, and
treated upon various subjects—biographical,
physiological, political, moral and religious—
each subject being treated in an intelligent
manner, and were read intelligently by the
editor, Miss Emma Ellerbeck.  Songs were
rendered between the sections of the paper, by
Miss May Preston and Miss Lizzie Smith,
which made a pleasant change from the
reading.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Eliza
R  Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, S. M.
Kimball, B. W. Smith, Lula G. Richards, M.
Y. Dougall and others.  Much good instruc-
tion was given, and words of commendation
were spoken to the members of the Association.
Each speaker asked God’s blessing upon the
officers and members of the Association.
	During the meeting Sister Eliza spoke in
tongues, and Sister Zina interpreted.  In the
tongues Sister Eliza said, that there were those
present who would receive the gift of tongues,
interpretation, prophecy and healing, and that
they would be sought after for the comfort and
consolation which they would be enabled to
impart through exercising these gifts.  One
thing was remarkable, the interpretation was
given in exactly the same manner as the
tongues were spoken.  This should be a strong
testimony of the truth and power of these
gifts.  A sweet spirit seemed to prevail through-
out the meeting, and all seemed to partake of
its influence.
	A strange coincidence pertaining to this
meeting was that it happened upon Sister
Eliza’s birthday, without any previous thought
or pre arrangement to that effect, the day
being her eighty-fourth birthday.  She received
many sincere congratulations and good wishes
from both old and young that were present.
She remarked that this had been one of the
happiest anniversaries of her life.
	Sister Richards was a true hostess, welcom-
ing each one with words of kindly greeting,
looking carefully to the comfort of all.  The
Association was blessed in having, the privilege
of meeting at her house, where all things were
so comfortable and convenient; on the other
hand, Sister Richards was blest by being
privileged to have the meeting there.
   After the adjournment and closing exercises
of the meeting, all were invited to the dining
room, where a delicious supper had been pre-
pared by the young ladies, of which all partook
with a relish.  The young ladies waited upon
the. table in a graceful manner.
	The evening was afterwards spent in pleasant
and instructive conversation, interspersed with
music.  All went away feeling that they had
indeed had a feast,spiritually and temporally.
			      ELLA DALLAS Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held a convention in Philadelphia, Feb. 1.
	Among the ladies who are studying at the
Faculté de Médecine in Paris, this year, are
eighty-three Russians, eleven English; seven
French, three Americans, two Austrians, one
Roumanian, and one Turk.
	Col. T. W. Higginson will write during the
year a series of articles on "Literary Tenden-
cies," for the New York Independent. He is
an enthusiastic tobogganist, and declared that
"at the ripe age of sixty-three" he finds much
fnn in it.


Dr. Martha G. Ripley has esthblished a
"Maternity Hospital," in Minneapolis, for poor
girls who have been deceived, but whose previ-
ous record has been good. It is also for mar-
ried women who are in poverty. Poor children
are admitted for surgical cases. The physicians
and officers of this hospital are all women, as
it is proper they should be.
	Mrs. H. R. Shattuck publishes in John B.
Alden's miscellany, the Library Magazine,
"The story of Dante's Divine Comedy," being
a revision of her letters written from the Con-
cord School of Philosophy, last summer, to the
Springfield Republican and Boston Transcript.
It is not a report of the lectures on Dante
there delivered, but a connected account of
the great poem of Dante, made up from the
lectures correlated with other writings on the
subject.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at the family residence, in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake
City, Mary Jenson, the beloved wife of Andrew Jenson,
after about ten weeks suffering.  She was born in Bjerggard,
Hellevad Sogn, Hjorring Amt, Denmark, March 7, 1859;
was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints May 24th, 1873; enigrated to Utah in 1875, and was
married to Andrew Jenson August 30, 1875.  She leaves,
besides her husband, four children—two sons and two
daughters—and died in full faith of all the principles of
her religion, to which she had yielded obedience.  She was
a dutiful wife and mother, and was much beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her.
										COM.

	DIED, at Manti City, Sanpete Co., Sister Cecelia J.
Hansen, born July 6, 1829, in the City of Aalborg, Den-
mark, and departed this life Jan. 6, 1887.  She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Feb. 6, 1851 She buried her mother in June, 1852, who
was the first member of the Church who died in that city.
Sister Hansen left Denmark that fall with the emigration
Dec. 20, 1852, and arrived in Salt Lake City Sept. 29, 1853.
Lived at Israel Ivins' until she married Niel Hansen,
Sept. 10, 1854.  She was the mother of seven children,
three sons and four daughters; she had also two adopted
children; four have gone before her; she leaves a husband,
two sons and three daughters to mourn her loss.  She died
in full faith of the Gospel to her latest breath, and admon-
ished all her children, one by one, to faithfulness in the
latter day work under all circumstances.  She was a faith-
ful member and teacher in the Relief Society, and did
many deeds of charity among the poor.  We deplore her
demise, and pray that He, who doeth all things well, will
heal and comfort the mourning hearts.
							A. R. KELLER, Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with deep feelings of sorrow and regret that we re-
cord the death of one of our dear sisters, Sister Evaline
Clark Lee, who departed this life at eight o'clock on the
morning of the 2nd of January, 1887, at Secora Co., N.
M.  She was the daughter of John W. Clark and Evaline
Brown, and wife of J. D. Lee.  Born Feb. 14, 1858, at
Washington, Washington Co.,Utah Territory  Her eldest
boy preceded her the 17th of last March, so she now
leaves three small children, husband, mother, brothers,
sisters and many friends to mourn her loss.  She seemed
robust and hearty, but a complication of diseases set in,
which were beyond the aid of human skill.  She suffered
terribly for ten days, when she passed calmly away.  Her
desire to live was very great, as she was a very affectionate
wife and an indulgent mother.  She held the position of
Treasurer in the Relief Society and First Counselor in the
Primary Association, which positions she but recently
resigned,  on  account  of  her  duties at home.  She
was able to give wise and instructive counsel to her sisters
on all occasions, in public or at home.  She manifested
g[-]eat faith during her suffering, and although we miss her,
we feel to say, as she did many times, "Thy will be done,
O Father."
					VIRGINIA CURTIS, President,
					GERTRUDE REYNOLDS,
					MAY SWAPP, Counselors.
	Of the Primary Association.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

David James & Co.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
[icon of pointing finger] Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFTand FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
[pointing finger icon] Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z.C.M.I
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,.
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,  
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
[pointing finger icon] We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANES GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1887.	NO. 10.


[Column 1]

﻿RETROSPECTIVE AND PROSPECTIVE.

	For many centuries gone by, 'twixt heav'n
And earth, silence had reigned. The voice of God,
The great Eternal, who called Abram forth
To leave his kindred and his native land,
Had not, for ages, reached a mortal ear.
Fools in their hearts declared, "there is no God."

	Though Jesus said, "Except you're one, you are
Not mine," the christian sects, who claim to have
The Gospel as He taught were multiplied,
And each contending for the preference,
And all maintained, the body of the Lord
Is represented by the church on earth.
But if these sects can be acknowledg'd His,
What a vast multitude of bodies? Else,
His one, must be in many fragments torn.

	The wheel of time roll'd on, and met the verge
Of a new Dispensation—this the last—
The closing one—the set, th' appointed time
For God to do a strange—a wonder work,
Preparatory to Messiah's reign.

	Prefacing this august, sublime event,
The long, long silence must be broken, and
The voice of God, on earth be heard once more.
As was His wont whene'er He converse held
With mortal man, He'd prophets at command
To bear His messages and teach His will.
For this grand purpose He had raised up one—
An unsophisticated, honest youth,
Whom He had chosen and had foreordain'd
To see His face, His voice to hear—to take
The lead in the last Dispensation of
A fallen world- to stop the downward ebb
Of life's corrupted stream, and bid it through
A purifying channel, upward flow—
To organize the Church of Jesus Christ
Precisely by the former pattern given,
With Prophets and Apostles, governments;
With gifts and pow'rs to heal—authority
To cast out devils, and to speak in tongues.
A Church which Jesus Christ will own as His.

	The Prophet did God's bidding, tho' opposed
By hellish wrath and human ignorance.
	Unfetter'd and undwarf'd by man-made creeds,
His mind soared upward to the living Fount
 Of truth and wisdom, knowledge, faith and power.
He master'd languages and sciences,
And principles of vast eternal weight—
A worker and a student till his death.
Having performed a mission great and grand,
He sealed his testimony with his blood.
		
	But yet the Church of Christ of latter days,
Which by the Prophet God established, lives, 
And will, altho, opposed by earth and hell.
	Though persecution, which our Savior said
Would be the lot of those who follow Him,
Has oft, full oft, with arms outstretch'd the path
Bestrode the Church has never made a halt.
Oft times from place to place by mobbers driven;
And last of all they drove us from Nauvoo,
To go as Abram did we knew not where. 
Perchance they wished—they hoped—they thought
We'd starve and die, and buzzards fatten on
Our flesh—our bones be left to bleach upon
The lone wild waste, untrod by human foot;
But God was with us and they knew it not.
He, by His noble Chieftain, Brigham, Young,
With wisdom from the courts on high endowed,
Led to these isolated mountain vales—
A desert wilderness, a fertile waste—
A crowning climax of all dreamness.
But peace was here, sweet peace, our legal claim,
Usurp'd by those who forced our exile flight.
For centuries the soil unstir'd had slept
The sleep of death, while none but savage feet

[Column 2]

Had kissed the sod. No tree nor-shrub adorned
This Salt Lake City Plat. The mountains then
With their attraction's uncontested charm,
Drew to their summits all of showers, and left
The valleys dry.
	
	And here we were The Church
Of God, the Saints of Latter-day, must draw
Forth from this death-wrap'd soil, a sustenance,
Or perish. What a predicament! Who
Of mortal mould unarm'd with mighty faith
In the eternal God, but would have quailed
Before the ghastly prospect's sullen scowl?
Not so the Saints; in the Almighty arm
We put our trust; with willing hearts and hands,
Nerv'd by a living faith, we worked and prayed,
And with thanksgiving ate our scanty bread.

	We dug the channels for the water's course,
And tapp'd the creeks (the creeks were very few
And far between) and strewed their waters on
The thirsty land, which drank, and craved, and drank
Till it revived and brought forth nourishment.
We tore the saplings from the mountain's brow,
Which grew the lovely shade trees that adorn
Our cities' side-walks, and in summer heat,
Produce a grateful, cool, refreshing shade.
	
	Yes, such it was, and what is Utah now?
The boast of friends, and envy of our foes.

	Who wrought the change? God and His faithful Saints,
And made "the desert blossom as the rose."

	A crusade now inaugurated in
Our midst, retards progression's onward move.
But what disturbers of our peace shall do
Against the Church, will be o'erruled for good.

	The Almighty's drama will enacted be—
Each acts a part—to all, the choice is free.
Our persecutors make a sad mistake,
They earn our pity by the choice they make:
All in the harvest reap the crop we sow,
And they in theirs, will garner only woe.
Who shed the blood of innocence will feel
The wrath of God, from which there's no appeal.
Our foes, in blindness, now exult and think
The Church, beneath their lash, is bound to sink:
Crushed, it may seem, in their distorted view,
And still be gaining strength and prestige too:
From vile oppression's bondage 'twill come forth
In glorious light, with power to gladden earth,
	
	But ere the drama's close, and curtains fall,
Will good result from scenes which now appall—
This Crusade furnace-heat will purify
The Church from hypocrites, and all that lie—
From those whose hearts are set on worldly gain,
And all who sacred cov'nants break in twain.
Then Truth and Justice will resume their throne,
And man's oppressiveness shall be unknown.
The Son of God, the Prince will come again,
With all His Saints, in majesty to reign.

	E. R. S. S.
Salt Lake City, Jan., 1887.	Eliza R Snow Smith


[Column 1]

 ﻿A SKETCH OF MADAME RECAMIER.

	One of the most charming and lovable of
characters in the social drama of France, dur-
ing the period of the rise and fall of Bonepart,
and the restoration of the Bourbons, was that
of Julie Adelaide Bernard, Madame Recamier,
known to her dear friends as Juliette. She
was born in the city of Lyons, December 1777,
educated like most French girls at a convent,
which she left at the age of fifteen, and came
with her parents to reside in Paris. Shortly
after, she was married to a wealthy banker, 
M. Jacques Recamier,and according to French

[Column 2]

customs, began to see life, from its social stand-
point.
	The marriage was arranged by her parents.
and. as her husband was thrice her
age, it is pretty safe to say, was
altogether a marriage of convenience,
though she always entertained for M.
Recamier a sincere regard, and that he adored
her is plain to be seen in the following extract
from one of his letters to her: "I have always
made it the rule and happiness of my life to
respect your wishes, tastes, affections, and sup-
posed religious obligations to friendship."
	As this is by no means an historical sketch
the above will serve as an introduction to this
beautiful woman,and those lovable traits in her
character; which is the object I have in view.
	When the horrors of the reign of terror were
ended, and even the people of France were
sated with cruelties and blood; they turned to
the delights of social intercourse, with intense
eagerness. It was at this time that Madame
Recamier appeared upon the scene, dazzling
all with her matchless loveliness; beautiful as
a Houri, she became at once a social loadstone,
luring great and small to her side, by her
beauty and fascinating grace of manner.
	It is said that to a Frenchman, talking is one
of the necessities of life. The salon of the
Frenchwoman grew out of this necessity; and
a grand advance in civilization it was. It
opened the way for the introduction into social
andliterary life of such as Madame Rambouillet,
Madame de Stael,Madame Recamier and scores
of others which gave these women of genius
and talent the opportunity of comparing, re-
freshing and adding fresh stores of knowledge
to their minds, by social intercourse with the
great and gifted of their day. Aye, and aid-
ing and acting as guiding stars, by their grace
of presence, open hospitalities and charming
friendships to many a hero, who, but for their
kind words and generous help, would have been
both "to fortune and to fame unknown."
	The woman who possessed the intellect the
power of entertainment, which could draw to
her salon the great minds of the day, where
were discussed the literature, the drama, the
politics, the everything that constituted French
society, well earned the sobriquet of, potentate
in petticoats.
	It is to be regretted that England and
America have no counterpart of the French
salon; that delightful resort where the only ob-
ligation is to contribute to the general enjoy-
ment by being agreeable and entertaining, ac-
cording to your best ability, where all are
expected to throw aside petty personalities and
meeting upon neutral ground, each enjoy the
treasures of the other's mind, gain new ideas,
discuss the old, and all with frank good na-
ture.
	Such was the salon of Madame Recamier
who added also that element of undefiable deli-
cacy and refinement and guided the conversa-
tion over shallows and rapids, with a grace and
tact almost amounting to genius.
	Without possessing the depth and brilliancy 
of intellect which characterized her friend
Madame de Stael, of whom Goethe said, "one
must become all ears to follow her," Madame
Recamier had good literary taste and ability,
and though she published nothing under her
name, we find her collecting historical facts for
M. de Chateaubriand, as well as assisting in the
preparation of a volume of extracts from the


[Column 1]
﻿works of Ballanche and Camille Jordan pays
her the great compliment of asking her to give
him her impressions of the new regime early in
the reign of Louis XVIII., and adds "you
know how I delight to hear you, with your
pure and discriminating mind, talk on all sub-
jects, even the most serious." This was a rare
compliment, as Jordan was not a man to in-
dulge in fulsome flattery.  She was gifted with
that most delightful of all good gi[-]ts, rare tact,
and it was one of her chief charms that she
could draw out the real worth of people, show-
ing them off to their best advantage, without
them suspecting  her of being the cause of 
the exhibition of their talents.
	Authors and new luminaries of the dramatic,
literary and musical world came first to the
salon of Mme. Recamier,to test their powers and
the criticisms of those congregated there.  Even
the great Rachael did not disdain to declaim a 
new piece there. before trusting to the public
to decide its merits.  It was here, also, the pro-
ductions of Chateaubriands’ great mind were
first given to the select circle of friends, who
basked  in  the  sunshine   of this  beautiful
woman’s friendship.
	Madame Recamier fulfilled a great social
mission, not so much by rare intellectual gifts
or personal charms as by her real womanhood.
This great beauty, this queen of society, had
every excuse to be vain, frivolous and selfish,
yet she always rose above the temptation, and
was directly the opposite; a most lovely gracious
woman; sincere, earnest, disinterested; neither
hardened by worldliness, or soured by baffled
affections; but preserving even in old age and
blindness and amid reverses of fortune, that
sweetness and serenity which marked her char-
acter in its happiest days.  Holding her un-
disputed sway in a marvelous manner over
men and women alike, not only by her person-
al loveliness, but by her sympathy and ex-
quisite tact.
	It would be nonsense to ascribe the happy
influence she exerted on all about her, the com-
fort she afforded, the culture and progress she
advanced to idle coquetry.  It is ridiculous to
suppose that a  merely  worldly minded, but
beautiful woman, no matter how bewitching 
her manner, could inspire the life long friend-
ships with the gifted and brave, which Madame
Recamier inspired, and which it was her privi-
lege to enjoy during her life.  No, such are
not won by mere blandishments; neither are
enduring memories of grace and congeniality
thus bequeathed.
	The friendships of this charming woman
were unexampled for warmth and lasting at-
tachment; and she was fond of saying, "That
there was a certain taste in perfect friendship
to which common place characters could never
attain."
	Rare, indeed, are the friendships that have
been so perfect in character and endurance, as
those between Madame Recamier and Madame
de Stael, Ballanche, Chateaubriand and
Amphere; friendships that bore rich fruits
of culture and refinement, that died not with
youth or health, that absence did not diminish
nor loss of fortune quench.
	Think of a woman like Mme. de Stael, who
was so jealous of her power, she disliked to
hear of her male admirers getting married,
welcoming with a lavish cordiality to her heart
and home, so formidable a rival as the fair
Juliette, and who seems never to have felt a 
jealous pang, even when she sees her former
admirers at the feet of the Enchantress.  Mme.
de Stael seemed content with her intellectual 
fame and accorded Juliette the full sway of
the empire of beauty, as she says, "because you
are eminently good, and it seems only natural 
that so sweet a soul should be expressed by so
charming a face.	*	   *	     *		*	*
Amid all your successes you are, and ever will
reamin an angel of purity and goodness."	 *

[Column 2]
*	  *	   Extract from letter to Mme. R. from
Mme. de Stael.
	Ma[-]ame Recaimer had a way of being in-
terested in everyone’s fate as though it was a 
matter of personal comfort, and people turned
to her for sympathy, as naturally as flowers to
the sun.
	At the age of forty, she took upon herself
the task of educating the little niece of M.
Recamier, a motherless girl of six summers,
and fulfilled the task with all the devotion and
earnestness of a fond mother having her al-
ways with her, and not only superintending the
child’s lessons, but directly instructing her.
Being passionately fond of music, she delighted
in teaching her niece this accomplishment,
wherever she traveled the child went also and
was indeed cared for,as though she had been her
own.  Little Amelia proved most grateful and
affectionate and loved Madame Recamier with
all the devotion of a daughter; it was in her
arms she breathed her last, and by her has she
been most sincerely lamented.
	To a woman whose whole life was given to
social obligations, the care of this child must
have been to Madame Ricamier a great sacri-
fice, but if it was so, no one was ever conscious
of it; nor in fact was any one ever allowed to
feel an obligation to her.  The sunshine of her
soul prevaded, the household over which she
presided, chasing away all gloom.
	She was not a specially brilliant woman, yet
her wit was sparkling and vivacious; and Mme.
Mohl said of her, "I never knew so entertaing
a person; no one could tell a story as she did,
she had a great sense of humor, and her own
was exceedingly delicate; but she never said an
unkind thing of anyone." Therein, I am sure,
lies the true secret of her charm, and Madame
Mohl adds, as do all her friends, "I loved Mme.
Recamier." Who could wish for a more beauti-
ful epitaph than these words of this famous
woman.  Madame Recamier’s friendship for
Chateaubriand, proved both her amiability and
powers of entertaining, for the great poet had
grown weary even of flattery, and it is said he
died not so much from disease as ennui; yet
this delicate, beautiful old blind woman never
failed to interest and amuse him, and was to
the day of his death a devoted friend.  As a 
queen of French society she swayed her social
sceptre, for full fifty years, with such bewilder-
ing grace, such rare sweetness and amiability,
a charm so potent, that her empire ended only
with her life. 
	The death of her beloved friends, Ballanche
and Chateaubriand; following each other so
closely, was a sad shock to the sensitive soul of
Madame Recamier.  Just before the death of the
former,she had submitted to a successful opera-
tion for cataract; but she wept away the newly 
recovered sight at his death bed.  The delicate
state of her health, her depression, and a great
fear she had always had of cholera, probably 
made her more susceptible to its dread influ-
ence, and when it made its appearance in Paris
in the spring of 1849, she became an easy vic-
tim expiring May the 11th after a few hours of
great agony.
	Thus ended the life of one of the most
beautiful of women possessed of a charming and
lovable character, and because her life was so
true; her friendship so inspiring, her influence
so benign, is her memory so beloved.
		Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul!
		Sweetner of life! and solder of society."
										MYSOTIS.
	Feb. 22nd 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿HOWE—ELLIOTT.

	The marriage of Miss Maud Howe, youngest
daughter of Julia Ward Howe, to Mr. John
Elliot took place at her mother’s house on
Monday evening, Feb. 7. The hall, stairway,


and parlors were decorated with festoons of
laurel, which culminated in a canopy of green
matching a background of ferns and palms,
beneath which the officiating clergyman, Rev.
James Freeman Clarke, waited for the arrival
of the bridal pair.  The company present in-
cluded only relatives and intimate friends.  A
little before 9 p.m., a quartette of male voices
began to sing some charming stanzas composed
by Mr. John S. Dwight for the occasion.  To
the sound of this sweet music, a veil of Japan-
ese work was suddenly drawn aside, and the
bride appeared, the bridegroom immediately 
joining her.  Both now walked through a tem-
poary aisle formed by a long stretch of satin
ribbon on either side, and stood fronting the
clergyman, who stood facing the company.
The bride’s dress was of cream-white satin,
draped with some very beautiful Roman gui-
pure lace, the gift of her mother.  Her hair
was dressed in classic fashion, very simply, and
over the Grecian knot at the back of the
head was fastened a veil of costly lace, histori-
cal in the family.  The service, which was
brief and simple, was followed by congratula-
tions, music and supper, and in due time the
newly-married pair departed, the orthodox
token of good will following them, to wit, a 
shower of rice and a slipper.—Boston Woman’s
Journal.

		    BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover.  The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else  to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, My Pretty Louise; I really
don't think I shall Marry; Dreaming of Home;
The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea; A year
Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I; Good Night;
One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in the Orchard; 
The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Farewell; Polly;
Whisper in the Twilight.  This is a very 
fine collection of real vocal jems, and gotten up
in very handsome style. Published in the
usual way and bought at a music store, these
32 pieces would cost you $11. 20.  We bought
a job lot of this music at a great sacrifice and as
the holidays are past, we desire to close out our
stock at once.  Will send you the entire collec-
tion well wrapped and postpaid for only 40
cts.  Send immediatelg.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


A recently published book is called “One
Hundred Distinguished Americans.”  Of the
members, but four are women, and these are 
Charlotte Cushman, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Presumably they represent Art, Politics, Phi-
lanthropy and Literature.
	Mme. Patti-Nicolini’s will, made just before
she came to America last fall, gives half of
her fortune to her husband, one-fourth to her
brother-in-law, Mr. Strakosch, and one-fourth
to found “Patti scholarships” for the benefit of
promising girl singers in the large cities where
the testator has won her laurels.  Her grave,
she directs, is to be adorned with fresh flowers
all the year round, in token of her “having
lived surrounded by blossoms.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SONNET.
	
	  BY HARRIAT E. PITCHARD.

If death should touch this weary heart to-night,
	Thus leaving some great work but half fulfilled;
	If all life’s busy wheels to-night were stilled,
Ended each task, each aspiration quite,
These tired eyes shut forever from the light,
	What then?  On some eternal, wave-kissed shore
	Would heart and soul take up their task once more,
Assume their toil with all their old-time might?
	God knows!  This earth-bound vision cannot soar
Beyond the limitations of His will.
	What matter, when life’s thrilling dream is o’er,
Though other hands our half-scored measure fill?
	What matter who the topmost notch shall score,
If at the "finis" good outrivals ill?—Selected


﻿   MY HERO.

		BY HELEN KEITH.

What signifies the outward show?
	What signifies his wealth or place?
When we the heart have learned to know,
	What do we care for form or face?
And what care we for name or creed
	That buried ages may unroll,
If under all we clearly read
	The record of a dauntless soul?

If loyal to his sense of right,
	If prompt and sure at duty’s call,
He walks, as walking in God’s sight,
	His aim the manliest aim of all;
If helpful as the sunbright day,
	If pitiful of other’s woes, 
He follows in the Master's way
   And bears a blessing where he goes;
	
If, gaining much, he loses all,
	While summer friends go coldly by,
He proves his courage by his fall,
	Resolved to win the day or die;
With hope alive, in God his trust,
	He keeps a spirit kind and true,
And rises bravely from the dust
	To fight his weary battle through;
	
If, working on through pain and loss,
	His earnest soul be not cast down,
He beareth patiently his cross
	While winning steadily his crown;
The man’s a hero! and we give
	The meed of love, which is his due,
No idle praise! but while we live
	The wreath of bay! the knot of blue!
							 —Selected.


[Column 1]
	  SPIRITUAL ARGUMENT.

	All Christians profess to believe in the words
of our Savior and the apostles, and also the
Old Testament prophets.  I would like to call
attention to their teachings as delivered by the
Holy Ghost, the spirit of truth, for our guid-
ance and edification.  The words of the Lord
to His disciples, St. Luke, vi, 20:
	"And he lifted up His eyes on His disciples
and said, Blessed are ye poor, for yours is the
kingdom of God.
	21. "Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye
shall be filled.  Blessed are ye that weep now,
for ye shall laugh.
	22. "Blessed are ye when men shall hate
you, and when they shall separate you from
their company, and shall reproach you, and
shall cast out your name as evil for the Son of
man’s sake.
	23. "Rejoice ye, in that day, and leap for
joy, for, behold, your reward is great in heaven,
for in like manner did their fathers unto the
prophets.
	26. "Woe! unto you, when all men shall
speak well of you, for so did their fathers unto
the false prophets."
	Now, do not all sects and parties raise a hue
and cry of evil against the Latter-day Saints,
that we are poor, ignorant, and despised in the

[Column 2]
eyes of the world?  If we are, we can approach
our Elder Brother, and He will save us if we
follow Him into His fold.  The Porter openeth
the door, and He commandeth us to enter not
in any other way, which we must obey, or we
shall be accounted thieves and robbers.  We
are called sinners above all others, and are
pursued night and day to punish us for criminal
acts.  They say that the prophets of old
practiced and had God’s sanction, for He said,
"I came not to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance." The last call is now made for
all to repent, everywhere, and be baptized for
the remission of sins and be buried in baptism
with Christ, that we may arise to newness of
life and lay a foundation of good works.  I
will quote from the 47th verse of the above
named chaper: "Whosoever cometh to me
and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I
will shew you to whom he is like.
	“He is like a man which built a house, and
digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock;
and when the flood arose, the stream beat
vehemently upon that house and could not
shake it, for it was founded upon a rock.
	"But he that heareth and doeth not, is like
a man that, without a foundation, built a house
upon the earth, against which the stream did
beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and
the ruin of that house was great."
	The Church of Christ was built upon revela-
tion, and this was the rock that the Savior
told Peter He would build His Church upon,
"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against
it." Paul also testifies that he was convinced of
the Gospel by revelation and not by man, and
says; "But though we or, an angel from heaven,
preach any other gospel unto you, let him be
accursed," and repeats it in the following
verse.  John, in his second epistle, testifies to
the same: "If there come any unto you and
bring not this doctrine, receive him not into
your house, neither bid him God speed, for he
that biddeth him God speed is a partaker of
his evil deeds." Here is an injunction we
must give heed to, or we cannot be saved in
the kingdom of heaven.  Among all the
masses that believe different ways, how shall
we find the true Church of Christ?  Can we
find it among the sects?  No; they deny revela-
tion.  John the Revelator was told, John i, 19:
	"Write the things which thou hast seen, and
the things which are and the things which
shall be hereafter."
	xiii, 6: "And I saw another angel fly in
the midst of heaven, having the everlasting
Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the
earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people."
	This was the same Gospel that Christ told
John and the rest of His disciples to go and
preach after His resurrection.  This was to
take place just before the fall of Babylon,
which we read in the 8th verse following.
	Dear reader, if you wish to make further
research of the true Gospel, read the last
chapters of St. Matthew and St. Mark.  The
Savior said, "He that breaketh one of the
least of these commandments, and teach men
so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of 
heaven." Paul is very plain in 1st Cor. con-
cerning the gifts in the Church, which all may
read and be informed on and edified, as the
Scriptures have no private interpretation.  Now
is the accepted time, now is the day of salva-
tion.  The Lord is not willing that any should
perish, but that all should come to repentance,
for he says, "Come unto me, all ye ends of the
earth, and be ye saved."
	But the day of the Lord will come as a
thief in the night, in the which the heavens
shall pass away with a great noise, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat; the
earth, also, and the works that are therein
shall be burned up.”

[Column 3]
	2nd Peter: "When the Son of man shall
come in His glory, and all the holy angles
with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of
His glory; and before Him shall be gathered
all nations, and He shall separate them one
from another, as a shepherd divideth His sheep
from the goats; and He shall set the sheep on
His right hand, but the goats on the left." St.
Matthew, chapter 25.  Then the Savior tells
the righteous what they have done to Him, and
those on the left hand, what they had not done
to Him.  That inasmuch as they had done it,
or had not done it to the least of His brethren,
they had not done it to Him.  Will not the
Elders of the Church of this last dispensation,
be among this number, that went hungry,
thirsty, naked, sick, in prison and a stranger
among strangers, to preach the Gospel of the
Son of God, without purse or scrip, at His
bidding?  Who will reward them and set
them at His right hand?  I say, my brethren,
yes; be comforted by these the Savior’s words:
"Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world." And you, also, my sisters, who
are called to suffer with your husbands for the
Gospel’s sake, will share this blessing with
them at the right hand of the King of kings,
for they that are sealed on earth are sealed in
heaven; and they whom God hath joined to-
gether let no man put asunder." The holy
Melchisedec Priesthood has power to bind and
to loose.  How much did our good Congress-
men understand the passage of scripture they
quoted upon the Edmunds Bill, "And they 
twain shall become one flesh." Paul to the
Ephesians,5th chapter, and members of Christ’s
Church, he was giving instructions to, and not
outsiders, says: "For we are members of
His body, of His flesh aud’ of His bones."
Could not wives become members of the man’s
body under the same head?  Read what the
next verse says: "For this cause shall a man
leave his father and mother, and shall be joined
unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
This is a great mystery, but I speak concern-
ing Christ and the Church."
	In the former chapter it reads, 4th verse:
"There is one body and one spirit, even as ye
are called in one hope of your calling;
	5. "One Lord, one faith, one baptism.
	6. "One God and Father of all, who is above
all, and through all and in you all.
	8. "Wherefore He saith, When He ascended
up on high, He led captivity captive, and gave
gifts unto men.
	11. "And He gave some, apostles; and some,
prophets; aud some, evangelists; and some, pas-
tors and teachers;
	12. "For the perfecting of the saints, for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of the
body of Christ:
	13.  "Till we all come in the unity of the
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of
God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of
the stature of the fulness of Christ:
	14. "That we henceforth be no more children,
tossed to and fro, and carried about with every
wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and
cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to
deceive."
	The Savior has not at any time returned and
changed this order of things; therefore, the
Latter-day Saints are true believers in the
word of God and in the revelations of our
Lord and Savior.  One of the ten command-
ments reads thus; "Thou shalt not bear false
witness against they neighbor." There is not a
day passes but that false witness is borne
against this people.  Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor’s house, nor his wife, nor anything
that is thy neighbors, etc.  How is it with our
liberal neighbors, do they not covet what it is                
our right to possess?  Offences must come, but
woe! unto them by whom they come.
						M. A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.
   Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
   Address all business communications to
		     PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	MARCH 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

COMMENTS.

	These are memorable times in the history of
Utah, and of the Latter-day Saints. Important
questions are about being decided by this nation
that will have their effect upon the country and
the people at large, as well as the direct bearing
they have upon the interests of a few whose pe-
culiar belief and practices have given rise to such
momentous issues. A few years hence the na-
tion will have cause to regret that such bitter
prejudices so far influenced the rulers of this
great government as to cause them to break down
some of the most essential barriers in the bulwark
of freedom and religious liberty and establish so
dangerous a precedent, thereby undermining the
whole foundation on which rests the strength and
durability of a free and grand government that has
been the pride and boast of the patriots of Ameri-
ca, for "lo these many years."
	One whe loves his country cannot help mourn-
ing over the narrowness of soul exhibited by men
who sit in high places and look down with scorn
and treat as minions those who were born free and
equal with them to every right and privilege of
this glorious heritage bequeathed by the fore-
fathers of their country, Making a test oath to be
administered to every man and treating him as
though he were a criminal is indeed an outrage.
Heretofore one was supposed to be innocent un-
til he was proven guilty, but now the case is re-
versed and men in Utah must take certain oaths
made and defined for them or they  must be ex-
cluded from the right of citizenship. Women
who have voted for seventeen years are deprived
altogether without any consideration or right of
appeal, but as sure as this law goes into effect, so
sure have the lawmakers struck another blow,
that will sap the foundations of the tree of liberty
and human rights, for although the nation has not
as yet recognized the rights of women to partici-
pate in its governmental affairs (save through their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons) yet the day
is not far distant when they will be glad to call
them to their aid to save the Constitution that they
are now wounding in its vital parts.
	It does not matter, some think, what indignities
are heaped upon the "Mormons" they deserve it
all, and harsh measures must be used to bring
them into line and make them respect the laws
made specially for thir condemnation. Is it not
self evident that they had not broken one of the
fundamental laws of the land when a law had to
be made expressly to punish them? And when
the enforcement of that law is made retro-active
what then? And how does that harmonize with the
principles of justice and equity? Has punishing
people for their religion ever accomplished the ob-
ject sought to be attained? History records no
such fact. Neither will the history now being
made in this country. The purposes of the Al-
mighty will not be thwarted, though all the gov-
ernments combine against Him. He holds the
destinies of both men and nations in His hand and

[Column 2]

He will not forsake his chosen people, though He
may suffer them to be afflicted and oppressed and
pass under the rod of chastisement that He may
prove their integrity and their valor, but in His own
due time He will make bare His arm in their de-
fense.

	There is so much transpiring every day of pub-
lic interest that it is next to impossible to record
even an item of each occurrence unless one makes
daily mention as events pass in hurried succes-
sion. Within the last two weeks there have been
almost daily dreadful  railroad casualities with
great loss of human life and the destruction
of much valuable property, murders and most
frightful accidents have been happening here and
there causing great sorrow and much fear, and the
recent tremendous earthquake in Southern Europe
with its fearful and tragical consequences com-
pletes one of the most unparalleled chapters of
horrors it is possible to conceive of. The loss of
human life and property and the hopelessness of
many who have had to suffer, homeless, destitute
and, as it were, without succor, has called out
many noble endeavors on the part of the humane
and philanthropic to aid, assist, provide for and
save from utter wretchedness the victims of this
appalling and heartrending convulsion of nature.
We realize to some extent the fulfillment of pre-
dictions by our modern prophets and leaders in
these sickening details of horrors. Some of our
leaders who have now past off this stage of action
have told the Lutter-day Saints, they would yet
grow sick to read the horrors daily recorded in the
publications of the times and turn from them be-
cause they were too soul-sickening. Those who
look over the columns of the daily dispatches now
know this is fast coming to pass. And things
seem to grow worse instead of better. There are
serious indications, of trouble among great nations,
and labor and social organized bodies are fast in-
creasing in power and strength.
	From these strongly organized forces there is
much to be feared, because of their hatred of su-
periority of influence, rank wealth and
social distinction and their utter abhorence of con-
trol. These levelers of rank and would be dis-
tributors of the wealth of nations and of peoples,
would stop at nothing in their mad 
course, were there not strong and
brave as well as cautious resistance
made to the innovations of such radicals who
have no idea of consistency or justice, and large
fortunes and hard earned means would be thus
scattered to the four winds, regardless of human
suffering, and who would be benefitted? Not the
poor, save in rare instances, temporarily. Such a
state of things means confusion, generally, and
she breaking down of the barriers that encompass
about those who are the makers and founders of
cities and manufacturies that give place and em-
ployment and protection to those who would des-
troy all the vital forces that make a nation's
strength and power.
	But God is in the tempest, the whirlwind and
the earthquake, and He suffers the elements to ac-
complish their work of swift destruction, for He
has said, "And after the testimony of my servants,"
etc., "and by the voice of thunderings, and by the
voice of lightnings, and by the voice of earth-
quakes, and great hail storms, and by the voice of
famines and pestilences," all these things have
been foretold. These judgments are not acknowl-
edged to be a part of the great programme of the
Almighty, save by the Latter-day Saints, neither
do the people understand that the nations are, as
it were, tottering on the brink of a social precipice,
that may at almost any moment give way from
some spasmodic cause and overwhelm those who
fancy themselves in perfect security, and under
the protection of the greatest and grandest of
human governments. That such an issue is at

[Column 3]

hand there are many indications, that wise men
should discern.

	The Edmunds-Tucker Bill, at this writing, still
lies harmless upon the President's table, awaiting
his signature. There is mnch querying and argu-
ing over the matter of his signature, but the
"Mormons" are making no great demonstrations
for or against this cruel bill; they trust in the same
God that delivered Daniel from the lions, and
know He is as able now to work a miracle in be-
half of His people as He was then. Should the
Edmunds-Tucker Bill become a law, and be en-
forced in this Territory, bringing the people who
settled this desert into greater bondage than they
are already suffering, it will ignominiously fail of
accomplishing what the fifty millions of people
have been asking for, because God is at the helm,
and it is His work they are fighting, and casting
men into prison and depriving them of votes or of
office, does not, and cannot destroy an eternal
principle, such as the Latter-day Saints know
celestial marriage to be.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The officers of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold a meeting next Saturday March
5th, at the residence of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson,
First Street, at one p.m. A full attendance is
desirable. The semi annual reports from all the
Primaries in the Stake are wanted by that time.
Send them to the Stake Secretary, Miss Bessie
Dean, No. 77, Peach Street, 19th Ward, that a re-
port may be prepared for the coming conference.
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Thursday March 17, 1887, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A punctual attendance of
representative officers is earnestly desired and all
those interested in this benevolent work are cor-
dially invited to be present.
	On Friday, March 18, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will hold its conference and the meetings
will commence at the same hours, viz., 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. It is time for written semi annual reports,
yet it is quite as important that presidents and
others should attend as though they were expected
to make verbal reports. It is encouraging to see
a full attendance and always adds interest to the
meetings. All interested in the improvement and
advancement of the young people should make a
point of attending these conferences and encour-
age those who labor so efficiently in these organi-
zations.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations of
this Stake will be held in the Assembly Hall on
Saturday March 19, and the several Presidents of
the respective associations in this Stake it is hoped
will make an effort to attend and have some re-
presentation from each of the associations. These
conferences ought to be a matter of interest to all
as well as to the presiding officers. It is a beauti-
ful sight to see so many children brought together
and hear their exercises, and all Latter-day Saints
desire the spiritual interest of the youth of Zion.
It is hoped there will be a large attendance from
all parts of the country.


﻿SISTER S. W. TAYLOR.

	Sister Sophia Whitaker Taylor, Wife of Presi-
dent John Taylor, expired at her residence in the
Fourteenth Ward, on Sunday, Feb. 27, 1887. The
deceased was born at Blakedown, near Kidder-
minster, Worcestershire, England, April 21st, 1825,
and was consequently nearing the close of her
62nd year. At the time the late President Young,
Presidnt Taylor and other members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles were in the mis-


sionary field in England, in 1840, she was living
with her sister in Liverpool, and those brethren
were by them hospitably entertained. In that
year she embraced the Gospel, and from that pe-
riod to the hour of her death was a consistent and
conscientious Latter-day Saint. She emigrated
to this country at an early day, and was married to
President John Taylor in 1847, at Winter Quar-
ters, after the expulsion of the Saints from Nau-
voo. She came to this valley in Pioneer year,
landing upon the site upon which Salt Lake now
stands, October 2nd, 1847. She has four sons and
two daughters.
	Sister Taylor was a most estimable woman,
modest and unassuming in her nature, her chief
interest being centered in the proper rearing of
her family. Having been with the Church in its
earlier phases, and having come to this valley be-
fore it was settled, she necessarilly had to endure
many privations of a trying nature. She bore
them all with that Christian fortitude which was a
leading feature of her character. No matter what
were the circumstances of her experience in bat-
tling in unison with her respected husband, with
the difficulties incident to the development of a
new country, no murmur of complaint ever es-
caped her lips. Her dying hours were not sol-
aced by the presence of her husband, the latter be-
ing under the ban of a mistaken and cruel policy
which deprives him of the exercise of his liberty
and drives him into exile, but her friends have the
comforting assurance that she has gone to a sphere
where she will enjoy the undisturbed peace which
is the heritage of the righteous when freed from the
toils of mortality.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FBEE LIBRARY AND READING ROOM.

	On Friday evening the first of a series of socia-
bles was held in the Fourteenth Ward, the object
of which is to obtain means for the establishment
of a free library and reading room. The party
was successful in every way, a refined and artistic
entertainment being given and the sum of forty
dollars obtained as its financial result.
	We believe the project will find favor in most
quarters. Places where our young people can
spend an evening in pleasurable society for the im-
provement of their minds, must have a beneficial
tendancy if properly conducted. There should,in
our opinion, be several of these institutions in this
city, and one at least in every populous town in
Utah. Young people by these means may be kept
from roaming the streets at night, or visiting re-
sorts where moral and intellectual culture are
farthest from thought and practice.
	We understand that the intention in this case is
to provide facilities for the youth and others of
our own people to gain useful knowledge and lit-
erary entertainment. Care will have to be taken
that the reading room is kept free from improper
attendance. Rules will have to be adopted, in the
onset, with this object in view. That which is in-
tended for good may be turned into a vehicle of
evil. But this may be said of everything designed
for the nature,use and benefit of mankind. Precau-
tions may be devised to keep the institution free
from evil and preserve it to the purposes de-
signed.
	We learn that President Taylor as Trustee in
Trust has signified his approval of the movement
in a characteristic and forcible manner, by for-
warding a hundred dollars by way of donation to
the purpose in view. He has also expressed his
opinion that "A free library and reading room
properly managed, would be a most excellent in-
stitution for the young people." The words we
have placed in italics should be particularly noticed
Gifts of books are being received from various
quarters and leading men are endorsing the move-
ment, which we believe will be carried forward to
deserved success.


﻿We hope that the Latter-day Saints of this city
and its vicinity will do all they can consistently to
aid in establishing a good and extensive library,
which will not only be for the use of the Four-
teenth Ward, where it is to be located, but for
members of the Church generally in this neighbor-
hood.—Deseret News.


[Column 1]

THEORY VS. PRACTICE.

	"Attend unto my cry;for I am brought very low: deliver me
from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.—Psalms.

	I think the situation of the Psalmist, David, was
much like our own at the present time, and if we
have profited by what we have read of God's deal-
ings with his people in all ages of the world, that
we have any history of, recorded in the Bible or
Book of Mormon, we can but see, I think, "that
we have done something that we ought not to have
done, or left undone, something that we should
have done." In other words that for our trans-
gressions God is putting it into the power of our
enemies to persecute us. I think we would do
well to leave our enemies in his hands, and turn
our attention to ourselves, and see if we are keep-
ing his commandments and those of our own
house,over whom we have control. Do we live the
lives of Saints, or are we stumbling blocks in the
way of those who are weak in the faith, who,know-
ing our profession, and seeing our works, see
that they do not correspond. It looks altogether
to me like a lack of faith in the promises of God
for us to hesitate one moment, when persecution
comes, about what course to pursue, for he has 
said, that when we serve him our enemies shall
not prevail against us. I know some will say, "Oh 
we shall always be persecuted by the wicked."
Granted, but we have the sure word of God,which
never fails, that if we serve Him they shall not
prevail against us, although they may, perhaps,
scoff at and scorn us. Instance the days of Noah
whom God commanded to build an ark, in the
which all those who would obey his voice should
escape the destruction which was preparing for
the wicked. Out of all that were then living on
the earth,only eight souls of them hearkened to his
counsel, although they derided him and laughed
him to scorn. We have no account, so far as I
know, of his enemies having the power to im-
prison, or deter him from accomplishing the work
that God intrusted him with. Are there not many,
very many of our brethren and sisters who are
suffering imprisonment and exile for the Gospel's
sake? No; for our sins, as I fully believe. Now
I think we should not waste a moment in useless
repining or denunciation of our enemies; they are
wicked and corrupt, we know very well, but none
but that kind would do as they do. Did a righte-
ous people ever persecute their fellow men? No!
but the Lord has in all ages employed the wicked
to scourge his people, when they did not serve
him and keep the commandments which he had
given them.
	Prayer is very esential for a Latter-day Saint, 
but in my estimation it is a weak Saint who does 
nothing toward living his religion, but say his
prayers. I would not give a rush for him, and I
don't believe the Lord would.
	I think that when we reduce our professions to
practice, and live the lives of whole-souled Latter-
day Saints, "love our neighbors as we do our-
selves" and do what God has required of us,
through his servants, that the love of God and
of our brethren and sisters, may abound in our
hearts, the Lord will hear and answer us when we 
pray, and Zion will be delivered from her enemies,
for I testify that He is not slow to hear the cries
of His children, when they are in the path of
duty. And I believe that if we were liv-
ing the lives of Saints honestly and
truly before our Heavenly Father,
that Congress might pass all the bills that a cor-

[Columun 2]

rupt nation could concoct, and it would not bind
one Latter-day Saint, or hinder him in the per-
formance of the duties that God has assigned him
to do.
	May he speed the day when the hypocrite
shall be separated from those who desire to
serve him and keep his commandments.
		RUTH.


NOTICE.

	Reports from the Relief Society branches of
this Stake are requested to be sent in by the 5th
of March. Address, Elizabeth Howard, 60 East,
Fourth South St., Salt Sake City.

	Relief Society Secretaries desiring blanks, will
please send directly to my address, 107, Main St.,
Salt Lake City, and save time. Stake reports are
respectfully requested to be sent in by March 20th
at the latest.
		ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D., Ass't Sec.


THE THOUGHTS OF A DAY.

	Oh, dear! oh, dear! What shall I do? When
will be the end of all this noise and confusion?
How can I think, how can I work, when I can-
not have time to think or consider my work
rationally? Let me see; this is Monday. Wash-
ing day, baking day, cooking day; everything
to be done in general. It is, "Mamma, where
is my slate?" "Where is my pencil? "School
teacher says I must have a new copy book this
morning." "What shall we take for dinner?"
"Mamma, here is a hole in my mitten." "Wife,
where is the letter I received from Jenkins
yesterday?" The letter is produced. "Hand
me pen, paper and ink, for I must answer it
immediately." "Mamma, what does c-a-n spell?"
"Can." Now my fire has gone out, and I must
kindle it again. Husband has gone to the
post office. I set down the baby, put away pen
and ink, shut the door, and then prepare for
my day's work.  I sit myself down to think a
few moments in quiet.
	As my mind reverts to the difference between
man's and woman's sphere of life, an impulse
seizes me to step outside the door to cool my
brow and fill my lungs with fresh air. As I
feel the breeze fan my face, as it speeds swiftly
by, my spirits rise, and I feel as though I
could, if released from all these family cares,
go forth into the world free and independent,
battling with the cares of this life. I could
measure arms with my brother man, enter the
halls of justice as a lawyer, represent the in-
terests of my sex in the halls of Congress, sit
upon the Presidential chair at Washington, and
decide the national affairs with as much right
and justice as President Cleveland, or I could
legislate with clearer sight and greater cunning
than polygamy Edmunds. I believe I could
be quite good natured at all times and under
all circumstances, if I were given the advan-
tages given the sterner sex.
	Well, well; I have traveled far, and find
myself upon a hill covered with rock, sage and
prickly pear. As my feet are far above the
surroundings below, my thoughts arise above
the cares of to-day. I drop down upon my
knees before a natural altar (a huge stone)
and say, "O God! my Eternal Father, the
founder of heaven and earth, Thou whom the
thunder and lightning doth obey, the Ruler of
all nations and people, wouldst Thou draw
near and listen to the petition of an erring soul.
Help me to remember that Thou didst, through
toil and care, pain and death, lay the plan of
salvation, whereby, in obedience to the same,
all the human family may again return to
Thee and dwell in everlasting felicity. Help
me to bear the cares of this life with patience
and humility; forgive my complaining this
day." Methinks I hear a still small voice say,


"Peace, O thou troubled soul; be firm and stead-
fast to the righteous cause thou hast espoused
yet a little longer, and all will be well with
thee. Honor God, thy Eternal Father; honor
those who hold His priesthood upon the earth;
honor thyself as a daughter in Zion and
mother in Israel, and live for the blessings
promised to the faithful." I arise to my feet
comforted, hurry home, embrace my children,
do my work with renewed courage, and all
goes as merry as a marriage bell.
		D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Jan. 28, 1886.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	TAYLORVILLE, WEST WEBER, WEBER CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking no report of our organization as a
Relief Society in this place has ever been pub-
lished in our woman's paper, we send you the
following notice:
	The Taylorville Relief Society in the West
Weber Ward was organized June 25th, 1886,
our Stake President, Jane S. Richards, and
her Counselors, Hattie C. Brown and Emily
Shurtliff, being present, and assisted by the
ward president, Mary Douglass, and sanctioned
by the local authorities. Officers as follows:
Sarah Hunter, President; Ann Hadley and
Mary Hanson, Counselors; Madeline Farley,
Secretary; Ann Robb, Assistant Secretary;
Sarah Walker, Treasurer. Since that time
we have humbly endeavored to build up that
portion assigned to us.
	The 9th of November last was our Presi-
dent's birthday, which was devoted to sewing
until meeting hours were over, then after
meeting was dismissed, at 5 p.m., the sisters,
with some of the brethren, assembled at Coun.
Ann Hadley's (our rendezvous) and at precisely
7 p.m. we proceeded in a body, nearly fifty in
number, to the residence of acting Bishop,
James F. Hunter, and completely and agree-
ably surprised the inmates in honor of our
President's 48th birthday, who received the
assembly with an appropriate welcome, and
after partaking of an elegant repast, the even-
ing was spent by a series of very entertaining
exercises, consisting of anecdotes, recitations,
songs in several languages, speeches, including
a short address by the Secretary in behalf of
the Society to the President, which called forth
a heartfelt, grateful response from her, followed
by Brother Hunter, who, in his appreciative
speech, motioned that minutes be taken by the
Secretary, and sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
with the address for publication, and a copy
kept on record, which was unanimously ap-
proved, closing the entertainment with a fer-
vent benediction by acting Bishop, J. F. Hun-
ter, the assemblage dispersed at precisely 12
p.m.  All attending it said it bad been the
best entertainment they had ever participated
in.

Address to our beloved President, Sarah Hun-
ter:

	We have met here this evening all actuated
by the same motive, that of extending our con-
gratulations to and appreciation of one whom
to know is to love and respect, and in whom
our confidence is centered, and we consider
this a fit time and place to express the same
by our united presence.
	Although we have but recently been organ-
ized, and labored under your guidance, we
have learned to appreciate your worth, and ex-
perience has taught us that, with congenial
associations, love, like intelligence, by proper
cultivation, expands and increases, and such
we unitedly extend you, and concede you are
the right one in the right place, and trust our
love may continue and increase, and we may

[Column 2]

still be identified intact as a Society, with you
as President, when Zion is established and the
numerical figures indicating your age are re-
versed to 84, and we meet again for the same
purpose, is the wish of your sisters of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville.
		MADELINE FARLEY, Sec.

DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the Davis Stake of Zion, held at Centerville,
January 21st, 1887, Prest. Susan Grant presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Prest. Smith. Continued by singing.
	Prest. Grant said, "I am sorry it is so dis-
agreeable a day; I presume it has prevented
many from coming out. We have Sisters E.
S. Taylor and M. W. Snow from the city here
with us; also President Smith, and we will
have a good meeting if there are but a few of
us. We will hear from the psesidents of the
branches that are here."
	Sister Muir represented West Bountiful;
Prest. Lucinda Sessions, East Bountiful; Prest.
Randall, Centerville.
	After singing, Prest. Grant made some good
remarks, and said she had not visited the
different branches of the Society before this
conference, but would have been glad to.
"When we do visit we find a good, peaceful
spirit. Joseph Smith said the Church was
not fully organized till the Relief Society was
organized. I used to think when we attended
to our household affairs we had done about
enough, but we can arrange our work so as to
attend our meetings if we have a desire to, but
I would not advise mothers to neglect their
children on any account. Our enemies are
working against us, but they will not be able
to do more than what will be for the further-
ance of God's work upon the earth; all we
have to do is to live up to our duties. I pray
the Lord to qualify us to perform them in an
acceptable way.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, "I am pleased to
meet with you to-day. We should be prepared
all the time for any event that may befall us.
The enemy are upon us, but they are in the
hands of the Lord, and so are we; the eye of
the Lord is upon us; we have got to pass through
with a great deal yet; let us strive to do all the
good we can. I feel that we have nothing to
discourage us; all is right in Zion. We should
qualify ourselves to teach our children. It is
a great care to raise a family and bring them
up right. Mothers, watch over your children
and keep them home at night. Girls should
be careful in choosing a husband; they have
the privilege of fasting and praying, that they,
may get a companion that they can look up to
and be a good father to their children, a man of
God. May we live faithful, that we may see
Zion redeemed."
	Sister Brown said, "When I meet with the
sisters I feel a union; and why should we not
be as one? for every one else is against us. My
blessing says that I will live to see the day
that all evil will be put down. President
Cleveland said he was sorry that we were not
like them, but I am sorry that we are so much
like them as we are; we are so mixed up that
we partake of their ways." Spoke upon dress,
and said she would like to live, and desired to
be one with her sisters to help bring about
righteousness. "It is our duty to act in every
capacity that we are called upon to. I ask
your prayers, that I may be able to do my
duty."
	Bishop Cheny: "I have been well paid in
being a member of this meeting, and pleased
to hear the reports. I think the sisters attend
to their meetings better than the brethren do.
Our mothers are more excusable for not attend-
ing their meetings than the fathers, for their
cares are many. We have had very good
counsel from our sisters, especially when they

[Column 3]

spoke about the children; parents will be ac-
countable for the children; parents should
practice what they preach, or it will lead to
infidelity with their children." Said how
necessary it was to thoroughly understand the
principles of the Gospel. "This persecution
should cause us to live near the Lord. Our
prayers should be short and right to the point.
We can do as much good right here at home
as to go on missions. We cannot commence
the education of a child too young; and it
would not be amiss for you sisters to give
lectures on housekeeping." Spoke of dress,
and exhorted the people to keep fast day.
	Meeting adjourned till two o'clock, with
singing and a benediction by Bishop Cheny.
	Afternoon session: Commenced with singing.
Prayer by Bro. Randal. Singing.
	Sister E. S. Taylor: "The Relief Society
was organized by Joseph Smith; he said the
Church was not fully organized without it.
Emma was called an elect lady, and you hold
the same position, and do you realize the re-
sponsibility resting upon you, and what is
required at your hands, and how you perform
your duties? If you as officers are recreant in
your duties it will not be so well with you; it
don’t matter, however, whether you are officers
or members, you have duties to perform, you
have pledged yourselves to help carry on the
Society; go with prayerful hearts; the work
you do there is for the poor; there are many
poor among us, and it is our duty to help take
care of them, and see that they have proper
care. Some are very ungrateful for the help
they receive but it is their duty to be grateful.
I don't consider it our duty to administer to
those that are not willing to help themselves.
We should not neglect our home duties; home
should be the sweetest place on earth. I thank
God that I have been associated with the
Saints. If you are faithful in your organiza-
tions you will be benefitted. Sisters, go to
your meetings, and talk about housekeeping;
have a place for everything, and everything in
its place. We have a right to go before the
Lord with our daughters; and make it a matter
of prayer when they want to select a husband;
our future happiness depends upon it. Mothers,
keep the confidence of your sons as well as
your daughters; it is a safe guard, to any son
or daughter that will make a confident of the
mother. We have been promised if we do our
duty that the Lord would gather our children
in the fold, teach them to be pure and virtuous.
I would like to speak about the minutes; it is
not necessary to have them lengthy; if there is
any particular instruction given it should be
noticed in the minutes. Spoke about sending
our children to Gentile schools. Said, "I
would rather my children did not have a par-
ticle of education more than what I could
teach them, than to have them go to them.
Give your children a spiritual education, and
they will be all right. My prayer is that we
may gain an exaltation in the kingdom of
God."
	Sister Minerva W. Snow: "I am pleased to
meet with you, though most of you are
strangers to me, but still do not seem like
strangers as long as we belong to the same
faith. I desire your faith and prayers. You
are blest in having your President here; there
are so many men that have to be away. I was
a member in the Society in Nauvoo; I heard
Brother Joseph say that every sister belonging
to the Church should have her name enrolled
in the Society. I would encourage my sisters
to come to these meetings; there are many
things that can be talked about here that can-
not be spoken of in other meetings. Teach
your daughters to be good housekeepers; be
careful and prudent; I believe we will have to
give an account for that which the Lord has
put in our hands." Spoke about being charit-
able, and the responsibility resting on mothers.


"Teach your children to pray, and if they do
go astray it will sometimes bring them back;
the impression made upon a child's mind is
lasting; there is a great deal in being obedient
to those that are placed over us. We are all
trying to build up our Father's kingdom on
the earth. I feel that I can see the hand of
Lord over us and over the world, and if we
are faithful the Lord will take us safe through;
we have got to sacrifice everything for the
Gospel, and it is worth everything. I know
that the principle of plural marriage is true;
I heard Joseph teach it; he sealed me to my
husband. Let it be the feeling of your heart
that God is at the helm. When we are old
and look back on a well spent life, what a joy
it will be. Be careful about breaking your
covenants; teach your children to have faith in
the ordinances of the Church, and not have
doctors. We want to live near the Lord every
day; we want union, power and strength, and
a firm and decided mind, that we will serve
God let what will come. May we labor faith-
ful and diligent, that we may all meet beyond
the veil."
	Prest. Smith: "I never was in a meeting
where so many points were touched upon for
benefit.  I take great satisfaction in attending
these meetings; I know this is an organization
of the kingdom of God. In regard to prayer,
there are many prayers offered at the same
time; some may think that the Lord cannot
hear them all, but through the system He has
organized, He can hear and answer prayers.
Some of the sisters spoke about making good
bread; it is very essential, also, to make good
butter. I would like to speak about the fash-
ions; I think if the presidents of the different
branches, and the leading women, would meet
together and make their own fashions and
follow them, it would be better than to follow
the Gentile fashions. I have suggested this
for the benefit of my sisters, and exercise your
influence in bringing about this desired effect.
May the Lord bless you. Amen."
	Prest. Grant: "I feel that our time has been
well spent, and hope we will treasure up what
we have heard. This matter of dress we must
meditate upon, and I hope we will be willing
to lay aside all Gentile fashions. We will now
adjourn for three months, to meet at Farming-
ton."
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Benediction by Bro. Randal.
		Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	151


OLD FOLKS’ PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Old Folks’ Party was held in the ward
meeting house, in Bloomington, Idaho, on Feb.
10th, this being the sixth meeting of the kind.
They are gotten up every year at the request
of our honored Bishop, Wm. Hulme, under
the direct management of President Green-
halgh and her Counselors.  Tables were spread
to accomodate about one hundred persons, who
seemed to enjoy and do ample justice to the
viands which were spread before them.  This
year we were honored by the Presidency of the
Stake; the Presidency of the Relief Society
was also represented by the Counselors and
Treasurer of the Stake.
     After the tables were cleared and removed,
the Bishop called the brethren and sisters to
order, and meeting opened by singing and
prayer, after which songs, recitations, and
speeches were made by some of the brethren
and sisters present, who spoke in an encourag-
ing and instructive manner.
     At lamplight there was an intermission of
twenty minutes, when all that desired were
conveyed to their homes.  Then dancing com-
menced, and was continued until about ten
o’clock, when all retired to their homes, with


love and good wishes for each other in their
hearts.
     May God help the old folks, and permit
them to meet together often, is my worst wish.
Respectfully,
E. C. PIGGOTT, Sec.


ITEMS FROM VERMILLION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
     Seeing a request in the EXPONENT for the
sisters of the different wards and organizations
to write to our paper, I thought I would write
a few items about our small ward here in Ver-
million.
     Although few in number, the majority of
the people are trying to live their religion as
well as they know how.  Our Sabbath School
and meetings are pretty well attended.  Our
Relief Society is prospering, and the sisters all
feel well in the Gospel, and willing and ready 
to do whatever called upon by our worthy
President, Rebecca Nebeker.  Our Y. M. and 
Y. L. Mutual Improvement and Primary Asso-
ciations are progressing nicely under the man-
agement of their respective presidents.  We
have a few that seem to be a little slow as to
the signs of the times, but the majority are a
God-fearing community.   We have every rea-
son to rejoice and be good Latter-day Saints.
We have not been called to pass through many
of the trials that some of our brethren and
sisters have, but now the enemy is in our
path; how many homes will be made desolate
is hard to say.
     Before closing I will say, myself and a few
others, on the first day of this month, met at
the residence of our President to surprise not
only her, but her worthy husband, Henry
Nebeker, it being the sixty-ninth anniversary
of his birth.  After partaking of a bounteous
repast, we spent the afternoon in social chat.
    Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, and
that we may all be prepared to say to our
Father in heaven, “Thy will be done in all
things,” I remain,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
	VIOLET IVIE, Sec. R. S.
   Vermillion, Sevier Co., Feb. 15, 1887.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest  art  work  among  ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc.  It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating.  It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities.  To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00.  The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	
	Mrs. Richard Jesse is dead at Margate,
England.  Her maiden name was Emily Tenny-
son, and she was engaged to be married to
Arthur Henry Hallam, whose death prompted
Alfred Tennyson to write “In Memoriam.”
	The Municipal Woman Suffrage Bill, which
passed the Kansas Senate a few days ago by a


vote of 25 to 13, passed the House, Feb. 10,
by a vote of 90 to 22.  Three cheers for Kansas!
She leads the way.  Sooner or later every other
State will follow.—Ex.

     Georgianna Bruce Kirby, wife of R. C.
Kirby, leather manufacturer, died at her home
in Santa Cruz, California, Jan 27th, 1887.  She
was in early times a member of the celebrated
Brookfarm community in Massachusetts and
prominently connected with the anti-slavery
movement.  She was the author of "Brookfarm
Papers," "Years of Experience," and also a
contributor to magazines and newspapers.  She
has resided there for over thirty years.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Anna Hallowell has received the honor
of an appointment to the Philadelphia Board
of Education.
	Mrs. Richard H. Dana and Mrs. Annie
Thorpe, daughters of the poet Longfellow, in-
tend soon to build a double house in Cambridge
for their own residence.
	Miss Mary Johnston (Marie Decca) was re-
cently presented by a group of her admirers
in Paris with a robe in cloth of silver, former-
ly the property of Queen Louisa of Prussia.
	Mrs. Mary Nash Agnew, the wife of Dr. C.
R. Agnew, the oculist, and Miss Grace H.
Dodge, have been appointed commissioners of
common schools in New York City, to hold
 office for three years from January 1st, 1887.
	Mrs. Henry Wood, author of “East Lynn,”
and about twenty other novels, and editor of
the Argosy, is dead.  Her maiden name was
Ellen Price.  Her first novel, published in
England in 1860, gained the $500 prize offered
the Scottish Temperance League.
	Mrs. Horace Mann, who has just died, was
a sister of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s wife and of
Miss Elizabeth Peabody.  She wrote a life of
her husband, and a little book on “Christianity
in the Kitchen,” as well as articles for various
periodicals.  She was warmly interested in
education.
	The Empress Augusta presents every woman
servant in Prussia who completes her fortieth
year of unbroken service in one family, with a
gold cross and diploma, bearing the imperial
autograph signature.  During the past eight
years she has thus honored one thousand, one
hundred and fifty-six servants.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapolis
Saturday Herald, ably and caustically reviews
Mrs. E. Lynn Linton’s argument against the
higher education and says: “If one is seeking
the causes of the numerical decrease and the
physical degeneration of American families,
let him not look to the fractional one per cent
of college-bred women, but to the eighty-eight
per cent of tobacco-chewing, cigarette-smoking
men.  The dwarling, devitalizing effects of to-
bacco being removed, it will be time enough to
consider to what degree the higher education
is reducing the numbers and enfeebling the ca-
pacity of the Anglo-Saxon stock.”


Sometimes the “heaviest wheat of all” may
spring up from seeds dropped in an accidental
way.  What a motive to the maintenance of
personal holiness!  The accidental is a shadow
of the intentional.  Influence is the exhalation
of character.—W. M. Taylor.
	In the service of God the alteration of an
ordinance of Christ may seem to be a pure
matter of indifference, and yet in that altera-
tion there may be the taking away of the very
vitals of the ordinance, and the total destruc-
tion of its meaning.—Spurgeon.


152
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


What we all fall in love with as a race, is in
most cases efficiency and ability. What we
fall in love with individually is, I believe, our
moral, mental and physical complement. Not
our like, not our counterpart; quite the con-
trary; within healthy limits, our unlike and
our opposite,—Grant Allen.


Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Jan. 4, 1887, as follows:
	Julia D. Bonfield, Boston, Mass., Garment-
supporter.
	Emily Brooke, Brooklyn, N. Y. Fitting Gar-
ment.
	Annie E. Irwin, Memphis, Tenn., Kitchen-
cabinet.
	Caroline Schulte, Port Huron, Mich., Fire-
escape.
	Mary J. Spencer, Brooklyn, N. Y., Scholar’s
Companion.

	Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Jan. 18, 1887, as follows:
	Martha C. Buck, Ogden, Mich., Wire dust-
whip.
	Caroline Drake, Aron, Ill., Hospital bed-
stead attachment.
	Sarah A. Perry, Ripley, Ohio, Pencil drawer
for school desks.
	Fanny B. Shannon, Denver, Col., Device
for teaching fractions.
	Eliza A. Leny, Memononee, Wisconsin, Cor-
set.
	Kate V. Waterhouse, Detroit, Mich., Glove-
protector.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of great sorrow that we record the
death of our dear sister, Josephine, beloved daughter of
Neils M, and Mattie C. Peterson.  She was born Feb 15,
1869, and died Dec. 19, 1886.  She was counselor in the 
First Ward Primary Association of Richfield, Sevier Co.
Her great ambition was to gain knowledge, and during
her sickness, which lasted nine days, she bore a faithful
testimony several times to this being the true Church of
Jesus Christ.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Father in heaven has seen fit to call our
dear sister, Josephine, from this probation, be it
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers in the cause of truth,
cherish her memory and emulate her good example.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with her be-
reaved family in the loss of a loving sister and daughter.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be presented
to her parents, that one be sent to the EXPONENT for pub-
lication, and that one be placed on the records of this Asso-
ciation,	R.H.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co, U. T., Jan. 10th, 1887,
Rosella Ann Nelson, wife of John A. Nelson, and daughter
of George and Fanny Roys Seamons, born at Farmington,
Davis Co., May 19, 1863; moved to Hyde Park with her
parents in 1866; baptized June 11th, 1871, by Elder Robert
Daines.  Has lived in Hyde Park during her short life,
with but a few months' exception.  She was a good wife
and mother, and beloved by all who knew her.  She has
left a husband, three children and a large number of
friends to mourn her loss.  She died as she lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and is looking forward to a glorious resur-
rection with those who have gone before.

Yes, dear sister, thou hast left us,
But why count we thy absence loss?
Most precious deeds thou hast engrafted—
The Master pays well for the cost.

Oh! thy deeds were truly noble,
Yet thy presence we shall miss;
But we know if we are faithful
We shall meet in realms of bliss.
	COM.

[Column 2]
	DIED, at Egin Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan. 11th, 1887,
Mary Sophia Smith, daughter of Samuel and Cecelia Pros-
sen Smith, aged sixteen years, one month and five days.

	The following Resolutions of Respect were adopted by
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Parker Ward:
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst our beloved sister and co-worker, M Sophia
Smith,
	Resolved, That we, as officers and members of the Y. L. 
M. I. A., do fondly cherish and respect her memory.  We
feel that it is the will of the great Omnipotent that she has
been called hence to a brighter sphere of action.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and especially with the stricken and widowed
mother.  While we deplore her loss, we feel to bow in
humble submission to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be entered
on the record; also a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and one to the EXPONENT for publication.
	MARY J. MILLER, Prest.,
	EMELINE WINEGAR, Coun.
Parker Ward, Egin, Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan 29, 1887.

	DIED, at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, Feb. 9, 1887, of
child birth, Elizabeth Lydia Truscott Sant, daughter of 
John and Sarah Ann Truscott, born Dec. 8, 1864, at Mt.
Pleassnt, Sanpete Co, Utah. She was married to Thomas
Sant on the 10th of Oct., 1881. She leaves a husband and
three small children, one an infant two hours old, to mourn
her loss.  She died as she lived, a faithful Saint, beloved
by all who knew her.  We have lost a true friend and sister,
her husband has lost a kind and faithful wife, and her child-
ren a loving mother.  We sympathize with the bereaved
family in their loss, and hope we with them may meet her
in the morning of the first resurrection, where there is no
parting.

Cease, ye fond husband, cease to weep,
Let grief no more your bosom swell;
For what is death? ’Tis nature’s sleep,
The trump of God will break its spell;
For He, whose arm is strong to save,
Arose in triumph o'er the grave.

Why should you sorrow? death is sweet
To those that die in Jesus' love;
Though called to part we soon shall meet
In holier, happier climes above;
For all the faithful Christ will save,
And crown with victory o'er the grave.
	JANE M. HOWELL, Prest.,
	D. E. DUDLEY, Sec.

	DIED, at Springville, Apache Co, Arizona, Dec. 15,
1886, of lung fever, Emily Jane Smith Burk.  She was a 
faithful Latter-day Saint, beloved and respected by all who
had the pleasure of her acquaintance.  She was a widow,
and leaves a large family of children, all of whom are
married, except a deaf mute, who is inconsolable at her
loss. 

She never swerved from duty's path,
Nor faltered by the way,
But always strove with might and mind
God's precepts to obey.

Her tired body's lain to rest,
Her spirit bright has gone
To join her husband, and await
The resurrection morn.

     The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society of Union Ward, of which she was a
member and former president:

     It having pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our
midst Sister Emily J. Burk, who was a faithful member of
our Society, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved family, and we pray God to comfort them in their
affliction, and enable them to live faithful, that they may
meet her, and their father, also, in their happy home, where
parting will be known no more.
     Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
minutes of the meeting, a copy of the same be presented
to her family, and one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
	M. E. MARBLE, President;
	MARTHA BIGELOW,
	LYDIA TAYLOR, Counselors.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS; WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 	
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.  
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES.
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1887.	No. 20.


[For the Exponent.]
UNDER THE APPLE TREES.

My love, this orchard shade is full
Of breathing thoughts of thee;
'Neath every overreaching bough
Thy face I almost see.
'Twas here we met and sweetly talked,
'Twas here we came and gladly walked,
In the shade of these apple trees.

Thy footstep seemeth still to fall
Upon my listening ear;
That same dear voice my name to call,
I almost, almost hear.
O throbbing heart, one moment still;
Cease, breeze, my eager ears to fill
By rustling these apple trees.

Thy welcome presence liveth near,
Just only out of reach;
I catch, inaudible, but clear,
The spirit of thy speech;
I stand beside thee once again,
Apart from sorrow, fear or pain,
As I lean on this apple tree.

The whispering leaves to me repeat
The precious words you said;
The hopes we cherished, pure and sweet,
Their olden radiance shed;
And happy memories wake and smile,
As here I rest a little while
In the arms of this apple tree.

I know the angels hovered near
This Eden bower of rest,
And smiled, and lowly bent to hear
The holy thoughts expressed,
And treasured them, my king, my love,
To place on record bright above,
As we talked ’neath these apple trees.

I know, whatever may betide
In this world dim and low,
Our souls shall yet be satisfied
With love like a river’s flow;
And so good night, my love, till when
Elsewhere or here we meet again.
Good night, ye dear apple trees.

	LUELLE


MRS. HEMANS AND MRS. BROWNING.

Dear friends, for so I hold ye here, in high and holy
	thought,
How do I love to soar afar to heav'n on your bright
	wings!
Mine own fall dull and heavily, but your sweet songs have
	brought
Unto a faltering, struggling heart a glimpse of lovelier
	things.
How dare I say I love ye, when I fear from your high
	places
Ye might smile, as half in scorn, at a mortal's vanity.
Still I love ye, love ye truly, thanking heaven for your
	graces,
Sent to gladden earth with flowers, breathing heaven's
	own purity.
Flow'rs immortal have ye scattered, planted deep in fertile
	soil;
Error deep have ye combated, truth and love reward your
	toil;
Truth and Love have been your watchword, wreathed in
	flow'rs of chastest dyes;
In your paths there springs a gladness; round your names a
	glory lies.


Woman's joys—how well ye tell them; woman’s griefs, how 
	well ye know!
Woman’s wrongs, how ye repel them, by the light of
	truth ye throw.
Childhood's sweetness—how beneath your artist pens its
	bright hues shine;
Human life and human loving—how ye make it all divine!

How ye soar on wings of glory, how ye play on harps of
	gold!
How entrancing is your story, how divinely is it told!
Joy it were to sit a listener, lowly, meekly at your feet,
But for one short hour, in breathing from your lips the 
music sweet.

Dear Felicia, child of sorrow, child of love and purity!
How in  days of girlish dreaming was my soul enwrapped
	in thee.
Type of all things sweet and tender, bright and pure thy
	high verse seemed.
Still meeting thee in heaven with the glad my spirit
	dreamed.

Yet how could I?  I who never can attain to thine high
	place,
How could I so poor, unworthy, lacking all thy glorious
	grace,
Think to meet thee and to win thee for a friend by might
	of love,
In a sphere where I shall only find how far thou art above?

Still, let me go on dreaming, though the dream may be
	illusive,
That in heaven I shall meet thee and shall clasp thine
	hand in mine,
And the love-light in mine eyes shall beam so bright that
	no delusive
Words could tell thee aught but that on earth my love
	was truly thine.

Then, dear friend, I thall be satisfied, for well I know that
	heaven 
Is more merciful and kind, more full of love than earth
	can be;
And though I never may be great, the light which God
	hath given
May light my path enough to find the heav’n that shelters
	thee.
	RUBY LAMONT.
Glenwood, Utah, March 6, 1887.


A GOLDEN WEDDING.

	How these words awaken a train of thoughts,
and stir the emotions of the soul. "Fifty years
ago" the wedding bells rang, and the solemn
words, "until death doth part," were pro-
nounced. How bright the future seemed to
those young hearts! and yet were they only
joined for this life? For a time, perhaps, they
thought so; but when the glorious principles
of truth were unfolded to their honest hearts,
a second time they stood before the altar. O,
how beautiful the words sounded! "for time
and all eternity."
	But I wished to tell you of a pleasant, social
party we had in celebrating a golden wedding
in our little town of Glenwood, the first, I be-
lieve, that ever occurred here.
	On the 26th of February, 1887, the family
and friends of Brother and Sister Powell, more
familiarly  known as Grandpa and Grandma
Powell. We were invited to supper at 6 p.m.,
at the residence of Brother E. Payne's. As
we entered the room, what a beautiful sight
met our eyes, not only were the tables groaning
with delicacies, but a towering wedding cake
was placed in the centre of the table, the top
decorated with wax orange blossoms, and a
motto, "God bless the aged pair," encircled


around them. Soon the bride and groom
arrived, somewhat surprised. After hearty
congratulations, we were seated, the stalwart,
healthy sons and daughters placed near and
around them. How their hearts must have re-
joiced to think they all were faithful to the
everlasting Gospel. The whispered, "Father,
mother," by the eldest daughter, "we have
made you a few presents,” mentioning them
one by one, “and here is a small wedding cake
sent you by a young sister." The grateful ac-
knowledgments, and "God bless you all!"
caused a tear of love to fill each eye.
	After supper it was announced that we
should adjourn to the large Co-op Hall, where
all the adults, young men and maidens of the
town were gathered to do honor to the occasion.
Many hand-shakings and good wishes were
offered the bride and groom. Dancing was in-
dulged in until ten o'clock, when the large
wedding cake was brought in, placed upon a
stand in the centre of the hall, and the aged
pair seated beside it.
	After remarks by Bro. A. Heppler, who
spoke of their many good works and faithful-
ness, which had endeared them to all present,
a company of young ladies sang, "Will you
love me when I'm old?" The cake was then
distributed to about one hundred and sixty-five
persons. While passing it, "Dear heart, we're 
growing old," was sung, and as we watched the
tears glisten in the eyes of the aged pair, we
felt that their thoughts were of long, long ago.
Dancing was again resumed, and the young
and old danced together. Every face bespoke
joy and happiness; care and the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill were forgotten, for God's people
know in whom they trust. At 12 p.m. we dis-
persed, feeling that it was a time long to be
remembered.
				LOUISANNA HEPPLER.


WORKING WOMEN.

	There are in the United States 2,647,157
women who earn their own living.
	Of this number 2,242,252 are classed in the
following occupations: laborers, mainly agricul-
tural, mill operatives, seamstresses, domestic
servants, and teachers--with the exception of
the last the most menial and worst paid of em-
ployments. In any of these industries it would 
be a low estimate to say that the supply of 
workwomen is ten times greater than the de-
mand. This statement will be amply corrob-
orated by the experience of any establishment
which employs women in large numbers, or by
the personal experience of any one who seeks
the services of a workwoman in any of these
capacities.
	Thus we find a social condition, which, while
obliging nearly 3,000,000 women to depend  up-
on their own exertions for a livelihood, offers
them a field of labor so circumscribed as to
afford employment for not more than one-
tenth of the number. Enormous overcrowd-
ing, fierce competition, and a consequent un-
due pressure upon wages must necessarily fol-
low such a state of things.
	The five industries mentioned contain the 
following number of women: laborers, 600,080;
mill operatives, 152,163; domestic servants,
938,910; seamstresses, 334,026; teachers, 154,-
375	Those classed as laborers are chiefly
found in the Southern States, and include, of
course, a large number of negro women, al-
though the sight of white women working in


[Column 1]
﻿the fields is a familiar one to the traveler, es-
pecially in the States of Tennessee and Ken-
tucky.  Thousands of women are also employed
as porters and laborers in stores and ware-
houses in the large cities of the North.
	The number of women given as mill opera-
tives, includes only those engaged in textile
manufactures, but the number engaged in
other manufactories would greatly swell these
figures.  Twenty years ago, there were not 300
women employed in cigar manufacture; to-day
there are 19,884 in the tobacco industries, and
the number is rapidly increasing.  The trade
of cigar-making is injurious to men, but fear-
ful in its effects upon the health of women and
children.
	Twenty-one thousand and seven women are
employed as boot and shoe makers.  In this 
industry they do the binding, sewing-on of but-
tons, etc., which is paid by the piece and very
poorly.  In all these manufacturing pursuits
women are restricted to the meaner sort of work,
and rarely rise to positions of trust, skill, or 
management.  The chief requirement of their
work is a certain manual dexterity, which is as
easily acquired by a child as a women, conse-
quently the wages and qualifications of the
woman are kept at the level of those of a child.
Under this system, factory women must re-
main in the lowest grade of employment; the
experience and trustworthiness of maturer years
are of no use in bettering their condition. It
is, therefore, not strange that we find so many
factory women wanting in that intelligence,
energy, and spirit which accompany a sense of
responsibility and trust.
	Nothing is more effectual in producing ab-
jectness of character and deadening the moral
and intellectual nature  than  a mean, servile 
condition which holds out no hope of change
or improvement, and in which the compensa-
tion is insufficient to afford the means of a com-
fortable living.
	We may well argue a prevailing state of
public ignorance regarding the evils of work-
ing women's condition, when one of the daily 
papers of this city uses, as an argument in fa-
vor of their present position in industry, the fact
that 45 per cent. of the employes in numerous
manufacturing enterprises are women.  The
beasts of burden, or the steam which furnishes
the motive power, are as much a factor in the
exercise of any intelligent, thinking purpose
as the women employed in these industries.
And although the number of women in these
pursuits should be doubled, filling the places
in them they now do, the evil would only be
increased and intensified.
	Trade unions have become a recognized
power in determining, in great measure, the
hours and wages of workingmen.  By means
of thorough organization they now form a
large and powerful class, whose claims are met
with respectful consideration by employers.
But this protest of labor against oppression of
all sorts is practically unavailable to women.
As an eminent English writer says: “The strikes
of workingmen are feared; those of working-
women laughed at.” This fact is recognized
by the employer, who well knows that he can
buy his labor cheaper from unorganized than
from organized labor.
	Carroll D. Wright, U. S. Com. of labor,
makes the following strong statement on the
condition of women in the cotton mills: “What
are these women but the very weakest and most 
dependent of all the people? They have no dis-
position to agitate.  All that is possible to
them is to toil, scrimp, and bear.  Now for
men, the strong, those who bear rule, the
sovereigns of the land, the hours of labor are
but ten all over the country in about every em-
ployment where they preponderate.  But
where the women and children preponderate
the hours of labor, as a rule, are eleven or more.
And the question is, why is it, in this land,
which aims at equality and justice, that the

[Column 2]
weakest, the most helpless and dependent, are
loaded with the more hours, while the strong,
the able-to-bear, and the controlling ones have
the less hours to work?”
	Many noble societies, even in this city, have
been founded for the amelioration of the con-
dition of factory operatives, but these do not
reach the cause of the evil   It is justice, not
charity, these women want from society.  The
even-handed goddess is the only reformer that
can reach the root of these and many other
social wrongs.  The woman who affects the
promotion of one capable factory woman to a
position of trust and management, has done
more to elevate and give encouragement to the
whole class than would she, who should organ-
ize a score of dilettante charities for their
benefit.
	The trades dependent upon the needle form
a history of human misery unequaled by the
industrial condition of any working class the
world has ever seen.  Is not Hood’s song of the
shirt so pitiful in that it is so true?  Here, too,
women suffer from the same want of organiza-
tion, the same eager competition born of over-
crowding, the same low wages that mark the
other leading occupations.  It is true that the
best of skilled labor commands good wages and
the fashionable dressmakers often acquire a
competency, but these are but a handful com-
pared to the vast army of needle-women who
work for a mere pittance.   The influences
which tend to depress woman’s industrial
condition bear the most fearful significance in
the lower grades of its workers,—the sewing
woman who makes a heavy pair of working
pantaloons for seven cents, and by working con-
tinuously at the machine can make ten pairs
in a day of from 12 to 15 hours.  Provided
no time is lost, their average weekly wages are
$3.80, but to reach even this sum they are
obliged to work seven full days, only occa-
sionally taking Sunday afternoon for a holiday.
The condition of the shirt makers is still worse;
they receive but 6 to 8 cents apiece, and can
earn only from 30 to 50 cents a day.  Vests
are made for 3 to 6 cents apiece.  Miserable
attics and cellars form the only homes of
these women, and their tenure even of these is
precarious, depending upon the uncertain for-
tunes of an employment in which, owing to
the enormous overcrowding, the most frivolous
reason serves as a pretext for a dismissal.  Such
a woman’s food is insufficient and unwholesome,
her clothing of the meanest description, and
if she have a best dress for Sundays or holi-
days it is often in the pawn shop to meet the
exorbitant rent she is obliged to pay for even
her wretched tenement.  A cloak maker, who,
with a friend occupies two rooms on the top
floor of a large tenement house on the East
Side, states that they never have a warm meal
or meat except for their Sunday dinner.  The
remainder of the week they subsist on bread
and tea or milk.  She also added that they
were better off than many other sewing women.
And yet it is work demanding experience, skill,
and taste in its higher departments and require-
ing neatness, deftness of hand, and care in all.
Its products are among those most in demand;
the garments of the women and children of
the wealthy classes are marvels of beauty and
workmanship, while the changing dictates of
fashion require the constant services of the
sewing women.  The question naturally arises,
Why then are the wages of seamstresses so
shamefully low and the struggle for existence
so tragic for them?  It must be obvious to the
most superficial observer that, even with the
present excess of supply over demand in this
branch of work, thorough organization could
effect much in raising the wages of needle-
women.  But here the greed of monopoly is
limited by no restrictions or resistance.  The
poor sewing woman, isolated in the midst of a
great city, falls an easy prey to this gigantic
evil of modern society.  The multiplication of

[Column 3]
stores of ready-made clothing means an in-
crease of the system which allows the manu-
facturer to grind down the wages of “slop work”
to the pittance which merely enables the sewing
woman to exist,—to live in any sense that im-
plies a rational existence she does not.  To
these women even the lowest wages of the
workman would mean riches and abundance.
And yet it is the man who complains the most
loudly and effectually. Michelet says that the
workman needs so many more things than the
workwoman, that one could say of them
what is said of the English and Irish labor-
ers, “The Irishman when he is hungry asks
only for potatoes; but the hungry Englishman
demands meat,  sugar,  tea,  and above all
beer.”
	The position of domestic servant possesses
many advantages over the condition of a fac-
tory or sewing woman both by the increased
comfort and cleanliness of its surroundings and
its better compensation.  But in no other em-
ployment do we hear more bitter complaints of
inefficiency.  This is almost wholly due to the fact
that, in the city, domestic servants are mostly
drawn from the tenement-house districts or the
newly landed immigrants from Castle Garden,
who, without previous training, are expected
to perform skillfully the complicated duties of
a modern household.  With the best inten-
tioned, proficiency is only gained by many
failures and long experience, while the more
thriftless  and  careless   go  to  swell   the
ranks of inefficient servants who, being always
in search of a place, serve to keep wages at the
lowest rates.  But if girls were trained for do-
mestic servants as boys are trained to become
carpenters and masons, the work would
speedily command the consideration and wages
that other skilled labor does in the market.
	Upon women possessing wealth, leisure, and
influence, must the evils of the present state
of domestic service chiefly rest, since they have
it in their power, not only to provide them-
selves with skilled servants by organizing and
encouraging schools of cookery and other
branches of domestic economy, but of becom-
ing benefactors to thousands of their own sex
by raising domestic service to the rank of a
skilled employment.	
	And yet to enter domestic service is one of
the most common remedies proposed for bet-
tering the condition of working women.  Do
the advocates of domestic service ever stop to
consider that it is one of the employments
open to women which is already crowded to its
utmost capacity, and that to precipitate any
more untrained women into a field of labor
which does not afford any adequate means of
training for those already there would be a
most disastrous remedy for the evils which now
prevail?  Nearly a million women are filling
the position of domestic servants, and yet the
intelligence offices are crowded and every ad-
vertisment brings scores of applicants.  It is
better servants that are needed, not greater
numbers.   Another  evil  in  the  working
woman’s condition arises from the fact that
however hard she may work she cannot, at
the present rate of wages in the occupations
fully open to her, hope to save money.  It is
with the greatest difficulty she can provide for
the immediate wants of the present; thus all
openings which require the smallest amount of
capital are closed to her.  A man, starting at
the lowest round of the industrial ladder, can,
by habits of steady industry, thrift, and econo-
my, rise to the highest position in his trade or
profession, can look forward to the pleasures
of a comfortable home, of educating his chil-
dren, and enjoying a competency in his old
age.  But for the working woman there exists
no such plans or hopes.  The hopelessness of
her condition is one of its saddest features.—
North American Reviiw.
					      IDA M. VAN ETTEN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LINES

SPOKEN IN THE GIFT OF TONGUES, BY SISTER CLARA
H. JAMES, AT THE Y. L. M. I. A. CONFERENCE,
SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 10TH, 1886.

	Trembling and faint, in voice and hand,
		Poor mortals we, so weak and frail!
	Yet by our Father's grace we stand—
		All power is His, we will not fail.

	We will not fail, if by His word
		We live and walk the narrow way,
	And heed the teachings we have heard
		Of truth and wisdom here to-day.

	No selfish aim, or worldly pride
		Must claim our thoughts or win our hearts;
	The lowly Jesus is our guide,
		What peace and trust His love imparts.

	Though hard and heavy oft the road,
		Yet patiently we must endure;
	Great are the promises bestowed,
		And God is Truth, His word is sure.

	That law 'gainst which the nations fight—
		Polygamy, so named of men—
	Will live, for it is true and right!
		Though trampled, crushed, 'twill rise again.

	The word of wisdom was revealed
		For a grand purpose, and to be
	To us a strength, a guide and shield—
		Let us sustain it and be free.

	Oh! blessings on this humble group
		Of sisters, pure in heart and true!
	The King of heaven doth kindly stoop
		To own and bless each one of you.

	He looks upon the labors done,
		So small, we think, of little weight,
	And yet He smiles upon each one,
		And counts her portion rich and great.

	Father, to Thee, eternal praise!
		be merciful, our sins forgive!
	And teach us in Thine own sweet ways,
		That charity by which we live.

	Inspire our thoughts, direct our speech,
		Lead us by Thine own hand, and then
	No powers of darkness can o'er-reach;
		Praise God forever more. Amen!

   Interpretation given by Sister Rida Taylor; arranged and 
written by L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
WASHINGTON LETTER.
	Before this reaches its destination the tele-
graph will have notified you what disposition
the President has made of the Utah, or anti-
Mormon bill. It has now been in his hands
for six days, and the wisest men are as unpos-
sessed of knowledge as babes, as to the disposi-
tion that will be made of it by him. The fact
that he is so long in returning it challenges the
confidence of those who have persistently as-
serted that he would sign the bill upon its pre-
sentation to him. It must be remembered that
the hands of the President are full, so full that
it is almost impossible for him to give as close
attention presumably as he could wish many
measures presented for his approval.
	The delay in the return of the Utah bill to
the House, even if he signed, gives justification
for one favorable inference—that his mind was
not made up on the question. The statement
has been made again and again in certain
papers in your vicinity that the President
would assuredly sign the measure if it came to
him, and that without delay. I have noticed
a disposition on the part of your public to
place some faith in the reports thus sent from
here. So far as I have had opportunity of
judging, these reports could not be more unreli-
able, and it is a matter of surprise that any
credence whatever is given them. The history
of legislation of interest to your people during

[Column 2]
this session must have demonstrated this fact
beyond a doubt.
	The President does not commit himself be-
forehand on any question, and his delay in re-
turning the anti-Mormon bill is unmistakable
proof that he deems its provisions of sufficient
importance to be carefully scanned. That it is
constitutional in all its details is gravely and
seriously questioned by many whose opinions
will and must command respect among the
most profound lawyers, and in several details,
some, it may be, practically unimportant to
your people, there seems little doubt that it is
constitutionally wrong and fundamentally
wrong and fundamentally bad. If President
Cleveland shall come to the conclusion that it
trenches on established principles, there is not
the shadow of a doubt that he will veto it. His
courage no one questions. And while all is
uncertainty, there seems to be a growing opin-
ion that he will refuse to sign it. This is
evinced by an occurrence in the House the
other day. A report had been started to the
effect that the bill had been vetoed, and the
statement ran through the House almost like
wildfire, and occasioned a great deal of com-
ment. Many of the members familiar with
the details of the bill do not hesitate to declare
that it ought to be vetoed, I think it might
be predicted with safety that if the bill shall
be vetoed, it will not be passed over his head,
and I almost feel like predicting that the Presi-
dent will return it unsigned.
	Whether, however, this feeling arises be-
cause of an earnest belief that it is inexcusably
bad legislation and a desire that it should be
condemned by the President, or because of a
solid reason, had better be left unexplained.
We are, the best of us, too apt to reason from
our prejudices rather than to them It looks
almost childish to suppose any man to stem so
wild a current as that which runs against all
things that bear the impress of "Mormonism,"
but Cleveland is a brave and honest man and
has already done things fully as surprising as
such an act would be.
	The Leagues in Utah do not want him to
sign it. Even if the redistricting and reap-
portionment of the Territory shall put power
into their hands it will not put all, and it is all
or nothing they want. Nor do they want the
bill even if every Mormon shall be excluded
by the test oath. I have been told that a
gentleman, Roberts by name, in Salt Lake,
and others who are citizens and Liberals, have
declared they did not want the elective even if
the Mormons were to a man shut out from the 
polls, the reason being that the men in the
mining camps would elect whom they chose
and the Leaguers, who have foisted themselves
to the front, would be cut out. If they do not
have the absolute control of the Territorial
taxes, treasuries and offices by a power which
is irresponsible and not amenable to the people,
if they, in other words are to depend upon the
suffrages of those who can vote, this gentleman,
Roberts and others, I am informed, have de-
clared they had a "d——sight rather the
Mormons continued to hold power." They
complain of the one-man power of Utah; they
go to the country and raise a storm against it
in behalf of the powerless miners of that
Territory, and in their bitter hearts and craven
minds they damn the possible approach of an
era that will see realized all for which they
cried so long and with such lusty lungs and
with such successful results. A reformer in
this age is a peculiar animal. He doesn't like
one man power because it is not the power of
his creation. With all appointive power in
the hands of a Governor, who hails from a
State that witnesses within its borders more
lawlessness in one week than has occurred in
Utah almost in its history, with these men who
are so anxious for the liberation of poor sinners
and enthralled Mormons, all would be well.

[Column 3]
But when it comes to dispelling Mormon en-
thrallment by placing in all and mighty power
the "honest miner" who contributes his fifty
cents a month to the fund which was inaugura-
ted that certain men might become the masters
of these very miners, who might enslave them,
the League leaders prefer "a—sight" that the
Mormons continue in control. There, reformers!
Bah! No young man with sense enough to 
keep out of an insane asylum would ever de-
sert the ranks of his father and friends to con-
spire and affiliate with a mob homogeneous
only in the desire for power. And this desire,
which burns so fiercely that no barrier which
principle and manhood might erect, would be
sufficiently high or strong to keep them from
overleaping it, if only they may hope for
power that can be used for vile personal ends.
Decent men can only pity the vain and igno-
rant youths who permit themselves to be lured
away by such; but when men of means and
recognized capacity can be ensnared, it is time
that they should be taken care of.
	I can promise, and I think with a degree of
safety, that there will, ere a great period
elapses, be a revelation or revelations regard-
ing these patriots; whom it were a compliment
to call mere scoundrels, that may cause many
an eye to open which has been closed in serene
and dreamy confidence. I name no names and
I am too clever by half to give any dates; but
the fuse is lighting and there will be an ex-
plosion. Stand from under, boys!
	Representative Tucker is here again, and
has not abandoned his determination to bring
up his resolution for a constitutional amend-
ment prohibiting polygamy. There remain
but five more working days for Congress, and
the appropriation bills are away behind. By
a recent decision of the chair, appropriation
bills take precedence over other matters, and
the chances therefore of recognition by the
Speaker for the purpose of calling up indi-
vidual measures is not as favorable as it has
been. It will not, however, be a matter for
surprise if he shall succeed in getting it up,
and some action being taken on it before the
adjournment.
	Tucker's chances for a judgeship, for which
he has been hankering, seem very slim indeed
His anti-Mormon rabies has not helped him
any.
	There has been a great demand for the
speeches made by Hon. R. T. Bennett in the
House, and Senator Call in the Senate. One
member of the House, not a Mormon affiliater,
ordered 3,000 copies of the last one given by
Representative Bennett as soon as it had been
delivered.
	While Senator Edmunds was talking in the
Senate Friday night, Senator Riddleberger in-
terrupted him and asked if there were not a
chestnut bell in the chamber. Comments are
unnecessary.—Deseret News.
						WALTON WOLD.
	Feb. 26, 1887.


I hold my conscience at  the will of no mor-
tal man.—William Penn.

	Whatever you dislike in another person,
take care to correct in yourself.—Sprat.

	Life is a quarry, out of which  we  are  to
mould and chisel and complete a character.—
Goethe.

	God meets those who are in the way; Satan
meets those who are out of it.—Harrington
Evans.

	Hearts are very much alike, and all need
lots of patience to keep them good and happy.
—Lousia M. Alcott.

	All false science, and all false philosophy is
refuted in the faithful preaching of "the truth
as it is in Jesus."—Dr. N. West.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy-six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50;  per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	March 15, 1887.


[Column 1]
			COMMENTS. 

	Since it has been understood that the Edmunds-
Tucker bill had become a law by default, the
President of the United States withholding his
signature, the situation in Utah thus brought
about has furnished a topic for conversation, dis-
cussion and  argument,  in  many  places and
among friends and foes.  A municipal election
following so soon after in one of the principal
cities of the Territory, gave a good opportunity
for expression of sentiment at the polls.  It
seemed to be the opinion of prominent men op-
posed in their views to the veritable citizens of the
Territory, that the Latter-day Saints could not
possibly take the test oath, which was formulated
for them by members of the Utah Commission.
The sequel shows that a large number of them
could, and therefore the real design of the clique,
who manipulate things here and make represen-
tations against the Latter-day Saints to the Con-
gress of the United States, are again thwarted in
their design to gain possession of all the local
offices in the Territory, at least.  It may be that
many changes will follow the enforcement of this
cruel law; but it has been so modified that those
who labored and clamored for its passage are
greatly disappointed.  It has certainly been
robbed of some of its worst and most objectionable
features.
	The municipal election in Brigham City on
Monday, the 7th inst., was very satisfactory to the
people who have settled and built up the country.
To have put their city into the hands of a minority,
who are at bitter enmity with the majority of its
citizens, would have been deplorable indeed.  It
is a thriving, industrial town, and the people have
exerted themselves to make it beautiful as well,
and they have kept down elements that are calcu-
lated to destroy and lead away the young, but
since the so-called liberal element has shown
itself there, liquor saloons have been started, and
the influence of these has already made itself
apparent, and it is in this and other such ways,
that the young people of Utah are to be civilized
by those would-be reformers who are determined,
so they have stated, to crush out and kill Mor-
monism.
	The women of Utah who have exercised the
privilege of the elective franchise for seventeen
years are, through the passage of this bill, excluded
from the polls, and without any excuse whatever,
simply because they are women, not for any real
reason for no complaint has ever been made
against the manner in which they have used this
right, bestowed upon them by the Legislature of
the Territory, except that the liberals have said
they voted as they were told, and voted with their
husbands, and this they call a misuse of the ballot.
The ballot is understood to be a free expression of
one’s political opinion, and in Utah, where for
many years the ballot has been a secret one, there
could be no reason for any one voting in any
other way, except as the person’s own intelligence

[Column 2]
dictated, whether man or woman.  The writer is
well acquainted with the exercise of the elective
franchise in the hands of the women of Utah,
knowing, perhaps, as many women interested in
the suffrage for woman as any other person in the
Territory,having been for quite a number of years
vice-President for Utah of the National Woman’s
Suffrage Association, and practically interested
in affairs of that kind, and the advancement and
enfranchisement of women everywhere.  And
having been one of the three women named in a
petition presented to the courts here against
women voting, and trying “to compel the assessor
and register of voters to erase and strike from
the list of voters the names of Emmeline B. Wells,
Maria M. Blythe and A. G. Paddock, and also
the names of all women whose names thereon ap-
pear on the aforesaid list.” etc.  This case was
decided in favor of women and the names of
women were continued upon the voters’ lists and
women were allowed to vote at any and all elec-
tions in this Territory until the passage of the
Edmund-Tucker bill.  At the municipal election
in Brigham City,Monday, the 17th, two ladies pre-
sented votes and were rejected.  The case will
doubtless be carried through the courts, at any
rate it ought to be, and ascertain whether even
Congress can take the suffrage from any class of
citizens who have legally held it, and who have
not been accused of any misuse of the privilege.
To deprive women who have been voters of the
ballot is just as wrong as it would be to deprive
men, at least we see no reason why such is not the
case, and to submit to the indignity without pro-
testing and defending the position would not be
consistent with the courage and independence
manifested by the women of Utah in the past.  If
Congress can take the ballot from the women of
this Territory it can take it from the women of
Wyoming, and there is no telling how soon they
might attempt it.
	The women who assembled in convention in
Washington, during the month of February, made
a vigorous and forcible protest against the action
of Congress in the matter, and also presented a
memorial to the President of the United States,
urging him to veto that particular clause of the
Bill which disfranchised women voters, which we
publish in full in this issue.
	The restoration of the dower, about which so
many law-makers and pretended friends of all
women have said so much, is a positive injustice
to the women of Utah, and cannot be too severely
deprecated, as it prevents any provision being
made for plural wives and children, and would
place women, who have entered into the most
sacred covenants of marriage, from the strongest
religious convictions, on a level, so far as it is
possible for them to do it, with that unfortunate
class of women in the world whom men dishonor
and then cast off at their pleasure.
	It is true, beyond contradiction, whatever the
world may think, that “Mormon” women know
what they want  better than these regenerators,
either men or women, can tell them, and as for 
suffrage and rights, they know what they are en-
titled to, and will and can defend their own posi-
tion.  As for the principle of plural marriage, they
have steadily maintained their convictions in re-
gard to it, and all the persecution brought to bear
will not shake the confidence they have in its di-
vine authority, nor can it take away the belief from
any one, whatever may be done or legislated
against its practice.  Hindering women from vot-
ing will not help to abolish the principle, for they
will have no promise to make and no oath to take,
and consequently can talk all they like, and there
will be no restraint; thus it is that in everything
almost that the enemies of this people seek to ac-
complish, they thwart their own purposes, and by
and bye they will be caught in the meshes of the
net they have set to catch the Latter-day Saints.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE are pleased to be able to announce that the
picture of Lucy Smith, the mother of the Prophet
Joseph, has just been received (yesterday, the 14th
inst.), and copies will be sent as soon as practica-
ble. Persons entitled to them, living near, had
better call for them, as it will save rolling and
perhaps creasing them.

	WE have received, by courtesy of the respective
members of Congress who made them, several in-
teresting and excellent speeches. Senator H. W.
Blair of New Hampshire, on Woman's Suffrage,
December 8, 1886, presenting logical and, one 
would think, conclusive arguments in favor of the 
enfranchisement of women. Senator Joseph E.
Brown of Georgia, on the same subject, taking
the opposite view of the matter, and presenting
all those beautiful and flowery reasons that a re-
fined and thoroughly cultivated Southern gentle-
man is accustomed to use in favor of woman's 
delicacy and incapacity for public duties. If
every woman had a husband like Senator Brown,
perhaps this question would never have been
raised, but women as well as men have to fight
the battle of life, and therefore they need the pro-
tection of the ballot and courage to stand, and
such practical education as will prepare them to
defend their rights, politically, and stand equal
with man as well as educationally. The stirring
and timely speech of the Delegate from Utah, of
which mention has been made before in our
columns, and the minority report in favor of the 
resolution asking for a constitutional amendment
providing for woman's suffrage. This minority
report is signed by members of the Judiciary
Committee of the House, E. B. Taylor, W. P.
Hepburn, L. B. Caswell, and also A. A. Ranney,
who, although not one of the Committee who pre-
pared the report, adds his name below and says,
"I concur in the opinion of the minority, that the
resolution ought to be adopted."


HENRY WARD BEECHER PASSES
	AWAY.

	New York, March 8, 9:45 a.m.—Beecher is
dead.
		DEATH-BED DETAILS.
	New York, March 7, midnight.—A message
just received from Brooklyn says that a very de-
cided change for the worse has taken place in the
condition of Beecher, and that the members of 
his family are gathered about his bedside.
	Many telegrams were received during the day,
but none of them have been opened.
	10 o.clock p.m.—Mr. Beecher is steadily failing,
but we do not think he will die to-night.
					W. S. SEARLE, M. D.

	At 10:30 the house was closed for the night.
	A meeting of parishoners of Plymouth Church
was held in the lecture room commencing at 8 p.
m.  The room was crowded with male and female
members of  the  congregation and  not a few
friends from other churches, and there was scarce-
ly a dry eye to be seen from the beginning to the
end of the proceedings. Mr. Tilney presided and
Rev. Dr. Hallidie opened the meeting with a
moving prayer, in which he decided that their
beloved pastor might not even be allowed to
seem to suffer, but that he must speedily attain
unto that rest prepared for him. After singing a
hymn, Jackson offered prayer and the chairman
then read a portion of Scripture commencing:
“Finally, beloved, be strong in the Lord and in the
power of His might, which is able to keep you
from failing,” etc.
	It seemed as if those words were a message to
him who was leaving them, because it seemed as
though he were a born warrior. In all the past


[Column 1]﻿
years he had to fight and struggle; there had al-
ways been something for them to battle with and
he had fought the fight.  There has never been
any flinching, never any turning back.
	The following letter from Mrs. Beecher was
read:  "To the beloved members of Plymouth
Church:  I cannot speak my thanks to each and
every one of you for the sympathy and love and
devotion manifested in these last days, sad days
for your pastor.  He can no longer speak to you
for himself.  Then permit me to do it for him, for
myself, for my family.  Each word of love from 
the people so dear to your pastor’s heart has been
a comfort and balm to a heart wrung almost to
bursting.  How he loved his church you will only
learn in its fulness when you stand with him in
heaven.  To each and every one of you, my earn-
est thanks and most earnest blessiug.  Pray for
his wife and children soon to lose their truest
companion and tenderest father, and if we must
relinquish all possible hope of his full recovery,
oh,  beloved,  pray  that  his  departure may be
speedy, that we may not be long agonized by this
struggle  between  life  and death.  Pray, if he
must leave us, that before another day dawns he
may receive his crown and be forever with his
Lord.
		(Signed)		EUNICE N. BEECHER.
	New York, March 8.—Henry Ward Beecher
began  to  sink  slowly after midnight  and the
watchers at his bedside soon saw that the end was
near.  Beecher passed quietly away while asleep;
he never recovered consciousness after the paraly-
sis stupefied his mind.
			BEECEER'S WILL.
	In the name of God, amen!  I, Henry Ward
Beecher, of the City of Brooklyn and State of
New York, hereby revoking all other and former
wills by me heretofore made, do make, publish
and declare this to be my last will and tastament.
	First—I hereby authorize and direct my execu-
tors, or such of them as shall qualify at my death,
to collect and receive the amount of my life in-
surance, to invest the same and pay the proceeds
of such investment to my wife during her life in
equal quarterly yearly payments.
	Two—I hereby give, bequeath and devise unto
my executors, or such of them as shall qualify, the
net residue and remainder of my estate, both per-
sonal and real of every kind, in trust for the bene-
fit of my children, and I hereby direct that my
said executors distribute and apportion my said
estate among my said children in such manner
and form, and at such time or times as shall, in
their judgment, be  for  the best interests of my
said children, giving unto my said executors full
power to sell and mortgage such and so much of
my real and personal property as they shall deem
best, and to invest or distribute the proceeds of
such sale or sales as herein provided.
	Third—It is my will that if any of my said
children should die before the complete distribu-
tion of my estate, as above provided, their children
shall stand and take in place and stead of the said
parents, taking per stripes and not per capita.
	Fourth— I hereby nominate, constitute and ap-
point my sons, Henry B. Beecher, William C.
Beecher and Herbert A. Beecher, all of Brooklyn,
New York, and my son-in-law, Bev. Samuel Sco-
ville, of Norwich, New York, executors and
trustees of this my will, and it is my will that no
bond shall be required of them or either of them.
	July 11th, 1878.
		(Signed)		HENRY WARD BEECHER.
	The witnesses are A. S. Barnes and G. D.
Blake of Brooklyn.
				THE FUNERAL.
	New York, March 12.—The remains of the late
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher were taken from Ply-
mouth church at 8:30 this morning and conveyed

[Column 2]
to Greenwood cemetery, where they were deposited
in the large receiving vault, where they will re-
main until the family select a lot for final interment.
All night long the church was guarded by Ply-
mouth Company G, and at 7 this morning the re-
mains were turned over to the Plymouth church
committee, who had charge of the burial.  Only
the family and close personal friends of the de-
ceased went out to the cemetery.  The funeral 
cortege proceeded from the church to Greenwood
cemetery by the shortest route.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO WOHM HONOR IS DUE.
	
	I wish to place in your valuable paper a few
lines on the death of William Anthol McMaster,
who departed this life January 22nd, 1887.
	I was first acquainted with him in England,
when he was on a mission. I prayed the Lord if
He had a servant of His who had the power to
cast out devils and heal the sick to send such an
one to our house, in the City of Exeter. Bro.
McMaster was sent in answer to my prayers, and
stayed with us six days. My husband had been
out of his mind for some time, and sick. When
Bro. McMaster came into our door, the evil spirits
went out and left my husband in his right mind.
Bro. McMaster baptized my husband, a young
lady that was living with me, and myself in
Exminster Sea, and from that time I have rejoiced
in the Gospel of God. The other two have been
cut off from the Church.
	I know Bro. McMaster to have been kind to
the poor and needy ones, and always on hand to
administer to the sick, both by night and by day if
required. He had the gift of healing. I have
been administered to by him many times, and al-
ways obtained immediate relief.
	God bless his remains and crown him with
eternal joys. My sincere prayer is for the Lord to
bless his family.
						MARIA B. FORD.


WOMAN’S VOICE.

EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:	
	I thought I would try to write a few lines for
our valuable little paper, which is ever welcome,
bringing with it so much encouragement to the
sad and weary mothers, sisters and daughters in
Israel.
	I feel that it is necessary at this very eventful
and trying day that we should stand by one
another, and give each other all the encourage-
ment possible, and that we each one seek earnestly
to our Heavenly Father for His Holy Spirit to be
our constant guide, or we may be led astray at
any time, for we do not understand the ways of
God only by the Spirit of God; His ways are
higher than man’s ways, as the heavens are above
the earth; but He has said, “Take my yoke upon
you and my burden, for it is light.” But, dear
sisters, His must be the whole burden or it may
be very heavy; more than we can bear.  Let us
be sincere and honest in all our thoughts, words
and works, that we may gain little by little, and
eventually overcome our follies, and prove our-
selves worthy of the Spirit of God to be our con-
stant guide, then we cannot go astray.
	It has been foretold that we should be tried and
tested like gold seven times in the furnace, if we
were worthy. Oh! let us try to be worthy and
willing for the dross to be consumed and the gold
to be refined. 
	Let us acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
our trials, and learn some lessons of importance
from the same, is the prayer of your unworthy
sister,		
					E. J.
	Kane Co., Utah


OUR DUTY AS "DAUGHTERS OF
		ZION."

	Giving precedence to that which comes first by
nature and time, I would refer to the duty of a
daughter in her parents' house. God has sent us
all forth on a noble mission, and endowed us with
the requisite gifts whereby we can perform that
mission faithfully, and work out for ourselves an
exaltation, which will qualify us to dwell with His
holy ones in the eternal worlds.
	It is for us as women to see that the talents with
which we are endowed are not allowed to rust.
Filial love and respect are the qualities we should
first cultivate, to lighten a mother's burden, with-
out usurping her authority; to help as much as
possible, without displacing her; to secure for
her the ease, which years spent in toil and anxiety
for us render necessary, without making her feel
that she is no longer needed and her counsel un-
heeded; to obey our father as the head of the
household; to anticipate his wants, and be ever
ready to fulfil a daughter's duty.
	An excellent guide to a girl's character and dis-
position can be ascertained by her manner in the
family circle. If eyes brighten at her approach,
and voices welcome her coming, we may feel sure
that she is beloved; but if voices are hushed and
no interest is taken in her when she enters the
room, there is a feeling of suspicion that rises in
our minds as to whether she is doing her duty, or
acting in such a manner as to win love and confi-
dence in the sphere in which she is placed. A
woman's especial place is home. The very men-
tion of the word home calls up recollections of
our mothers or sisters, and the refined influences
that women exert there takes hold of the most
hardened and coarse natures, and makes us feel
truly there is "no place like home." Who is it
that has not felt at some time or other of his
life the sweet restraining power that the gentler
sex know so well how to use, and which will move
a strong will from the path of error, and by her
persuasion and gentleness, will be the good angel
of men's lives. In order to exert this influence it
is requisite for a woman to know all things that
pertain to the comfort of those around her. There
is an idea prevalent among the young ladies of
to-day, that housework is a far too degrading
thing to do, and to betray even a slight knowledge
of it is "exceedingly bad form;" but what an igno-
rant idea. What harm can it do a girl to learn how 
to cook, clean, sew, darn, etc.?	*	*	That
which constitutes our degradation is not when w
fill our proper place, but when we seek to fill some
other place than that which God and nature has
designed and appointed for us. And does not
that book, which we all profess to revere, give
greatest honor to the industrious? The women
that are held up as patterns are not the idle and
useless, but those who worked with both hand
and head. Our Savior's praise of our sex
was, "She hath done what she could."
	If some are fortunate enough to be able to em-
ploy servants to do the menial work for them, a
knowledge of the way it should be done will al-
ways win them the respect of those they employ,
and if, in this way, we are ever called to fulfil our
mission as a wife, we shall be able to materially
look after our husband's interests in that dearest
of all places, "home."
	Though we may not all be under the necessity
of engaging in such duties now, we ought, as a
matter of choice, to learn how to do them, for the
purpose of fitting ourselves for what we may re-
quire. Let no foolish notion, that work is degrad-
ing, hinder us from doing our duty. There are
more of the truly noble among those who work
for their daily bread, than among the highest
of the nobility of the land.
	There are many duties we miss performing be-
cause we want to do so much more than there is
any necessity for; we are so apt to look to the top of


the ladder before we put our foot on the first step,
and to aspire to be so great before we learn to
live in a humbler way.	*	*	*	*	*
	Let us, then, be determined not to listen to 
those who would turn us aside from a work which 
even angels might covet, and from a noble fulfil-
ment of a mission that alone constitutes our true
glory.
				MARION SCOLES.
	London, England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

BEAVER STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this Stake met in 
conference March 3rd, pursuant to adjourn-
ment, in the Latter-day Saints meeting house
of this place, Prest. Lucinda Howd presiding.
There was a good representation of officers and
members from the different wards; Prest. Mur-
dock and others of the brethren were also
present. The reports showed a healthy and
prosperous condition of the various branches.
	An excellent spirit prevailed, and the re-
marks of the sisters and those of the brethren
who were present, were replete with good coun-
sel and instruction. The proper training of
the young, the storing of grain and the inter-
ests of the EXPONENT were some of the sub-
jects dwelt upon. All those who spoke mani-
fested a firm reliance in our Heavenly
Father at the present crisis in our affairs, and
a determination to uphold all the principles 
which God has revealed, even unto death, if
necessary.
	The conference was adjourned for six months,
to meet at Adamsville. Benediction by Bro.
Daniel Tyler, this closing what was universally
felt to be the best conference of the sisters ever
held in Beaver Stake.
		Respectfully,
		LOUISA JONES, Sec. pro tem.

MOAB WARD, SAN JUAN STAKE.

	Report of the annual meeting of the Relief
Society of Moab Ward, San Juan Stake of
Zion, Emery County, Utah, held Feb. 19th,
1887, Prest. Sarah Burnham presiding.
Opened by singing, and prayer by Bishop R.
H. Stewart. After the reading of the minutes
of last meeting, the Secretary read the annual
report, which was satisfactory.
	Prest Burnham called upon Bishop R. H,
Stewart to address the meeting. He felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, and to con-
gratulate them upon the improvement that
was manifest among them; also felt to rejoice
because of the good spirit prevailing. Prayed
God to bless the Relief Society of Moab, and
gave some valuable instructions relative to the
various duties devolving upon the members as
mothers in Israel, and exhorted them to faith-
fulness in the discharge of the many require-
ments required of them. They should be hum-
ble and prayerful, and be united among them-
selves, etc.
	Bro. Edward Bolton said he was glad to 
meet with the Relief Society, and felt to en-
courage the sisters to go forward in their great
and good work. Was pleased to see the spirit
of unity apparent among them, and had no
doubts as to the improvements manifest. Com-
mented upon the importance of the Relief So-
ciety, as an able adjunct in building up the 
kingdom of God. Upon the mothers devolved
an enormous responsibility—the training of
the young was mostly in their hands; therefore,
they should seek for wisdom to enable them to
discharge their duties faithfully. They should
be united and sustain their President and all
placed in authority over them. Prayed God
to abundantly bless the Relief Society through-
out the various Stakes of Zion.

[Column 2]
	Prest. Burnham was glad to see so many of
the sisters together, and felt to endorse the 
many good counsels and instructions given by
the brethren. Spoke upon the necessity of
union combined with humility, and a) prayer-
ful spirit, etc., etc.
	Singing. Benediction by Brother Edward
Bolton.
				CLARA BURNHAM, Sec.


[Column 1]		
	ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—It gives me pleasure to send
you a few lines from Arizona.
	We have been very greatly blessed, for
which we are very thankful. We have had
a very beautiful winter in the "sunny south,"
with general good health, but we are in a very
scattered condition, which is very inconvenient.
	The EXPONENT is a very welcome visitor in
our midst. May it ever prosper in its noble
efforts of doing good.
	May the blessings of God be with you, my
sister, and all who labor with you in the cause
of truth.
						A SUBSCRIBER.
	St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, Feb. 21, 1887.

		ITEMS FROM SNOWFLAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking that a few notes from this little
settlement might be worthy of room in our
valuable paper, we take pleasure in sending
them. It is seldom we are heard from, but we
are trying to bravely fight the battles of life,
and prove ourselves valiant to the cause of
Christ on the earth.
	As a stake, we are having a rest now from
persecution, but we know not how long peace
may prevail, and we deeply sympathize with
those of our brethren and sisters who are not
so favored, but we know all will be well with
those who are not faint-hearted nor weary in
well-doing.
	Our Relief Society in this ward is doing very
well; we try not to let any go needy or desti-
tute; we strive to visit and comfort the sick, and
soothe the grief of those who are called to
mourn.
	We are very thankful for the recent visit of
Dr. E. S. Barney to our land. She came as a
stranger to us, but when she went away we felt
she was our friend and sister. She spent her
whole time, while here, teaching us things for
our good, and we shall ever hold her in grate-
ful remembrance for the good she has done us.
	We have had a pleasant, open winter, and
recently a rain and snow storm, which moist-
ened up the earth nicely for putting in crops.
Our brethren are busy now, fixing their water
ditches, and making a resevoir to store water
in for the dry part of the seassn. With the
blessings of God upon us, we hope to raise our
own bread, and not have to import as much as
we have had to do in past years.
	We prize our little paper very highly, as it
comes to us laden with good, and we pray that
it may always be a comfort in Zion.
	Praying for the welfare of Zion and the
spread of truth in the earth, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel covenant,
						MARY J. WEST,
						LUCY H. FLAKE,
						MARY H. LARSON.

			ITEMS FROM PRICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	As we have not seen anything lataly in our
valuable paper about our little town. Price, we
thought we would write a few lines to let our
sisters know that we are laboring for the king-

[Column 2]
dom with the rest. We are trying to do as
near right as we can. We feel to sustain and
bless everybody who is interested in the great
work of Christ.
	We had a very enjoyable time here the 17th
of Feb. ult., in the gathering at the meeting
house to surprise Sister Jane Eldredge, Presi-
dent of the Primary Association of Price, on
her thirty-sixth anniversary. Singing by the
little Sunday School choir, as Sister Eldredge
was accompanied into the house by her hus-
band, together with several sisters, where a
number of tables were spread with all the
blessings that the earth could produce in the
shape of food, and surrounded by about 175
persons. A blessing was offered, and all par-
took with grateful hearts.
	After dinner, the following token was read
in respect to Sister Eldredge's energetic labors
with the Primary children:

	"A token of respect to our beloved sister,
Jane Eldredge, President of the Primary As-
sociation of Price, for her diligence and patient
perseverance in well-doing with the children
of this place, and feeling that she had more
than performed the duty assigned her, never
letting wind nor weather stop her in the per-
formance of the same.
	Therefore, dear sister, we say unto you, ac-
cept these small tokens of our respect and
gratitude, and may the blessings of our Father
rest down upon you with health and strength
to still go on for many years to come in the
good cause you have entered into with the
young. May every year be brighter than the
last.						SARAH COX.
	She was then presented with some presents
made by the Primary children, and also by
the Sunday School choir.
	Sister Eldredge was a little overcome with
joy and surprise, not looking for anything of
the kind. She thanked them for the honor
and respect shown to her, and also for the
presents they had bestowed upon her.
	There was dancing in the evening, and
toasts, songs and sentiments were freely given.
All had an enjoyable time.
						E. S. H.
						F. A MEAD,
						F. ALRED.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

DEAR EDITOR:

	The kingdom of heaven is for those who
seek for it; not many rich or noble, but the
humble and faithful and pure in heart. We
as a people are of the tribe of Ephraim, prone
to wander from the fold of God, but, oh! let us
return; now is the trying day, and we should
be willing to show our colors. Jesus said, “If
ye will not forsake all and life itself for the
Gospel and my name’s sake, ye are not worthy
of me.”
	Let us turn from our follies. Israel often
worshiped idols and went astray; are we not of
the same lineage? Let us not worship our
houses, lands, clothing or any property, for our
God is a “jealous God, visiting the sins of the
fathers on the children,” but if they walk not
in the path of their fathers he will turn away
His anger, reads the 18th chapter of Ezekiel.
Oh, what comfort to the erring ones! Let us
not be discouraged, but try more earnestly to
live our religion,keeping all the commandments,
observing the Sabbath day and fast days, for
there are great promises to those who do so.
Read the 57th chapter of Isaiah, and you
may understand the promises of the Lord
to the faithful; also the 3rd chapter of Malachi,
you will see the promises of the Lord to those
who pay their tithes and offerings, and those
who assemble to worship their God shall be re-
membered as a man will remember and reward


his own son that serveth him. “He will be
mine;” saith the Lord, “when I will make up
my jewels.”
	Let us read and study our Bible, Book of
Mormon and other Church works, that we may
be prepared when the Bridegroom shall come,
is the prayer of
			Your sister,
						E. JENSEN.
	Orderville.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


MEMORIAL.

TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

	The National Woman’s Suffrage Association,
through this committee, respectfully present to
you a protest against that clause of the anti-
polygamy measure passed by Congress, which,
whether in the Edmunds bill of the Senate or
the Tucker substitute of the House, disfran-
chises the-non-polygamous women of Utah.
	The clause relating to the disfranchisement
of women has no bearing on the general merits
of the end sought to be attained by the measure,
since Mormon men are the majority of the
voters of the territory.
	The non-polygamous women of Utah have
committed no crime. Disfranchisement is re-
served by the United States government for
arch traitors.  Justice forbids that such a 
penalty should be inflicted on innocent
women.
	Non-polygamous Mormon women and the
Christian women of Utah being thus disfran-
chised--the former for their opinions and the lat-
ter for the opinions of the former—a precedent
is established subversive of the fundamental
principles of our government, and threatening
the security of all citizens.
	If Congress deems it necessary to disfran-
chise citizens because of injurious beliefs, dis-
crimination between sexes is manifestly unjust.
	It has been held by the foremost statesmen
of the nation that the right of suffrage once
exercised, becomes a vested right which cannot
be taken away. Gratz Brown once said, in
the Senate of the United States, that if the idea
that suffrage could be taken away at pleasure
once crystallized in the minds of the peo-
ple, it would “ring the death knell of American
liberty.” Mr. Vest, of Missouri, on the 25th
day of this month, said, on the floor of the
Senate: “Suffrage once given can never be
taken away. Legislatures and conventions
may do everything else; they never can do
that. When any particular class or faction of
the community is once invested with this
privilege, it is fixed, accomplished and eternal.
	Thus every argument for justice, equal legis-
lation and the safety of our republican form of
government calls for the defeat of this clause.
	We, therefore, respectfully urge you, as
guardian of the rights of all American citizens,
to veto any measure coming before you which
disfranchises the women of Utah.
		LILLIE DEVEREAUX BLAKE,
		MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
		CAROLINE GILKEY ROGERS,
		MARY SEYMOUR HOWELL,
		CLARA B. COLBY,
		SARAH MILLER,
		ELIZABETH BOYNTON HARBERT,
		HARRIETTE R. SHATTUCK,
		LOUISA SOUTHWORTH,
								Committee.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs. Abby Kelley Foster died in Boston,
Mass., at the home of her sister, Mrs. M. L. K.
Barton, with whom she resided, on Friday;
January 14. The next day was her birthday.
On it she would have completed seventy-six
years: Mrs. Foster was as well as usual until


Wednesday of last week, when she seemed very
tired and feeble. Thursday morning she was
too weak to get up.  On Friday afternoon she
died.  She suffered none, and seemed to sleep
away her life.  Her daughter was telegraphed
for, and arrived just before her mother’s
death.	
	Thus has passed from us the most remarkable
woman, in some respects, the world has ever
known. She came upon the stage of active
life when the anti-slavery movement began. 
She was a Quaker woman about twenty-six
years of age, teaching school in Lynn. Her
conscience summoned her to leave everything
for the slave’s sake. It is impossible to des-
cribe the situation. Slavery was entrenched
in the government and laws. It was sanctioned
by religion and upheld by all classes of society.
All the traditions of the world were opposed to
the speaking of women in public. Still stronger
were the forbidding, texts which imposed
“silence upon women.”  To undertake the
cause of the slave was to consent to such mighty
odds. It was to give up respectability, ease,
quiet, comfort, the hope of a competence. It
was to encounter mobs, to endure cold and
hunger, and fatigue, and to face death itself.
	Abby Kelley did not hesitate. She put her
tender shoulder to the work.  Never once, for
nearly thirty years was there space for pause
or rest. A weaker woman, or one with a fibre
less fine, would not have attempted, or would
have given up. To her the latter was impossible.
Think of the long years, the constant torture,
and the unflinching courage!  Verily she is
without a peer.  Over the highway she helped
to build, the slaves walked to freedom, and
over the highway whose foundation stones she
laid with bleeding hands, women are marching
to their equal rights.
	Those who remember Mrs. Foster fifty years
ago will recall the fair and comely young
Quaker woman, whose voice, sweet and clear
as a silver bell, penetrated to the farthest
listener. Those who have only seen her in
later years, will think of her as feeble, bent,
worn with the battle of life, and with a voice
hoarse from over use and much outdoor speak-
ing, “over-plied in liberty’s defense.” The
world is richer and better for Abby Kelley
Foster.—Lucy Stone, in Woman's Journal.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse, 
N.Y.


QUEEN VICTORIA’S “DRAWING-
ROOMS.”

	A “drawing-room,” as Queen Victoria’s re-
ception to ladies is called, begins at 3 o’clock
in the afternoon. But—more particularly of
late years—the Queen has not always been able
to remain throughout the ceremony. Perhaps,
after hours sufferance on her part, her Majesty


retires and the Princess of Wales fills her
place. But the Princess is not the rose. She
only lives near it, and the triumph of the day
is darkened for those ladies who, arriving a
little late, courtesy to the Princess instead of
the Queen. Accordingly it seems to have oc-
curred to some enterprising lady that if she
had her carriage at the gates of the palace an
hour before they were thrown back, she would
be in pretty good time. At the next drawing-
room some one bettered this, being there an
hour and five minutes early. The process has
gone forward till now the clanging of noon
from the clock-tower of Westminister is heard
adown a long string of carriages containing
ladies in lowest evening dress, sitting stonily
waiting whilst a mob of sightseers peer at
them as mercilessly as if they were framed
pictures of their ancestresses.


CONSTANCY IN THE SEXES.  

	A writer in Lippincott’s Magazine calls at-
tention to the fact that, while many novelists
have treated of love as indicating divided
affections on the part of men, almost no one of
them has represented woman as finding room
in her heart for devotion of two men at the
same time, or even of doubt as to which was
entitled to this tribute. Thackeray, who inti-
mates that Laura Bell might have preferred
Warrington to Pendennis, had it not been for
the obstacle of the former’s marriage, is the
nearest to an exception on this point among the
more famous writers This is a tribute, of
course, to the superior positiveness of woman
in fixing her ideal, and adhering to it. That
is an altogether unjust satire, as far as it applies
to the female sex, in the Spanish writer who
composed as an epitaph:	

		She who lies beneath this stone
		Died of constancy alone.
		Fear not: approach, O passer-by!
		Of naught contagious did she die.

	Trollope's favorite hero is one who hardly
knows his own mind as between two charmers. 
Howells humorously hints at the cause of the
inconstancy of his sex, when he says in his
“Indian Summer” that “after eighteen hundred
years of Christianity man is only imperfectly
monogamous.” Had novelists existed in the
days of polygamy they would have found an
easy way out of this dilemma for their heroes,
though it would have much lessened the avail-
able stock for their stories.—Boston Herald.


W. N. C. T.  U.
	
	NEW YORK, March 9, 1887.

KIND FRIEND:

	Will you please call attention to the offer of
a Prize Banner to the New England State,
which reports the largest per cent of increase
in membership, including regular and honorary
members of the W. N. C. T. U., and the "Y's;"
also the middle, Southern and Western State,
which makes this report, with one for the state
beyond the Missouri, having the largest per
cent of increase in its membership, and one
for the territory that leads in this respect dur-
ing the present year- Thus, the weakest state
is placed on a level, at the start, with the
strongest. The banners will be presented at
Nashville, next autumn, at the annual meeting
of the W. N. C. T. U.
	Please print this note and plead for a more
thorough canvas for names. It means the
spread of the total abstinence propaganda, and
that means victory.
			Yours for prohibition,
				FRANCES E. WILLARD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN

	Miss Mary Booth, the editor of Harper's
Bazar, is said to be going to Europe for rest.
	Ex-Empress Eugene has applied to the city
government of Naples for permission to enter 
the hospital as a nurse, and care for soldiers
wounded at Massowah.
   	Hannah More, when she was told a tale
against anyone in her village, usually answered,
"Come, we will go and ask if that be true."
The effect was something wonderful. The tale-
bearer, taken aback, would begin to say, "Well,
perhaps there may have been a mistake," and 
beg that no notice be taken of the matter.
But no, the good lady would go there and then,
taking the scandal-monger with her, to make
inquiry and compare accounts. If all tale-
bearers could be treated in this way, few tales
would be told. 
	Mrs. Henry Wood, the prolific English
novelist who lately died, aged seventy, had
edited the Argosy for twenty years. A sketch
of her in the Pall Mall Gazette says: "Her life
may fairly be said to have been prolonged by
her intellectual activity and power of concen- 
tration." Her most popular novel, "East
Lynne," has been translated into French, Par-
see, and Hindustanee, and has been drama-
tized by several adapters. She is described as
a good Englishwoman, of strong domestic
tastes, and rather shrinking from publicity.
All her thirty novels were popular. Her
kindness to youthful literary aspirants was
great, and her conscientiousness in replying to
her many correspondents made havoc with her
time. Her circle of correspondents was wide;
only a week or two before her death, she re-
ceived a letter about one of her books from a 
stoker in the Persian Gulf.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	Municipal suffrage for women has been de-
feated in the Nebraska Legislature by a small
majority. 
	The women of Kansas are registering in
large numbers, to vote under the new municipal
suffrage law. A circular, urging them to do
so, has been issued jointly by the Kansas Equal
Suffrage Association and the Kansas W. C. T.
U. Public jubilee meetings have been held in
a number of [-]owns, and great enthusiasm pre-
vails.


Patents have been granted to women for the
week ending Feb. 22, 1887, as follows:
	Josephine Doriat, New York, N. Y., Means
for Serving Guests in Restaurants.
	Catharine C. Griswold, New York, Corset.
	Elizabeth Guion, New York, Medicine
Spoon. Dressmaker's Fitting Chair.
	Sarah A. Parke, Bay City, Mich., Sawtooth
Swaging Machine. 
	Elizabeth Wilson, Kokomo, Ind., Dust-de
flector.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Thrift of time will repay you in after life
with a usury of profit beyond your most san-
guine dreams.—Gladstone.

	Let us help the fallen still, though they
never pay us, and let us lend, without exacting
the usury of gratitude.—Thackery.

	A true woman is to a true man's influence
what the rolling process is to the furnaced gold,
for she rolls it into multitudinous sheets.


When we are most filled with heavenly love,
and only then, are we best fitted to bear with
human infirmity, to live above it and forget its
burden.—Maria Hvre.

	A man who lives a virtuous life and in the
pursuit of knowledge may have great joy with
only coarse rice to eat, water to drink, and
his bended arm for a pillow —Confucius.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister Annie
Sharp, who died suddenly at her homo in Preston, Oneida
Co., Idaho, Feb. 19, 1887, aged sixteen years, seven
months and nine days.
	
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from us by the hand of death, our beloved and respected
sister in the Y. L. M. I. A.,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
have lost a true friend and faithful laborer, one who was
ever patient and faithful to her duty, and her good qualities
will ever endear her to our memories,
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with the bereaved
family in the loss of an affectionate and dutiful daughter
and sister.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be placed in
our record book, printed in the Young Ladies' Enterprise
and a copy given to the bereaved family.
					NELLIE PARKINSON,
					CASSIE WEST,		Committee
					LUCY M. SABIN,


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	It is with feelings of deep sorrow that we communicate
the death of our beloved young sister, Catherine E. Suther-
land, daughter of John and Ellen Sutherland, who de-
parted this life at the residence of her parents, Big Cotton-
wood, Salt Lake County, at 9 a.m., on the 22nd of Feb.,
1887, of fever and paralysis of the brain. She was aged
fifteen years, four months and twenty-eight days, and for
her age had great faith in the Gospel; was most amiable
and tender in disposition and manner. She was a regular
attendant at Sunday School, an assistant secretary, and led
the singing in the Primary Association; also a member of
the Y. L. M. I. Association. To know her was to love and
respect her. The funeral services were held at the ward
meeting house on the 24th of Feb., at 12:30. where a large
number met to pay their last respects.
									COM.

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	In memory of our aged sister, Anna Maria Jasperson,
who departed this life Dec. 17th, 1886. She was born
Sept. 12th, 1809.
	Whereas, The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst our worthy and beloved sister, Anna
Maria Jasperson, and,
	Whereas, She was a true and faithful Latter-day Saint,
and a faithful member of the Relief Society of Goshen
Ward, and for many years honorably filled the office of a
teacher in the same, it is fitting that we record the high es-
teem and appreciation of her services. Therefore be it
	Resolved, That her counsel and example will be held in
grateful remembrance by our Society.
	Resolved, That we who have seen the ever willing and
cheerful spirit with which she performed every duty will
endeavor to profit by the same.
	Resolved, That it is the sentiments of our Society that
we spmpathize with the relatives, and that a copy of these
Resolutions be furnished them, one sent to the EXPONENT, 
and also placed on the minutes of this Society.

Sleep sweetly, dearest sister, from sorrow, grief and
	pain,
Thy labor is all over, it was not done in vain;
Thy faithful course here on this earth is worthy of imita-
	tion;
The day draws nigh when we shall see the Lord and His
	salvation.
					PIRENA JAMESON,
					MARTHA JENSEN,		Committee.
					JULIA S. MACKEE,


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail  
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I. 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF 
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.	
	112,	114,	116,	118	East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 15.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1887.			No. 21.


BEAUTIFUL TEMPLE OF GOD.

Put the cares of the world aside for a time,
	And lay down each earth-binding load,
To discharge for your kindred the duties sublime
	In the beautiful temple of God.

			CHORUS:
		Beautiful temple, Beautiful temple,
		Beautiful temple of God.

Where the life and the power, that Elijah inspires,
	Will bring forth the dust from the sod,
When the hearts of the children are turned to the sires,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the feet of the proud and the steps of the meek
	Are directed in one narrow road,
That will bring forth the union and love we should seek
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the prayer of faith can arise from the soul,
	And ascend to Jehovah's abode,
And the humble and faithful are reaching the goal
	They aspire to in temples of God.
										Cho.

On the Ladder of which the Patriarch dreamed,
	The feet of the angels had trod,
The living are crowned and the dead are redeemed
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the echoes of heaven respond to the heart,
	To dispel all the cares that corrode,
And the curse from the earth has begun to depart,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the bright Lamp of Life and the Tree in its bloom,
	With the oil of salvation's bestowed,
And the wise are preparing to meet the Bridegroom
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where dressed in the bright robes of glory we seemed,
	With the sandals of righteousness shod;
And fanned by the zephyrs of spirits redeemed,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Like the odor of Aaron's anointing so sweet,
	Was the comfort and blessing that flowed
From the crown of the head, to the soles of the feet,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the pure balm of Gilead is soothing the breast,
	And wafting its fragrance abroad.
Bespeaking the glorious coming of Christ
	To the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the weak and infirm are restored to their health,
	When with pain and affliction they're bowed,
And they offer their thanks for such priceless wealth
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the jewels of worth can be laid up in heaven,
	When we walk by the bright iron rod;
Where the keys and the powers of the priesthood are given,
	In the beautiful temple of God.
										Cho.

Where the triumphs of Jesus will bring forth the dead,
	From the precious seed that is sewed,
And with glory and song the redeemed will be led
	Through the beautiful temples of God.
										Cho.
							JANETTE PATON.


[Column 1]
		BIBLE PROPHECY.
	Isaiah, chapter x: “Woe! unto them that
decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grieviousness which they have prescribed to
turn away the needy from judgment, and to
take away the rights from the poor of my
people, that widows may be their prey and
that they may rob the fatherless!”
	“And what will ye do in the day of visita-
tion and in the desolation which will come
from afar?  To whom will ye flee for help,
and where will ye leave your glory?”
	The above to the Latter-day Saints needs no
comments, for they fully know that through
the unrighteous decrees known as the Edmunds
and Edmunds-Tucker bills, that the needy
have been turned away from judgment, for how
many times have our brethren and sisters
gone to the rulers of this nation and plead
their cause, for they were in need of justice,
and does not this unrighteous decree take away
the rights from the poor of this people, and are
not children left without their fathers, and
robbed of the necessary support that their
fathers have earned for them?  Surely they do
rob the fatherless, when kind fathers are
snatched from their wives and children and
thrust into prison, and their property sold to
pay an unlawful fine.  And were not the
women the wives of those men, true to their
religion and their God they would surely fall
a prey to those robbers, who are trying to rob
them of the loving care and protection of their
husbands, thinking that they might thereby
drag them into the mire that thousands of
women are degraded into who live much nearer
to Senator Edmunds and other great men of
the world, than do the Mormon women, but
their object will fail here, for the Mormon
women are virtuous and God-fearing; they
have entered into their marriage relations in
obedience to the commandment of God, and
they are willing to leave the outcome in His
hands, for they know that the hand of the
Lord is in this present persecution, that He is
only using His enemies as a tool wherewith to
purify His people, for He says in the same
chapter, verse 12, “Wherefore, it shall come
to pass, that when the Lord hath performed
His whole work upon Mount Zion and on
Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout
heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of
his high looks.”
	“For he saith, By the strength of my hand
have I done it, and by my wisdom, for I am
prudent, and I have removed the bounds of the
people, and I have robbed their treasures, and
I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant
man, and my hand hath found as a nest the
riches of the people; and as one gathered eggs
that are left, have gathered all the earth (all
they have) and there was none that moved
the wing, or opened the mouth or peeped.”
	The present Edmunds-Tucker bill having
become a law, we will see the above prophecy
fulfilled, for who is so blind that they cannot
see that it is a plan to rob the treasures of the
people; but still in this we will acknowledge
the hand of God, as in another prophecy of
Isaiah He plainly warns the church of what
shall befall them because of pride; and the
Lord requires His people to be humble, and a
proud heart is not pleasing to Him, and yet
He says in the same chapter, 15th verse: “Shall

[Column Two]
the axe boast itself against him that heweth
therewith? or shall the saw magnify itself
against him that shaketh it?” etc.  He is doing
this work, although we sometimes think that
some very rough tools are being made use of;
the Lord holds them with a rein, and they will
go just as far as He will let them and no
farther.  In the same chapter, 24th verse:
“Therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, my
people that dwell in Zion be not afraid of the
Assyrian; he shall smite thee with a rod; and
shall lift up his staff against thee after the
manner of Egypt, for yet a very little while,
and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger
in their destruction, and the Lord of Hosts
shall stir up a scourge for him according to
the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb,
and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he
lift it up after the manner of Egypt, and it
shall come to pass in that day that his burden
shall be taken from off thy shoulder, and his
yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be
destroyed because of the anointing.”
	There are many things to which the Saints
can look forward to for comfort in this trying
time, and let us pray that God will hasten the
day when the yoke will be destroyed, and let
us all strive to stand faithful until that time
comes, when the Lord’s anointed will come out
of their hiding places, and from within prison
walls, and will rejoice with their wives and
children, and again teach this glorious plan of
life and salvation to the children of men, and
we will see the Canaanites, that they will no
longer ask for help from their enemies, but, “It
shall come to pass in that day that the remnant
of Israel and such as are escaped of the house
of Jacob will no more stay upon him that 
smote them but will stay upon the Holy One
of Israel in truth.” And the kingdom shall
grow, and the little stone which Daniel saw
will roll until it fills the whole earth, for God
will make room for it, and it will break  in
pieces all other kingdoms.
	The Constitution of the United States has
already been broken upon it, and the senate
and representative men of this nation are di-
vided in their opinions and judgment, and
their sense of justice is broken and divided be-
cause of it, and they will be confused and their
minds darkened and troubled, and men’s hearts
shall fail them, and the inhabitants of the
earth will be shaken and destroyed.  The Lord
will open up a passage for His people, and they
will be delivered from bondage, even as he
opened up a passage through the Red Sea for
His people in ancient days.  A deliverer will
the Lord prepare for His people, “And the
Spirit of the Lord will rest upon him, and the
spirit of wisdom and of understanding, the
spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of
knowledge and the fear of the Lord; and shall
make him quick of understanding in the fear
of the Lord, and he shall not judge after the
sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the
hearing of his ears; but with righteousness
shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity
for the meek of the earth, and he shall smite
the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with
the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.”
	With joy the Saints look forth to that day,
which is nigh at hand, for the Lord has said,
“Though the heavens and the earth pass away,
my words will not pass away.”
				SOMANTHIA T. BOISE.
Manassa, Colorado,


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.

	When we got back to our room, we found
our trunks there. We dressed and went for a
walk up Broadway. It being Sunday morning
the streets were quiet and business houses
closed; still it was very pleasant, and many
people were stirring. We had been traveling
so long we had lost our reckoning, and could
hardly realize that it was Sunday.
	New York is much as we expected to see it.
but it gives one very much the idea of the old
song:
	"We cannot see the city for the houses."
All houses; houses everywhere; not a spot of
ground to put your foot on. Such high houses;
from five to seven stories high; no chance to
see out but to look up to the sky, and even that
is being appropriated, seemingly, for when peo-
ple can no longer build out they build up.
	On our return we concluded to visit Sister
Harrison. We went to the office and inquired
for her room. The clerk turned to the direc-
tory, and informed us that Mrs. Harrison and
Mrs. Sharp had No. 828. We stepped on the
elevator and asked for room 828. We were
taken up seven stairs, and directed which way
to go. We followed the numbers on the doors
until we found 828. Here we found our
friends in a very pleasant room, overlooking
the street, as also many other houses. They
take their meals at the restaurant, and we
might have lived in the same house for weeks
and never met. It is like a small city laid off
and divided by halls and corridors, with stairs
leading in every direction. We could go up
and down by stairs or elevator. Our friends
had been to church, and we were sorry we did
not go with them. We all met in Bro. Hart's
room and spent the evening. Quite a number
of our old friends were there, and it seemed
pleasant to meet so many among strangers.
	N. Y.,  Monday, April 20. Rested well,
but got up this morning with a headache.
Went down to breakfast; found ourselves late.
Were a little surprised, but were shown to a 
smaller dining room, where we were nicely
waited on. On comparing time, I found my
watch an hour slow. I had forgotten that New
York time was three hours ahead of us. After
breakfast we went for a walk on Broadway.
We went a long way, and got back very tired,
to find a lady wating for me in the Parlor. On
going in I found it was my cousin, Mrs. Kim-
ball. I packed my trunk and she took me
home with her.
	The method of traveling was quite new to
me. We went in a buss, I think they are
called, to the ferry. We crossed the river on
a steam ferry-boat, which I enjoyed very much;
then we took a street car to her home. It is
about eight miles from the hotel. It is on
Long Island, and is called Williamsburg,
though it seems to me a continuation of the
same city. It is now incorporated in Brooklyn
and is called "Eastern District."
	The streets are paved with rock, and packed
with vehicles of all kinds, and the noise is so
great that we can scarcely hear each other
speak. Everything is so strange, I should be
frightened without a guide. I am warmly
welcomed by my cousin’s family, four hand-
some, black-eyed boys, from thirteen to twenty-
four years of age. Her husband is away, but
will be home in a few days. We are nice and
quiet, but I am so tired, so tired; the house
seems turning about, and the grinding noise
seems running through me from my fingers to
my toes. I wonder if I shall ever feel calm
again.
	Williamsburg, Tuesday, April 21. Rested
some last night, but cannot get over being tired;

[Column 2]
every nerve seems frizzling and grinding. Mrs.
Kimball is a great talker, as well as myself,
and we have so much to say. In the evening
we walk out to look at the stores by gaslight;
the streets are so light that everything looks
lovely. We take a street car and ride home,
and spend the evening in conversation until
late.
	Wednesday, April 22nd. Feel somewhat
rested, and go for a visit to the Brooklyn
Bridge. We ride over on a steam car, fare
three cents; walk back, fare one cent. It is a 
long walk, a mile and a quarter, but it is very
pleasant, and we have such a fine view of the
country, and river, which is dotted with boats
of all kinds, from the tiny row boat, tossing
about, to the ship. The bridge not only crosses
the river, but spans over the city for a long
distance, passing over houses, six and seven
stories high.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, April.25th. Raining
this morning. We had proposed to hear the
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher to-day, but it has
rained all day and we could not go, but spent
our time talking and reading Scripture. My
friends have great curiosity about our faith,
and are a little surprised to hear it defended
on a scriptural basis. We have some very in-
teresting arguments.
	I have visited several points of interest in
the last few days, among which is the water-
works, or reservoir, which supplies water for
the city. It is a large pond or basin, nicely
walled in with an iron fence around it; at a
little distance is another fence, making an en-
closure, inside of which the keeper lives, and
no living thing is allowed inside the enclosure.
No person can go inside the enclosure without
permission. There seems little danger of dead
animals or anything of the kind getting into
the water, which is conducted through pipes to
all parts of the city, and each house is fur-
nished with water in every story; also pipes to
carry off sewerage, which are laid below the
water mains.  Everything is so complete. The
streets are swept, and all the dirt carried off
every few days. The dust and ashes of the
houses are collected in barrels, which are
emptied and carried away by men whose busi-
ness it is, and no garbage is allowed in the ash
barrels, as it is used in filling up low places,
and vegetable decay would breed miasma. It
looked strange to see cold victuals and scraps
from the table thrown into the fire and burned,
but when it was explained to me that such
things would make a litter if thrown in the
back yard, and perhaps a disagreeable odor, as
well as attract cats and dogs, to the discomfort
of the people, I could readily see that circum-
stances altered cases.
	A large proportion of the people live in
rented houses. Some of the houses are built
with two or three stories and a basement, with
a small back yard for clothes line etc., and a
small yard in front. The sidewalks are paved
with flagstones, and each one is required to
keep his own sidewalk clean.
	Some houses are built in "flats," on the
French plan, five or six stories high, a complete
suit of rooms in each story, rent ranging ac-
cording to the height. Three families live one
above another. As a consequence, people find
it unpleasant to have many children in a house.
The first question from the landlord is, "Have
you children?" "Are they boys or girls?" If
girls, "have they beaux?" "Do you keep ser-
vants?" If these questions are answered satis-
factorily, and you can pay the price demanded,
you may rent the house if it suits you. If the
family is too large, or the children too small, if
you have a baby, or play the piano, or run a sew-
ing machine, it is difficult to procure a house.
	A young couple commence housekeeping
and when a baby comes they are liable to be
requested to change their quarters. Children,
then,are a constant source of anxiety, and every

[Column 3]
advent is looked upon with a species of con-
sternation. Such a condition naturally makes
children unwelcome, and it must take great
efforts of patience and goodwill to live so
closely packed together. Every effort is made
to secure cleanliness and good order. Houses
are not so high in Brooklyn and Williamsburg
as in New York.


THREE SCORE AND TEN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 19th of March, 1887, being the 70th
birthday of the President of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, Sister Elizabeth J. Stickney,
the members of the Society assembled at the
school house at 2 o'clock p.m., in honor of the
occasion, together with the Bishop and Coun-
selors and some of the most prominent brethren
of the place.
	Our President, with the older ladies, seated
in a large circle round the stove, chatting gaily,
looked very beautiful, while the younger por-
tion participated in the dance for a short time,
when the following address was read by Bro.
Eli Openshaw:
	To Mrs. Elizabeth Stickney, President of the
		Relief Society of Santaquin:

	DEAR SISTER:—By the counsel of our
Bishop and Counselors, we, the Relief Society
of Santaquin, have met with you to-day for
the purpose of celebrating this your seventieth
birthday.  It is a good old age, but yet we
hope you may live to see many happy returns
of the day
	You have now been President of the Relief
Society of Santaquin eighteen years and six
months.  Your labors in that capacity have
been arduous and unceasing.  Your charitable
disposition has always made you a friend to
the poor, the sick and the aged; many there
are who can testify of your care for them, and
will always pray for your welfare in this life
and that which is to come.
	As a financier, you connot be surpassed.
That you have handled the funds entrusted to
your care with interest for the benefit of the
Society, has been fully realized and duly ap-
preciated by us all.
	We therefore wish to return unto you our
heartfelt thanks for the honorable discharge of
your duties, and ever pray that long life may
be given you, and that you may retain your
powers of mind, so that you may continue to
be our elect lady for many years to come.
	Signed in behalf of the Relief Society of
Santaquin,			ELIZABETH WALL,	
					SARAH J. HALLADAY.
					BETTIE BOSS,
					ANN J. STICKNEY,
					ELIZABETH OPENSHAW.
					RENDENA OLSON,
			Committee of arrangements.

	Prest. Stickney responded to it, and ad-
dressed the assembly for a short time, thanking
the sisters for their kindness and appreciation
of her labors, and bearing a strong testimony
to the work of God.	
	Then there was dancing again until half
past four o'clock, when a bountiful repast was
partaken of, and an intermission taken for one
hour, when the company again returned to en-
joy a very pleasant and agreeable evening to-
gether, consisting of dancing, interspersed with
several pieces of poetry, which had been com-
posed for the occasion.  Our Prest. entertained
the company by dancing two hornpipes, which
she executed very gracefully.  She was pre-
sented with a sum of money, and the names of
the donors were read.  Refreshments were
served again during the evening, and the party
was dismissed at eleven o'clock.  All seemed
highly pleased, as it had been a day long to
be remembered in Santiquin.
				ANN J. STICKNEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIGHT AND SHADE.

After the long, weary months of the winter,
	When the blue of the sky is o'ercast
With the clouds of a dreary December,
	And we've long heard the wind's chilling blast,
How grateiul is springtime so gorgeous,
	With sweet flowers, with sunshine and song;
The music of birds, so enchanting,
	We enjoy all the summer day long.
And we know that this world with its changes
	Is a gift from our Father above,
And to Him, through all of its seasons,
	We will give adoration and love.

After painful and lingering illness--
	Days of agony, mis'ry and pain,
When all through the night's dismal stillness
	We so longed for the morning again,
How we welcome the day's cheerful dawning,
	And we hail the bright sun's genial rays,
We feel that our strength is returning
	With the brightness of spring's sunny days.
How blessed indeed is the absence
	Of pain and misery's keen darts,
And our gratitude rises to heaven
	From our truly appreciative hearts.

And when by affliction o'ertaken,
	Our heartstrings are bleeding and torn,
By adversities hand we are shaken,
	And we feel so forsaken and 'lorn!
But we know where to look for a solace,
	A recompense pure, holy and sweet--
We go to our Father in meekness,
	And find satisfaction complete;
"For whom He loveth, He chastiseth,"
	That we may the greater joys know,
And patiently bear all our sorrows,
	That mortal hearts find here below.
							E. R. SHIPP.
Salt Lake City, March 25, 1887.


THE LILY.

TO LILY FREEZE.

	Lovely lily, in the springtime,
		Daintily its leaves unfold;
	How prophetic is its coming
		After winter's frost and cold;
	Gently, tenderly appealing
		To the stubborn human will;
	Giving promise of the summer
		The Creator will fulfill.

	Clothed in beauty by its Maker,
		Graceful lily blooming fair,
	Swaying in a jaunty fashion
		In the soft and balmy air;
	Wild upon the heath or mountain,
		Lilies blossom here and there
	Simply by the power of nature,
		Without aught of toil or care.

	Yet the rarest, purest lilies, 
		Those which please us most, I know,
	Are the ones we nurture kindly,
		And consider how they grow.
	We all know one charming Lily,
		That has need of constant care;
	Fragile, delicate and tender,
		Though her mind is rich and rare.

	Choicest lilies bloom at Easter,
		So I've heard wise-acres say;
	Emblems of the resurrection,
		And significant, alway,
	Of the pure, the chaste and holy,
		Yea, in every land and clime,
	And the sayings of the Savior
		Make the lily seem sublime.

	Just when Easter lilies blossom'd,
		And the fields were fair to view,
	Our sweet Lily came from heav'n
		With a welcome warm and true;
	And in truth she had a mission
		Corresponding to her name,
	And with purity of motive
		She will magnify the same.


Fold not up the talents given
		To improve while here on earth,
	Consecrate them to a purpose
		That shall be of priceless worth.
	Though you toil not, nor yet spin,
		There is other work to do,
	And a wise and loving Father
		Will reveal it unto you
							EMILE.
March 26, 1883.


A BRIEF SKETCH.

		ELIZA COLLINS HUNSAKER.

	Thinking that a short sketch of the life of
Eliza Collins Hunsaker would be of interest
to the readers of your noble paper, I
thought I would write you a little of what she
has had to pass through.
	(She was born March 5th, 1817, in Spencer
County, Kentucky, and was the daughter of
Allen Collins and Mary Braady.  She was
married at the early age of 16, January 4th,
1833, to Abraham Hunsaker.  She passed
through all of the persecutions of the Saints,
after she was baptized, which was not until
the 15th of Nov., 1840.  They were driven
with the Saints from that time until they
reached Winter Quarters, where they situated
on a small stream that was called Honey Creek,
about a day’s drive from the main batch of
the Saints.
	She had passed through trials up to the
present date, but now comes the trial of her
faith.  When the call was made for five hun-
dred men to go and fight with Mexico, her hus-
band was among the number.  He said that
when he left her with six small children, the
three oldest  girls, with no one to protect her
and the children but God, that he could not
have felt worse had he been called to lay her
in the cold earth.  While in this condition, to
make matters worse, her relatives, who were
opposed to her joining the Church, wrote to
her and told her that if she would forsake her
religion and return to them they would come
after her.  But like others, true to her faith
and to her God, she would not accept of the
offer.  By the help of God she was able to take
care of her six little children until the return
of her husband.
	One little incident, that happened while he
was on his journey, I will here relate:  He was
feeling bad about the condition he had left his
family in,when a dove alighted upon his head,
then flew by those that were placed by the
priesthood to lead. It was shown to him that
if he would obey counsel he would return
again to his family, and for him to trouble
himself no more about them.  This gave him
relief, and, strange to say, the same dove was
seen around the wagon where his wife was
camped, and one of the little girls said,
"Mother, there is a dove with A. H. on it;
it is from father.” They felt better after this;
it acted as a comforter to both parties.
	One year from that date the dove was seen
in a tree, and Bro. Hancock said, “Here is
Bro. Hunsaker.” At this remark the dove
flew over his head and fluttered, and then went
away.
	The following summer, after her husband’s
return, they came to the valley and settled
at Cottonwood.  He was afterwards called to
go to Carson Valley, where he stopped for a
while, and was then called back.  He finally
settled at Brigham City, where he lived until
about ten or twelve years ago, when he built a
mill on Salt Creek.  His wife afterward moved
there, where she now resides.
	This last summer she made a trip out to her
daughters at Alpine Co., Nevada, where she
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of Mor-
monism and the principle known as the patri-
archal order of marriage.  She came home in
good health, on March 5th, 1887.

[column 2]
	Her children and grandchildren surprised
her on her seventieth birthday.  We had a
very interesting time from 2 p.m. until about
8 in the evening.  She bore her testimony to
her children and grandchildren, who have be-
come very numerous.  She has been the mother
of twelve children, and has sixty-five grand-
children and twenty-six great-grandchildren,
making a total of 103 all told, most of whom
are living.  She said that she had never been
sorry that her lot had been cast with the de-
spised Mormons; she knew that this was the
kingdom of God, and that she had passed
through trials, for which she was thankful, and
that she was glad that her husband had gone
into the principle known as the patriarchal
order of marriage; she knew that it was from
God, and that the Lord would bless all those
who obeyed this order of marriage, and that
she would not be out of it for all the world, for
she knew that God had spoken from heaven,
and although earth and hell may combine, they
will never be able to destroy the people nor
the kingdom of God, and she exhorted her
children to remain faithful, that they might
get the blelsings in store for the faithful.
								REX.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The large numbers in which women are
registering to vote under the new municipal
suffrage law in Kansas ought to set at rest the
fear that women would not use the suffrage if
they had it. The women voted at the primary
elections on March 6, and there was not the
slightest disturbance. One thousand of the
leading women of Leavenworth registered
within two days.
	The U. S. District Attorney for Washington
Territory recommends the women to go on vot-
ing as usual, and if refused, to take out a man-
damus to compel acceptance to their votes.
The validity of the woman suffrage law having
been repeatedly affirmed by several Supreme
Court decisions before the adverse decision by
only two of the judges. There is great doubt
whether the adverse decision will be sustained
by the full bench.
	Twenty-seven years ago, Henry Ward
Beecher, in a powerful lecture on woman
suffrage, predicted that one of the first good
results of the reform would be the removal of
the polling places to more respectable quarters,
and the increased order and civility of elec-
tions. The Republican Convention, which met
at Topeka, Kansas, on March  7, expressed a 
cordial welcome to the newly enfranchised
ladies, and adopted a series of resolutions, en-
titled, "For the new voters," favoring safety
and convenience of voters at the polls, and
recommending their removal to more respect-
able locations. They also declare that no
woman whose political duties call her on the
street on election day shall be subjected to any
inconvenience, or have any ticket thrust into
her hand unless she asks for it. The Boston
Traveler says: "This view of what is really
the practical effect of woman suffrage is inter-
esting, and the advocates of political enfran-
chisement for women will be more than mortal
if they can refrain from airs of triumph in
this fulfilment of their long prophesies as to
the better state of affairs when women go to
the polls."—Ex.


They talk about a woman’s sphere
	As though it had a limit:
There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
There’s not a task to mankind given,
There’s not a blessing or a woe,
There’s not a whispered yes or no,
There's not a life, or death or birth,
That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman in it.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.	
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City. UTAH.

Salt Lake City,	-	APRIL 1,1887.


[Column 1]
﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, March 17th, Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. M. W.
Snow, and Mrs. Mary Pitchforth of Nephi, Prest.
of the Relief Society in Juab Stake. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
Continued with singing. Roll of presidents called;
23 presidents, 3 counselors and 2 secretaries re-
sponded.  Minutes and Stake report read and
accepted.
	Opening remarks by Sister Pitchforth; subjects,
care of the needy, the edification to be gained by
attending our meetings, guarding our speech,
special protection and guidance of our children,
the need of keeping all commandments given, and
other interesting topics.
	Prest. Horne urged the necessity of perfect re-
ports and promptness in forwarding them to the
Stake Secretary. Urged the-importance of home
industries, and advised the sisters to see to the
setting out and cultivating mulberry trees, that we
might make our own silk. “We will likely have
to depend on home made clothing. We are largely
advertised to the world through this persecution.”
Spoke of the storing of grain, for many would
come to Zion for bread. Thought from the re-
ports that the branches were improving tem-
porally.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball thought the Relief Society
should foster education.  “Pick up some little girl
that has a taste for teaching, and let her gather
some of the little children from the street around
her, it will do good.” Spoke of the Kindergarten
and the Woman’s Home, and said, “We are able
to take care of our own people;” made many other
excellent remarks.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the peace we enjoy;
thought we should pray for wisdom, and spoke of
her visit to the Tooele Conference with Sister
Lucy W. Kimball, where they had held seven
meetings and administered to the sick. She felt
the revelation given four years ago to President
Taylor was just as much binding upon us as any
other, “and we should help our husbands to set
our houses in order.”
	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant had been spending the
winter in St. George, and had visited around that
Stake considerably, and found the organizations
in good order. Thought we had nothing to fear
from our enemies. “Let us be firm and faithful,
and cultivate a spirit of love and charity one to
another.”
	Adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing. Benediction
pronounced by Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Opened with sing-
ing. Prayer by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. Continued
with singing. Remarks by Mrs. M. W. Snow:
She loved to hear the work and kingdom of God
defended by the sisters.  Spoke upon prayer,
wisdom, kindness and faith, obedience and hu-
mility; thought that we should exercise our faith,

[Column 2]
that wisdom might rest down upon the Presidency
and Apostles of the Church in this important
time in our history. 		
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave an interesting account
of her visit to Box Elder Stake. Thought we
were too prone to watch each other. “We should
watch ourselves and try to be charitable, for we all
have faults; none are perfect. We should be
very careful not to try and stretch others to fit our
iron bedstead, and remember we are all differently
made; some are weak and some are strong; we
all vary in disposition; God does not want His
people to be cast down; let us be cheerful and
trusting, and make others happy wherever we go.
* * *	Let us practice all the teachings
in Christ’s Sermon on the Mount, that will give
us strength and power to be faithful unto the
end.”
	Mrs, Agnes Swartz spoke of the blessings we
enjoy; said the Lord would try us to see what we
would do; “we expect to be tried; it is good to be
tried.” Prayed the blessings of the Lord to rest
upon His Saints, and asked God to bless Sister
Horne and all that were trying to do some good.
	Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball spoke of her recent re-
turn from the Temple, and the beautiful influence
there; it was wonderful to see the interest taken
in the work for the dead. Related incidents con-
cerning the Prophet Joseph, when in prison and
in chains, and how he rebuked the wicked, and
they ceased their blasphemy, and he had peace
during the remainder of the night. Made other
edifying remarks, and added, “No matter what we
suffer, let us acknowledge the hand of God in all
things.”
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox spoke of the performance
of duty with an eye single to the glory of God.
Urged us to seek for wisdom, that we might be
able to perform all our duties in righteousness.
	Mrs. C. Smith, Prest. of Draper R. S., Mrs.		
Mary Porter, of the Granger R. S. and Mrs.
Sarah Gibson, Prest. of the R. S. of Sugar
House, each spoke a few minutes, bearing testi-
mony to the truth, and also to the improvement
being made in their respective wards.
	Mrs. M. Pitchforth spoke of our persecutions,
and upon the principle of plural marriage. Said,
“We should never allow our feelings to cause us
to speak against this order. The Gospel helps
the people to improve in their manners, for our
religion teaches us true politeness. It is wrong
for our children to be sent to outside schools, for
the influence there is against the Gospel. Save
your children; keep them in the truth.”
	Mrs. Emma Terry rejoiced that-she had been
born and reared in the Church as she had not the
teachings and old traditions to contend with; she
was sure the Lord would come out of his hiding-
place and rescue us from our enemies. “Plural
marriage is a blessing to all who receive it.”
Spoke of setting good examples, and of many
good things, in an intelligent and edifying manner.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths spoke feelingly of her ex-
periences in times of trial and of drivings from
our homes, and said many excellent things.
	The Secretary of the Stake, Mrs. E. Howard,
said she hoped all would assemble as often as 
they could to obtain spiritual food; referred to
other important subjects, and closed by repeating
the golden rule, and said, “do not let us esteem
ourselves above others.”
	Prest. Horne made closing remarks, referring to
the most important subjects in an impressive man-
ner, and thought each Relief Society should have
funds on hand if necessary to send one represen-
tative at least to attend the conference. Each
branch should contribute 50 cts. a year to the
contingent fund. Urged the sisters to care for the
sick and the needy, to cooperate with those who
have charge of the Primaries and Sabbath Sohools.
to teach by example as well as precept, to keep
the children out of the streets at night, to culti-
vate every virtue and try to have faith for the

[Column 3]
healing of the sick among us. Touched upon al-
most everything that would promote our happiness
peace and prosperity as a people.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, “Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.” Benediction by Counselor E. S. Tay-
lor. 
	Condensed from the minutes of Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, Relief Society Stake Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A.
	Condensed minutes of the Conference of the
Y. L. M. I: A. of this Stake, held March 18, in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Coun. M. E.
Dougall presiding. Present on the stand were
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, Prest. of the Central Board,
and her Counselors, Mrs. M. Y. Taylor and Mrs.
M. H. Tingey, also Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Prest.
B. W. Smith, Dr. M. C. Shipp, Mrs. Lillie
Freeze and others. Excellent singing by the 19th
Ward choir. Roll called a majority of the Asso-
ciation reported, minutes of previous conference
were read. The morning session was principally
occupied in reading the statistical reports of the
associations. Remarks were made by Mrs. J. C.
Howe, Mrs Z. G. Eardly, Mrs. E. C. Clawson,
Mrs C. H. Clayton, Mrs. M. Irvine, Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. L. Freeze, Miss G. Sansome and 
Mrs. Alice Kimball; each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we
are engaged, and exhorted the young ladies to
qualify themselves for the great future in store for
them; to study the scrtpture and be able to teach
them to their children; to read good books, and
thereby gain pure and noble thoughts; to attend
good meetings and obtain the Spirit of God,which
is always found there; to be prayerful and obedi-
ent to the commandments of God, and to His
revelations, which have been given expressly to
this people; in short, to so conduct themselves as
to be patterns of nobleness and virtue.
	During the morning session the revelation given 
four years ago to this people through the revela-
tor President Taylor, was read, and was listened
to with rapt attention.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing
prayer by Mrs. Erickson.	
	Afternoon Session: After singing prayer was
offered by Mrs Mary P. Young. Mrs. Dougall
gave the report of the Stake.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp then addressed the meeting;
spoke of charity, urged the young to avoid criti-
cising people’s actions, for such criticisms would
not be just, as we do not understand the motives;
also exhorted them to use their influence for the
good of society. Spoke of tithing and the bless-
ings promised to those who observe that law, and
alluded to other important subjects.
	Mrs. Kimball followed up the subjects intro-
duced by Dr. Shipp and referred to some of her
early experiences in the Church.
	President Elmina S. Taylor then addressed the
meeting in an impressive manner; among other
subjects, spoke upon the home; urged them to
cultivate love for the beautiful, “and even though
the home be a humble one,it can be a most charm-
ing place.” Advised the young ladies to cultivate
faith, and upon other matters of importance.
	Other speakers were Miss Sarah Eddington,
Mrs. Jane Freeze, Coun. M. Y. Dongall, Mrs.
Parkinson, Prest of the Y. L. of Oneida Stake.
Each of these sisters bore faithful testimonies,
and referred to the subjects already mentioned.
	A letter written to the Conference by the Stake
President of Y. L., Mrs. M. A. Freeze, was read,
after which the Conference adjourned for three
months,with singing and prayer.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON the 17th of March a small number of the
friends of Sister Elizabeth Goddard met at her
residence in the 13th Ward, in honor of her birth-


[Column 1]
day. On that day she reached the age of seventy
years, the allotted time of three score and ten.
Congratulations were extended, and many happy
returns of the day, from all those assembled, with
increased joy and happiness each year. Pleasant
conversation was indulged in during the afternoon,
and the time passed most agreeably, as it always
does when Latter-day Saints meet to do each
other honor.  A bountiful dinner was heartily
partaken of, and after dinner there was singing by
the head of the household, Elder George God-
dard, and his son, Heber, in which several of the
company present joined. Of those present we
remember Mrs. Catherine Horrocks, Mrs. M. Isa-
bella Horne, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Rachel
R. Grant. Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Ann Woolley, widow of the late
Edwin D. Woolley, Mr. and Mrs. F. D. Mitchell,
Mr. and Mrs. Will. Dougall, Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Lyon, Mr. and Mrs. Orson Woolley, Mrs. Mary
S. Goddard and daughter Nellie. Mrs. Goddard
has occupied the position of Secretary of the
Relief Society in the 13th Ward ever since its
permanent organization, and has most efficiently
performed the arduous duties of that important
office to the satisfaction of the Society. Her life,
in some respects smooth, has been rich with events
of importance, and not wanting in the sombre
shading, that gives tone and interest to the lives of
individuals, and has a tendency to elevate and
strengthen human character. Aside from domes-
tic duties and the care of a large family, thirteen
children in all, and the active responsibility of
Secretary to the Relief Society in her own ward,
Sister Goddard has devoted much time to the
Sabbath School, in which she has been a teacher
many, many years. In fact her life has been
replete with usefulness and good works. As one
of her first acquaintances in the valley, we most
heartily and sincerely congratulate her on having
attained the age of seventy with all her faculties
unimpaired,and with such bright prospects before
her of enjoying the evening of her life with the
husband of her youth, after forty and more years
of wedded happiness.  May Bro. and Sister
Goddard live to celebrate their golden wedding,
and together enjoy all the blessings of the new
and everlasting covenant, is our earnest wish and
desire.
[Column 2]
We should rise up en masse and claim our rights
as guaranteed to us by law. But such a changable
and shaky, bogus law we could put no trust in;
but if we could reach the President, and he would
listen to reason and common sense, which I be-
lieve he would, we would tell him that we are
trying to lead a virtuous, honest, moral, upright
and Christian life, and we offer up our daily pray-
ers to our Heavenly Father, that He will bestow
upon us His Holy Spirit to lead and guide us into
all truth, and that the people of Utah, in the ma-
jority, are a law-abiding people; that they desire
peace, and seek to pursue a course that is honor-
able and upright in the sight of all good men and
women. We would prohibit the use of liquor, to
lead to drunkenness, also gambling places, houses
of ill fame, and many other vices that the law
sustains. Against our own judgment and moral
conduct, our would-be reformers and oppressors
tell us this is civilization, and they say our young
people ought to be free to walk in by and forbidden
paths.
	We agree with Henry Ward Beecher, when he
said, “Bring up your sons and daughters in purity
of life, and let them not mingle with the evil in-
fluence that blots the moral character and cannot
be erased.”  The Latter-day Saints are taking
this side of the question. We will set up our
guide-boards to our youth, and write thereon this
motto: “Keep yourselves pure and unspotted from
the evils  of the world, and walk by the light of
truth, that you may go down to your graves in
honor and peace.” The world has become very
wicked, and her sins have reached up unto the
ears of the God of Sabaoth, and these words are
written on the wall, “Mene, Mene, Tekel, Uphar-
sin.”  The glory of our grand old Republican
Constitution has departed, and the Edmunds-
Tucker bill has burst asunder the national bands,
whose links were made strong by that instrument,
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which
granted independance of mind and religious free-
dom to all its subjects; and now this partial law
grants rights to other Territories and deprives
Utah of those same rights. Where, oh where can
the justice of these measures be found? No
where, and they will tumble to pieces with the
usage. Changing an impartial law to a partial one
leads to all its attendant evils—coercion, disrespect
for other’s rights, abuse of Federal power, con-
tortion, greed for other’s hard earned means, con-
fusion and disruption of tranquility and peace.
Those who live under these disruptive technicali-
ties have no safety in the pursuit of happiness;
and when a nation takes retrograde steps it is
soon to fall in its greatness.
	I will here prophecy that not many years hence
the present state of affairs will bring about a great
revolution. This nation has risen to its zenith.
The law of God is set aside, and the fundamental
principles of the holy Scriptures are disregarded
as idle tales. Where can there be an excuse
found with Bibles all over the land? How many
are there that read the word of God and act by its
wise counsels and its noble precepts? They can-
not be found in the halls of Congress, for surely
not much of its spirit is infused into their hearts
or they would not clamor so hard for injustice.
	But we have many friends abroad, who look at
things the same as we do, who see destruction in
the whirlpool. We thank them for the offset they
made against unconstitutional measures, and those
who favor Woman Suffrage, such as Judge Black,
Senator Vest, Call, McVeagh, Bennett and many
others, that I do not now call to mind. We also
thank the Memorial Committee of women who
went before the President and spoke in our behalf.
The majority of women of this Territory are
suffragists, and while we exercised the power to
vote we were always treated with the greatest re-
spect at the polls; men and women cast in their
votes and walked peaceably away to their several
homes, and attended to their various occupations

[Column 3]
as on any other day, and the many years that I
have voted I have not seen any brawls, conten-
tions, drunkenness or rabbles, or anything to dis-
turb the peace on election day. We have always
had the right to vote in Church affairs, and voting
has been no new thing to us, to have a voice in
appointments. We have all the rights accorded
us that we desire, and by our own appointment we
vote for those who are men of honor and integrity
of character; our vote is united for a good man,
and not for a mean one.
	The wholesale bill’s ruling as it passed the two
houses of Congress, is taken up by Judge C.
Zane and stretched out to condemn everybody. It
does not stop with the Latter-day Church, but
will condemn all members of churches for its es-
tablished belief in doctrine, if derived or estab-
lished from the Bible—for it upholds plural mar-
riage throughout all its pages, and God declares
Himself the friend of those who practiced it. The
Christian world will have to deny the Bible teach-
ings, or they will abet, counsel and uphold plural
marriage, although they do not practice it, but are
parties knowing that the Bible upholds and sus-
tains this practice. “The rich man lifted up his
eyes in hell and saw Lazarus in Abraham’s
bosom” in a state of happiness. Now, God and
Abraham agreed as touching this matter, and
God has commanded His people to practice it,
and He will be their friend, and His law, made by
Him, will stand forever.
	Latter-day Saints, stand by  it, be firm, and do
not falter. Mr. Zane, are you or any of your as-
sociates believers in the Bible? Did not those
who wrote in it practice, teach and uphold this
doctrine of plural wives? If you do, how can
you conscientiously take that test oath?  I would
advise all believers in the Bible, that do not be-
lieve in it, to be careful how they use the name of
Deity in taking an oath upon such sacred matters
as concern Ecclesiastical church members, that
the law has no legal claim upon. What a mixture
of State and Church, and what a mixed up state
of affairs to hasten the end.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, March 25th, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


A WOMAN ON THE QUESTION OF
				RIGHT.
	The women of this community are going to
have a voice in the new law, or wholesale inquisi-
tion law, or whatever name it can be called by.
The widows of this Territory are lawful voters, as
I can prove, that when the right of franchise was
taken from us widows, in the fall of 1882, the
highest law in the land accorded us that right.
For threes years we were excluded from voting,
although we had had the right for fourteen years;
therefore, we were prohibited unlawfully; if not,
why did the law decide, in the year 1884, that the
widows were lawful voters, and they availed them-
selves of this privilege, and cast in their vote
without challenge, and to the aforesaid complaint
individually they sustained damage to the amount
of twelve hundred dallars and costs of suit. We
still remain widows, and have broken no law, and
are innocent of any offense whatever; there has
been nothing adjudged against us, and we are in-
nocent until the law proves us guilty.
    What confidence can we find in such supreme
laws, that will acknowledge and sustain its people
in certain rights, and in a short time after, before,
their words get cold, and they, take time to draw a
long breath, they condemn all they have done
formerly, and pounce upon the innocent persons
that their law set on their case and proved them
lawful voters.
    It appears to me that the law on these points is
open to the widows of this Territory for appeal.


APPRECIATION OF THE EXPONENT.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR SISTER: - The inmates of the Deseret 
Hospital, in which you have so long occupied the
position of Secretary and Treasurer, wish to re-
turn their sincere thanks to you and several
others for your valuable papers. I have often
heard the remark, during my two years' residence
in the hospital, "May God bless Sister Wells for
remembering us with her paper."
	Could you realize the good feeling of these true 
hearts who utter these words, it would lighten, I 
am sure, some of the many cares of your busy life.
If you could find time to write a few lines to our
suffering ones, who so often wish they could see
you in person (although I have explained to them
how fully your time is occupied) it would be 
another "crust of bread cast upon the water to re-
turn after many days."
	Thanks for the last papers just received, which
are at the present time in the hands of the patients,
brightening and relieving the tedium of weary
hours. I truly hope those whose names I so often
see in your good paper, will remember the sick
and suffering in their good wishes and prayers,
and also the working corps, although not needing, 
perhaps, the encouragement of the pen, yet solicit
a place in the faith and prayers of the faithful,
that we may ever be found trying in our humble 
way to do even as He would have us do. Though
I am alone, being far from every earthly tie, yet
I am not alone, for God has led me into the 
House of Truth, even into the midst of His own,
and the comfort of this gives to me and my co-
workers strength for our daily duties. We live


day by day hoping, if ever so little, that we are
helping in our Father's vinyard, and, like you,
dear sister, proving a comfort to many afflicted
ones.
	Our prayer is that you may long be spared to
continue your good work.
			Yours most sincerely,
				   MRS. JENNIE WHIPPLE,
				Matron of Deseret Hospital.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿TO THE Y. L. M. I. A.,
	RUSHVILLE DISTRICT, CLIFTON, IDAHO.

MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENES:
	How glad I am to meet you all once more
at our meeting. How blest we are, and how
happy we should be! We have kind parents,
who supply all our temporal wants, brothers
and sisters, friends and relatives, with whom
we associate daily, and here we are privileged
to meet once a week, to exchange our thoughts
and ideas, to be a mutual benefit. Each one
can gain some knowledge from the experience
all have had since our last meeting.
	There is no need to fear and tremble, when
we arise to speak, but rather cultivate confi-
dence in ourselves by speaking at every meet-
ing we attend, and by study and research dur-
ing the time we have between our meetings.
The practice of reading is a great help to
speaking. In your reading, be in earnest, al-
ways getting a perfect understanding of what
you read. Telling or writing in our own lan-
guage what we have read is an excellent way
to impress it upon our minds ready for use at
some future time.
	Besides these blessings, we should rejoice in
the knowledge that we have been privileged to
come upon the earth at this favored time, and
that we have been counted worthy to be num-
bered among the Saints of God; we should also
rejoice to know that we have come through the
royal lineage of the new and everlasting coven-
ant, heirs to all the blessings and privileges
belonging thereto.
	Now, we are all over the age of accounta-
bility; God holds each one of us accountable
for our actions. Each one has to form or
make her own character; be it good or bad,
that depends upon each one of us individually.
We are forming a character day by day. The
acts of each day form, as it were, a stone of the
main structure. How careful we should be to
have them good.
	As we pass through life, we wield an influ-
ence either good or bad, and this influence
bears upon our neighbor in a certain degree,
hence we are not only responsible for our ac-
tions, but the influence we may carry with us.
Now is the time we are building the founda-
tion of our character, and it is necessary for
us to know that we have a permanent one, one
that will stand through the trials and tempta-
tions of a life-time.
	Love should fill each heart; kindness should
dictate every action of our life; mercy should
be on our right hand and charity on our left.
The love of God and our fellow beings should
abound in our bosoms all the day long. We
should be slow to anger and quick to forgive.
We should never hold hatred against any one,
and above all, let virtue and chastity be our
crowning pride.
						D. E. DUDLEY.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS

	EASTERN ARIZONA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held at Snowflake,
Friday, March 11th, 1887, commencing at 2
p.m., Mrs. Emma S. Smith presiding. After
singing, prayer was offered by Bro. Oscar

[Column 2]
Mann. Singing again. Verbal reports of ten
branches were given by their respective presi-
dents.
	Prest. Smith expressed herself much pleased
with the good attendance, and was thankful
that we were permitted to meet under such
favorable circumstances, and also pleased with
the good reports.
    Sister Sarah Driggs made a few encouraging
remarks, and made some suggestions in regard
to conducting the working meetings.
	The statistical and financial report was then
read.
    Coun. Frances White said her prayers were
continually offered for the unity of the Saints.
Spoke of the good the Society of St. Johns
had done in aiding the poor, and urged all to
be diligent in keeping the commandments of
God.
    Sister Mary J. Minnerly felt that although
we have many difficulties to labor under, we
are continually being blest and prospered. De-
sired the faith and prayers of the sisters in
her behalf, and spoke upon the necessity of
children attending the Primary.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith exhorted all to be
faithful in the discharge of their duties. Sug-
gested that each Society have one of their 
members appointed to take charge of the busi-
ness, in order to lighten the burden of the
president. “Mothers should teach their child-
ren the principles of truth and honesty, and
should seek to guard them against infidelity.”
	Conference adjourned for three; months.
Singing. Benediction by Bro. L. H. Hatch.
	DELLA FISH, Secretary.

	BOX ELDER STAKE.
	Condensed report of the quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake,
which convened at 10 o’clock on the 8th of
March, in the Tabernacle, Brigham City,
Sister Harriet A. Snow presiding. Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells, was on the stand, and the Stake
Board and representatives from the various
branches of the R. S. of the Stake. After
singing, prayer was offered by Coun. Susannah
T. Booth.
    Prest. H. A. Snow made some opening re-
marks.
    Sister Annie Wixom was nominated Secre-
tary pro tem. Roll called. Minutes of pre-
vious conference were read and accepted; also
the reports from the different branches.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I feel thankful to be
here, and see so many of my sisters present;
we want to be very particular in our duties,
that our associations may be in perfect order.
We cannot vote any more, but one loss is one
little gain; we can advocate the principle of
celestial marriage. Knowledge will give us
confidence in ourselves; we can acquire this by
keeping the commandments of the Lord in
private and in public. The daughters of Zion
have a work to perform, and if we are faithful
to our privileges we will be a power in Zion, a
help to the brethren. That we may grow in
grace and knowledge is my prayer.
    Sister E. B. Wells: “My beloved sisters and
brethren, I am happy to be here with you. I
have enjoyed the reading of the minutes and
reports. Through these organizations, that
have been established in our midst, we become
acquainted with each other’s condition. No
matter where you are, if you are zealous in
good works, and energetic in the performance
of duties, you will receive wisdom and knowl-
edge.” Referred to the sentiments expressed
by senators on our question, and spoke in re-
gard to our present circumstances, and of hav-
ing confidence in each other, and not judging
each other hastily; said these days reminded
her of the days of Nauvoo. “We must not
say all we think; it is better to stop and con-

[Column 3]
sider before speaking and answering questions,
and we cannot be too careful; we must seek for
wisdom in all our ways. We who have been
interested in the Relief Society can testify that
it has been one of the greatest educational
privileges we have ever enjoyed; I am sure I 
can. I think if there ever was a people on
the face of the earth who are practical as well
as spiritual, they may be found in the Relief
Society. The time has come when women are
remembered, and I believe in the future they
and their good works will be remembered
more than in the past. Things are not so bad
as they might be; if we keep the Spirit of the
Gospel, the Spirit of the Lord, our trials will
not be so heavy as we anticipate. We shall
endure unto the end if we keep that Spirit,
and it is to those who endure that the reward
is given.”
Singing, “Zion stands with hills surrounded.”
Benediction. Adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: Sister E. S. Taylor had
arrived, and was with us.  After the opening
exercises, the Secretary read the condensed re-
port, also the report of the Stake treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker of Honeyville:
“We are living in a great day; many have de-
sired to live in this dispensation. I feel grate-
ful that we have passed through so many
scenes, and are still numbered among the Lat-
ter-day Saints. It is well for us to look to our-
selves, and see if we are standing on the right
foundation.”
Sister M. A. Hubbard: “We have great rea-
son to rejoice if we possess the Spirit of the
Lord while passing through every scene; I re-
joice in the principles of the Gospel. We
have everything to encourage us. Let us al-
ways feel subject to the Priesthood, cherish and
sustain them.
	Sister E. B. Wells said: “In regard to the
world, there never was more inquiring con-
cerning this people than at the present time."
Spoke eloquently in regard to having all the
laws tested. Said, “If those who feel weak
will bear their testimony, it will strengthen
them. We should uphold and sustain the
Priesthood. I believe it is every one's privil-
ege to have that Spirit within that will direct
them through all places and show them the
truth. Some say, ‘I have a strong testimony,
but cannot give it.’ ” She believed it necessary
to testify for the good of others. I can testify
that I have lived in the principle of plural
marriage many years, and enjoy the associa-
tion and blessing attending it. No condition is
more conducive to the cultivation of human
character, to the putting away of selfishness
and disciplining one’s self. To love a sister-
wife is indeed noble. We shall enjoy the sweet
Spirit of the Lord, and our trials will be sancti-
fied for our good if we go through them with-
out murmuring and complaining, but if we
always murmur, the Spirit of the Lord will
leave us.” Encouraged the sisters to bear
their testimony to the world, to write for the
EXPONENT. “I have always said from the be-
ginning of this persecution, that we will be
pretty well instructed in law and government
before we get through. I believe it is just as
necessary that women should understand princi-
ple, and be able to answer any question proper-
ly, as it is that our brethren should, who go out 
to preach the Gospel. Those who come here of
late, generally expect us to be nearly perfect;
if we are not, we certainly are striving to be.
My prayer is that we may gain the victory."
Prest. E. S. Taylor: "I think there is one
good thing accomplished by this persecution,
that of drawing the Saints together; no matter,
as long as we have the love of the Gospel we
are united; they may put our brethren in
prison, but as long as it tends to purge out the
hypocrite of Zion I think we do not need to
fear our enemies, but more false brethren and
false sisters. Some say we are given to pride


[Column 1]

each one can examine themselves. The great-
est gift is charity; it covereth a multitude of
sins; we must do to others as we would that
they should do to us. No one can do the work
for us; each one has to do her part, and stand
on her own individuality; I thank God for it.
Every good act the Lord will reward, for He
is just; as Sister Wells said, 'If we always had
justice we should not be tried at all.'" Spoke
of the beauty of wives putting themselves into
each other's place; "do to others as you would
like to be done by; the same with those who
have help, and those who work for others; we
are all selfish, but we should cultivate the
Spirit of Christ. Let us be thankful if we
understand principles better than others, and
teach and have charity for those who don't.
As Sister Wells said, 'Try to get the spirit of
every principle.' When we get so firmly estab-
lished, that we have a love of it, we shall see
the beauty of the principle of plural marriage;
we shall feel that Father is at the helm,
full of mercy and love; let us kiss the rod
whenever we are smitten."
	Emilia D. Madsen made a few remarks:
referred to the subject of doing good to others,
and quoted the Savior's words, "Some have en-
tertained angels unawares," ect.; also, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these
little ones, ye have done it unto me," and gave
excellent advice on these two subjects.
	Sister Peery of Three Mile Creek: "I think
we have had a feast; what are we without the
Spirit of the Lord? He is a Father and
friend in very deed; let us be humble and
prayerful; He knoweth the desire of our
heart."
	Sister Wixom and Sister Dewey each spoke
a short time.
	Prest. Harriet Snow: "I feel thankful for
this conference, and what has been said; I wish
we had time to hear from all the presidents."
	Singing, "How firm a foundation." Bene-
diction by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

Y. L. M. I. A., BOX ELDER.
	The Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of Box Elder
Stake, convened in the Tabernacle at Brigham 
City, March 9, 1887, a large assembly of young
ladies being present. On the stand were Terri-
torial Supt., Elmina S. Taylor, Stake Presi-
dency, branch presidents and representatives;
also Harriet A. Snow, Prest. of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake.
	After the usual preliminary exercises, em-
bracing roll, minutes and reports from nine of
the various associations, read by the Secretary,
Lydia S. Pierce. introductory remarks were
offered by Supt. Minnie J. Snow.
	The first exercise on the programme was an
essay on health, creditably given by Susan
Hubbard of the Willard Association. Lecture
upon the "Personality of God," by L. S. Pierce,
giving proofs from the Bible, and Phena
Madsen proofs from Church works. The sub-
ject was efficiently treated upon, each showing
a thorough research and comprehension of the
subject. A vocal selection, "Ever Constant,"
was sweetly rendered by Miss Martha Wright
of the 1st Ward, Brigham City.
	Territorial Supt., E. S. Taylor, addressed
the assembly: In remarking upon young
ladies educating themselves to fill useful posi-
tions, advised the study of phonography.
Spoke in high praise of the able manner in
which the preceding lectures were given. Said,
"The fact of our Lord and Savior appearing
and revealing the plan of salvation to Joseph
Smith, an illiterate youth, should ever be an
invincible proof to us of the truth of our re-
ligion." Considered woman's franchise a
privilege given of God. Though now unjustly
denied our rights in this regard, believed they
would be restored in the near future. "It is
natural for women to be just and love morality;

[Column 2]

were they allowed to legislate and create laws
there would be no drinking saloons and other
institutions of immorality and vice in our
midst." Referred to present fulfilment of
prophecy; believed the Mormon girls the
brightest, as a majority, of any class with
whom she had met in the world. Encouraged
them, through prayer and watchfulness, to
fortify themselves against temptation. Ad-
vised the observance of the commandment,
"Honor thy parents," and claim the blessings
promised as a reward. Condemned tight lac-
ing and other practices abusing the laws of
health, and advised the cultivation of good
taste in dress.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened by singing, "I'll
serve the Lord while I am young." Prayer
was offered by Prest. Harriet Snow. Con-
densed report of the Stake read, after which
Alvira Rees was presented by Supt. E. S.
Taylor and sustained as Corresponding Secre-
tary for the Stake.
	Subject, "The higher culture of woman,"
was treated upon in a practical and impressive
manner by Coun. Hattie Jensen. "Will the
good old times come back again," was sung by
Misses Ettie and Louisa Madsen of the 3rd
Ward.
	Encouraging and instructive remarks were
made by Avilla Christensen of Bear River
City Ward, Eliza Davis and Ettie Madsen of
the Fourth Ward.
	Sister Taylor expressed her pleasure with
the exercises and manner of presenting the
programme. Offered instructions regarding
the order and laws necessary to be observed in
governing these associations. Dwelt upon the
duties of officers. "Where organizations are
effected, the Stake Supt. of Y. L. M. I. A.
should be present; also the Bishop of the ward.
When difficulties arise in these associations, go
for counsel to the Stake Supt., and should the
matter not be satisfactorily adjusted, appeal to
the Territorial Supt., before engaging the at-
tention of the Priesthood.
	Prest. M. J. Snow expressed a pride and
pleasure in laboring with the intelligent young
ladies comprising these associations, and noting
the rapid improvement and progress apparent
in our midst.
	"All is Well," was sung by the assembly 
with spirit and feeling. The benedictory
prayer was offered by Prest. Marion Peery.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	On the evening preceding our conference
about thirty of the officers of the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Brigham City, some from the neighbor-
ing towns, and a few invited guests, assembled
at the residence of Prest. Minnie J. Snow,
where the evening was pleasantly and profitably
spent. Mrs. Lydia S. Pierce, Misses Ettie
Madsen and Alvira Rees acted as programme
committee, Presidents Fannie Graehl, S. A.
Wrighton, C. Hanson and Freddie Widerborg
as committee on refreshments.
	The exercises commenced with singing. The
following address was given by the Prest:

"My Dear Young Sisters and Co-laborers in the
Cause of Improvement:

	"In obedience to the request of our pro-
gramme committee, I arise to offer a cordial
greeting and a hearty welcome to all present.
	We have gathered this evening to meet with
our beloved and esteemed Prest., Sister Elmina
S. Taylor, and in behalf of the young ladies
of the Mutual Improvement, offer our hospi-
tality and welcome her to our city, to listen to
words of advice, counsel and instruction, that
the Lord shall inspire her to utter; also to par-
take of the blessings of sociability and friend-
ship, increased and intensified by that love
known only to those having a knowledge of
the Gospel. How comforting, beautiful and

[Column 3]

grand are the principles of our holy religion,
and how blessed are we to be chosen from
among the many to labor in the Lord's vine-
yard for the establishment of these glorious
truths in the hearts of the fair daughters of
Israel.
	"We should indeed feel proud of such a
mission, and, sensing its importance, should
ever inspire our hearts, stimulate our actions,
elevate our ambitions and direct our energies,
to prove to our Heavenly Father, angels and
people, that we are worthy of that noble call-
ing.
	"When life's dream is ended, may we leave
behind unmistakable traces of an earnest, ac-
tive and faithful life; then, when meeting our
Savior at His throne of glory, merit the wel-
come plaudit, 'Well done, thou good and faith-
ful servant,, enter thou into the joys of thy
Lord." To realize the fulfillment of this
glorious hope it is necessary that the spirit of
obedience be cultivated, selfishness repressed,
union and confidence be preserved. May the
blessings of God be ours in rich abundance,
the spirit of intelligence and love flow from
heart to heart, making this a season of rejoic-
ing long to be remembered with pleasure and
satisfaction."
	The company now repaired to the dining
room, and surrounded the tastefully spread
tables, with their inviting supplies, generously 
provided by the young ladies.
	Grace was offered by President Harriet A.
Snow, who invoked the blessings of God upon
these His daughters. Our hearts ascended to
God in prayer for Apostle Lorenzo Snow, de-
prived of this, his former home, and the so-
ciety of his family, that peace, comfort and the
blessings of heaven descend upon him accord-
ing to his requirements.
	The ceremony of discussing the tempting
viands came next, and was disposed of most
satisfactorily, every one throwing off all re-
straint and vieing with each other to be agree-
able and contribute to the enjoyment of the
occasion. The bright young faces, the intelli-
gent countenances, beaming with smiles, and
the beautiful surroundings, presented, indeed,
a pretty picture. The supper over, all were
seated in the parlor, when Sister Taylor ad-
dressed the company as follows:
	"I am happy to be here; it does my heart
good to see your bright, happy faces, glowing
with intelligence and truth; also to witness
 your union. I thank you sincerely for the
kindness shown me to-night. It is truly grati-
fying to associate with young ladies on occa-
sions of this kind, who can deport themselves
politely, with propriety, and yet be filled with
joy and mirth. If proper, I would wish that
your lives always be pleasant and happy, and
your trials very light. May God watch over
you and keep you pure."
	The rest of the evening was devoted to
speeches, testimonies, reading, interspersed with
vocal and instrumental music, until a late hour,
when ended a very interesting occasion, par-
ticularly remarkable for the freedom and sweet
spirit of genuine good will that characterized
every feature of the entertainment.
	Respectfully,
		ALVIRA REES, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A special meeting of the Beaver Relief So-
ciety, having been called on the 16th of Dec.,
1886, to consider the advisability of dividing
the Society and organizing one in each ward, it
was unanimously agreed by the Stake Presi-
dency, Bishops, and Society, that it would be
proper and in keeping with the times to do so.
The former organization was dissolved, and
presidents chosen for the two wards. The


meeting then adjourned until the 31st of Dec.,
when the organizations were completed with
the following officers:
	For the First Ward, Ruth W. Tyler, Presi-
dent; Jane R. Baldwin and Charlotte Carlow,
Counselors; Alice M. T. Tanner, Secretary;
Mary A. White, Treasurer. For the Second
Ward, Harriet E. Fotheringham, President;
Mary Campbell and Orissa Harris, Counselors;
Hettie Gentry, Secretary; Mary E. Murdock,
Treasurer.		
	The sisters are taking hold with renewed
energy and diligence, to accomplish that for
which the Societies are organized, viz., to assist
the bishops in looking after the needy, etc. A
great deal has already been accomplished in
each ward, and all feel that the division of the
Society will be productive of much good. The
utmost union and harmony exists, and there
never was a time when there was more interest
taken than at present.
		LUCINDA HOWD, Prest.,
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec. pro tem.
	Beaver City, U. T., March 10, 1887.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
land scapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—A I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight, This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We 
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	He who shall introduce into public affairs
the principles of primitive Christianity will
revolutionize the world.—Benjamin Franklin.

		Up to labor! from thee shaking
			Off the bonds of sloth, be brave!
		Give thyself to prayer and waking,
			Toil, some fainting heart to save!
							—Miss Bremer.

	Happiness is a roadside flower, growing on
the highways of usefulness; plucked, it shall
wither in thy hand; passed by, it is fragrance
to thy spirit. Trample the thyme beneath the
feet; be useful, be happy.—Tupper.


OBITUARIES.

	Died, at Meadow, Millard Co., Feb. 11, 1887, Sarah L.
Stott Bond, in her forty-fifth year, after a short, but severe
illness. Sister Bond emigrated from London, England,
while yet a girl, singly and alone, and came to Fillmore,
where she became the wife of William Stott, to whom she
bore a family of children, three of whom are now alive.
She was left a widow, and was married to Wm. Bond but
a few months previous to her death. She died as she had
lived in full faith of the Gospel. She was much respected
as the President of the Primary Association of this place,
which position she filled with honor from the organization
of the Association. At her funeral consoling remarks were 
made by Bishop H. B. Bennett and Elders William
Stewart and John Nield.
				
						ELIZABETH BUSHNELL,
						HANNAH STEWART,
									Counselors.

	[The following obituary notice has been overlooked, for
which we are very sorry, yet feel, although late, should
find a place in the columns of our paper:—ED.]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	With feelings of deep sadness I record the death of
another faithful, untiring and dearly beloved member of
the Relief  Society of Kamas. Sister Mary Lewis departed
this life May 29th, in her fifty-ninth year, leaving to mourn
her loss her beloved companion, Bro. Morgan Lewis, with 
whom she had gathered to Zion from their native country,
Wales, and with whom she had uncomplainingly passed
through such hardships as few, even of the early settlers of
these mountain vales, were called to endure. Together
they had nursed through thirteen years of suffering a dearly
loved daughter, who was in childhood stricken with that
terrible malady, rheumatism, and lingered in much suffer-
ing for years, till her pure spirit was freed by death. In a
little less than four years her mother has followed her, 
leaving, also, a daughter and four sons, the oldest of whom
is a helpless invalid, having for two years been afflicted with
the same disease that carried off his sister. For his sake
the fond mother desired to tarry, saying, "Joseph is getting
better now, and I long to see him once more on his feet;
and to His will I bow." In her the afflicted of our com-
munity have found a true and tender consoler. She was
ever patient, cheerful and charitable, and our Society has
lost one of the most faithful of its members. The deepest
sorrow and sympathy is felt for the bereaved family, and 
fervently we pray the blessings of God on them, that they
may acknowledge His hand, and that they may follow her
bright example.
							 LAURA C. PACK.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2,	-	25c. per copy 
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.		"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1,		-	$1.00	"
	"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving 
		of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25		"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE 
	TOURISTS, with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco, -	1.50		"

[Column 2]
R. K. THOMAS 

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS 

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 15.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1887.			No. 22.


MY KATE.

She was not pretty as women I know,
And yet all your best made of sunshine and snow
Drop to shade, melt to nought in the long-trodden ways,
While she's still remembered on warm and cold days—
					My Kate.

Her air had a meaning, her movements a grace;
You turned from the fairest to gaze on her face:
And when you had once seen her forehead and mouth,
You saw as distinctly her soul and her truth—
					My Kate.

Such a blue inner light from her eyelids outbroke,
You looked at her silence and fancied she spoke;
When she did, so peculiar and soft was the tone,
The loudest spoke also, you heard her alone—
					My Kate.

I doubt if she said to you much that could act
As a thought or suggestion; she did not attract
In the sense of the brilliant or wise; I infer
'Twas her thinking of others, made you think of her—
					My Kate.

She never found fault with you, never implied
Your wrong by her right, and yet men at her side
Grew nobler, girls purer, as through the whole town
The children were gladder that pulled at her gown—
					My Kate.

None knelt at her feet confessed lovers in thrall;
They knelt more to God than they used, that was all;
If you praised her as charming, some asked what you
	meant,
But the charm of her presence was felt when she went—
					My Kate.

The weak and the gentle, the ribald and rude,
She took as she found them, and did them all good;
It always was so with her—see, what you have!
She has made the grass greener even here, with her grave—
					My Kate.

My dear one!—when thou wert alive with the rest,
I held thee the sweetest and loved thee the best:
And now thou art dead, shall I not take thy part
As thy smiles used to do for thyself; my sweet Heart—
					My Kate.
			ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.


[Column 1]

﻿TO THE PEOPLE'S PARTY.

	When the members of the Territorial Cen-
tral Committee of the People's Party assembled
in the City Hall at 3 o'clock, Monday, April
4th, 1887, the sub-committee, composed of
Messrs. Junius F. Wells, John T. Caine, S. R.
Thurman, Thomas D. Dee and Alma Eldredge,
appointed to prepare an address to the voters,
reported the following, which, after some dis-
cussion, was unanimously adopted and signed
by the members present:	

ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE'S PARTY OF THE
TERRITORY OF UTAH.

	In view of the recent congressional legisla-
tion, in relation to the right to vote, act as
jurors and hold office in the Territory, we feel
it incumbent upon us, as representatives of the
People's Party, to direct attention to some of
the salient points of the new law, point out
the restrictions which it imposes and awaken
your interest in the maintenance of the rights
and privileges of citizenship which are yet left
you. As to voters, the most cruel and sweep-
ing provision of the law is that which takes
the electoral franchise from the women of the
Territory. Under its provisions no woman will
be permitted to register or vote. As to male
voters of the People's Party, there is no pro-

[Column 2]

vision in the law which need necessarily re-
duce their numbers. The oath prescribed
therein, while in the nature of a test oath and
repugnant to the spirit of liberty and the
genius of free government, which every citizen
should cherish, is not regarded as a test of
faith or religious belief. The authors and
strongest advocates of the bill in Congress
maintained that it, in no sense, abridged the
right of conscience or curtailed freedom of
belief. Accept that interpretation of this
oath, and its whole intent and scope are to
prohibit actual violators of the law from vot-
ing, acting as jurors or holding office.
	The questions that intending voters need,
therefore, ask themselves are these: Are we
guilty of the crimes in said act? or,have we the
present intention of committing those crimes,
or of aiding, abetting, counseling or advising
any other person to commit them? Male per-
sons who can answer these questions in the
negative can qualify under the existing laws
as voters and office-holders: Some may not
understand fully the import of the words, "aid,
abet, counsel or advise." "Aid or abet" is a
phrase having a well-defined legal signification.
It means to knowingly assist the principal in
the commission of an unlawful act. As to
counseling and advising, no man in the com-
munity is expected to counsel or advise any
person to commit crime.
	All who can subscribe to the above, duty
calls to wakefulness and activity. The politi-
cal control of the Territory, of the counties
and the cities, still remains in the hands of the
People's Party, if you employ the power which
is left you. But there must be no backsliding
nor indifference among you. You should not
fail to exercise your rights and defend them.
It is not a time to indulge in "bogus" senti-
ment, but it is a time when every man, who
can do so, should feel it his first and most
sacred duty to exercise the right to preserve
himself and his people from political bondage.
Your ranks, depleted by an important element
—the women voters—can be closed up and
strengthened if every man who is eligible regis-
ters and votes.
	Your attention is called to the communica-
tion of the United States Commissioners di-
rected to the registrars of election (a copy of
which is enclosed) and to the interpretation of
the law contained therein. If their sugges-
tions shall be observed by those to whom they
are directed, fair treatment may be expected at
the registration and polls, and victory will
crown your efforts as heretofore. Should there
be a disposition on the part of any to curtail
you in the exercise of your rights and privi-
leges as herein defined, you should repel any
such effort. Do not let any one mislead or dis-
courage you in the performance of your duty
at the present time. You are the majority of
the people of this Territory. Your labors
have made it habitable. Your representatives
have governed and controled it, in your inter-
ests, faithfully since 1847. They have been
true to the trust imposed in them. They are
entitled to your confidence and support. Should
a change in the political control of this Terri-
tory occur, the disaster which it involves is be-
yond conception. In those districts where
such a fatality has overtaken the people, even
for a short time, they have been made to suffer
untold outrages at the hands of those who
usurped office and exercised power among
them. These things should be remembered by

[Column 3]

the voters of the People's Party, and they
should incite every man to the performance of
his duty.
	Let it not be said that any member of the
People's Party neglected his opportunity. But
let every one, from the commencement of the
registration to the day of election, keep care-
fully in mind the course that he should pursue,
attending to every formality to maintain his
political status and exercise his rights and duties
of citizenship.
	The following are the names of the members
of the committee in attendance: George
W. Thatcher, Cache County; Thomas F.
Rouche, Davis County; F. W. Chappell, Juab
County; James R. Stewart, Morgan County;
Wm. H. Lee, Rich County; John Sharp, John
T. Caine, John R. Winder, Angus M. Cannon,
Feramorz Little, Elias A. Smith and Junius
F. Wells, Salt Lake County; Alma Eldredge,
Summit County; H. S. Gowans, Tooele County;
W. N. Dusenberry, S. R. Thurman and A. O.
Smoot, Jr., Utah County; L. W. Shurtliff and
Thomas D Dee, Weber County; and E. G.
Woolley, Washington Couuty.
	The officers are: Chairman, Hon. John
Sharp; Vice-Chairman, Col. J. R. Winder;
Secretary, Judge E. A. Smith; Corresponding
Secretary, Junius F. Wells, Esq.; Executive
Committee; John Sharp, J. R. Winder, J. F.
Wells, E. A. Smith, F. Little, L. W. Shurtliff,
H. S. Gowans, W. F. Dusenberry and T. F.
Rouche.
	Messrs. E. G. Woolley, of Washington
County, and R. W. Heybourne, of Iron County,
were elected members of the committee, vice
J. M. McFarlane and Edward Dalton, who
have removed from the Territory.
	Before the adjournment of the Central Com-
mittee the executive committee were instructed
to prepare suggestions for the better organiza-
tion of the People's Party in the precincts, and
to formulate a circular for the instruction of
voters.


CORRESPONDENCE

		KIRTLAND, Ohio, April 3rd, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If the intrusion upon the literary domain of
the opposite sex calls for an apology, I can
offer two reasons for the same. First, I am
engaged in the same great cause as your able
little journal—the dissemination of truth.
Second, I have very near relatives and friends
belonging to that sex, one of whom took a
prominent part in bringing me into the world,
therefore, I feel under obligations to them.  If
it be considered a compliment, it is certainly
merited, for truly, in my missionary travels I
have seen double the number of copies of the
EXPONENT for free distribution than of any
other sheet published in the interest of Zion,
and it is second to none in its efficacy as a pro-
mulgator of truth. I confess that until I came
on my mission, having never closely perused
the EXPONENT, I had far underestimated its
value in this regard.  But no doubt your sex
are accustomed to this treatment at the hands
of all who undertake to place a limit to their
importance as factors in the sum of human ex-
istence.  For instance, consider the obtuse-
ness of Pharoah's judgment, when, to impede
the dangerous increase of Israel, he ordered
every male child drowned. After eighty years of
this unavailing cruelty, we find a nation where-


in the females outnumbered the males about
seven to one, and the offspring of these much
married fathers were of a quality so superior
to their progenitors, that they witnessed the 
triumphant conquest of the promised land.
Their  marriage relations produced such happy
results, that the poet prophet (Isaiah)
broadly hints that the like condition will be
repeated in the latter days, by a marked scarcity
of the masculine gender.  If this foolish king,
whose name has become a synonym for tyranny,
had changed the drowning process to the other
sex he might have accomplished his purpose.
As it was, history records his miserable failure,
and traces its cause to a misconception of the 
true source of increase.
	The halo which surrounds the early scenes
of Church history so closely interwoven with
the little village from which I write, may cause 
a few lines to be read with interest.
	Appointed by the president of the Penn. Con-
ference to labor a few weeks in this vicinity, I 
arrived here the 10th ult.  Through the kind-
ness of the directors of the town hall I ob-
tained leave to hold three meetings therein,
which I did, bearing testimony with all the
strength God has given me to the divinity of
the Latter-day work as inaugurated by Joseph
Smith, and as carried on by his divinely ap-
 pointed successors, Brigham Young and John
Taylor.  The "Reorganized" have a small 
branch here, and their representatives chal-
lenged me to affirm the question, "Does the
Bible teach and endorse the practice of poly-
gamy?" to which I assented.
	The discussion lasted two evenings, each of
us having two speeches of thirty minutes each
for each evening.  They honored me with their
ablest representative for an opponent, whose
chief forte was as a debater, and who, though
well qualified for brow-beating, was fair and
reasonably courteous, and abstained from the
low, abusive, false accusations so often resorted
to by our enemies of this class.
	He denied that God had ever justified its
practice, or that the Mosaic law had ever sup-
posed or regulated it.  But when confronted 
with the numerous evidences of God's special
favors to Abraham, Jacob and others, and
such passages as Deut. xxi, 15, and xxv, 5,
Ex. xxi, 10, and xxii, 16, with many others of 
like import it was too much even for the 
nimble acrobatic feats of the Scripture twisting
"Reorganized," and he virtually acknowledged
the point.  He then referred to the New Testa-
ment, where, in speaking of the law as a whole
as a "schoolmaster" for the higher law, he 
said, "How could the law justify polygamy
when the book condemns the law?"  He 
claimed the words of the Savior, where he de-
nounces "putting away," and says of the mar-
ried couple, "they twain shall be one flesh,"
were condemnatory of the practice.  I showed 
from Romans, vii, 3, that while a woman is
forbidden to marry another while her husband
lives, the husband is not thus forbidden, and
that they twain may refer to a man and his
second wife, as well as the first, was shown
from 1 Cor., vi, 16.  I then referred to the last
chapters of Judges and the 25th of Numbers,
to show the high standard of morality required
by the Almighty of His people under the "im-
perfect" law.
	My friend now considered it his turn to
rush to the defense of modern methods, and
this valiant champion of morality, whose sensi-
tive olfactories took such Pecksniffian offense
at the loose morality of the ancient Patriarchs
who held converse with Deity, after he had
labored near one and a half hours to show that
Abraham, Jacob and David were bad, sinful
men, after he had lobbied in Washington for the
enactment of oppressive laws for the punish-
ment of the compeers of the maligned patri-
archs for practicing Biblical doctrine, rushed
to the defense of the assailed purity of nine-
teenth century "civilization," and spent much

[Column 2]
of his remaining time in explaining away and
palliating the slight ills that obtains under the
regime of apostate Christianity, and in telling
humorous manufactured stories of married life
in Utah, too foolish to be wicked.
	It surprised me to find the amount of evi-
dence existing to prove that Joseph the Seer
was the pioneer in the practice of plural mar-
riage right here under the very noses of those
who so stiffly deny the fact.  One intelligent 
lady said to me, "The 'Reorganized' Church
made a mistake in the beginning.  If they
had taken the stand simply that polygamy was
wrong, no matter who the author was, they
might appear consistent.  I have evidence 
enough in my possession to convince any one,
but the 'Reorganized' Church do not ask me
for it."   It does not suit them, probably.
Every one in this vicinity, familiar with
Church history, say it was well understood here
that he taught this in the last days of his
eventful life. One eccentric old lady, a devoted 
member of their church, said, "I remember, as
yesterday, when an Elder told me that Joseph
had received a new revelation, authorizing
him to seal more than one woman to a man for
eternity (this while Joseph was living, mind
you), not to live with them for this life.   It
was Brigham that added to that revelation
these words: 'Now they're ours we can do as
we like with them.'"
	Father Bond still lives, though quite feeble,
and is taken care of by his daughter.
	The village is substantially the same as
when described by an abler pen than my own,
and given to your readers in your issue of
March 15th, 1885.  The temple is being re-
paired with a view to hold conference therein,
beginning April 6.  Joseph is already in town,
and all their notables are expected.
	Wishing the EXPONENT deserved success, I
am,				Yours truly,
						    YOUNG ELDER.

			MINERSVILLE, April 12, 1887.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Saturday, the 8th of this month, was the 
sixty-ninth birthday of Sister Mary E. Light-
ner of this place.  A number of gentlemen
and ladies met at her residence and gave her
a dinner, which was highly appreciated by all.
	Before partaking of dinner, at her re-
quest we sang the hymn, "Oh, my Father." The
tables, laden with the good things of the earth,
were then surrounded with happy faces.  Sis-
ter Lightner with her brother, James H. Rol-
lins interested her group of friends with a 
review of her life.  A few lines composed for
the occasion were read, after which Elizabeth
Gilbert, Sister Lightner's aunt, who is in her
eighty-second year, made some remarks; the
closing exercises were short speeches by a num-
ber of the sisters who all wished Sister Light-
ner many happy returns of the day.  All 
seemed to enjoy themselves and I believe
we made the hearts of the widowed sisters for-
get their loneliness, at least for one day.
				Respectfully,
						ADA ROLLINS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ENTERTAINMEMT.

	The Sixth Ward Primary Association of
Logan had an entertainment on Friday even-
ing, the 11th of March, commencing at half
past seven o'clock. The object was to encourage
the children to speak correctly and cultivate
good manners, and to show the parents what
their children are capable of doing. The
programme was filled entirely by our Primary
children, and was as follows:
	Prayer by Fred Turner, Jr.; "The Welcome,"
by Maud Bowen and company; Ada Jones and
Alice Jacobson, a song, entitled, "Grandpa's


Spectacles," age eight and six years; Harry
and Mary Crowther, recitations from the
Juvenile Instructor, ages five and three years;
Hiram Thorp and John Wilson, a song, en-
titled, "Kitty Wells;" Frank Fulmer, a recita-
tion, entitled "Queer;" Eunice Jacobson, a
song, entitled, "Susan," aged three years; Bettie
Bowen, a recitation, "Rebecca Dobbs;" Bertha
Jones, a song, "Baby Darling;" "Little Wise
Heads," by Mable Barber, Ida Leishman,
Mamie Turner and Ida May Stewart, exceed-
ingly well done; "The Martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum," by Dorothy Hansen; Lillian
Parkinson, "Keeping His Word;" Rosella
Thorp, a song, "Little Bessie, the Drunkard's
Child;" Martha Bench, "Take Things as They
Come;" Ida Stewart, a song;  Julia Jacobson,
"The Chimney Sweep," in character; "Harry's
Bravery," by J. W. Pike, Isaac Stewart, Fred 
Turner, Nellie Bowen and Carrie Stewart;
Jane Gordon, a recitation, entitled, "Steenie,"
aged six years; Ida Leishman, a song, "The
Child's Message;" Rhoda Fulmer, a recitation,
"Mattie's Troubles;" Carrie Howard, a recita-
tion, "My Beau With the Corduroy Pants;"
Bangie Johnson, "The Wallflower;" Alice
Jacobson, a song, "Waiting for Pa;" Eunice
Jacobson, a song, "Who Will Wear my Stove-
pipe Hat?" in character, her sister, aged six
years, playing the accompaniment; Emma
Brown, "Nay, Speak no Ill;" Joseph Thorp
and company, a song, "Lady, Awake;" Georgie
Jensen, "The Washing Day;" Sophia Jensen, a 
song, "You've Been a Friend to Me;" "The
Jasper Sea" was sung by the Primary choir.
accompanied by Maud Bowen.  We were
greatly assisted by our Primary organist, Sister
Hannah Jacobson.  Ettie Smith, a song, "Ten
Thousand Miles Away;" Phoebe Downs, Cather-
ine Arnold and Ellie Ellis each a recitation;
Christine Fjeldsted, Jelina and Ada Ostlund
each a recitation, Maggie Johnson, a recitation,
"The Angels;" Adeline Jeppeson, "Thorns and 
Roses;" Sarah Larsen, a recitation; Dagmar
Christiansen, "The Prophet's Prayer;" Amelia
Christiansen, a song, "The Sailor's Song." The
evening's entertainment was concluded by
"The Sewing Bee," from one of the Primary
Books.
	Our Primary Stake President, Jane E.
Molen, and her husband were present, and we 
were sustained by our Bishop, Bro. Turner,
his Counselors, the ward generally, and quite
a number of visitors.
					EMMA PIKE, Prest.,
					MILLIE PIKE, Sec.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN. 

	Mrs. Mary Howitt has just passed her eighty-
ninth birthday, and is in excellent health. 
	Mrs. Senator Sabin, of Minnesota, having no
children of her own, has adopted a family of
nine. 
	Mrs. Florence Howe Hall, a daughter of
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, has just completed a
manual of American etiquette, entitled, "Social
Customs." 
	Mlle. Marie Deraismes is said to be the
only woman freemason in France. She is a
good speaker, a terse writer, and a strong advo-
cate of suffrage for women. 
	Miss N. B. Cummings, now the librarian of
the Department of Justice, at Washington, is
a daughter of a former justice of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, and is regarded as one
of the best authorities on law books in the
country. She is literally an encyclopaedia of
reports, rendering invaluable aid to the lawyers
who use the extensive library of that depart-
ment.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE BURIED FLOWER. 

In the silence of my chamber, 
	When the night is still a deep, 
And the drowsy heave of ocean 
	Mutters in its charmed sleep; 

Oft I hear the angel voices
	That have thrilled me long ago, - 
Voices of my lost companions, 
	Lying deep beneath the snow. 

Where are now the flowers we tended? 
	Withered, broken, branch and stem; 
Where are now the hopes we cherished? 
	Scattered to the winds with them. 

For ye, too, were flowers, ye dear ones! 
	Nursed in hope and raised in love, 
Looking fondly ever upward
	To the clear blue sky above; 

Smiling on the sun that cheered us, 
	Rising lightly from the rain, 
Never folding up your freshness
	Save to give it forth again: 

Never shaken save by accents
	From a tongue that was not free, 
As the modest blossom trembles
	At the wooing of the bee. 

O! 'tis sad to lie and reckon 
	All the days of faded youth, 
All the vows that we believed in, 
	All the words we spoke in truth. 

Sever'd—were it sever'd only 
	By an idle thought of strife, 
Such as time may knit together;
	Not the broken cord of life! 

O my heart! that once so truly
	Kept another's time and tune,—
Heart, that kindled in the morning 
	Look around thee in the noon! 

Where are they who gave the impulse
	To thy earliest thought and flow? 
Look across the ruined garden—
	All are withered, dropped, or low!

O! I fling my spirit backward, 
	And I pass o'er years of pain;
All I loved is rising round me, 
	All the lost returns again.

Brighter, fairer far than living, 
	With no trace of woe or pain, 
Robed in everlasting beauty, 
	Shall I see thee once again, 

By the light that never fadeth, 
	Underneath eternal skies, 
When the dawn of resurrection
	Breaks o'er deathless Paradise? 
								SELECTED.


WELCOME TO PRISONERS FOR
		CONSCIENCE’ SAKE.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Under the auspices of the Relief Society of
this place, a party was tendered to the brethren
lately arrived at their homes from the prisons
in Boise and Detroit.
	Large tables were spread, loaded with the
good things of this earth, and nearly all the
people of the ward were gathered, and partook
in the festivities as a token of love and respect
for the integrity shown by the persecuted
brethren, who would rather endure hardships
in prison than yield to any unjust measure or
interpretation of congressional enactments
binding conscience and demanding the abandon-
ment of a law and order revealed from heaven.
The brethren are enjoying their liberty in full
measure.


After dinner was over, the meeting house 
was cleared. A programme had been prepared
by and under the direction of the Y. M. M. I. 
A. and speeches by the late prisoners, inter-
spersed with music, were given. Good ad-
vice and cheering remarks were made by the
speakers. In the evening the people enjoyed
themselves in dancing, singing and music, until 
after 11 o'clock, when all went home well satis-
fied with their day. 
	Next day all the children of the ward were
similarly treated. It was a great sight to see
106 small children from four to twelve, and
some a little older, mingle in the dancing, sing-
ing, recitations and other amusements. 
	Bro. M. F. Cowley, President of the Y. M. 
M. I. A. in this Stake, was present on the occa-
sion, and with his cheerful voice and wise
counsel helped to highten the glee and merri-
ment, as well as to give substantial good coun-
sel and advice.
	The EXPONENT is ever welcome, and its con-
tents are carefully preserved. 
	Always praying for the welfare of Zion and
her inhabitants, and especially praying for the
exiled and imprisoned for conscience' sake, I 
am, as ever, 
			Yours obediently, 
					INGRID GRAHAM.


CIRCULAR.

To the Presidents of the Primary Associations
in the Oneida Stake of Zion:

DEAR SISTERS:
	Not having had the opportunity of visiting
all the Primary Associations in the Oneida
Stake through the past winter, we feel it our
duty to address a few lines to you on the sub-
ject of Primary advancement.
	The mission to which we, as officers of the
Associations, have been called is a most impor-
tant one, and should be accepted as a labor of
honor and love.
	The training and educating of the future
men and women of Zion has been committed to
our care, and this great responsibility,especially
in such an eventful day as this, demands our
most careful and considerate attention, for the
children who now compose the Primary Asso-
ciations will, in a few short years, be the repre-
sentatives of the greatest cause on earth, and
the reason of success or failure, in the battle of
life, will be followed back to the moulding of
the tender mind by the influence brought to
bear by those whose duty it was to teach and
train them in their youth.
	Presidents should, therefore, study the situa-
tion, and make their mission a reality and not
a mere name.
	Our duty does not consist in alone conducting
the meetings of the children, and then throw-
ing off all interest as to them elsewhere, but
we should seek to establish an influence among
them that will draw them to us in all our asso-
ciations together.
	Our example before them should be such as
we would be proud to have them follow, and
we should consider every act of ours a pattern
for them.
	Life and variety should be put into our
meetings, that they may be interesting and
profitable; and in order that a desire to read
and inform the mind may be created while
young, we suggest the advisability of collect-
ing a few good books, such as the "Faith Pro-
moting Series," "Juvenile Instructor" and
others of like character.
	We are very desirous that every Primary As-
sociation in the Stake should have a library of its
own, which may be obtained by a perpetual
offering of about five cents per month from
each member of the Association.
	Dear sisters, that we may know the condi-
tion of each Primary, and be enabled to make


out an accurate report for our quarterly con-
ferences, it is very necessary that we receive a
report from every ward, so please do not fail to
make out your reports as soon as possible after
receiving them, and send them in to Sister
Elizabeth Hale immediately.
	Our earnest endeavors to magnify our call-
ing will be acceptable unto the Lord, and will
most assuredly be fraught with great success.
	Praying the Lord to assist us in training the
youth of Zion, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
		LUCY M. PARKINSON,
		ELVIRA PETTY,
	Of the Presidency of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Oneida Stake.


HONOR TO WHOM HONOR IS DUE.

	A pleasant and enjoyable surprise was given 
to the Secretary of the Relief Society of Loa,
Piute Co., Sister Sarah Jane Blackburn, on
her fifty-sixth birthday, Tuesday, March 22nd,
1887, by the Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Association of Loa. About fifty persons were
present—our worthy Bishop, E. H. Blackburn,
and sons and grandchildren and friends of
long standing, who have stood the trials and
hardships of this people, and are willing to
stand more for the Gospel's sake and their own.
	At 2 o'clock the tables were loaded with
the good things of this earth, which we humbly
thanked our Heavenly Father for. Sister
Sarah was the recipient of several handsome
presents from her husband and sisters of the
Relief Society. Sister Sarah thanked the
brethren and sisters, and said it was a complete
surprise to her. Expressed her appreciation
and gratitude for their honor to her.
	There was a good spirit, and all returned
home feeling well and benefited by meeting
together to honor one so worthy, noble and
faithful.
		JULIETTE BLACKBURN.
PRIMARY PICNIC.
	A Primary picnic was held at Loa on the 25th
of March, President and Counselors present.
Met at 10 a.m.; had recitations, songs and
dialogues. A good spirit dwelt in the hearts
of the little folks. Our worthy Bishop was
present, whom we were pleased to have in our
midst. The children came with their bright,
sunny faces. Their President is always pleased
to meet with them. We then adjourned our
meeting until 2 p.m, during which time the
children played games. We were called to-
gether again, and the little girls set the tables;
there were numbered sixty children. After
dinner we all had an enjoyable time in con-
versation. Dismissed with prayer.
	All went home feeling benefited by meeting
with the children and trying to entertain and
instruct the youth of Zion in the ways of the
Lord.
		JULIETTE BLACKBURN, Prest.


Mrs. Logan gives a striking instance of the
discrimination made in the pay of government
clerks on account of sex. She says: "No lady
is allowed the same salary in the higher grade
of clerkships, no  matter how well she fills the
higher salaried desks, and many of them are 
to-day in those positions, but do not receive
the pay. As an illustration, it has happened
that in cases of illness or disability of men
clerks, their wives performed the duty of their
husbands, drawing in their name the salary as
if they had performed the work. In one case
the wife kept up her husband's desk for three
years, during his illness, receiving the $1,800
per annum, and thereby supporting the family;
but from the day of his death, though she con-
tinued the same work, her salary was nine
hundred!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates; Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
 o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.	APRIL 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.

FROM THE EPISTLE OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY
READ AT THE CONFERENCE IN PROVO,
APRIL 8TH, 1887.

	The disfranchisement of all the women voters,
without cause and without even the allegation of
crime against them, is an arbitrary exercise of des-
potic power without parallel in republican history.
No reasonable excuse can be offered for such an
invasion of political rights exercised without hin-
drance for seventeen years; and the vain pretence of
the enemies of the Latter-day Saints that they
wish to rescue the women of Utah from bondage
has by this outrage upon freedom been effectually
silenced forever. Taken with other portions of
the law it betrays an attempt to pave the way for
the domination of the majority by the minority,
because the former is composed of members of
an unpopular Church. It should be the purpose
of good citizens and faithful Latter-day Saints to
maintain the liberties which are dear to every
citizen, by all legal and consistent means within
their power. And while many of the men and
women who, with Divine assistance, opened this
region to human occupation and fitted it for civil-
ized existence, are arbitrarily deprived of any per-
sonal participation in its government, it becomes
the duty as well as the privilege of those who can
do so under the operation of unjustly discriminat-
ing laws, to stand up manfully and use all dili-
gence and vigilance in the retention and preva-
lence of the local rule of the local majority. In
thus sustaining the right and assisting in the pre-
vention of wrong, they will have the blessings of
a just God and the approval of an enlightened
conscience.
	A redeeming feature of the new law is the ex-
emption of wives who are viewed as legal from
testifying against their husbands in cases arising
under the Edmunds act. This and the decision
of the Supreme Court of the United States con-
demning the segregation system, by which the ex
treme penalties imposed by law were unlawfully
multiplied upon "Mormon" defendants, are cutting
rebukes to the Utah Courts and District Attorney,
for their excesses and malice in pursuing persons
acting under the strongest religious convictions.
The relief thus afforded to many subjects of ju-
dicial persecution would doubtless be consider-
ably extended, if other extreme rulings of the
Utah Courts were reviewed by the highest tribun-
al of the land.
	As the summer months are approaching, when
open air recreations will become common, we deem
it necessary to warn the Saints, and especially our
young people, against the excesses and impro-
prieties that often attend such public entertain-
ments. In the inordinate desire to make money,
attractions are devised to draw crowds of people
together where the usual restraints that regulate
good society are greatly relaxed, to the detriment
of pure morality, and the breaking down of those
safeguards which should protect sobriety and

[Column 2]

virtue. Pleasure and relaxation which in them-
selves may be not only harmless to mind and body,
are often rendered evil in the extreme, because of
their surroundings and associations. The thought-
less and inexperienced are frequently oblivious
to the harm thus attending something in which
there is no essential wrong, and are led to look
with allowance, if not actual approval, upon things
that would shock them under other circumstances.
The indiscriminate commingling of the Saints
with persons not of their faith whose habits, his-
tory and purposes are bad or unknown to them,
is fraught with evil and to be strongly deprecated.
To expose our youth to the contaminating influ-
ence of vile men and women such as often con-
gregate in places of public amusement, where they
are thrown together in social intercourse, is more
than folly; it is wickedness. It is proper that
strangers should be treated with courtesy and re-
spect, but intimacy with them is not desirable, and
our young people should be cautioned and guarded
against casual acquaintanceship and the society
of persons whose intentions and influence may be
of the very worst character.
	Excursion parties should be conducted by per-
sons of standing and wisdom and under regula-
tions that will preclude the evils that frequently
attend such gatherings. When arranged for pur-
poses of speculation, the promoters are often too
heedless of consequences in their anxiety for pro-
fits, and will mix together the worst of characters
and the good and unsophisticated, with results
that can but be lamentable. Sunday excursions
to lake or canon, moonlight trips and late bathing
trains should be emphatically discouraged. The
society of persons who place themselves under
the baleful influence of intoxicants should be
avoided. Order should be maintained in the
midst of merriment. Indecorous language and
conduct should be frowned down. All excess is
detrimental. Temperance should govern in every-
thing. Amusement is not the purpose of life, it
should be indulged in only by way of variety.
When people accustom themselves to constant or
oft-repeated rounds of pleasure, the true objects
of human existence are forgotten and duty be-
comes irksome and detestable. Children should
not be permitted to attend public gatherings with
out older persons accompanying to guard them
from accident and from the contamination of the
ungodly. The responsibility for the evils attend-
ing violations of these instructions will rest upon
parents, guardians and the local Priesthood in the
various wards and settlements. Persons who
habitually desecrate the Lord's day cannot be
held in fellowship, and the members of the Church
who neglect public worship and the partaking of
the Sacrament and do not remember the Sabbath
day to keep it holy, will become weak in the faith
and spiritually sickly and will lose the Spirit
and favor of God, and ultimately forfeit their stand-
ing in the Church and their exaltation with the
obedient and faithful.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Dr. Elvira S. Barney exhibited in this office
a Tape Worm, 31 feet in length, taken this week
from a young man about 17 years old. She makes
this one of her specialties. This is an item
worth knowing when many have suffered for years
without knowing any means for relief, as did this
young man for five years. She says she will
guarantee a removal within 24 hours after com-
mencing treatment.


CONFERENCE ITEMS.

The late General Conference, held at Provo
City was largely attended by an earnest and
eagerly attentive portion of the Latter-day Saints.
All things seemed to favor the enjoyment of those
who were privileged to be there. The weather


was delightful; peace and good order prevailed;
the singing was excellent, the hymns and anthems
being well chosen and timely. The burden of the
spirit which rested upon the speakers, seemed to
be the importance of the people exercising the
powers they hold with the heavens, and so order-
ing their lives that those powers may be steadily
and surely increased.  Fasting and prayer, the
attending of fast meetings and strict observance
of the Word of Wisdom were principles strongly
and repeatedly urged as certain means by which
the most satisfactory results are to be obtained.
One very interesting feature was a meeting of the
Deseret Sunday School Union, held on the eve-
ning of the 9th, at which valuable reports and in-
structions pertaining to Sunday School matters
were given.  On the following evening
the M. I. A. held their meeting, which was
greatly enlivened and enlightened by an epistle
from President Wilford Woodruff.  The reports
of the different Stake organizations were also very
encouraging.  The morning of the 8th (the third
and last day,) was chiefly occupied by Apostle
Lorenzo Snow in a highly interesting and charac-
teristic discourse.  And, very appropriately, the
reading of the epistle of the First Presidency
concluded the conference.
						L. G. RICHARDS.


QUESTIONS OF THE HOUR.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is a long time since I have written you. My
silence is not due to a dearth of subjects upon which
to write, nor for the lack of time, neither from
any laziness of feeling, but from a disposition to
remain silent for a while and note passing events.
	One change follows so quickly upon the heels
of another now-a-days as to almost bewilder the
beholder, while the writer of current history is
often compelled to bring to an abrupt termination
the description of the scene of yesterday, because
of the all absorbing topic of to-day. In fact, very
few are capable of keeping pace with these fast
occurring events and something more than ordin-
arily startling must happen to at all excite our
wonder or even our surprise. I am often led to
ask myself what is the tendency of all this hap-
pening? for happening it really is in the main, and
not the result of the exercise of calm and dis-
passionate judgment.
	All classes of society are seriously disturbed,
and the waves of their agitation sometimes run
mountains high threatening destruction on every
hand. The political world rent asunder as it is,
presents a deplorable spectacle; while social life
bids fair to be torn into rags and tatters. We
look in vain for a calm sea upon which floats the
religious world, for their continual antagonisms
too plainly denote that peace is not there.
	The isolation that we enjoyed (I mean the Lat-
ter-day Saints) for so many years is a thing of the
past, for the agitators of Society, both religious
and political as well as social, are among us stir-
ing up strife, and are maddened beyond descrip-
tion because we will not take issue with them up-
on any one of their favorite questions; for there
is a fixed determination on their part to drag us
down to their level and compel us to bow at their
shrine.
	The political element, fearful of our strength be-
cause of our unity, have been engaged in system-
atically stealing our political weapons for years
past. Stealing did I say? Yes, stealing is the
word and I speak advisedly when I use it; but
the very acme of meanness and cowardice was
reached by them when they took from woman her
only weapon,—THE FRANCHISE. Years ago woman
was brought within the political arena through their
clamor and had presented to her this weapon, new 
and bright; and now, because they have watched
in vain to see her use it as they dictated, she


[Column 1]

choosing to use it as she pleased, they have stolen
it from her, leaving her as unprotected as before,
and then turn round and howl about the down
trodden women of Utah. Oh, the hypocrites! I
wonder what hope they have either now or in the
future of winning our esteem by such conduct?
It is the height of absurdity to expect it for they
never will realize it.
	Talk about preserving the purity of the ballot.
Could not woman be trusted to help retain its
purity? Is it not rather that its purity is too well
preserved when it is in part in woman's keeping
that is the matter? These men certainly will not
claim in the face of so many revelations of cor-
ruption and fraud that have been proven against
them in this particular that the ballot is safe in
their hands alone? A jealous woman is to be
pitied, but a jealous man should be despised, and
it is certainly jealousy of women in regard to
the wise and honest use she will make of this
one weapon that has prompted these men to steal
it from her.
	Now, my sisters, seeing this has been done, let
us exercise ourselves in another direction. We
have hundreds of sons who are approaching man-
hood: we can recite to them the wrong that has
been done us in this regard and teach them the
value of this weapon when wielded aright. When
they reach maturity we can assure ourselves that
each boy of ours is secure in its possession and
that we can teach him how to use it; and who is
there who dare attempt to rob us of this sacred
trust! Our political rights must be maintained
at all cost save that of sacred covenant; therefore
let every disfranchised mother not only train her
sons, but see that they are fully qualified to enter
the arena from which she has been so cruelly ban-
ished and there contend for the right; for next to
our holy religion, is our country and its wise and
judicious government, to secure which, men of
of sterling worth must rule therein and not dema-
gogues nor hungry political cormorants.
	Nor should our daughters be neglected, for the
future mothers of the race need as careful train-
ing (though in another direction) as our sons. A
training as varied and extensive as her future re-
sponsibilities will be—a thorough, practical knowl-
edge of domestic life, seems to me to be indispens-
able, although a great deal of the drudgery be-
longing thereto may in her after years be done by
others. A sufficient literary education should be
secured, while a partial musical education (at
least) will add much to that refinement that sits so
gracefully upon woman.
	I was visiting some time ago at the home of a 
most estimable woman; accompanying me was
a sister who is an excellent organist; a splendid
instrument was in the room and she executed a
few of her best pieces. I noticed how interested
the children were. After the music ceased, the
youngest, a bright little fellow, four years old, who
was leaning upon his mother's knee, looked up in
her face and said with such earnestness, "Ma, I
wish you could play like that lady; can't you try?"
Unluckily for this excellent mother that part of
her education had been neglected.
	There is, however, another kind of training which
seems to me to be of the greatest importance, for
what is life worth to us or others without health
and strength? I pity a young man who has to
assume the role of nurse almost as soon as mar-
ried life begins and the bodily condition of whose
young wife demands a doctor as well. He soon
tires of hired help no matter how efficient it may
be, nor how attentive to his wants. For disguise
it as he may, he longs for the society of her he
loves, and that, too, away from the invalid couch.
	One very fruitful source among many others
that might be named, of what is termed
"female weakness," is in an over-indulgence
in dancing; more especially in waltzing, schot-
tisching and the polka; always accompanied
as such pastimes are with late hours; and

[Column 2]

yet how persistent we are to continue this
practice and that, too, against the desire of our
best friends. We can exercise ourselves far more
legitimately and without danger, in other ways
that are most commendable and praiseworthy;
that will preserve the elastic step, the queenly
gait, the ruddy cheek and the robust constitution
unimpaired; thus securing to posterity that vitality
and strength which is so desirable. Mothers!
too many of us live too far away from our
daughters. Their secret life is to us a sealed
book; let us open its pages and with the every
day's experience written therein let us add leaf by
leaf those wise suggestions that knowledge only
can give.
	I have often looked upon the bronzed cheek of
the maiden who performed daily the heaviest
physical labor and often out of doors and have
noticed her healthy appearance as compared with
the pampered girl of fashion, powder and paint.
Let us draw a line between these two extremes
and follow the middle course of conduct so beau-
tifully in keeping with our, organism and thus pre-
serve that healthy equilibrium of body and of
mind which God designed we should possess and
enjoy.
	All being well you shall hear again from
		AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPRING HOPES.

	The strenuous efforts made by our enemies to
devastate this land, and to make it a place of un-
happiness and misery, have only served to
strengthen the people and cause them to become
more united, more patient, more loving on every
side, instead of creating the sorrow and woe they
hoped to bring by this most cruel persecution.
	With the return of spring, hope, faith, love and
peace are again renewed, and as though to cheer
the Saints, and show them that the darkness can-
not last forever, spring has opened unusually
early, and if possible in greater beauty; the trees
and grass have commenced to show signs of re-
newed life, and the early flowers are already in
their bloom; the birds, too, have returned to their
old haunts, and by their sweet trillings, remind us
again of their presence.
	Nature is arrayed in her most beautiful garb,
and in everything is seen the wise and wonderful
workings of the Creator; the opening of the buds,
the unfolding of the flowers, and later, the forma-
tion of fruit, betoken on all sides the hand of an
allwise and thoughtful Father.
	The valley, at this time of the year, surrounded
on all sides by grand and lofty mountains, their 
sloping sides clothed with verdure, while their
snow-white tops seem to kiss the azure sky,
presents a most beautiful appearance. Our home
is truly a lovely and a blessed one; and while
nature smiles so sweetly, and the valley seems so
full of peace and joy, surely the Father, who
watches over all, and has caused this rejoicing of
birds and bees and flowers, cares as well for the
hearts of His children; and we should also rejoice,
and sing with the birds, work with the bees, smile
with the sunshine and joyfully prepare ourselves
for the future. True, sometimes the frosts wither
the beautiful buds, and the cold winds drive the
birds away, but with the sunshine they all come
back, so trials and pain may blight our hearts and
chill our very souls, but faith and love will renew
the tender hope and strengthen the weakened life.
It has ever been the happiness of Saints to see be-
yond the gathering, threatening clouds into a
bright ethereal day of everlasting peace.
		MAMIE.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM KANAB.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
     I see so little in our papers from Kanab,
that I thought a few items in reference to the

[Column 2]

different organizations of this Stake would be
interesting.
	Our Sunday School Conference convened at
10 a.m., Friday, Feb. 11, 1887, at the Kanab
School House, Stake Supt., A. Frost, presided.
H. C. Bowman is the Superintendent of the
Sunday School of this ward; the exercises were
given by the pupils of his school. They were
of such a character and so well rendered, that
they evinced the efficient and capable manner
in which the school had been conducted, and
also that the Supt. and teachers had the eternal
welfare of the children at heart.
	At half past 1 p.m. the conference of the
Primary Associations of the Stake was held at
the same place. As I am more particularly
associated with this organization, I will give a
more explicit account of the proceedings. In the
absence of Stake Prest., Louisa Spencer, Coun.
Electa J. Emmett presided. Coun. Susan
Facherel was also present. There were present
of the ward presidents, M. Elizabeth Little of
Kanab, S. Facherel of Orderville, and Jane
C. Johnson of Johnson; also present as visitors,
Sisters Harriet Bunting and Artemisia Seg-
miller of the Relief Society Stake Presidency.
The meeting was opened by singing, "The Song
of the Workers." Prayer by Jane C. Johnson.
Singing, "The Trials of the Present Day."
The programme was rendered as follows, by
the children of the Kanab Association: Ques-
tions and Answers on Faith, by the whole Asso-
ciation; Song, "Who Should Sing if not the
Children," by a class of little girls; Recitation,
on faith, by Gertrude Judd; Song, "My Mother
Dear," by Emily Nash; Articles of Faith, in
concert, by a class of boys; Recitation, by 
Willie Broadbent, aged three years; Recitation,
on faith, by Ethel Stewart; Recitation, by
Sabina Oliphant; Dialogue, on faith, by a class
of little girls; Duet, "Bury Me Quietly When
I Die," by May and Sabina Oliphant; Lecture,
on faith, by Emily Nash; Recitation, by Steven
Potter, aged four years.
	M. Elizabeth Little reported her Association
as being in a good condition. Said she had
given herself a mission to teach the children
the principles of the Gospel as far as she was
able, "so that the boys, particularly, may not
only understand these principles themselves,
but be able to give the whys and wherefores of
their belief unto others."
	S. Facherel reported the Association of
Orderville as doing well, having a goodly
number enrolled, with a good average attend-
ance.
	Jane C. Johnson said there were but a few
children at Johnson; under existing circum-
stances, she thought they were doing well.
	Counselors E. J. Emmett and S. Facherel
exhorted the children to obey their parents and
those who were placed over them; also spoke
on the necessity of prayer.
	Mrs. Segmiller told the children that their
advantages were far greater than had been
those of their fathers and mothers, and they
should profit thereby.
	Singing, "O Lord, Protect Our Leaders
True." Benediction by S. Facherel.
	At 3 o'clock the ladies of the Relief Society
held their conference, Prest. Harriet Bunting
presiding, assisted by her First Coun., Mrs.
Artemisia Segmiller. We had a very enjoy-
able time.
	Coun. Segmiller spoke at some length on
the spirit of fault-finding, prevalent among
some sisters everywhere. Counseled the sisters
to be kind and charitable to one another, and
be very careful not to speak against the Lord's
anointed.
	Prest. Bunting made some remarks on the
duties of the sisters in the Relief Society.
	Other sisters bore their testimonies to the
truth of the Latter-day work.
	At half past 7 the Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A.
met in conference. The programme indicated


that they were not a whit behind others in
their progress.
	Saturday, the 12th, the people met in Stake
Conference. Although we were not blessed
with the presence of any of the Presidency, or
of any of the Apostles, the Lord had mercy
on the people on account of their peculiar
position, and inspired those who spoke to give
unto them those things that were needed for
their growth and development. I can truly
say that we had a time of refreshing from the
Lord.
		M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM MILLARD.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We thought, perhaps, a small contribution
on our part might be acceptable to your valu-
able paper.
	Our Relief Society is steadily plodding along,
and as a general thing a good feeling prevails.
On the 29th of March last the sisters got up a 
party to surprise our beloved President, Sister
Adelia Kimball, on her fifty-ninth birthday.
Tables were set in the school house, and a good
assembly met.
	Sister Kimball was lured from her home on 
some pretext, and, accompanied by her Coun-
selors, Sisters Mills and Gay, entered the
house; she was greatly surprised and deeply
affected. On being seated, an autograph album
was presented to her as a token of friendship
from the sisters of the Relief Society. It was
a very happy gathering, and pleasure beamed
on every countenance.
	After all had partaken of the good things of
the earth, the tables were removed, and in the
evening songs, dancing and recitations were in-
dulged in, the ladies holding the dancing num-
bers. The invitation had been extended to the
brethren, and the house was well filled. At
the close, Sister Kimball expressed her grati-
tude to the brethren and sisters for the respect
they had shown her, and all went home feeling
the time had been well spent.
		ADELAIDE PAXTON.
	Kanosh, Millard Co., April 3rd, 1887.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Eighth Semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Emery Stake was held at
Huntington, on Friday, April 1st, commencing
at 10 a.m., Prest. Anna U. Larsen presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Bro.
Johnson. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	Prest. Anna U. Larsen, in her opening re-
marks, spoke of the duties of the Society in
caring for the sick, and doing all they could
for those who needed assistance. She advised
all to be careful in training their children, not
neglecting to teach them the principles of the
Gospel, and thought if we lived as we should
we would have no need to fear our enemies.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave verbal reports, showing that the members
were desirous of doing all in their power to
advance the cause of truth.
	A few of the older sisters related some of
their experience in the Church, and the trials
they had passed through; they could see the
sayings of the Prophet Joseph being fulfilled
every day, and their remarks, as well as those 
of the brethren who were present, were en-
couraging and replete with good counsel and
instruction, showing a determination to uphold
all the principles revealed for our exaltation,
and put their trust in the Lord.
	A good spirit was with us, and peace pre-
vailed, all feeling blessed in meeting together

[Column 2]

Conference adjourned till the 7th of October.
Benediction by Bro. Jensen.
		ANALIZA SEELY, Sec.

MARICOPA STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I herewith submit a summary of our quar-
terly conference, held at Mesa, Dec. 16, 1886.
Conference convened at 10 a.m., Coun. Susan
Savage presiding. Our Stake Prest., E. S.
McDonald, having just returned from her trip 
to Utah and Salt Lake, felt weary and needed
rest after her tiresome journey, therefore her
Counselor took charge of the meeting. The
roll call showed a fair representation of the
different branches of the Stake. Favorable
reports were given by the presiding sisters in
regard to their societies, and they each bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the work they
were engaged in.
	A number of the brethren and sisters ad-
dressed the meeting, whose remarks were very
encouraging, and calculated in their nature
to cheer and strengthen those who were en-
gaged in the work of God.
	Coun. Savage wished the prayers of the sis-
ters in behalf of our President, that the hoarse-
ness with which she was afflicted might be
removed, that she might be enabled to address
the meeting.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald felt very thankful to
return again to our midst, and enjoy the society
of her friends once more in this favored land.
Referred to the satisfaction she had experienced
in her labors in the Temple in officiating for
her dead; felt that the Lord had blessed her in
her labors in the renewal of her health; she
never felt better in her life. Spoke of conversa-
tions she had held with strangers, concerning
the principles of our religion, especially plural
marriage; felt that the blessings of God had
been with her in these interviews, and she was
thankful for it. "The sisters should strive to
comprehend the principles of our religion, that
they may be prepared to defend them when 
assailed by our enemies. Let us extend a
helping hand and a kind word to those who
are in trouble, and be, indeed, angels of mercy
in the sphere in which we are placed." Made
many more very interesting remarks, which
were listened to with great interest.
	After singing, conference adjourned for three
months. Dismissed by Bishop Jones.
	SARAH M. POMEROY, Secretary.

SANPETE STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, held at
Ephraim, March 12, 1887, Prest. M. A. Hyde
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
the roll was called, and minutes and reports were
read. Verbal reports were given by presidents
and representatives of the different branches,
which were very satisfactory.
	Coun. E. Allred hoped we would keep pace
with the times, as we were living under peculiar
circumstances, when all that could be shaken
would be shaken. It is necessary for us to
live lives of purity and faithfulness before God,
that this crusade might pass by.
	The following letter was then read from Sis-
ter Wareham:
DEAR SISTERS:
	Although I am deprived of the pleasure
of meeting with you in conference, I feel it a
duty to say a few words to you in behalf of
silk culture, as the time draws nearer when we
shall be obliged to sustain ourselves, and it
behooves us, as a people, to make every effort
in that direction. I would say to all who
have any mulberry trees, be not discouraged

[Column 3]

even if there appears to be no present sale for
cocoons. If you cannot sell them, you can
keep them, for I think that in a few years the
demand will be greater than the supply. So
far as I am concerned, I have no difficulty in
disposing of my silk at home for the manufac-
ture of ties, which are far nicer and more dur-
able than imported ones. I am satisfied that
if the sisters will persevere in the good work,
that success will yet crown their efforts. As
spring is now approaching, let all whose cir-
cumstances will permit, and who have the
welfare of Zion at heart, plant a few mulberry
trees and increase the number from year to
year, and those who already have the trees, I
trust will procure sufficient worms to utilize
the leaves during the coming summer.
	In conclusion I would say that, although
necessity prevents my meeting with you in
conference, yet I am with you heart and soul.
I have had a season of severe trial, but I hope
to profit by the experience thus gained. I am
happy to be able to say that Bro. Wareham
appears to be slowly recovering from his long
affliction.
	Praying God to bless you and direct your
labors during conference, I remain, with love
and good wishes,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			REBECCA WAREHAM,
		President Silk Association.
	Sister Tuttle felt to glorify God she that lived
in such an eventful time. It was necessary for
us to be a tried and persecuted people in order
to gain a celestial glory. Did not think God
would allow us to apostatize if we would be
humble and prayerful. Looked forward to
the time when this temple would be finished,
"and we can go in and do a work for our dead
friends and relatives." Did not feel to pray
for the trials to pass by, but for strength to
bear them.
	Coun. S. Petersen felt thankful that we were
engaged in so great a work. It is now nine
years since Brigham Young urged us to lay up
wheat for a time of need, but was sorry to see
what small progress had been made. Touched
upon silk and general manufacture, there
was no time to be idle. Spoke on plural
marriage, that it was as true as baptism.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde was thankful to meet
with her sisters again after so long an absence,
during which time she had had the opportunity
to represent the Relief Society of this Stake as
being energetic and industrious in manufactur-
ing cloth, carpet, cheese, etc., etc., for the tem-
ple, besides appropriating their Sunday eggs
for the emigrating of the poor. "Our temporal
and spiritual duties cannot be separated. The
sisters are gaining spiritual strength, and when
they have a testimony of what is right, they
will bring their minds into subjection to the
will of God, no matter what the consequences
might be, knowing that the Lord loves His
daughters as well as His sons, and hears and
answers their prayers." Concluded by speak-
ing in tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Casto, and was very encouraging to the
daughters of Zion.
	Bishop Jensen of Manti, addressed the con-
ference; felt to say, "May the God of Israel
bless and strengthen the sisters in their efforts
to do good."
	Prest. Canute Petersen said the Latter-day
Saints were making quite a history. "The sis-
ters are now sailing in the same canoe as the
brethren, as they have all been disfranchised."
Dilated on the principles of our faith and
blessed the sisters.
	The choir sang, "God is Love." Benedic-
tion by Bishop Andersen. Conference adjourned
to meet at Sterling, June 11th, 1887.
		M. A. HYDE WHITE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A PLEASANT AFFAIR.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 13th of December last, 1886, the sis-
ters of the Relief Society of Show Low,
Arizona, gave a party in honor of our beloved
President, Harriet Whipple, before her de-
parture to Mexico with her husband.
	It was quite a surprise to the aged couple,
three of their sons being absent at the time.
When at six in the evening the brethren and
sisters drove up to the door, they came out to
see who it was, thinking it was their sons, as
they were looking for them, but on seeing so
many vehicles Bro. Whipple exclaimed,
"What is the matter? Is any one sick or hurt?"
when one of the sisters remarked, "If you
think any of this crowd are sick you are off."
Bro. Whipple then, being over eighty years of
age, shook hands with all, and assisted the
ladies to alight from the wagons to the porch,
still not comprehending what was up until
all were seated in the house when the assembly
was called to order by Bishop Hans Hansen,
and prayer was offered. Then Bro. Whipple
arose and said he never was so surprised in
his life, and he felt full of true joy and grati-
tude to think his friends were so kind as to re-
member them in their old age. Said he never
felt better in his life, and felt that the Spirit of
the Lord was here, but was too over joyed to
say much. He hoped the party assembled
would never forget the occasion, as he was so
pleased and grateful for their kindness he
never would forget it, and he blessed all that
took part in the affair.
	Bro. David W. Savage then read the follow-
ing lines composed for the occasion by Sister
Mary Ann McNeil, she not being able to at-
tend, as she was sick:
		
A TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
	Accept, dear Sister Harriet Whipple,
What we have planned to-night,
As respect from us, and we hope it's right;
And this little gift we present to thee,
May it in some future day a comfort be.
Not that our names are required of thee
To vindicate thy worth or set thee free,
From thy great station—no, but praise bestowed
In gratitude for what we all have owed;
For counsel, wisdom and intelligence
Thy tongue and faith amongst us did dispense;
For this we thank thee, and for this we claim
To tell thy worth and venerate thy name.
Not that we've earned what we so much desire, 
But that, like you, to fame we may aspire;
And while we for the present grieve to part,
Your name's engrave on each beating heart,
And we ask the Lord your journey to bless,
That you may never be found in distress,
And that you with your aged and noble sire
May live as long as life is a desire;
And we hope that in your far-away home,
Or where'er you may chance to roam,
Your duty to God you will ever do,
And the Lord will guide and protect you through.

	Coun. Mary Adair then presented to Sister
Whipple, in behalf of the Society, a new
black dress.
	Sister Whipple arose and thanked the sisters
for their kindness and respect shown to her.
Said she did not think the sisters thought so
much of her, and was overcome with joy and
gratitude, so much that she could not express
her feelings as she would like to. Hoped all
would enjoy themselves, as they had met to
please her. She prayed the Lord to bless all
the sisters in their endeavors to do right.
	Some few remarks were made by several of
the brethren present, then the tables were
spread with the good things of the land, in-
cluding home brewed beer, with stuffed turkey
and chicken. While at supper their sons
came home from St. Johns, making it more
satisfactory for the venerable pair. The even-

[Column 2]

ing was then spent in songs, recitations, etc. At
ten o'clock the assembly began to repair to
their homes, but Bro. Whipple put it to vote
that they should stay longer, but it being even,
they all returned home feeling very well paid
for their trouble in making two hearts happy.
		MARY ANN McNEIL, Sec.


ITEMS FROM COLEVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As we don't remember ever having been
heard from through the columns of our valu-
able paper, we thought, perhaps, a few items
from our little settlement might not be amiss.
We are trying, to the best of our ability, to do
our duty and help roll on the work of God.
	Our Bishop, John C. Larsen, is a man of
God, and is never tired of working for the in-
terest of his ward, and for the building up of
God's kingdom.
	We have a good Relief Society, with Sister
Elizabeth Tittonsor as President, and Sisters
Susannah Larsen and Carrie Kingsford, Coun-
selors.
	Our Y. L. M. I. A., with Sister Mary Bair,
President, and Sisters Mary Tittonsor and
Betsy Allen, her Counselors, is doing a good
work for the improvement of the young.
	Our Primary Association was reorganized
on the 9th of last May, with Sister Emma
Cornish, President, and Sisters Jane R. Biggs
and Minerva Allen Counselors; Miss Lottie
Spackman, Secretary; Miss Caroline Cornish,
Treasurer.  Our Primary meetings are well at-
tended, and the children, bless them, are al-
ways willing to take their parts, and do any-
thing that is required of them.
	We held a Primary exhibition on the 22nd
of February, for the purpose of assisting to
gather the poor. Our programme consisted of
songs, recitations, dialogues, and also two
comic pieces, one entitled, "Have you Heard
the News," and the other, "That Postal Card."
After paying expenses we had a balance of
$9.75 left, which was turned for the purpose
before mentioned.
	Our worthy Bishop has kindly promised to
give one acre of land for the boys of the
Primary Association to plant in potatoes, each
one to furnish an equal share of potatoes,
to plant them and see after them, and the pro-
ceeds to go towards buying musical instruments,
so we can have a Primary band. This will en-
courage the children, and will also teach them
to be useful.
	Praying for those who have the welfare of
Zion at heart, and who are diligently working
for the spread of truth on the earth, and all
that is good and noble, we remain,
	Your sisters and co-workers in the Gospel,
		EMMA CORNISH,
		JANE R. BIGGS,
		MINERVA ALLEN.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18 
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra


and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send  you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address,. The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


In England, single women and widows have
had full municipal suffrage for eighteen years.
Mr. Gladstone says they exercise it "without
detriment, and with great advantage."
	In Iowa the average wages paid women
school teachers are twenty-seven dollars, while
men teachers receive thirty-two dollars. Dis-
franchisement thus costs each female teacher
forty-five dollars per year.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

ON THE DEATH OF SISTER HAWLEY.

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has seen fit to remove from our midst by the hand of death
our beloved sister, Jennie Hawley,
	Whereas, Our sister, by her kind, sympathetic nature,
and faithfulness to the cause of truth, has won the hearts of
all those who knew her worth, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Mesa Relief
Society, do hereby tender our love and esteem to the mem-
ory of our departed sister, and we realize that in her we
have lost a true friend and a faithful co-worker in the ever-
lasting Gospel.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
bereaved husband and family of the deceased, and feel to
express an earnest hope that the Holy Comforter will im-
part to them consolation and comfort in this hour of their
deep sorrow.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the family of the deceased, a copy to the EXPONENT for
publication, and also placed on the Society records.
		ELIZABETH G. MCDONALD,
		ELEANOR MORRIS,
		MABEL ANN HAKES,
		SARAH M. POMEROY,
			Committee.


REMEMBRANCE OF LOVE.

	The following is a short sketch of the life of my sister,
whose maiden name was Christina Swenson, since she first
embraced the Gospel:


She was born in Sweden, on the 10th of July, 1834, and
in company with myself emigrated to Copenhagen, Den-
mark on the 1st of April, 1859. At that time neither
us had heard anything about the Latter-day Saints, but we
soon heard it, and on the 30th of April, the same year, we
were baptized, and on the 1st day of May we were both
confirmed into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. She was baptized by Elder Olson, and confirmed
by Elder Johnson, and emigrated to Utah in 1863, in con-
nection with myself; was married to Elder H. Funk in Salt
Lake City, in November, 1863, with whom she lived until
her death. Moved from Salt Lake to Richmond, Cache
Co., in 1864, where she resided for some time, then moved
to Weston in 1865 or 1866, but as the Indians were trouble-
some there at that time, they moved back to Richmond.
	When the Relief Society was first organized there, she
being one of the first members, was chosen for a teacher,
and after a short time was appointed as President over the
teachers, which duty she faithfully performed until 1874, when
her husband was called to act as Bishop over Newton Ward
and she was again appointed as a teacher, the office of
which she held until the day of her death.
	She was a faithful wife and mother in Israel, and as such
I think she is worthy to be mentioned in our little paper,
the EXPONENT. She, like many other faithful women,
passed through many trials and sufferings, which were un-
known to any one save God and herself. She was well
known as an exceedingly good woman. Her duty was
always the first consideration, and one of her teachings
was, "It is better to suffer wrong than to do wrong." She
lived in plural marriage the most of her life, and honored
it as an exaltation for her in eternal life. I never heard a
doubting word pass her lips either as regards plural mar-
riage or the truth of this work. She was always happy
and contented with her lot, as well as a careful, economical
and industrious housekeeper. She was always hard at
work, though not to store up for herself, but always divided
with others who she thought needed it worse than she did
Her hands and heart were always ready to do good, both
in sickness and other troubles.
	I ought not to mourn for my dear sister's departure; she
has gone through to the rest that remains for the faithful.
She has gone to her dearest children, whom with joy she will
clasp to her bosom again, all but one, who is left to struggle
on alone. She has suffered and borne all her sorrow with
patience; her troubles and trials have all passed away; she
has won the bright crown by faith and endurance; her
reward is obtained, her joy is complete, so, farewell, dear
sister, I would not recall thee, for we know thou art happy
in the heaven of rest; thou hast done all the work that thou
could do, henceforth thou wilt dwell with the good and the
blest.
	Dearest sister, I had to lose thee, and I cannot tell you
how I feel, but I can tell here how I loved you; you were
always so good and kind, not only to me, but to all around
you, and an honor in the places where you lived. Often
were you left so lonely, busy working all the time, but the
Lord our God did love you, and I know you have been a
faithful wife and loving mother, and a sister good and kind,
not to talk about another, nor with their doings fault to
find.
	To all good sisters I will say, "Here is one to represent
us if we will follow in her way." Now, the unpleasant
world, farewell; I must tarry for a time, may love and
peace forever dwell, and God be with us, sisters dear, that
are left yet to labor for a while.
		COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Grantsville, Tooele Co., January 20, 1887,
Rachel C., the beloved wife of Samuel Woolley, and
daughter of Andrew and Janet Cahoon. She leaves a
husband, four children and a host of loving friends
to mourn her loss. Her pleasant words, accompanied
with a bright smile, won for her true friends wherever her
lot was cast. She was cheerful under all circumstances,
and lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	The funeral services were held in the Grantsville Meeting
House, Saturday, January 22nd. The speakers were
Bishop Samuel Woolley, John Woolley, Apostle John W.
Taylor and Prest. A. M. Cannon. They all spoke very
highly of the deceased. Apostle Taylor said that she had
led an exemplary life; that her life had been nothing but
good from beginning to end. Advised all to follow in 
her footsteps.
		EMMA S. JACOBS.

	DIED, at Zeno, Maricopa Co., Arizona, at 7 p.m., on
Wednesday, March 2nd, 1887, Ann Jane, wife of Charles

[Column 2]

L. Hawley, aged forty-nine years, two months and four days.
	Sister Hawley, daughter of Isaac and Mary Russell, was
born near Kirtland, Ohio, on the 26th of Dec. 1837, while
her father was in England proclaiming the Gospel. On re-
turning in April, 1838, with Heber C. Kimball and
Orson Hyde from England, her father with his family removed
to Far West, Caldwell Co., Missouri, the then gathering
place of the Saints. Scenes prior and subsequent to the
expulsion of the Saints from Missouri, through which she
passed with her father's family, cannot be enumerated in
the short space allotted to an obituary notice; suffice it to say,
her father's house, nightly as it were, was assailed by a
mob, the roof torn partly off, chimney torn down, windows
smashed in, horses maimed, wagons chopped to pieces,
cattle shot down, haystacks burned, his life threatened
numerous times, his children dragged from their beds at
the dead hour of night, by order of John Ragland, a re-
puted horse thief, and chief of the mob, he swearing that
he would shoot them unless their father would promise to
leave the place. This he would not do. The house was
then emptied of all its contents, the ruffians swearing
they would burn it down. The children, Sister Hawley be-
ing one of them at that time, asleep, were carried from
their beds and placed for the mob to shoot, but Providence
did not permit them to be murdered
	Next he was cast into prison, because he would not vio-
late his conscience, as in the present day, at the order of
Circuit Judge, Austin A. King, and, finally, fresh license be-
ing taken from the action of Judge King, early in the year
1842 he was torn from his house, in the presence of his
family, by an infuriated, howling mob, dragged up on the
Temple Lot in Far West, and there sold as a slave to the
highest bidder, for a term of six months, John Ragland
being the purchaser, and Patrick Lynch, another noted
mobber, being the auctioneer Remember, this was in a
free country, and the person not a citizen of the United
States, but a British subject. Prior to this, the said Patrick
Lynch was clerk in Jacob Stollins store in Gallatin, Daviess
Co., where a fight occurred, otherwise mentioned in
Church history.
	With his wife, infant child and eldest daughter, he re-
paired to the farm of his purchaser, in the borders of
Daviess Co., serving out the allotted time in labor thereon,
at the expiration of which he leased a piece of land three
miles east of Richmond, in Ray Co., and built a log house
thereon, and early in the spring of the year 1843, gathered
his family again together, where, on the 25th of September,
1844, he passed away from—the last seven years—an
eventful life, at the early age of thirty-seven years, leaving
his wife and six small children, the youngest then not one
year old, Sister Hawley, the subject of this notice, being
the fourth in age.
	Long after he had slept in his grave, the scene of his
sale was alluded to in the presence of an old Missouri
pioneer, named Nimrod Duncan, who had witnessed it,
and Mr. Duncan remarked, "I am an old man, one foot,
as it were, in the grave; when I first set foot here, where
the City of Richmond now stands, it was a forest; the
woodman's axe had not then entered. I have seen many
ups and downs in life, but that, "alluding to the sale referred
to, "was the most disgraceful scene that I ever witnessed
under the government of the United States, and that, too,
when the civil law was said to be in full force." There was
no polygamy then. The sacred marriage principle of
the Latter-day Saints was then not known, nor heard of.
No cause whatever could be assigned for the brutal, fiendish
acts of the mob, nor for their being permitted to continue
them for three successive years after the expulsion of the
body of the Church, save that the man was a "Mormon,"
and that the administrators of the law, many of them then,
as now, were but fiends at heart themselves.
	Left by the wayside, a stranger in a strange land;
destitute, with her helpless family (no one to rely upon
save her God and the promise of her dying husband, that
his children should not want for bread), the widowed
mother struggled on.
	Seventeen years passed by. Sister Hawley, now grown
to womanhood, never having heard a word in defense of
the Gospel in all this time, but raised in a school of preju-
dice against it, with her mother, sister and brother
with one accord set out for Utah, 1,300 miles away, arriving
in Salt Lake City on the 15th of September, 1861. Here,
by Heber C. Kimball, on the 3rd of January, 1863, she
was married to Charles W. Hawley, residing in Salt Lake
City and vicinity up to December, 1883, when she came
with her family to this Territory, Arizona.
	She leaves her husband and four daughters, the youngest
in her 14th year, besides her kindred and many friends to
mourn her loss. She died loved and respected by all who
knew her.	COM.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY. 

The Leading Retail 
Cash House. 

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY. 

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868. 

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE, 
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE, 
ELEGANT CUT GLASS, 
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS, 
CLOTH AND CLOTHING, 
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west. 
	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies. 

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS. 
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
-ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1887.	NO. 23.


TRUE LOVE GROWS ALWAYS
DEARER.

Twelve years of life together,
Of fair and cloudy weather;
	Of hopes and fears,
	And trials and tears:
But love to bind together.
	
Sunshine made love the clearer,
Shadows but drew us nearer;
	And joy and pain
	Sing	one refrain,
True love grows always dearer.

Joys may we always number,
And sorrows, dear, remember;
	And love and light
	Crown all the flight
Of years, till both shall slumber.

	MYSOTIS.
November 7, 1886.
		Mell G. Woods.


WHAT WOMEN TALK ABOUT,
AND WHY.

	It is a standing joke with our husbands and
brothers, that when two or more women meet
together for an afternoon visit, or even a morn-
ing call, their conversation is sure to gravi-
tate to the subject of servant girls and the
trials and tribulations of housekeepers in
general. I do not by any means admit the
truth of this, generally speaking, but if it were
true, what wonder?
	Do not these self-same husbands and brothers
converse on the subjects that are of the great-
est interest to them and have the most intimate
connection with their business? As for instance,
does not the farmer talk of the weather, the
crops, the latest improvements in machinery
for lightening agricultural labor, with his
brother farmers? The politician discusses the
prospective changes in official careers, the
merits and demerits of the candidates, the
tariff, the civil service, and all the ponderous
methods of government, with his fellow politi-
cians? and so on, ad infinitum. The horseman
talks nothing but horse; the merchants com-
pare notes in regard to trade; lawyers discuss
court affairs, and physicians (if ever on friendly
terms enough to speak at all) drift naturally
into the subjects which for them have the
greatest interest.
	How few housekeepers and mothers, com-
paratively speaking, have opportunities to post
themselves on the topics of the day; they talk
of their housekeeping cares, their children,
their servants, because these are the subjects,
which are, of necessity, daily and hourly upper-
most in their minds.
	Husbands do not object, as a general thing,
the sharing of the substantial benefits some-
times derived from learning, through their
chats, the recipe for some new and delicious
dish; the faults or merits of the new girl about
to be engaged, or whether it is wiser to make
that always dreaded change from the old one,
with all her faults, to the new one we know
nought of; to borrow an occasional bright idea
of how to make "auld claes look amoist as
weel's the new." Why, I could go on for an
hour, and then not enumerate all the benefits,
yes, actual benefits, to be derived from these
harmless, neighborly gossips, at which the male
population poke so much fun.
	If housekeepers had fewer cares and


more opportunities for pleasure and improve-
ment, they might have more varied subjects of
conversation; but while their heads and hands
are full of the homely duties of the hour, it
must be expected these selfsame duties will
furnish the principal food for their daily talk.
		ROSINA.


[Column 1]

﻿THE SITUATION.

	President Cleveland, as we are informed, did
not sign that infamous measure known to us
as the Edmunds-Tucker Bill. Query: "Why
did he not sign it?" I believe he knew it was a
gross violation of the Constitution, and would
prove the opening wedge to break in pieces the
platform upon which all constitutional freedom
was founded. There may have been other
reasons why he did not sign it, for God, it
seems to me, would not suffer a man who had
righteousness in his soul to sell his birthright
by signing away the rights guaranteed in that
sacred instrument, the Declaration of Inde-
pendence.
	The Governor of Arizona has shown his
patriotism by vetoing, or at least abolishing,
that ridiculous test oath. God will bless such
men, and they are worthy to rise to positions of
honor and renown. It seems that men are rare
nowadays who will seek to maintain inviolate
that sacred, heaven-born boon, that cannot be
purchased with gold nor silver, but which cost
the royal blood of our patriot fathers, who, we
may well believe, are looking down from the
paradise of God oftentimes to see the holy,
sacred altar of liberty desecrated It should
be priceless to us, for it was rendered ever dear
to them by the pleading prayers and bitter
tears and sacrifices of their tender wives and
children, dearer still for the crimson blood that
flowed out from hearts so brave and true. Like
unto the Son of God, they came to this earth
for a purpose—to lay their lives down in be-
queathing unto their posterity that legacy that
could not be found upon all the face of the
earth.
	Oh, liberty, we, like our fathers, have wor-
shipped at thy sacred shrine. Freedom, where
hast thou fled? Hast thou no friends nor
home upon the earth? Hast thou returned to
God who gave thee birth, whither patriots and
statesmen have gone before thee? The form of
thy beautiful goddess, dethroned of her glory,
has bowed her head in shame, and bathed her
cheeks in tears for her children's woes and her
country's wrongs. Exiled and imprisoned,
their property confiscated, scores of thy sons
are led in the language of Zion's poetess to
exclaim:

"Oh, persecution, shall thy purple hand
Spread utter desolation through the land?
Shall freedom's banner be no more unfurled?
Has peace indeed been taken from the world?"

	Those who signed the Declaration of Inde-
pendence laid their lives upon the altar. That
Declaration guarantees religious liberty; but do
we enjoy it? Every man, woman and child
should enter a protest against such despotic,
oppressive bills being acknowledged as law upon
this free American soil. We should contend
for our rights, for we are the legal and lawful
heirs to every right and privilege couched in
that sacred document which is the will and
heritage of our forefathers.
	Many thanks to the Woman's Convention;
their heads were well balanced when they

[Column 2]

asked the President to veto that clause in the
bill robbing the women of the elective franchise.
We cannot call it anything but robbery—class-
ing the wives and mothers with idiots and
criminals.
	Websters's definition of "Republic" is: "A
commonwealth, a state in which the exercise of
the sovereign power is lodged in representatives
elected by the people; in modern usage it differs
from a democracy or democratic State in which
the people exercise the powers of sovereignty
in person." Now, I would like to ask Mr.
Edmunds, if women are not people, what are
they? His bill classes them with reprobates,
idiots and criminals.
	In ancient days, when King Ahasueras
passed a decree to have all the Jews slain,
Esther, the Queen, proclaimed a fast of three
days and three nights to be observed among
Jews throughout all the provinces of the land,
and also by the Queen and her maids, during
which time they neither ate nor drank. The
morning of the fourth day Esther arose and
put on her royal apparel, and said unto her
maids, "I go before the King with my petition;
if I die, I die," for it was death by the law to
appear before his royal highness without per-
mission. When the King saw the Queen
standing in the inner court of the royal palace
he held out the golden scepter with these words,
"What is thy petition, Queen Esther? If it be
half of the kingdom it shall be granted thee."
Oh, how beautiful she must have looked,
clothed in her royal apparel, after fasting three
days and three nights, with her heart drawn
out in silent prayer unto the throne of God to
spare her life and the lives of her people!
Then was a manifestation of the power of God
brought to bear upon the King, through the
power of faith, brought into action by the un-
just persecution of the people of God. Her
petition was granted. God changed the decree
of the King, and Israel was free. So always
in His due time, may we see the hand of God
in answer to prayer.
	The Latter-day Saints have been taught to
pray for their rulers. They do so, and we ven-
ture to say many of them often remember
Senator Edmunds in their devotions. His
name will yet be held in derision by all who
love the name of Freedom. We hope soon to
see the time when the people with one united
voice may enter a protest against his despotic
bill.
	Pray on, Latter-day Saints! Let your fa t-
ings and prayers come up before the mighty
God of Israel, and you will see Haman hung
upon the gallows he is preparing for you.
		E PLURIBUS UNUM.


SANPETE PRIMARIES—A LAMANITE
LOVE-FEAST.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our late visit to the Primary Associations
of this, the Sanpete Stake of Zion, was a very
gratifying one, except in Fountain Green,
where the yellow flag told the dreaded story
of sickness among the little ones. It is more
and more apparent, that the most active, ener-
getic, wide awake and dutiful are the most
happy, whether they be officers or members of
these Associations; and we were very much
pleased, the other day, to hear the father of a
numerous family say in our Sabbath meeting
that since the Primary had been organized


his children were devoted to our religion earlier
and in a higher degree than previous to that
time.
	The nineteen Primaries of this Stake are
all adding their mite yearly to the building of
the Manti Temple, some gleaning wheat, some
making carpet (of which, we have been reliably
informed, it will take 1,100 yards to cover one
floor of that grand house), others making
quilts, counterpanes, tidies, laces, etc, and
saving nickles and dimes to help roll on this
important work. There have been seven fairs
the last year, and there are six manuscript
papers edited by the Primaries, weekly. There
are 2,114 children enrolled in the Primaries of
this Stake; 496 meetings have been held ac-
cording to our last yearly statistics, with an
average attendance of not quite one half of
the numbers enrolled. $265.52 was collected
last year, $207.64 disbursed, and there is $183.96
on hand.
	Quite a number of concerts have been given
by the children to delighted audiences, the pre-
siding sisters and the children unitedly working
for the financial independence of the Primaries,
while the most talented and warm hearted of
our young people render able and willing aid
in training the wee amateurs for their perform-
ances.
	From the average attendance, given above,
the inference seems justifiable that there is a
lack of appreciation on the part of the parents,
as it is a well established fact that children
will attend their meetings if not kept at home.
The presidents and counselors of Primaries are
laying up treasures in heaven, and in the
hearts of the children.
	While in Indianola we were permitted to
witness a novel entertainment. Our Lamanite
brethren and sisters there had arranged to
give a picnic in the evening to their friends,
Indians from the Bannock Nation, who were
there visiting and attending the Sanpete Stake
Quarterly Conference, held at Ephraim, and who
in turn decided to entertain them with a speci-
men of their war-dance. About a dozen of
the warriors sat down on the floor, surrounding
a small drum, on which they beat excellent
time with muffled sticks to a kind of chant, in
which the war chief was the leader. One, only,
was dressed in full war dress, tomahawk and
all. Two or three of them would jump up, at
different times, as if they had waited to be in-
spired by the music, to which they, in perfect
time, would jump on both feet at a time, swing-
ing their bodies from one side to the other,
every little while lifting their tomahawks up
over their heads, (those who had no tomahawk
used a drum stick) and giving vent to the
ominous "Ugh" in a manner that made us
shudder, while we thanked our Father in Hea-
ven that they were our friends and not our
enemies. Two venerable chiefs, whose majestic
bearing and noble looks showed that they
could by no means be considered dethroned
monarchs were proud but passive spectators
of this singular feast.
	The kind Bishop of Indianola, Brother J.
Spencer, presided, and upon his invitation we
were present. He seemed perfectly at home
among both the visiting and resident Laman-
ites, who in their turn seemed to think that
his words were their law. Next morning the
Bannock visitors were driven to the station by
the Indianola Indians, with their own teams.
	The work in the Primaries is steadily in-
creasing in interest. That work is its own
sweet reward, to say nothing about the harvest
to come from the seeds of truth and love now
sown so faithfully by the sisters who are and
have been laboring in the good cause.
		HELENA MADSEN, 
		LUCY BERGLUND, 
		HANNAH WICKMAN, 
	Stake Presidency of Primaries
Gunnison, Sanpete Co., April 12, 1887.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿THE HINDOO MARRIAGE LAW.

	The case of Rukmibhai, the native lady
whose wrongs aroused so general a feeling of
sympathy in England and India, is again ex-
citing attention. It appears that Rukmibhai
was married, according to Hindoo usage, at the
age of 11, to a youth some years her senior.
She remained at her parents' house, was care-
fully educated, and grew up, according to all
accounts, into a refined and cultivated lady.
Some eighteen months ago she published in the
Times of India, under the non de plume of a
"Hindoo Lady," a series of forcible and strik-
ing letters on the miseries entailed on her sex
in India, by the barbarous customs of infant
marriage and enforced widowhood. Last year
her husband tried to get her to live with him,
and on her refusing instituted a suit for the
restitution of conjugal rights in the Bombay
High Court. The case was tried in the first
instance by Mr. Justice Pinhey, when it hav-
ing been proved that the husband was too
poor to support her, was utterly ignorant and
uneducated—in fact a mere coolie—and was
moreover consumptive, the Judge expressed
the opinion that it would be a barbarous, cruel
and revolting thing to compel her to live
with such a man. He further held that
such a suit could not lie under Hindoo law,
and dismissed it. The husband appealed, and
the case was argued before the Chief Justice
and Mr. Bayley. Those learned Judges,
while expressing their entire sympathy with
Rukmibhai, felt compelled to rule that Mr.
Justice Pinhey was wrong in law and
remanded the case to the Lower Court for
trial on its merits. It has now been reheard
before Mr. Justice Farran. Rukmibhai's
counsel could only repeat that his client had
never consented to the marriage, and never
regarded the man as her husband, that the
husband was poor, ignorant, and unhealthy,
and that if ordered to return to him she
would be forced to disobey, and was pre-
pared to take the consequences. The court
had no option save to pass an order that she
should join her husband within a month.
Should she fail to do so, she would be liable
to six months' imprisonment. The case has
excited much sympathy among the Anglo-
Indian community. The English newspapers
are publishing articles and letters on the
subject.
	The Times, April 11th, says that a com-
mittee has been formed in Bombay under
the presidency of Professor Wordsworth to
take action with a view to the removal of
the anomaly which applies coercive English
provisions to enforce the Hindoo law. The
committee is busily engaged in raising funds,
and seems determined to thresh out the case
again before the Appeal Court. Should that
tribunal uphold the ruling of the Court of
first instance, it is to be hoped that the funds
will suffice to carry the case to and to obtain
an authoritative decision from the Privy
Council. The sympathy shown by the Brit-
ish Press and public is fully appreciated here,
but it would appear that the exact position
of affairs is not clearly understood at home.
If the existing order is not set aside, Ruk-
mibhai will be liable not only to trial by a
Criminal Court, but to six months' imprison-
ment in a civil goal for disobedience to the
order of a Civil Court. That imprisonment
over, her troubles will not be necessarily at
an end, for if her husband again requests
her to live with him, and she again refuses,
a fresh cause of action will arise, and the
whole miserable business may be repeated
over and over again after the expiration of
each term of imprisonment. It is therefore
in the highest degree desirable that the Court
of ultimate appeal should have an oppor-
tunity of expressing its opinion on the legal

[Column 2]

point. Should that opinion be adverse to
Rukmibhai, it is to be hoped that the force
of English and Anglo-Indian opinion will
compel the Government to alter the law.
Among the native community, however, hard-
ly a single voice except that of Mr. Malabari,
a Parsee gentleman, has been raised in her
favor, and the so-called reformers who agitate
loudly for representative institutions, etc., say
no word for the alteration of the cruel law
which the Bombay Court has been reluctant-
ly compelled to enforce.
	A letter by Rukmibhai herself to an Eng-
lish lady, which was published in the Times
April 9th, forcibly shows the hardship, not
only of her case, but of all other Hindoo
wives. The fiftieth year of our Queen's ac-
cession to the most renowned throne, she
says, is the jubilee year in which every town
and every village in her dominions, is to
show its loyalty in the best way it can,
and wish the Mother Queen a long happy
life to rule over us for many years with
peace and prosperity. At such an unusual
occasion will the mother listen to an earnest
appeal from her millions of Indian daughters,
and grant them a few simple words of
change into the books on Hindoo law, that
marriages performed before the respective
ages of twenty in boys and fifteen in girls,
shall not be considered legal in the eyes of
the  law if brought before the court?—Se-
lected.


"What a picturesque little cottage! A verit-
able Swiss chalet."
	"A Swiss shall he, do you call it? To my
mind, it's more like an Irish shan't he."
	"I see," said an opposing counsel to the
late Emery A. Storrs, "you hate to meet the
truth in this matter." "I never do meet it,"
was the prompt reply; "the truth and I al-
ways travel in the same direction."
	"Mamma," said a small boy, "how do you
spell 'knee?'" "K-n-e-e, Johnny." Silence 
for several minutes, while the letters were
going down laboriously. "Mamma, how do
spell 'grow'?" "G-r-o-w, my son." More la-
borious scratching, after which the boy looks
up smilingly, remarking: "Now I've got it,—
k-n-e-e, ne, g-r-o-w, gro, negro."
	"Major," said a friend to him one day, "if
some one was to challenge you to fight a duel,
what would you do?" "It would all depend on
whether he was a gentleman  or not," said the
major. "If he was a gentleman, I'd certainly
fight him." "But how would you judge as to
that?" "That wouldn't be hard to tell. If he
was a gentleman, he wouldn't want to fight me
unless I had insulted him; and I wouldn't insult
him if he was a gentleman."


Women constitute two thirds of our church
members and only one fifth of our criminals.
Yet there are still people who say that
woman suffrage would strengthen the politi-
cal power of vice and crime.
	Light is thrown on the woman question
by the remark of the Springfield Republican,
that "if a woman can market well, she ought
to be intelligent enough to vote." This idea,
the New York World thinks, "is probably
based on the assumption that the selection of
pork chops is a similar process to the selec-
tion of politicians." It can be further re-
marked that, if better results were not se-
cured in the selection of pork chops for the
breakfast-table than in the election of politi-
cians for office, there would be trouble in a
large number of the happy families of this
country.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DOUBTING HEART.

Where are the swallows fled?
		Frozen and dead,
Perchance upon some bleak and stormy shore
		O doubting heart!
	Far over purple seas,
	They wait, in sunny ease,
	The balmy southern breeze,
To bring them to their northern home once more.

Why must the flowers die?
		Prisoned they lie
In the cold tomb, heedless of tears or rain.
		O doubting heart!
	They only sleep below
	The soft white ermine snow,
	While winter winds shall blow,
To breathe and smile upon you soon again.

The sun has hid its rays
		These many days; 
	Will dreary hours never leave the earth?
		O doubting heart!
	The stormy clouds on high
	Veil the same sunny sky,
	That soon (for spring is nigh)
Shall wake the summer into golden mirth.

Fair hope is dead, and light
		Is quenched in night.
What sound can break the silence of despair?
		O doubting heart!
	Thy sky is overcast,
	Yet stars shall rise at last,
	Brighter for darkness past,
And angels' silver voices stir the air.

		ADELAIDE A. PROCTER.


MARIE CALM.

	By the death of Miss Marie Calm, which
occurred after a short illness at Cassel, Ger-
many, on February 22nd, the German women
have lost an earnest advocate of their higher
education, and a hard worker on many
questions of social interest. Marie Calm was
no theorist, during her early life she had
practical experience in education, both as
governess in England and Russia, and princi-
pal of a school in the Rhine Provinces, and
she was able to estimate, at its full value,
the influence for good which a sounder me-
thod of instruction and a broader extent of
knowledge, would exert upon women's lives.
	Maria Calm, the poet, novelist and philan-
thropist; was born at Arolson, in the princi-
pality of Waldeck in 1832. Her father was
burgomaster of that town, and held the usual
views of the time upon woman's education;
but his daughter persuaded him to allow her
to finish her education in Switzerland, and
from thence she went as governess to other
countries. Afterwards she took charge of a
girls' school in Germany, which she retained
till forced to give it up by delicate health.
From this time she turned her full attention
to writing.
	In 1865, the first Woman's Congress, when
the Deutschen Frauen Allgemeiner Verein
was established, was held at Leipsic, and im-
mediately afterwards, Maria Calm, delighted
to find this commencement of effort for eleva-
tion of her countrywomen, wrote to the pro-
moters of the Congress to express her sym-
pathy with their views. Three years later,
in October, 1869, she invited the Conference
to meet in Cassel, and worked almost single-
handed for its success, very few men or
women in Cassel caring for its objects, and
all disapproving of women speakers. The
Congress, however, despite all discourage-
ments, was a thorough success; a local Union
for the education of women was founded,
and an Industrial School for Girls established.
The instruction in this school includes book-
keeping, foreign languages, German literature
and history, commercial correspondence, buy-

[Column 2]

ing of goods for household and other pur-
poses, drawing and needlework of all kinds.
The school rapidly grew and prospered. Miss
Calm not only held classes in history and
literature in it herself, but assembled the
pupils in her own house in the evenings,
thus supplementing the school education by
kindly home influence.
	Since 1869, however, she placed herself at
the service of the cause of Woman's Educa-
tion, being ready to travel wherever she was
needed to lecture upon education, and to
found unions and schools. She went in this
way to Hamburg, Heidelberg, Stuttgart,
Frankfurt and many other towns, her sound
good sense, and pleasant, genial manners, al-
ways winning friends to the cause. In Eng-
land friends will remember her last visit in
the summer of 1862, and the interest she took
in all the methods for developing the rights
and responsibilities of women in that country.
She was an accomplished English scholar, and
took part with ease in a meeting of the Women's
Poor Law Guardian Society, relating the
analogous part which German ladies took in
the management of the poor at Hamburg, El-
berfeldt, Cassel, and other places. She was
also much pleased by a visit she paid to the
colleges for women at Cambridge, to a Suffrage
Meeting at Southsea, and other occasions
where women were endeavoring to do honest
and thorough work. On her return to Ger-
many she wrote accounts of many of these
movements; but although publishers were easily
found for her papers on the condition of
Women's Employment and Education in Eng-
land, it is worthy of note that she received
continual discouragement about her Suffrage
articles, and it is not certain that they have
ever found a publisher to this day.
	The list of her writings is too long to be
mentioned; some are composed with special
reference to girls, such as the "Blick in das
Leben," prepared for girls from sixteen to
eighteen, and "Weibliches Wirken in Kuche,
Wohnzimmer und Salon." Her novels are
thoughtful, and full of earnest purpose; a vol-
ume of poems, called "Bilder und Klange,"
was printed during the Franco-Prussian war,
and sold for the benefit of the wounded soldiers.
Her writings in Neue Bahnen, and other Ger-
man periodicals, were innumerable; the latest
communication we received from her was in
November last, on the subject of the Medical
Education of Women, in which she was pro-
foundly interested; she spoke hopefully in it of
the next meeting in Weimar. Her last illness
was short, and the announcement of her death
on February 22nd was the first intimation that
many of her English friends received of her
danger. She was one of those who can ill be
spared.—Englishwoman's Review.


ONLY A MORMON.
	What happened when the Mormons forty
years ago settled in the desert of Utah was
this: A city sprang up as if by magic, and
the untiring industry, energy and zeal of the
emigrants turned a barren wilderness into a
fertile and blooming garden. The American
frontiersman would sooner steal than starve or
work any day, and the possessions of the Mor-
mons have been piously coveted by him these
many years. He has sought and found divers
of the Lord’s orthodox saints to whom the
beam in the Mormon eye is very grievous.
Brother Frelinghuysen, of New Jersey, some
fifteen years ago, found himself unable to sleep
nights all along of those spiritually ophthalmic
Mormons. So he got after them with his little
persecution and was straightway so relieved in
mind that he was able to go meet his Redeemer
in a glow of conscious sainthood. Just what
is the matter with brother Edmunds, of Ver-


mont, is not known; it may be the drinks he
takes; but between them he has contrived to
get in his work on the Mormon brethren in the
line of peculiar Christianity that comes to him
by inheritance. Brother Edmunds relieves
the ancestral high tension piety generated in
super-heated coppers by working it off on Mor-
mons instead of witches. His bill just passed
by Congress is designed to turn over these in-
dustrious, energetic and zealous miscreants,
their church and its property, their government
and schools, to the pious frontiersmen who
have waited and hungered for the same, have
gone ragged and have drunk “Valley-tan”
through weary years. Perhaps these dearly
beloved brethren of Senator Edmunds are now
about entering into their reward. Perhaps the
men who have created a garden out of a wilder-
ness will not have the wit to keep it from the
poor loafers who now covet it, even as they
won it from the Indians who once owned it.
Perhaps water will flee affrighted up-hill at
the holy snort of our brother Edmunds (of
Vermont). Or perhaps this, our brother, may
die of old age, leaving the Church of Latter-
day Saints in full possession of its faculties and
moneys and savings, its gardens and accumula-
tions and flesh pots. Things as perverse as
this have happened in this most perverse of
worlds, and even Edmundses have appeared to
live in vain save as they serve to point a moral
and adorn the gospel according to Cotton
Mather.—San Francisco News Letter.


NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	
	Miss Prince, of California, is the first Ameri-
can woman admitted to the school of Oriental
Languages in Paris.
	Mrs. Bishop H. Warren, said to be the
richest woman in Colorado, made her own 
money by cattle-raising, and is now worth
$10,000,000.
	A conference of lawyers in Paris lately de-
cided that legally a man was authorized to
open and make himself familiar with the con-
tents of his wife’s letters.
	Miss Elvira I. Diaz has received the diploma
of Licentiate in Medicine and Pharmacy from
the University of Valparaiso, Chili. She is
the first of her sex to receive it in that Repub-
lic.
	Mrs. Mancel Talcott, of Chicago, has es-
tablished and maintains two day-nurseries for
the children of working women. One thou-
sand children on an average are cared for in
these nurseries every month.
	Mrs. Dora Salter has been elected Mayor
of Argonia, Summer County, Kan., by a 
larger majority than any other candidate
ever received in that city. Her opponent
was one of the leading citizens.
	Miss Minnie E. Bigelow, a very successful
teacher, has been elected a member of the 
Princeton School Committee by a handsome
majority. She is the first woman chosen to
that position in Princeton.
	Mrs. E. Putnam Heaton, of the Brooklyn
Times, has been weighing the dresses at a 
fashionable modiste’s, to find the average
weight of a woman’s gown. She found that
jet-trimmed reception dresses weighed from
34 to 49 pounds, plain walking dresses from 
12 to 19. Nothing was found that weighed
less than 10 pounds.


﻿You find yourself refreshed by the presence
of cheerful people: why not make earnest ef-
fort to confer that pleasure on others? You
will find half the battle is gained if you
never allow yourself to say anything gloomy.
—Lydia Maria Child.


180 
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE D. WELLS, 	- 	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $3.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates:	Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $2.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hour from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY.	MAY 1, 1887.


[Column 1]
THE QUEEN OF HAWAII.

	In another portion of this paper will be found
an account of the arrival of Her Hawaiian
Majesty, Queen Kapiolani and suite in San Fran-
cisco, on their way to England to take part in the
festivities and ceremonies connected with the fifti-
eth or jubilee anniversary of the coronation of
Queen Victoria of the empire of Great Britain.
It will naturally be supposed the ruler of a nation
in which Latter-day Saint Elders, when laboring
as missionaries, have found so cordial a welcome
and met with so much success as in the Sandwich
Islands, could not fail to be regarded with more
than usual interest by the community dwelling in
these valleys. There are among the inhabitants
of Utah not only many who have spent some
years in Her Majesty’s dominions, acquiring the
language and becoming acquainted with the cus-
toms and habits of her subjects, but also quite a
numerous colony of her own people, who, having
embraced what is known as Mormonism, were per-
mitted to leave the Islands and take up their resi-
dence with the main body of the Church. It was
therefore with much eagerness that all particulars
of Her Majesty’s retinue, journey and intentions
were read, and with sincere pleasure that a visit
to this city was expected. Moreover, as the con-
sort of a Prince whose dominions under his en-
lightened rule have made great progress in the
scale of intelligence and civilization, the Queen
was entitled to the respect which so far on her
journey has everywhere been shown her.
	In reply to the dispatch of the Mayor of Salt
Lake City, tendering the royal party the hospitali-
ties of the City, came the disappointing news that
prior engagements would not allow the Queen to
stop here at all, that her whole transcontinental
journey indeed would have to be unbroken un-
til she reached Washington—upon which a cer-
tain mendacious newspaper here took occasion to
insinuate that her Majesty’s experience with
“Mormons” and “Mormon” methods in her own
fair Islands had made her only too willing to pass
by the headquarters of the Church with an illcon-
cealed slight. The utter falsity of this statement
was learned from the lips of the party themselves
during their journey down from Ogden, whither
a special train, with a large number of invited
guests, including of course many of those who had
been on the Islands, as well as the entire Hawaiian
colony in this city, proceeded to meet them. The
affecting scene which transpired as the natives met
their Queen is thus described by an eyewitness:
	“The door of the car, which had been kept locked
was now opened to admit one of the Hawaiians
from this city, a large, good-looking woman
named Kapukini, who is of superior birth, having
chieftain’s blood in her veins. As soon as she
saw her royal mistress she burst into tears, and
bending low kissed the cheek of the Princess—(the
King’s sister and heiress apparent to the throne) a
privilege her birth accorded her, and then pressed
her lips to the hand of the Queen. She was
spoken to kindly by the Queen, who seemed to

[Column 2]
recognize her, and was given a seat near by. It
was a long time however, before the poor creature
could master her sobs, and both the Queen and
the Princess had frequent recourse to their own
handkerchiefs. When the woman was able to
speak, however, the two engaged her in
animated conversation, which was kept up most
of the way down to the city. The Queen inquired
particularly after the twenty of her subjects who
had been allowed to come to Utah—whether they
were happy and contented and how they were oc-
cupied. Kapunkini answered her that they all
were doing well, and that none had a wish to re-
turn. When the train reached the city, the other
Kanakas were admitted to the car; the women all
prostrated themselves on their knees in the aisle
weeping convulsively and kissing the hands of the
Queen and Princess; the men merely knelt and
took the proffered hand without saluting it, though
the respect and veneration expressed in their
faces were almost like worship and adoration. The
women continued to kneel and weep in the aisle
till the men helped them into seats, and then their
tears did not cease to flow.”
	The Queen is fifty-two years of age; her
hair is jet black, and is worn combed straight back
and coiled on the top of her head, under her hat;
her color is somewhat lighter than that of the na-
tives here. Her air is dignified especially when she
is receiving the homage of those around her; and
the carriage of her head is the most queenly thing
about her. When she smiles she looks so pleas-
ant that it almost makes her look pretty. “She was
dressed a la European in a black satin dress
trimmed with velvet; the sleeves, fringed with
ruffs of lace, terminated half way between the
elbow and wrist, leaving a plump and dusky arm
visible; the hands were encased in black kid
gloves; a high black hat, trimmed with black vel-
vet and surmounted by a white dove’s wing, was
the only head dress; a long strip of grey fur en-
circled her neck, crossed on her bosom and dis-
appeared somewhere in the back ground. A gold-
rimmed eye glass depended by a long gold chain
from her neck; in her hand she held a small
palmetto fan. Her sister-in-law was somewhat
darker in color, and her hair was slightly mixed
with grey. With the exception of a heavy black
veil which hung about her shoulders she was at-
tired in much the same fashion as the queen.”
	After a short stay the locomotive bell and whistle
gave warning that travel was about to resume.
The car was reluctantly vacated, and in a few mo-
ments the train bearing the travelers on their long
journey was lost to view.
	May they have a prosperous and agreeable
voyage by land and sea, and reach their home
again in safety and peace.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	
	During the temporary absence of the Editor of
the EXPONENT, all business pertaining to the
office and paper will be attended to by Mrs. Annie
W. Cannon.
	W. H. Dickson, U. S. prosecuting attorney for
this Territory, whose course during the last two
years has been an insult to American freedom, and
whose heartlessness and vindictiveness have
earned for him a title to remembrance which will,
we think, be enduring, has at last, upon receiving
in unequivocal terms the intimation that his
resignation would be acceptable, seen fit to give
up his office, an example which, as in duty bound,
his associate, Mr. Varian, with much promptness,
followed. Peace to them. The new appointee is
a Mr. Peters of Ohio.
	ROYALTY has smiled lavishly upon Utah since
our last issue. In addition to the Queen of
Hawaii, noticed elsewhere, Prince Leopold of
Prussia, nephew of the venerable Kaiser Wilhelm
of Germany, spent twenty-four hours in this city,


visiting among other places the Tabernacle and
Temple, and hearing in the former a performance
upon the grand organ, with which he seemed
much delighted. The Prince is a son of the Em-
peror's brother, Friedrich Carl, who, during the
Franco-Prussian war, gained distinction as an ar-
tillery commander, and became thenceforth
familiarly known in military circles as the “Red
Prince.”


MAY DAY.
	
	The old and merry holiday has come round once
again, bringing with it a wealth of memories; I
almost scent the breath of “dogtooth” and “spring-
beauty” in the very air; and in my mind’s eye
again I see the group of maidens and young men,
and little lads and lasses, starting out to the woods
for the day, and hear, or seem to hear, the song
and laughter which made the welkin ring, “Lang
Syne.”
	With what joy we welcomed the fair month of
May, that brought us
	"Daisies pled and violets blue,
	And lady smocks all silver white,
	And cuckoe buds of silver hue, 
	That paint the meadows with delight.”
	How we ransacked the dim old woods for the
rarest posies, and clambered and toiled over
rocky cliffs for the choicest ferns, and then in the
noontide rest, we sought the shadiest dell and re-
freshed ourselves with the dainties provided by
our dear mothers, and slacked our thirst at the
clear, cold, crystal spring. Then came the home-
ward tramp in the gloaming, with our arms full of
flowers and ferns, to keep fresh by their fragrance,
for a few days, the breath of spring we had
breathed that day. O, the happy, healthy, tired
girls and boys of long ago, when we went Maying.
Long may the memories live in our hearts, and,
like the scent of lavender in old presses, bring up,
like the breath of soft summer air and glint of
blue skies, only happy recollections.
	In ye olden times May Day marked the out-
break into life and beauty of mother nature, after
her long winter nap, and was heralded with great
pomp and festive gatherings, and it is not strange
that the profusion of buds and blossoms that are
spread around us at this time should have been
heralded with an instinctive feeling of gladness
and delight, or that the flowers around us should
have been set up in a sort of decorative fashion
and such homage be paid them as finds expression
in the song and dance.
	Among the Romans we find their floral games,
which began on the 28th of April, and lasted
several days, corresponding to our May-day festi-
val. Among the ancient Celtic people there was
a festival, called “Beltain,” held on the first of
May, and in England, during the middle ages, it
was the custom for all, both high and low, even
the court itself, to go out on the first May morning
early to fetch the flowers fresh; so we learn from
Chaucer and other writers. The hawthorne
branches were gathered and brought home, with
songs and all sorts of merriment, and came to be
called the May by a very natural transition of
ideas. So the ceremony of bringing it was called,
“Bringing home the May.” Thus came the ex-
pression, “Going a Maying.”
	Then a little later came the erection of a fixed
pole in every town and village, called the “May
pole,” where, on each May morning, were sus-
pended wreaths of flowers, and a pretty dance
was inaugurated round it. Different colored rib-
bons were tacked to the pole, and each lad and
lassie held one, and in the figure of the dance
wound and unwound these ribbons in a pretty
fanciful pattern round the pole.
	But the stern Puritans did away with most of
this pretty, harmless nonsense, though in France
and Germany even yet, the May pole may be
found, and the ceremony of crowning the fairest


maiden with flowers, as queen of the May, is not
yet obsolete.
	So you see, dear readers, we can call history to
aid us in maintaining this beautiful holiday. It is
but an expression, after all, of our natural love of
God and His goodness, to whom we owe the
springtime and the flowers, and all the resurrected
beauties of this pleasant earth. Surely the tribute
we pay to Him through our love of May time will
be acceptable offering.

	"Consider the lilies of the field how they grow."
									MYSOTIS.


181
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WHO WILL BE THE VICTORS?	

	One would think that the o'er wise and flippant
writers who have so frequently doomed "Mor-
monism" and the patriarchal order of marriage to
speedy death, would begin to reflect a little before
leaping to any more conclusions, at least till they
discover some stronger symptoms of decline, as
they certainly have a most provokingly healthy
appearance, which bespeaks long life and pros-
perity, in spite of all the efforts and chicanery of
the shriveled and cankered souls who have tried
so long to prove them otherwise.
	The farces and failures which have been mixed
rather indiscriminately, and the chagrin of the
would-be usurpers of "Mormon's" rights, when
being beaten at their own game, have afforded us
some amusement in the midst of our trials, as well
as food for reflection upon the past, present and
future course of the people against whom the
darts of the wicked have been hurled from every
quarter, though no just cause or provocation has
ever been proven against them. Those who
brought about the murder of the Prophet Joseph
and his brother Hyrum admitted that the law
could not touch them; "but," said they, "bullets
can." Their worst enemies were men who had
been members of the "Mormon" Church, but
had been found out in their iniquities and dealt
with for the same, and they thirsted for the
Prophet's blood.
	Among the strong reasons for troubles in that
day was the power and influence that the "Mor-
mons" were gaining through their united votes,
etc., and the Prophet had drawn around him some
firm friends among unbelievers, who were men of
influence, and they favored his election as the
coming President of the United States. His
martyrdom was deemed the death blow to "Mor-
monism." The same spirit that prompted the 
murderers of Joseph and the Saints who were
slaughtered in Missouri and Illinois, is what
reigns in the hearts of our persecutors to-day. It
was the growing influence that they were gaining,
and the prosperity which they were in a fair way
to enjoy, that stirred up the jealousy and hatred of
politicians and hireling priests.
	But "Mormonism" has survived and thriven
through it all, though it has been annihilated
scores of times in the imagination of those who
have marshaled themselves to battle against the
light and intelligence revealed from on high for
the salvation of the human family. Its followers
have been threatened with utter extermination,
and their faith and courage have been tested for
half a century, but its strength has increased
with its years, and it has been able to withstand
every attack that has been made upon it by its
various opposers. They have long since proven
their inability to cope with it, and only made their
own cause appear more diminutive by com-
parison.
	The sectarian plate-passers and political dema-
gogues who have joined hands for the extirpation
of "Mormonism" might meet with some success
were they to spend their time and artillery upon
one another, as has been their custom from time 
immemorial, instead of wasting it in the vain at-
tempt to break down what God has set up. Those

[Column 2]
who could approve of the unprincipled course
taken against the "Mormons" under the cloak of
religion and law, particularly of the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, which was rushed through the House
with a "whoop and a howl," like so many hood-
lums, or uncivilized barbarians, instead of wise
and experienced statesmen, must be void of human
feelings, and we have reason to be grateful that
we are not dependent upon them, nor upon
political power for "life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness," and that among the "fifty millions"
set up as a scarecrow to the builders of these far
off cities and towns, there are those who are
governed by common-sense principles and would
manifest mercy and equity towards all classes
without respect to their religious belief, and have
no sympathy with those who are co-operating
against the peace and good order which Utah was
noted for before sectarian hypocrites and political
scapegraces bore rule. Think of the noise and
cant that has been made over the enslaved "Mor-
mons" and the "one man power" in Utah, and
how ingeniously the gentle and kindly hearted
Christians have worked to christianize the "poor,
ignorant, benighted and down-trodden dupes," and
"win them back to the liberty of the Gospel!"
while scheming and plotting to take away every
iota of what we enjoy, and cannot be satisfied till
they bring all these poor objects of charity (?) un-
der the reign of an absolute despotism.
	When the first proposition was made to give the
elective feranchise to the"enslaved" women of
Utah as a means of making their escape from the
tyranny of the "Mormon Priesthood," it was never
dreamed that we could slight so tempting an offer,
but would grasp the "bait" with eagerness to es-
cape from Utah's dreary prison walls to enjoy
that glorious freedom so nobly and magnanimous-
ly offered from the gracious hands of "wolves in
sheep's clothing." This was the mission of the
would be invaders of our national rights, but they
missed their aim. Th cloven foot was too visible,
and we saw through their scheme at a glance,
though we were "judged as fools," and among the
offscourings of the earth. We may look for any-
thing and everything as long as such characters
are suffered to hold office. Laws have been fab-
ricated at the shortest notice to suit any and every
case that would enable them to rob and pillage the
"Mormon" Church. They have pronounced the
innocent guilty, and the cold blooded murderer
not guilty, seeing only a "Mormon" was killed,
and would not leave us one vestige of right or
liberty, which they allow to some of the meanest
cravens and assassins that walk the Almighty's
footstool, and even foist them into office to domineer
and insult peaceful citizens, and they are patted
on the back for doing the bidding of their masters.
But what conquests have been made by the
enemies of "Mormonism" is to us as much of a
myth as the true gospel is to those who are seek
ing to stop its growth and future prominence be
fore the world by trickery and falsehoods, appar-
ently the favorite weapons resorted to for this pur-
pose; and who of them have ever escaped the
rock which they prepared to split asunder the
"Mormon" craft? Who can remember a time that
persecution did not give it a fresh impetus to push
onward and upward? Which of them are display-
ing the greatest wisdom and valor, "our unrelent-
ing foes, who have wasted so much breath, time
and money in trying to demolish "Mormonism,"
or the objects of their hate, who knowing their
rights, object to being hoodwinked out of them,
and will use every lawful means to retain what
is their own and are wisely hoarding their strength
for more useful and humane purposes than seeking
the destruction of their fellow beings? The
course that is being pursued by the nation
though their instrumentality is nothing surpris-
ing to those whom they are seeking to victimise,
as they have been looking forward to those days,
and to many more peculiar and wonderful events
which are to transpire in the near future, all of

[Column 3]
which were predicted by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. We know that the Church of Jesus
Christ is established in this land never more to be
scattered or moved out of its place, and let those
note it down whose mouths occasionally water
over the flattering prospect of robbing the "Mor-
mons" of their hard earnings, enjoying their vines
and fig trees, with their rich pastures, pleasant
homes, Temples and thriving cities, etc., that cost
so many years of weary toil and sacrifice, and the
lives of scores who laid the foundation, and are
now resting under the peaceful sod of these val-
leys. The fate of all who fight against this work
may be read in that of Mr. Dickson, who with
others has conceived great things in imagination
over the extirpation of the "foul blot" in Utah,
and in his mad zeal has signed his own political
death warrant. Congressman Tucker is only
another added to the scores who have gone crazy
over the delightful anticipation of plucking up "Mor-
monsim," and he will not be the last. Plenty more
will follow in their wake, and like their predeces-
sors will drift down the same muddy stream, and
be lost in everlasting oblivion. While the quiet,
unassuming people whose rights they are seeking
to take away, and are inflicting with fines, im-
prisonments, and various other outrages upon the
weaker sex, as well as the strong, and in their
blighted hopes, repeatedly set traps to gain their
vicious ends, will complacently walk the same
road that has been marked out for them to follow
which leads upward and onward, leaving the agi-
tators in the hands of the Great Judge who will
repay them with ten fold interest for persecuting
those who cling together in obedience to Him
who said "Unless ye are one ye are not mine."
	The nation is threatened with greater and more
dire calamities than they will ever have power to
bring upon the Latter-day Saints. Its doom is
sealed and the rottenness defies the physician's
art. The "cancer has eaten up its vitals" and no
patching up process can save it. But the Consti-
tution will be preserved through the united efforts
of the faithful of this people who will be the only
ones found who will have remained true to our
nation's flag, and they will bear it off triumphantly.
This is the "ultimate result," and it is nearer than
some of our enemies have surmised; and they will
find a much greater demand at Head quarters for
"national undertakers" than in Utah. Methinks
those who have doomed polygamy to speedy
death are little prepared for the "Great Reaper"
who "has begun the work with His thrice sharp-
ened sickle," as He will hardly regard "public
sentiment" however "great and overwhelmingly
opposed" it may be to "polygamy," or any other
principle that He has seen fit to establish on this
land of promise. No matter if "the popular fiat
has gone forth." Man proposes, but God disposes,
and it is for Him to decide what shall be and what
shall not be "within the limits of a nation conse-
crated to all that is noblest and best in progress
and civilization."
	H. M. WHITNEY.


THE CHOICE OF COMPANIONS.

	In choosing companions our aim should be to
select persons better and more intelligent than we
are, in order that we may profit by their example,
and thus better ourselves.
	It has been very truly and aptly said, that per-
sons may be known by the company they keep;
for those who are naturally good will never be
satisfied, and cannot associate with those of an
inferior or degraded nature.
	Association with persons wiser and better than
ourselves inspires and stimulates, as it gives us a
higher ideal of life, and causes us to seek to attain
a higher standard of perfection for ourselves.
Under such influences our minds cannot fail to
become enlightened and our ideas broadened.  We
profit by the experience of wiser persons almost


without knowing it.  In short, companionship
wields a wonderful influence over the formation
of our characters, and it may be asserted as fact,
that, almost without exception, our aims and ambi-
tion become either elevated or degraded accord-
ing to the society we keep.  In the one case many 
evils may be avoided by the timely advice of some
good, wise companion--on the other, numerous
are the instances where a person's character,
whose chief fault originally was weakness, has
been completely changed for the worse, and at
last ruined, through the pernicious influence of
associates, if not more vicious at least having less
moral force than himself.
     Furthermore, the companions chosen and asso-
ciated with when young are likely to be the kind
which will suit us when old.  Does it not look un-
reasonable to think we can associate with and
take delight in the presence of inferior persons at
one time of our life, and that when we grow older
we will of choice select better?  Such a change
would not, of course, be impossible, and a change for
the better, however late, would be commendable; 
but it most frequently occurs that the same habits,
likes and dislikes cling to us throughout life—
especially those formed and cultivated in youth.
     It is therefore easy to see that the evils arising
from companionship with inferior and uncultivated
persons are numerous, and create blemishes in the
character which are not easily removed.  A person
whose tastes and desires are low, whose ambition,
if such a quality be possessed at all, is not of an
elevating nature, is one to be shunned as a com-
panion.  A human soul properly constituted ought
not to find pleasure in the company of a being
narrow-minded, selfish and disagreeable.  On the
other hand, one who tries to better himself, who
has intellect and character, and is elevated in his
nature and ambition, should be sought after, for
his company is agreeable and good, which latter
quality has a wonderful power to charm.
     "It is astonishing," says Canon Mosely, "how
much good goodness makes.  Nothing that is good
is alone, nor anything bad; it makes others good
or others bad; and that other, and so on: like a
stone thrown into a pond which makes circles that
make other wilder ones, and then others, till the
last reaches the shore."
MAIME.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.
	
	Minutes of the regular meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, March 4th,
1887, Prest. M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, “What was witnessed in the heavens.”
Prayer by Sister E. Howard. Continued by
singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Minutes of pre-
vious meeting read and approved, and minutes of
P. A. of the 21st Ward read.
	Sister McLean then reported the 10th Ward
R. S., said they were feeling and doing well; the
poor are attended to as well as possible, and the
teachers are good women; also attended to the
storing of grain; a good spirit prevails. Bore her
testimony to the truth, and asked God to bless us.
	Prest. Horne was pleased to see so many
present; hoped the sisters would be filled with the
Spirit, and said, “If every woman would diffuse
the spirit of the Gospel in her home, she would
realize how great her influence would be on her
husband and children. Let us have our minds
clear of bad feelings towards each other, and have
clean hands and a pure heart. The Lord says,
'He will be no respector of persons, and unless
we keep the commandments, we cannot know
Him,' and this is the time when we require His
help, and He will deliver us if we are only faithful.
Let us also cultivate love towards each other, and
let us so order our lives that we may merit His
smile and approbation.”


Congregational singing, "How firm a founda-
tion."
	Sister E. Howard addressed the meeting, and
said she had been to the Temple; thought it
would be a blessing to us if we put in practice
all we heard there. Hoped there were no timid
hearts here to-day, but that all were strong in the
Lord. We are going into bondage, but if we feel
as we ought to, we should not feel this bondage
so very much. Bro. F. D. Richards has said that
there has not been any immediate revelation that
our bondage is going to be very severe. Prayed
that the Spirit of God would be poured out upon
us, to strengthen and comfort us.
	Sister Reid reported the 16th Ward R. S. They
met twice a month, and have quite a few poor to
attend to; the sisters are all united, and they strive
to do all they are called upon to do by the Bishop.
Bore her testimony, and desired to stand firm and
faithful.
	Sister Richards thanked the sisters for their
faith and prayers, which they had manifested in
her behalf; thanked the Lord that she was enabled
to help herself, and mingle with us once more.
	(Sister Dye realized that the teachings of our
Savior are being verified to-day. She spoke in
tongues, the interpretation being given by Sister
Paul.)
	Sister Stevenson loved to meet with the Saints.
We should feed our minds with the literature of
this Church, and not study fashion as we do.
	Dr. E. S. Barney then spoke for a short time.
Had been visiting in Arizona, and lecturing to
the Saints on different subjects; had enjoyed her
trip, and also the feelings of the sisters in the
south. Conversed with many; also said that the
Saints are suffering more than we have any idea
of. Gave other good counsel in regard to storing
up wheat, sugar, rice and beans. Prayed God to
bless us.
	Quite a number of the sisters bore faithful testi-
monies, and Prest. Horne adjourned the meeting
for four weeks.
	Closed by singing, "The time is far spent."
Benediction by Sister E. S. Taylor.
		J. SMELLIA, Sec.


[Column 1]
	THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN
	
	IN SAN FRANCISCO.
			
	PERSONNEL OF HER SUITE.
	
	The long expected steamer Australia arrived
early yesterday morning from Honolulu, and
was saluted by Fort Mason, Alcatraz and H.
B. M. ship Conquest, as she brought to this city
Queen Kapiolani of Hawaii and her numerous
retinue. The vessel was boarded by the port
authorities and various press representatives
before she docked, as the latter were anxious to
catch a glimpse of her Majesty ere she hedged
herself in the impenetrability that surrounds
royalty.
	The Queen was upon deck as the steamer
came into port and was taking her first look at
a large city through a pair of glasses. She
had on an ulster of some warm grayish material,
and though her face bore evidences of fatigue,
yet there was noticeable a kindly expression in
her eyes, which betokened a character of ex-
treme gentleness. The Queen is a woman
of about 40 years of age, of large size, stout in
frame, and vigorous of constitution, and her
sympathetic cast of countenance makes her
face attractive even to handsomeness. She is
a woman of great generosity and enlightenment,
and has done all that lay in her power toward
the alleviation of those distressed with that
terrible curse of leprosy. Through her exer-
tions the Kapiolani Home for leper girls was

[Column 2]
founded, $15,000 being appropriated for that
purpose by the Hawaiian Legislature in 1884.
She also interests herself in the various public
gardens, schools and hospitals with which her
kingdom is supplied.
	The Queen graciously received such gentle-
men as were presented to her, but the conversa-
tion was carried on through the medium of Her
Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,  
who, unlike the Queen, speaks English fluently.
Under the circumstances it cannot be expected
that her Majesty would have much to say, be-
yond that she felt some regret at having left
home, and that every thing appeared strange
to her, it being the first time that she had ever
left her native land; that her plans were as yet
indefinite, but that she hoped to make a stay
of about a week in San Francisco, and would
then leave for New York, en route to England.
	On her arrival at the Palace Hotel her
Majesty and the lady members of her suite
were ushered into the rooms which had been
prepared for them, while the gentlemen of the
party amused themselves by parading the corri-
dors, and receiving the congratulations of the
numerous ex-residents of Honolulu who had
congregated there to see them.
	The party is under the charge of Colonel
Curtis Iaukea, Governor of Oaku, and the
King's Chamberlain. He is a tall man of
soldierly appearance, with a light brown com-
plexion, a slight mustache, expressive eyes and 
dignified manner. He said that the Queen im-
mediately on her arrival at the Palace Hotel
had sought the privacy of her rooms, and had
intimated, for the day at least, she would be
invisible to everybody, as she wished to rest
after the week’s voyage.
	“Yes,” said the Colonel, “it is, as the Queen
has already told you, her first departure from 
home, and you know the peculiar sensations
that attend people when for the first time they
find themselves separated from the associations
of childhood. But it has long been her ardent
desire to see something of the world, and
especially to see England and her ruler. This, 
as you are aware, is the jubilee year in Eng-
land, and Queen Kapiolani wishes to be present 
and pay her respects to the woman who rules
one of the greatest empires in the world. It
is not surprising that she should admire Eng-
land. There are many Englishmen in the em-
ploy of the Hawaiian Government, and their
conversation has naturally excited the curiosity
of so enlightened a lady. England though is
not the only objective point of the journey.
We shall see as much of the United States as
possible, and also of Europe.”
“Yes,” continued the Colonel, “I have been
abroad before. I was in Russia at the present
Czar's coronation, and so all is not new to me.
My wife, you know, is one of the ladies in
waiting upon her Majesty.”
Among the notable gentlemen of the party 
is Colonel J. H. Boyd, who is Secretary to the
Queen. He is a young man with English
mutton-chop whiskers, and wore a light crush-
hat, a frock coat and a pair of light-colored
pantaloons. Mr. Boyd found many old friends
awaiting him at the Palace Hotel, and seemed
thoroughly at home.
	“I wish,” said he, “that that absurd state-
ment about the Queen bringing the royal band
should be flatly contradicted. It was never in-
tended to be brought, and I cannot see how
such a statement could ever have been pub-
lished.”
“Nothing is true that is ever published about
the islands,” interjected a jovial looking per-
sonage by the name of H. J. Hart, who is the
restaurateur in ordinary to the Queen and the
entire nobility of the kingdom, “is it Colonel?”
The officer of the royal forces did not make 
a very forcible reply to his strong appeal, but
quietly remarked:
	“There was, indeed, quite a stir when we left


Honolulu, a week ago to-day. The army turned
out, the navy saluted, the whole population of
the island seemed to be massed upon the shore
to say good-by to their beloved Queen. In-
deed, it was an affecting scene."
	"Indeed it was," broke in the restaurateur,
who it is alleged, is on the still hunt for a man
who can make ice cream and digestible pastry
on a small salary. "The Hawaiian people
are very fond of the alloa, that is, the farewell.
Ah, indeed, it would have made you weep to
have seen the spectacle of an adored Queen
leaving that sunlit isle of the sea, where the
gorgeous palms and the snake-like sugar cane
rustle in the evening breeze. Grandest country
on earth, sir. Fact. Fancy, our exports
were $12,000,000 last year."
	The Quartermaster-General of the army,
Colonel Samuel Nowlein, is also in the party
and will accompany her Majesty to England,
and will then take his daughter to Italy. The
young lady is an artist of exceptional ability,
and it is understood that she shall be placed
at one of the leading art schools in Italy, so
that her talents may be properly developed.
	His Excellency, John O. Dominis, Com-
mander-in-Chief of the military forces, was
the only gentleman who was not seen in the
corridors of the Palace Hotel. The voyage
had not been a happy one for him, and he
had accordingly retired. He is the husband of
her Royal Highness, the Princess Liliuokalani,
the heir apparent to the throne. He is about
45 years of age, and is five years older than
the Queen. General Dominis, the future
Prince consort to the expectant Hawaiian
Queen, is a European, and is about 55 years of
age.
	The Hawaiians seem to be jubilant over
their success in raising money in England, and
say that their credit in that country is good for
any amount.
	When it was hinted that England was an
exacting money-lender, and wanted her debt
even unto the uttermost farthing, there was a
very spontaneous answer from the statesmen
present, that "as soon as England gives us any
trouble about wanting her money, we will come
over here and borrow it and tell England we
want nothing to do with her." The Hawaiian
party was so delighted with its treatment by
Captain H. G. Howlett that no sooner had its
members finished their toilets than they sallied
forth, bought a handsome gold watch, had his
initials and an appropriate inscription engraved
upon it, and presented it to the Captain of the
Australia, as an evidence of their esteem and
gratitude.—The Chronicle.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this Stake was held March 25th, 1887,
at the residence of our President, E. G. Mc-
Donald, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest. E. G.
McDonald presiding. The meeting opened
with singing and prayer, after which the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald was thankful to
meet with the sisters again; she realized the in-
convenience of the place of meeting, but it
could not be avoided, school being kept in our
Society Hall. She prayed that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us that we might have
a joyful time together.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave in the reports of their respective
Societies, showing an increased exertion on the
part of most of the members to do their part,
and be alive to their duties, while others evinced
a corresponding slackness and neglect of their
duties; thus it is, but those who perform the
labor will verily receive the reward, while those

[Column 2]

who are slothful will see their error and loss
when it is too late.  The names of the officers
of the Relief Society were then presented be-
fore the Conference, and were unanimously
sustained.
	The statistical and financial reports were
read by the Secretary, the financial report
making a pretty fair showing, considering the
hard times.
	Remarks were then made by a number of
sisters, who expressed their firm belief in the
principles of the everlasting Gospel as revealed
through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and their
desires ever to be faithful to their duties.
	Some of the brethren who were present were
then requested to speak:
	Bro. Charles Allen had been well pleased
with the exercises, and could bear testimony
that the Spirit of the Lord had dictated the
remarks that had been made. He felt that the
Relief Society was a power in the midst of this
people, and exhorted all to prepare themselves
for the events that were near at our doors.
Bro. Heber had said, "A test was coming,
and we must be true to our religion, if we de-
sired to stand." The speaker referred to tith-
ing and the word of wisdom, and the great
blessings promised to those who obeyed these
laws, and gave many good instructions.
	Bro. George Lewis felt to endorse what had
been said, and felt that woman's influence was
a power in the land, and should be exercised
for good. In order to do this we should keep
the Spirit of God in our hearts, that we may
seek eternal life above every earthly object.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald then addressed the
meeting. She had felt to rejoice in the testi-
monies that had been borne by the brethren
and sisters, and felt that there was a spirit of
good created by these meetings. We should
use all the influence we have against selling
our homes to those who are not of our faith.
If we are neglectful of our inheritance we
shall receive a chastening from the hands of
our enemies, and the innocent will have to suf-
fer with the guilty. She exhorted the sisters to
visit the sick, to be as angels of mercy in the
sick chamber, and cheer the hearts of those
who are bowed down in trouble and sorrow.
	Sister Crismon, of Salt Lake, expressed her
pleasure in meeting with the sisters of Mesa;
she had enjoyed the meeting very much, and
felt that the Spirit of the Lord was in our
midst; she believed there was a good people
here, for she had felt this spirit in all their
meetings. She spoke highly of the beauty of
our country, and said she had enjoyed her visit
very much.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months.
		S. M. POMEROY.

UTAH STAKE.
	(Utah Stake Conference of the Relief So-
ciety, held March 4th, 1887, Prest. John
presiding. Conference opened with the usual
exercises of singing and prayer.) The minutes
of the previous meeting were read, as were
also the reports for the past six months.
The President requested the presidents of the
various branches of the Society to give verbal
reports, which was done with few exceptions,
after which Sister John expressed herself as
feeling well in meeting with the sisters and
listening to such good reports. She believed
that the sisters are faithful in their duties, and
exhorted them to continue faithful, that they
may claim the blessings of God.
	Sister Marilla Daniels said: We must seek
the Lord earnestly for His Spirit, for we need
to be humble and prayerful, and to be charit-
able one to another; and inasmuch as we all
need it ourselves, we must have sympathy for
each other. We are told that we shall be
tried and tested, but we must try to keep the

[Column 3]

Spirit of the Lord with us continually; we are
in His hands, and He is our only defense; we
need not fear if we each have His Spirit, for we
will then feel that come what may we will be
faithful.
	(Sister Roberts of Goshen, was impressed to
speak to the sisters with the spirit of prophecy,
and uttered comforting words to the sisters
through the influence of that spirit.)
	2 p.m.  Conference opened with singing
and prayer by Patriarch Zebedee Coltrin.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel pleasure
in these associations, and I desire to be one
with you, for we are all helping to roll forth
Father's work, and I do not know of anything
that is more important than to help build up
His kingdom. We should be faithful and dili-
gent in every duty that we are called upon to
perform. The hand of God is moving among
the nations of the earth, and God will carry
us through this persecution if we are faithful
and rely upon Him, and no matter what we
endure, our reward will be the riches of eter-
nity."
	Sister Hyde of Sanpete, said she had come
as a listener; never felt more like enduring to
the end than to-day. We must be zealous in
the cause of Christ, and serve the Lord with
all our hearts. The speaker felt that her
hearers were on the Lord's side, and declared
that it is our own fault if we do not have the
Spirit of the Lord, through not living up to
our privileges.
	Sister Taylor from Salt Lake City, spoke of
our testimony, that this is the work of God,
and alluded to the perfect character of our
organizations, like which there is nothing in
the world. We must be in subjection to the
will of God, for darkness is hovering over us.
Though we may feel that we are driven to the
wall, yet we know that God rules, and we can
trust Him. Perhaps all of us do not have the
faith that we should have. Do we remember
that we have the promise that we can come to
Him and ask for things and take no denial.
The Relief Society has a great and important
mission to perform, and each of us must try to
work out our own salvation. To the speaker
the Gospel was dearer to-day than ever it
was.
	Prest. Smoot occupied the remainder of the
afternoon in speaking to and instructing the
sisters, very little of which can be given in
these minutes. He hoped, first of all, what he
did say would cheer them on their way, and
spoke then of the action of Congress in taking
the franchise from the women of Utah. This
however, he felt would be only fer a short sea-
son, for the Lord has pointed out our destinies,
if we do our part. The Lord chastens whom
He loves, every son and daughter—He afflicts,
us that we may become easy and pliable to
handle like clay in the hands of the potter,
and that He may be able to bring us back into
His presence, and in no instance have His peo-
ple been slow to acknowledge the justice of
His acts. We, as a people, have become filled
with vanity and pride, and many here to-day
will remember how humble we were when we
first came to these valleys and lived upon roots
and greens. When pride takes possession of
us we must be chastised and humbled, and the
clouds hanging over us to-day indicate that
perhaps the Lord is not well pleased with us
to-day. Let us ask ourselves, have we forgot
the Lord? Have we taught our children to
love the follies of Babylon? President Young
in his day warned all to retrench in their ex-
travagances, and for a time there was a reform,
but it did not last long. Much responsibility
rests on the mothers, that they fail not to teach
their daughters the truths of the Gospel, and
to worship God. There is enough means ex-
pended unnecessarily among the Latter-day
Saints to build a temple every year. If there
is trouble over us let us ask ourselves, why is it?


I ask you all to reform, that the Lord may
bless us. Amen.
	The President, Sister John, felt that the
Lord had been with us in our conference. We
will now adjourn for three months. Singing,
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow," etc.
Benediction by Bro. David John.
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec.


184	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


This is what a foreign newspaper, the Eng-
lishwoman's Review, in an article written before
the adjournment of the late American Congress,
has to say of the Edmunds-Tucker bill: "A more
serious danger threatens the women of
Utah Territory, where they have voted for
many years. The bills which have been
passed of late years for the suppression of
polygamy among the Mormons, disfranchised
either man or woman who entered into what
is there termed 'plural marriage.' There was,
at least, no special injustice towards women in
this measure, but the last bill which has passed
both houses of Congress makes it unlawful for
any woman to vote in any election. It is evi-
dent that this clause in the bill will go far to
defeat any Christianising influence which the
supporters of the first measure might expect.
If the object of the United States Government
be to depress Mormonism by its partial disfran-
chisement and the consequent increase of im-
portance in the Gentile vote, it stultifies itself
by cutting off one-half of the Gentile voters,
and reducing them to the same position of
political powerlessness. The injustice of dis-
franchising, without reason given, any class
which has for years enjoyed political rights is,
moreover, so flagrant, that it is to be hoped
this bill will not receive the President's signa-
ture in its present form."


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	The following Resolutions of Respect for our beloved
sister, Miss Mary Ann Morgan, born Feb. 18th, 1868, and
died Feb. 12th, 1887, were unanimously adopted and sus-
tained by the members of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Willard, of
which she was a member:
	Whereas, In His infinite wisdom, the Almighty has seen
fit to take from our midst our beloved sister and co-laborer,
Mary Ann Morgan, who for several years has been a mem-
ber and Secretary of our Association, where, by her affable,
loving and affectionate disposition, she gained the confidence
and esteem of all, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family in the loss of a loving daughter and an affec-
tionate sister.  While we mourn her loss and regret her de-
parture hence, we feel to bow in subservience to the will
of the Great Jehovah, for we know she was prepared to
meet her Master, and that she has left behind a record
that will never die, for in the hearts of her friends she still
lives; and, be it further
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the bereaved family, that a copy be placed upon the minutes
of the Association, and that one be sent to the EXPONENT
for publication.
	MARION S. PERRY, President,
	LOTTIE E HUBBARD, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	DIED, at Manti City, Sanpete Co., Utah, April 16th,
1887, after a very long illness and much suffering, Sister
Elizabeth Ruesch. She was born December 6th, 1840, in
St. Margretten, Canton St. Gallen, Switzerland. Bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
October 16th, 1872, and emigrated the following year. She
was the mother of eight children, and leaves a husband,
six children and many friends to mourn her loss. Sister
Ruesch was a loving mother and a faithful wife, a good
and faithful Latter-day Saint; she was also a faithful teacher
	the Relief Society for several years, until her health was


gone. We feel comforted in the hope that she will come
forth in the resurrection of the just. Peace to her ashes!
						A. R. KELLER, Secretary.
	In behalf of the South Ward R. S.

	With mournful feelings, deepened by present circum-
stances, I record the much unexpected death of Sister
Mary H. Hansen, wife of J. Hansen, who is now on a
mission to Denmark. She was in apparent good health
about 4 o'clock p.m., Sunday, and at 12 o'clock on Mon-
day, March 28th, she lay a corpse, fourteen hours after
giving birth to a little boy, who also died. She was the
daughter of Hans and Ellen Jorgensen Knude, and was
born on the 22nd of November, 1854, in Thorby, Lolland,
Denmark. She heard and embraced the Gospel in 1880,
and immediately began to use her influence to emigrate
herself and sister. Her exertions were not in vain, for in
the fall of 1881 both came to Utah, where they have lived
in peace, and gained the confidence and esteem of their
acquaintances. On March 14th, 1884, she chose to live in
polygamy, knowing that plural marriage was a divine law,
and would prove an inestimable blessing to those who would
enter it with pure motives, and an eye single to the glory
of God. She leaves a host of friends to venerate her
memory, a son, aged one year and seven months, to per-
petuate her name, and a loving husband to mourn her de-
parture.
							KAREN A. HANSEN.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon recept of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall;  Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS
	
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address.  DAVID JAMES.  Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
		
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.	H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In
ant's Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 15.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1887.	No. 24.


THOU ART LOVELY, THOU ART
FAIR.

Thou art lovely, thou art fair,
Maid of sunny, golden hair,
Eye of azure 'neath its curl,
Lips of coral, teeth of pearl!

Sure, the soul that has its shrine
In that face and form divine—
If such things did e'er agree—
Must a soul of beauty be.

Radiant as a vesper star,
Gazing fondly from afar,
To mine eyes thou dost appear
Being of a brighter sphere.

Though I ne'er may call thee mine,
Lovely star, still o'er me shine;
Though I ne'er may see thee more,
Still thy memory I'll adore.

Thou art lovely, thou art fair,
Maid of sunny, golden hair;
And thy silvery voice shall seem
As the music of a dream.

Orson F. Whitney	W.


EQUALITY OF SEX.

	All mankind are the children of our Hea-
venly Father. One sex cannot say to the other,
"He is not your Father; He does not love you
as much as us." God has prepared a way
whereby all His offspring can return to His
presence, by obedience to the laws He has laid
down.
	Men and women are equal in their sphere.
One cannot get along without the other; neither
can one say to the other "We have no need of
you." "Man is not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord."
	Men have no more right to tyrannize over
their wives, than wives have to tyrannize or
domineer over their husbands. There is no
need for bossing on either side, if each will do
his or her duty, and not intefere with the
rights of the other.
	The man stands at the head of the family to
govern in righteousness, in love and kindness.
His position does not give him the right to exer-
cise unrighteous dominion over his family. The
wife is under no obligation to honor or obey her
husband if he does not obey the laws of God.
Woman's sphere of usefulness is as great, and
her influence as widely felt as man's. She was
placed upon the earth with man to be his com-
panion, his helpmate and his equal. "She
was not taken from his feet to be trampled upon
by him, nor from his head to rule over him,
but from his side to be equal with him; near his
heart to be loved and cherished by him."
	Women have rights that should be respected,
but we need not be surprised if they are not
respected by all the "lords of creation" when
the ladies of creation are so careless and iudiffer-
ent about their rights and privileges. If
women had more respect for themselves, under-
stood and maintained their rights, they would
be entitled to more respect and would receive
it. Women are ignorant of their rights and
privileges. Many do not think anything about
the matter, and others are affraid to express
their views for fear of ridicule, and a third
class talk to suit the occasion. Such people
cannot be relied upon; you never know how to
understand them.


Few women have the courage to stand by
their convictions, because they are sneered at
and ridiculed by those who should know better-
Ridicule and sneers do not make their cause
less right, but it lessens those who sneer in the
eyes of those who desire to see equal rights and
fair play to all. Men who speak disrespectfully
of women lower themselves very much in our
estimation. The greatest and best men who
ever lived had women for their mothers.
Mothers mold the characters of the children.
They should mold their sons to respect women
and give them their rights. Not until women
take this course will they be respected and
recognized as the equal of men.
		M. E. TEASDALE.
	Nephi, March 24th, 1887.


[Column 1]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Monday, April 27, 1885. We went over to
New York to-day and called at the hotel to see
Bro. Hart. We visited several places of inter-
est, among which were some large stores. We
saw so many beautiful things that I quite
longed for a full purse or an unlimited bank
account. We called at the A. T. Stewart
building; the present proprietors are Denning
& Co. It is a magnificent building of iron
and marble, and covers, we are told, two and a
half acres of ground. It is eight stories high,
and has not a partition wall on the whole
building. All the floors are supported by iron
pillars.  In the center is a circular dome, reach-
ing to the roof, which is covered with glass and
helps to light the building. At every floor
is a railing of molding or carving, and all is
white. The building covers an entire block,
the front entrance being on Broadway. It is
lighted by windows on all sides, and there are
several doors to enter by. The building is
unique, and we are told there are no other
stores in New York just like it. We did not
go all through, as they were preparing to close,
so I cannot give a fuller description. The
counters, seats and goods were being draped to
keep off the dust. We saw costly ornaments
and beautiful statuary, and laces which, no
doubt, bore fabulous prices. We were informed
that they would send goods at retail prices to
any address in the United States free of express.
It was getting late and we took a street car to
the ferry. After crossing on the boat we took
another car, which brought us home. Here
we found a cousin waiting to see us, Miss Alice
Newman of Red Bank, N. J. We were pleased
to meet, and soon became sociable, running a
talking match until about twelve o'clock. We
talked of Utah, of Mormonism, of polygamy
in fact of about everything that could be talked,
on in that length of time. We quoted Scrip-
ture, history and philosophy, and wound up
with a desire for a better acquaintance, and an
invitation to visit her at Red Bank. I also
made out quite a list of genealogies.
	Tuesday, April 28th. Cousin Alice went
home this morning, promising to come again
before I leave. Mrs. K. is very sick, and I
feel quite out of sorts. So much talking and
sight-seeing are somewhat exhaustive. Towards
night it begins storming, and storms hard all
night.

[Column 2]

	Friday, May 1st, 1885. It rains this morn-
ing, but I have promised to meet Bro. Henry
to-day, and he will meet me in Philadelphia.
My cousin's son, Eddie Kimball, escorts me to
Jersey City, and puts me safely on the car. I
take my bearings and mark the route, for I am
going to be very brave and come back alone.
As I travel on out into the great world alone I
feel a little nervous, but I trust to Providence
and let the future take care of itself. I enjoy
myself looking at the country, and finally find
myself at the waiting room at Philadelphia
ready to be called for.
	I look around and see a good many people
sitting or walking about, and I wonder if they
all know where they are going, or if some of
them are waiting to be called for, and if every-
body knows I am a stranger and a little green.
I draw myself up and try to put on a look of
importance, just as though waiting at depots
was an every day occurrence. Presently I see
an elderly gentleman walking about as though
he was looking for somebody. As he passes
me I look for his right hand. He holds the
proverbial blue cotton umbrella in it, and I see
that the thumb is gone; I know he lost it in the
civil war. I look at him and he looks at me.
I venture to ask if he is looking for some one.
He assures me he is. I tell him my name is
Tanner; that is his name. I follow him out,
he takes my satchel and we board a street car,
the rain still falling. After a few minutes ride
we stop and enter a restaurant. Here I am
introduced to the proprietor and his wife, who
are some sort of relations. We take dinner,
and as it is still over two hours before the boat
leaves we wait there, for it rains too hard for
us to see anything of the city.
	Finally we start out again, he with my
satchel in one hand and the umbrella in the
other, I holding to his arm and trying to take
care of my dress. After a short walk, during
which I see very little but people and houses,
we are on board the steamer, "Jersey Blue,"
floating down the broad waters of the Deleware
River.
	Brother Henry tries to show me all points
of interest, but the weather is too cloudy and
foggy to see things clearly at a distance. A
foreign vessel passes us drawn by a "tug." It
carries the flag of the Hawaiian Marchant with
the U. S. colors floating in front. There are
a great many people on deck. I have never
seen a ship before, and it amuses me to see the
great big boat moving lazily along after the
saucy little boat called a "tug," which went
puff, puff, as if swelling with an overdue sense
of its importance. Here a noted battle was
fought in the Revolutionary War, and there
was another point of interest. I try to stand
out under the awning where I can see better,
but it is so cold I am glad to go in the cabin
and look through the windows.
	After a ride of twelve miles, we land at Bil-
lingsport.  It has nearly stopped raining, and
we walk up to the house, about half a mile.
It is a very pleasant road. bordered with cedar
trees, with fields on each side, and an occasional
house. We are greeted with a warm welcome
by his wife and daughters, two fat dogs and
five spotted cats. They hasten to get us some
supper, and as I am very tired I retire early.
	Paulsboro, Saturday, May 2nd 1885. It is
not raining, but is cold and windy. We have
fresh shad and sweet potatoes for breakfast,
and eat off a table which served the officers in
the Revolutianary War. It is a black walnut


[Column 1]

table, and the shad and sweet potatoes are ex-
cellent. I am shown a corner cupboard and
some china and silver ware which, I am assured,
are over a hundred years old, and did service
before the revolution. Brother Henry knew
something of Mormonism, having been a mem-
ber of the Church through Kirtland, Missouri
and Nauvoo. He went east from Iowa and
staid there, married and settled in New Jersey.
He served in the civil war and lost his thumb
—a small member to lose, but serious in its
effects, as it unfits him for such employment as
he depended on for a living. I am not such a
curiosity to them, but wherever I am intro-
duced there is a flutter of excitement. Henry
took us for a ride this evening to Paulsboro,
which is their post office address, they living a
little way out of the town.
	Sunday, May 3rd. Went to-day for a visit
to "Cousin Jesse Brown's." It is six miles
through a beautiful country. We spent a
pleasant day.  "Cousin Jesse" and his wife—
he is a cousin of Henry's wife—came to Utah
thirteen years ago to visit her sisters, Mrs.
Whipple and Mrs. Snyder. They called on
me at the time, and I told them I had come to
return their visit. They have a beautiful
home, on a farm, and showed us many places
of interest; among other things was a sassafras
tree, which stood before the Revolution, and
was supposed to be two hundred years old. We
returned by a different road, which gave us
quite an interesting view of the country.
Everything is green and pleasant. The coun-
try is level, and the hamlets and farm houses
are so pleasant, speaking, in many places, of
wealth and refinement. We stopped at the
Eggleton Cemetery, one of the loveliest resting
places for the dead that I have ever seen. I
could but contrast it with some of our own
cemeteries, or more properly called "grave-
yards." Of course much of the desolate ap-
pearance of ours is caused by lack of rain.
We gathered a few pieces of evergreen as
souvenirs, and came away from the city of the
dead, thinking how much more pleasant it was
than some of the houses of the living.
	Monday, the 4th. I go in the woods this
morning to gather wintergreen. The berries
are gone, but we pick the leaves and have a
pleasant walk. It takes me back to my child-
hood to ramble in the woods. I spend a pleas-
ant day in visiting, and in the evening Henry
takes me to the lighthouse; we go up in the
tower where the lamp is and see the lens,
which, we are told, cost $500. There are three
lighthouses near here; they are called range
lights, and protect navigation on the river.
The lights look in the distance like balls of fire
in the darkness. The river is dotted here and
there with lights from the little fishing boats.
The lighthouse keeper is a Mr. Preston. He
was wounded in the civil war, and, after pass-
ing through untold suffering in the hospital,
came out crippled for life in one leg and foot.
	Tuesday, May 5th. We go to Philadelphia
to-day. We go up on the boat and take a car
for Fairmount Park. The main buildings of
the Centennial Exhibition are removed, and
the ground is being prepared for lawns or flower
gardens. The smell of the compost is any-
thing but pleasant. We enter Memorial Hall
and look through the museum. As the clock
struck twelve two figures of men stepped out
and played sweet music; when it ceased striking
they glided back and the door closed after
them. We are tired and hungry, and go to a
restaurant and call for a lunch of bread and
butter and a cup of tea, for which we pay ten
cents. Being rested and refreshed, we visit
Horticultural Hall. These are the only build-
ings left standing of the grand Exposition.
The city considered it too expensive to keep
them up, and they have been sold or suitably
disposed of. Entering the hall the air is very
warm; it is not oppressive, but gives us a kind

[Column 2]

of Turkish bath, starting the perspiration at
every pore. Here are rare trees and plants
from every part of the tropical world. My
pen cannot describe the scene, but it is deeply
impressed on my mind. We do not see many
flowers; I suppose they are not in season. We
stand under palms, one leaf of which covers
us, and if broken off, would no doubt, be more
than we could lift. Here are bamboo trees
reaching to the roof; I do not know how high
it is, but it is very high. Here are india rub-
ber trees, century plants, and ferns in endless
variety. We get so warm we are afraid to go
out in the wind. We wrap our shawls around
us and sit down in the sun to rest. We try to
catch a car to take us to Fairmount Water
Works; we get wrongly directed, and are so
tired we give it up and go to the city. Car
fare here is six and eight cents. We stop at
Wannamakers. It is an immense store and
seems to comprise every department of trade.
We visit Independence Hall, a life insurance
building and several other places of interest.
We pass a cemetery, where we see the tombs of
Benjamen Franklin and his wife, covered by
large granite slabs, lying flat, with inscriptions
on them. Here is a beautiful conservatory,
with grass next the sidewalk, where we can
look through and see such lovely flowers.
There is quite a little romance connected
with it. The owner, once a poor boy, was
passionately fond of flowers, and he felt it
so keenly that only the rich could enjoy
such things, that he said if ever he was rich
he would have flowers where poor people
could enjoy them. In course of time he
was gratified, and built his conservatory
where everyone could look in and see the
lovely flowers.
	We do not go back by the boat, but ferrry
across the river and take the train for Pauls-
boro. We change cars at Woodbury; it is
certainly the neatest little depot I ever saw,
laid out with lawns and flowerbeds. Here is
the residence of G. G. Green, the manufac-
turer of August Flower and Greenman Syrup.
He has a handsome residence, with grounds
beautifully laid out, the lawns nicely kept
and beds of tulips blooming here and there.
They contain several large buildings, where
the medicines are manufactured. A few
years ago he was a poor man, not fond of
work nor able to live without it. No one
thought him of any consequence. He com-
menced making patent medicines, and, presto,
change, here he is. It looks like a fairy tale.
Henry is waiting for us at Paulsboro with
the carriage, and we get home quite tired
out.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLEASANT PARTY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we write to you of any-
thing that takes place in this part, and perhaps
we should still remain silent, but for an inci-
dent that happened here recently, small, indeed,
compared to the great events now taking place
in the earth, but of much interest to the few
concerned.
	The teachers of the Relief Society of the
Second Ward of Brigham City, desiring to
show their love and respect for our worthy
President, Sister Mary E. Snow, and wishing to
give her a little surprise, met for that purpose
at her residence on Friday afternoon, May 6th.
When she caught sight of us marching up to
the door in double file, heavily laden with large
baskets, well filled with the good things of this
life, and with our Stake President at the head,
she opened her eyes in surprise and exclaimed,
"Why did'nt you tell me?" However, she soon
made us feel quite at home, and such a time as
we had of hand-shaking, embracing, and such
expressions of love and kindly feeling one to-


wards another, as is seldom witnessed except
among the Latter-day Saints. The cloth was
soon laid and the table filled to its utmost ca-
pacity. When all were seated, Stake President
Harriet Snow, in earnest tones of gratitude in-
voked God's blessing on the food. After par-
taking of the sumptuous repast, accompanied
with chocolate and good homemade beer, and
repaired to the parlor, where a hymn was sung,
and speeches were made by Prest. H. Snow,
Amelia Knutesen, Coun. Mary Nichols, G. M.
Jeppsen, Sister B. Burt, Lucy A. Nichols, Ann
Boden and Ann J. Wixom, all expressive of
love and good wishes for the recipient of the
surprise, and thankfulness to God for all the
blessings we enjoy in this our mountain home.
Sister Snow, in appropriate remarks, thanked
the sisters for the honor conferred upon her,
and for their good will and confidence, and
Coun. Nancy A. Bigler made the closing speech,
who, bye the bye, was chief mover in the affair.
The hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet," was sung, and the closing prayer was
offered by Prest. Mary E. Snow.
	The occasion was a very delightful one, and
the poor and sick in the ward were not forgot-
ten.	Respectfully,
		ONE OF THE BAND.


IN YE OLDEN TIMES.

	Prior to the American Revolution every
colonial farm-house and every blacksmith's
shop was a manufactory. For everything was
literally manufactured—that is, made by hand.
The blacksmith hammered out axes, hoes, forks,
spades, ploughshares, scythes and nails. A
tailoress went from house to house to make up
the winter clothing, and was followed by the
shoemaker.
	The farmer prepared the leather from skins
which had lain in the vat for a year, and his
wife made ready the cloth. Spinning-wheels
buzzed from morning till night. Skeins of
woolen and linen yarn hung on the walls of
every house. Seated on the loom-seat, the best
woman of the family plied shuttle and treadles
—weaving blankets, sheets, table-cloths, towels, 
bed-curtains, window-curtains, flannels and
cloth for garments.
	Every woman in the household manufactured
something. The aged grandmother spun flax
with the little wheel; the youngest daughter
carded wool, and the oldest, if the men were
busy, hatcheled flax. It was hand-work that
did it, and every hand did what it could best
do.
	The women, whose "work was never done,"
not only carded, spun and wove, but they
milked the cows, made butter, bread and cheese,
soap and candles, cooked the food, did the
washing, and in harvest raked hay, pulled flax,
and dug potatoes.
	The neighbor, who happened in for an after-
noon's gossip, brought her work. The mother
patched or knitted, as she rested by the fireside,
or quartered apples for the children to "string"
and hang in the morning in festoons on the
sunny outside walls. All were busy—always
busy.—Selected.


Christine Nilsson is soon to be presented at
the Spanish court by Count Miranda, her hus-
band.
	Empress Elizabeth of Austria has rheuma-
tism, and will try the hot baths of Mehadia,
Hungary.
	An account is given in the Chicago papers,
apparently authentic, of a woman who recently
died in the city, leaving four living husbands
from whom she had not been divorced. We
shall have to call for some anti-Mormon legis-
lation for Chicago as well as Utah.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"HOW LONG WILL THE HEART
BE DYING?"

Ah, how long will the heart be dying?
	Is a question we often ask,
While the agonized cry unanswered
	Resounds through the universe vast.

How long, crushed with anguish unspoken,
	Under doubt's burden weight held fast,
Pulsating with torture and broken,
	Can its ebbing of life-blood last?

When glad, earthly hopes and bright visions,
	All along life's pathway have fled,
When its fairest flowers are blighted,
	Its dearest one's scatter'd and dead.

When friendships strong ties have been rended,
	And their fragrance of memory gone,
With love's fondly cherished and tended,
	How long will the tried heart live on?

How long with relentless fate striving,
	With darts from detractions pierced through,
Poisoned arrows, malice sent flying,
	From caldrons of envy's foul dew?

How long with ingratitude stricken,
	With censure and impious scorn,
Can poor human hearts hold resistance,
	O'er cruel oppression and wrong?

Aye, how long keep the signal flags flying,
	O'er	battlements tattered and torn,
Will the heart in its grief be dying,
	 How long ere it ceases to mourn?

A bleeding world calls forth in sighing,
	In travail of bitterest woe,
How long shall the tried heart be dying,
	Is the boon we crave to know?

From the far off hills of the morning,
	When the breezes are gently stirred,
Comes the call in echo returning,
	Like the notes of a wounded bird.

It rings through earth's mighty cathedral,
	From above around and below,
How long shall the tried heart be dying?
	Is the boon we crave to know:

Martyred graves, and the wreck of nations,
	With united throb and throe—
And ever the echo's repeating,
	Is the boon we crave to know?

		L. M. HEWLINGS.


[Column 1]

PARTING LOOK AT MUNICH.

	This morning we were off to the New Pina-
kothek, where the modern pictures are found.
We knew the building as we would know the
face of a friend long before we reached it. The
frescoes on the exterior give it a most individu-
al appearance. The temperature was the only
thing that seemed unnatural. It was comfort-
able. We had shivered through the rooms
many a time in the cold days of the winter.
The danger of freezing one's feet, does dampen
the ardor, or cool off the enthusiasm of the
most aesthetic minds, as the benumbed tourist
vainly endeavors to comprehend the beauty of
Hess, Kaulbach or Rottmann. "The Deluge"
looks just as terrible, notwithstanding our own
personal comfort while we contemplate it. We
are told that the sensitive nature of Schorn
was so shocked by the work of his own hands
and brain that his mind gave way, and death
was the consequence of his mental prostration.
"The Destruction of Jerusalem," so wonder-
fully treated by Kaulbach, leaves no such
haunting phantoms as the "Deluge." Its softer
and more beautiful designs are more prominent
than the work of destruction. The encaustic
views of Greek landscapes have a new charm
as we come upon them again in these warmer
days. The mellowed light falling upon them
from above is better than we found in the gray
of winter clouds. We can only give a short
call now on our favorites, but we stop to re-

[Column 2]

new our acquaintance with Reidel's "Italian
Women," and make our bow to the ladies of
the royal family of Bavaria. Many a fair
lady smiles down from the canvas. Most of
these court beauties were young and beautiful
when the artist secured these interesting por-
traits.
	We would be glad to linger hours in this
familiar gallery, but the inexorable hand of
time points beyond, and we go on to take our
last look at the Glyptothek. The statues of
Italy have not weaned us from our regard for
this collection. The two colossal lions with
human heads still keep guard at the entrance.
The originals of these monsters, taken from the
palace of Kalah in Assyria, are to be found in
the Louvre. We go down the Egyptian Hall
with a sort of friendly feeling for the queer old
Sphynxes and priests who stand up in stone,
grey or white or black, as the case may be,
just as they did when the world was somewhat
younger than she is in our time. The Hall
of AEgina is the one which interests us most.
To-day we have a good classical scholar
with us, and we are anxious to show off the
relics of AEgina. These sculptures, the work
of artists who lived long centuries before
Christ, are looked upon as among the most
valuable remains of ancient art which have
come down to us. Many of the figures are
from one of the old temples—probably that 
of Minerva. The two groups which origin-
ally adorned the pediment are of especial
interest. They represent the combats around
the body of Achlles and that of Laomedon.
The figures are less than life size and were
found in many fragments. The wonderful
skill of Thorwaldsen has given them back to
us, perfect in all respects. The action con-
veyed by the two groups is striking, but the
features seem tame and expressionless. We
sigh over our lack of time as we hasten
through hall after hall, dedicated to the gods
decorated with wonderful frescoes and filled
with such marvels of work. We are taking
leave of our favorites and our parting must 
be brief. We save the Hall of Bacchus as
a precious morsel till towards the last of our
stay. It contains the "Winckelmann Faun"
and the sleeping satyr or "Barberini Faun."
We think of Donatello and Miriam, Kenyon
and Hilda, and go over the ground with
them, pondering the legends of the faun,
and Hawthorne's fanciful rendering of the
"Romance of Monte Beni." The author has
only looked a little below the surface of
everyday life. Human characters are de-
veloped from human experiences and emo-
tions. The mortal lineaments are as plastic
under the influence of habitual thought and
action as the clay is in the designer's hands.
The noble life leaves its stamp. The spirit-
ual life lies back of the physical, ready by
development to break through and glorify the
countenance as it blesses all on whom it
shines. We left the great satyr in his stony
sleep, chained by the artist's hand to his
centuries of repose. So long as that marble
endures through all the time to come, inac-
tion is the portion which the master mind of
its creator has decreed as its fate.
	The "Isar rolling rapidly" makes a charm-
ing view as it rushes under the picturesque
bridges which always tempt one to stop and
admire their surroundings. We drive down
the broad Maximilian Strasse that we may
get our best sight of, and cross the Maxi-
milians-brucke the handsomest of the bridges.
We inspect the beautiful gates of the city,
go over to the Basilica of St. Boniface to
show off the frescoes of Hess and his pupils,
feeling in some sort that the honor of the
city lies in our hands now, and that we
must put it before others in its best possible
light. We persuade our friend to be enfolded
within the embrace of the watchful Bavaria,

[Column 3]

and then saving our best treat that we may
crown our day with it, we are left at the
door of the dear friends whose beautiful Ger-
man home had been such a restful retreat to
us on our previous visit to the old city. Our
desire to see them once again before going
northward had been the strongest incentive
to our return.
	They made us welcome in such hearty fash-
ion that our measure of content was full.
Their hospitality was delightful in its kind-
est manifestations. We sat on the sofa and
talked of the old times and the new times, the
Old World and the New World, the old friends
and the new friends, and we all felt in our
hearts that there could be no friends like the
old friends and the true friends. Those whose
experiences have run side by side with our own
in youth, if worthy, gain a place in our affec-
tions not so easily reached in the haste and 
care that crowds upon our after years. Some-
times, it is true, our guest chambers may be
held in readiness for those who have been de-
tained along their way, who by some chance
our eyes have not been able to make out at first.
We know those, too, when once we have met
them, and their welcome is assured. There is
something more than pleasure in finding our
friends after many years of separation, putting
our hands in theirs, and finding the clasp as
hearty as of old. To have no shade of disap-
pointment enter into such reunions, makes the
meeting one of unalloyed satisfaction. To sit
on the sofa in a German home is to be hon-
ored. We enjoyed our honor to the full. The
grandmother of the family, who had come over
the sea so many years before to make a new
home for herself in the land of her child's
adoption, sat in the other corner full of earnest
questions about those on the other side. The
gentle-hearted German father watched a fair-
haired daughter as she busied herself in sweet
household ways, and with her own hands made
ready the dainty evening meal. Plants blos-
somed before the windows; the piano stood
open and the rooms showed in many ways the
charming taste of those who lived such genu-
ine healthful lives as these good friends. That
tea drinking was more than meat and drink.
Even pleasant things come to an end. There
was a last clasp of the hands, a farewell for
many years perhaps, the servant lighted us
across the court, the great gate was locked
behind us, we wondered what made it so
dark, and went silently down the street.
		R. R.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	There are 60,000 women farmers in Ire-
land.
	The Sultan of Turkey is happy in the pos-
session of 494 wives.
	The richest colored woman in America is
Mrs. Amanda Eubanks, of Rome, Ga., who
pays taxes on $400,000 worth of property, in-
herited by will from her white father.
	In Duruy's History of France, the writer
says: "The first king of France was Phara-
mond, an imaginary being, who had neve
existed. He was succeeded by his son."
	Mr. Norman W. Dodge, of New York, has
instituted a prize of $300, to be awarded at
each annual exhibition of the Academy to
the best picture painted in the United States
by a woman.
	A society to promote the higher education
of women has been founded in Japan, with
the prime minister as president. The whole
institution will be under the control of a
foreign lady principal.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

﻿THE "MORMON" WOMAN'S PAPER.

	OUR readers are doubtless aware that the pres-
ent number closes the Fifteenth Volume of this
little paper. Sorry indeed we are that it is late,
but "it is never too late to mend," and we hope
that the next volume, now commencing, will be
more regular, more interesting and withal more
worthy of the patronage of the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints. We do not expect the patronage
of the outside world to any great extent, as the
principles advocated herein are at variance with
the belief and practises of the people of the world
at large; yet we have sold and given away during
the last year to hundreds of tourists each one copy
or more of the "Mormon"woman's paper,and have
had the opportunity of conversing upon the prin-
ciples of the Gospel with tourists and travelers
almost every day.
	The paper has certainly been in many ways a
blessing to this people, and another avenue
through which the Gospel, to a certain extent, in
simplicity and in a humble manner may be pro-
claimed. In our experience in the Church we
have often heard sisters who were zealous for the
truth say, how glad they would be to have the
privilege accorded to them,which the Elders have
who are called to labor in the interests of the
Church abroad; this expression or similar ones
are often used. Every mother in Israel has a
noble mission to fill at home, of this the sisters
are fully aware, but there are possible yearnings
in the hearts of some women, and indeed there
may be special endowments and knowledge of the
truths of heaven given that may be imparted to
others, and to the world of mankind with good re-
sults. For instance it is often said in the world
"such a one was born a poet," or of another that
"she was born a teacher of her contemporaries,"
if that is the case, and history furnishes abundant
proof that it is so, why, may it not be so in the
Church of Latter-day Saints?
	Certainly through the colums of the woman's pa-
per. There is an opportunity offered for all those
who have these aspirations and desires to edify,
instruct, comfort, bless and teach those who may
read what has been, or may be written by them.
	The Sisters have, through their own paper a
grand opportunity for culture and development in
writing and publishing, upon moral, intellectual
and Gospel subjects, and it is a privilege that
should not be ignored. There are young women
who have talents and time at their disposal, who
might contribute largely to the current literature
of the day through the sources open to them; yet
we are sorry to say, many of them let the golden
opportunities pass by, wherein they might sew
broadcast some precious seed, that though small
perhaps in comparison, might bear excellent fruit,
and if no positive success ever attended it, there
is a great satisfaction in feeling one has done what
she could.
	There are missionaries abroad in different parts
of this land, and other lands, who have realized

[Column 2]

great good from the writings in the EXPONENT,
and are proud to acknowledge it. It finds its way
into many homes, where the sound of the Gospel
has never been heard, and it has been the humble
means of removing prejudice and correcting false
impressions, made by those who are ever on the
alert to injure the cause and the people who are
seeking to establish the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	The organizations of women have been greatly
promoted in their interests through the circulation
of this paper and indeed it is one of the helps in
the work of the Relief Society the Y. L. M,
I. A. and the Primary Associations. The meet-
ings and Conferences of these organizations
held in all the Stakes of Zion in America and
abroad find a place of record in its columns from
time to time and the workings of the several
branches of these great promoters of benevolence
and spiritual culture thus become better known.
	We hope and trust that the agents for the EX-
PONENT will not grow weary in well doing but
continue to labor diligently in the future as they
have in the past,and urge upon the sisters the need
of a paper of their own in which they may express
their sentiments upon all subjects of interest, and
advocate the principles of the Gospel they have
embraced and assist in advancement and progress
in that which will tend to the higher culture and
development of the daughters of Zion, and the
dissemination of the truth of heaven as revealed
in these last days through chosen men of God.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE sincerely hope that all our patrons and
friends will excuse the unavoidable delay in issu-
ing this number of the EXPONENT; circumstances
entirely unlooked for have been the cause, and it
is a matter of great regret on our part that we were
not able to be prompt in the matter, but hope no
such painful occurrences will prevent its regularity
in the future. It is the intention during the present
year to make ample recompense for any inattention
in the past, which may have appeared to those un-
acquainted with facts, like neglect of an import-
ant duty, but we hope to be able to give to all in-
terested perfect satisfaction in the future.
	TO all the subscribers of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT we wish to say, that if they have not each
one received a copy of the Prophet's mother,
"Lucy Smith," know in the Church as MOTHER
SMITH, we would like to be informed to whom
and where to direct, as it has been the aim and in-
tention to supply each subscriber with one of these
pictures. Those living in and near Salt Lake City,
we have thought it would be much better if they
would call for them, to save rolling, as it has been
something of a labor to roll them up so as to pro-
tect them from injury in going through the mails.
We are very anxious that all should have a picture,
and it is considered, by those acquainted with the
venerable mother in Israel, a very good likeness.
	HELPFUL VISIONS is the significant title of a
new work recently issued from the Office of the
Juvenile Instructor, and is the fourteenth of the
Faith Promoting Series, designed for the youth of
Zion. The contents are first "A Terrible Or-
deal" in two chapters by Bishop O. F. Whitney
giving the thrilling experience and remarkable
manifestations of Elder David Patten Kimball,
and the testimony of his son Patten, and others,
substantiating the marvelous spiritual occurrences
therein recorded. The fulfillment of the predic-
tions made at that time should be a strong tes-
timony to all who read with the spirit and the un-
derstanding, The next in order is "Briant L.
Stevens" by Kennon and is a sketch of the life
and spiritual devotion of a child who died in
his fourteenth year, and yet had accomplished in
that short time in the interest of the Gospel more


than many men of mature years. It is a most in-
teresting life-record. Third is entitled "Finding
Comfort," by Elder Thomas A. Shreeve, and is
much longer than the other sketches; but
also contains experiences and incidents calcu-
lated to awaken and inspire faith in the young
Elders of Israel who are called to preach the Gos-
pel to the nations. Fourth subject is "Traitors,"
by Elder Ben E. Rich and should be as a voice
of warning to all, for as he truthfully says, "a
traitor can never be anything but despicable."
Bro. Rich illustrates his chapter with examples
that are well known in history, but which taken in
connection with his essay, as it might properly be
called, are brought home to the reader with an in-
creased moral force. We have perused the book
carefully and most heartity recommend it to the
homes and libraries of the Latter-day Saints.
For sale at the Office of the Juvenile Instructor,
Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 25 cts.


﻿OUR CHILDREN.

	Lawful wedlock or marriage was sanctified and
made holy by God for the purpose of increase, and
not merely for the gratification of the baser pas-
sions. The command to Adam and Eve was to
multiply and replenish the earth, and this, accord-
ing to the Book of Mormon, was “that they might
have joy.” What is true in regard to Adam and
Eve is true in regard to all their sons and daughters.
The original command remains in full force to-day,
having never been revoked. And of all the bless-
ings bestowed by heaven there is none that at all
compares with the blessing of posterity. It is the
grand key to the eternal lives about which we love
so much to talk.
	No greater calamity can befall a family than to
have its name blotted out for the want of a son to
perpetuate it. On the other hand, if no other
justifiable reason could be assigned for the practice
of polygamy, the giving to every pure and virtuous
woman an opportunity to fill the measure of her
creation would be justification enough; for every
pure woman is worthy a pure and virtuous hus-
band, and all attempts to deprive her of this privi-
lege are in violation of a true and correct principle.
When the law of God prevails there will be no
cause of complaint in this regard.
	Those who prate so much about one woman
only for one man, and quote in proof that Adam
had Eve as his only wife, know nothing of the
true history of Adam and Eve; of their mission to
this earth, and the peopling thereof; of the fall
and their redemption. Is this the only earth that
has been created and peopled, and is the mother
of this earth the only one that ever had or will
have such honor? This may be all that a narrow-
minded Christian monogamist can possibly con-
ceive, but we know better. Enoch said, “Millions
of earths like this would not be a beginning to the
number of thy creations, and thy curtains are
stretched out still.” Will not each earth then,
with its inhabitants, pass through similar ordeals
to the one we occupy, as pertaining to its crea-
tion, its peopling, its fall and its redemption?
Certainly, nothing could be more reasonable, and
in relation to the female progenitor of each one of
these countless creations, the words of the in-
spired poet might apply, uttered many years ago:

	"And what to Eve though in her mortal life
	She was the first, the tenth, or fiftieth wife:
	It mattered not to her, she proved her worth,
	And thus became the Goddess and the Queen of earth."

	But, woman-like, I am wandering from my
text.
	We find ourselves upon the earth, and sur-
rounded with offspring, the result of marriages
sanctified by God through sacred ordinances. Now
what is our duty in relation to these children God
has blessed us with? Mothers, look around you,
and see the changed conditions as compared with


the first years of our settlement in these valleys.
The proposed regenerators of the Mormon people
are here in full force; they have brought with
them characters of every grade, who have intro-
duced amongst us the follies and many of the
crimes of modern Babylon, making the labors of
the mother manifold in watching and guarding her
offspring against their evils, and it will require the
utmost vigilance on our part to preserve the purity
of our offspring. Our late President, Brigham
Young, in speaking upon the responsibilities of
mothers, uses the following forcible language (see
Journal of Discourses, No. 5, Vol. I): “I will
tell you the truth as you will find it in eternity. If
your children do not receive impressions of true
piety, virtue, tenderness and every principle of
the holy Gospel, you may be assured that their
sins will not be required at the hands of the father,
but of the mother. Lay it to heart, ye mothers, for
it will invariably be so.	*   *   *	If you
suffer your children to grow up wild and uncor-
rected, when they come into the hands of their
fathers, and will not follow their counsels, let
them be disowned and have no portion in the in-
heritance; let them be disfranchised, be banished
from Israel, and not numbered in the books of the
offspring of Abraham.	*   *   *	If
children are not taught in their youth by their
mothers to revere and follow the counsels of their
fathers it will be hard indeed for the father ever
to control them. And when I undertake to con-
trol a child who wants to conquer me it shall be
death to him before I yield.	*   *   *   *			
Mothers, let your minds be sanctified before the
Lord, for this is the commencement, the true
foundation of a proper education in your children;
the beginning point to form a disposition in your
offspring that will bring to you satisfaction, com-
fort, honor and glory.” I would recommend every
mother to read this entire discourse, for it is full
of rich instruction upon this point, and is in per-
fect harmony with the revelations of God given
through the Prophet Joseph.
	Think for a moment. The little tabernacle that
you have been instrumental in bringing into this
world is quickened by a spirit that came from God
and esteemed by Him as of such intrinsic value,
as not to be allowed to come alone or unaccom-
panied, but is attended by a guardian angel, who
will, although an unseen observer, most certainly
testify to the treatment it receives at your hands.
With this view, then, shall we spend our entire
time in the decoration of our children’s bodies,
or in pandering to their appetites, neglecting the
development of those attributes of deity which
only require proper cultivation to give their latent
life all that strength and vigor which constitute
true manhood and womanhood? To whom belong
the principles of honor, integrity, virtue and truth?
To God. And these can only be manifest in the
flesh through the spirit which came from God,
and He will hold us responsible for this great
trust.
	We must remember, also, that our children be-
long to the Church with which we ourselves are
identified, and that we owe a duty to the Church
in regard to them, and we should preserve them
for the Church’s use. All the honor they receive
therein will come to us also if we have done our
duty, while their dishonor will cover us with their
shame if we have neglected our duty. One great
weakness that I have noticed in many mothers is
in their want of firmness. To kindly say no, when
no should be said, and maintain that position de-
spite tears and entreaties, will give strength to a
mother in the government of her family that is be-
yond estimate. For the want of this firmness
many a mother is a slave to her children, and she
finds in after life that she has lost all control over
them. I think it wise to early teach our children
the principle of sacrifice, for this is one of the
great essentials to our salvation and exaltation.
Those who have been truly great on earth have

[Column 2]
invariably learned this lesson, and that, too, gener-
ally in early life.
	We cannot guard too closely the morals of our
children. Have we the courage to say to them,
“You cannot go with that exclusion party or to
that dance, because certain individuals will be
there whose character is questionable?” Can we
say to them that they must not indulge in pleasure
seeking on the Sabbath day, that they cannot be
out at nights, and many other things of equal im-
portance? And when we have said this can we
hold firmly the ground we have taken although our
children should quote President So and So, or
Bishop So and So’s children or the children of
any other dignitaries as being allowed these in-
dulgences? Can we say to the son of our friend
and neighbor to whom our daughter is betrothed,
“It is now ten o’clock and Josephine must go to
bed?” Can we teach our daughters that rambles
in the darkness of night or loiterings at the gate
with feet upon the damp ground are both danger-
ous—the first to good morals, the second to
health?
	I recollect, some years ago, remonstrating with
a girl twenty-six years of age because of her
constant practice of sitting up with her lover until
a very late hour. Said she, “Why, Aunt Ruth,
can’t you trust me?” I replied emphatically, “No,
I cannot trust you.” She felt herself insulted at
the time, but the sequel proved I was right, for
she has cause to regret to this day that she trusted
herself too far. Mothers, you will be doing your
daughters a kindness to limit your trust in them in
this one particular, and exercise that surveillance
and motherly authority that are the true safe-
guards of virtue and maidenly purity, and they will
esteem you all the more highly in after years.
Such a thing as lost virtue among the daughters of
the Jews is a rare occurrence indeed, and their
virtue is due to an unceasing vigilance coupled
with a wise and proper exercise of parental
authority. For while Jewish parental kindness is
proverbial its authority is almost absolute, and is
in perfect keeping with the law of God both
Mosaic and modern.
	Our boys, also! Do we not too early in life
place them at too great a distance from us? For
example: Had we kept up the practice of kissing
them good night until they were well along in their
teens, we would have detected and corrected their
early habit of smoking, in hundreds of instances,
before the habit had become a confirmed one.
We might elaborate upon this subject to consider-
able length, but this one example will serve to
show how necessary it is for us to keep our child-
ren close to us; possess ourselves of their entire
confidence and never lose it, then our reward will
be all we can desire. True, some may be forward
and cut themselves loose from parental restraint
and authority, but the consciousness of having
done our duty will relieve us from those regrets
that always follow neglect.
	We hail with pleasure the elevating and cor-
recting influences of the Improvement Associa-
tions, the Sabbath Schools and the Primaries, but
a mother’s influence, wisely exercised from infancy
to maturity, is more potent than them all. Realiz-
ing this fact, let us double our diligence, having
in view, also, the many evils that exist among us,
and the avenues that are kept open night and day
to allure and decoy the youth of Zion from the
path of virtue and honor.
	One more word upon the subject of promiscuous
gatherings and I will stop. If the same strictness
in this regard were observed now as in the early
days of the Church, how many would be under
condemnation? In the month of October, 1837,
(if I mistake not) thirty-one persons were disfel-
lowshiped from the Church in Kirtland for joining
in a dance with the outsiders, and each one had to
make public acknowledgement of their wrong be-
fore they were restored to fellowship. Yet some
of our young people complain of the arbitrary rule
of the Priesthood when they condemn these pro-
miscuous associations.
								Aunt Ruth.


189	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HIGHER EDUCATION FOR WOMEN.

	I read, the other day, the synopsis of a dis-
course delivered by the noted Dr. J. P. Newman,
in his church in Washington. He is giving a 
series of lectures on the education of women,
which he dignifies by the title of sermons, and
lauds the sanctity of the Sabbath day to them,
which, in a measure, doubtless gives them the air
at least of sacredness. The length to which these
lectures, to adopt his title, discourses, have been
drawn out will be seen from the following:
	“I have sought,” said Dr. Newman, “a logical
connection in these discourses. First, ‘Woman
in history;’ second ‘Woman’s mission;’ and to-
night we shall consider ‘Woman’s education for
that mission.’ Next Sabbath evening we will
talk of Woman’s power in that mission,’ and the
following week of Woman’s power for that mis-
sion.”
This comes as nearly working a subject into dis-
tinctions withont a difference as well can be
imagined. While it gives evidence of a plenti-
tude of resource it also shows a lamentable ab-
sence of topics. Not that too much can be said
on the proper education of women, but that it can
be drawn into atmospheric thinness by confining
it in such limits. The changes in the title of sub-
jects give evidence of power to play with words,
to make verbal changes, but to leave the great
text ever the same.
	But these remarks are not to the point. Dr.
Newman understands education in the sense that
is now commonly accepted, and he looks but for the
accomplishment of that work of regeneration
among the women which, in times gone by long—
2,000 years ago—it was the Holy Spirit alone
could accomplish, while I can understand that
education with some, like the quack’s pill, is the
cure for all sorts, I do not understand how the
wise can view it in that light. For those who look
upon it so, there is much to unlearn. The power
of speech is not the gift of inspiration, and we are
still like children in many respects very easily
pleased, and more especially when our self-esteem
is appealed to. I do not take exception to Dr.
Newman’s position in the main, but the question
that presses itself upon me always is this; when
women shall have been accorded equal rights with
men—at least in matters that relate to education—
when women become educated as the most san-
guine advocate of education hopes for them, what
then? There is not a question that the admira-
tion of many for education is but another phase
of the insanity that inspires in some faith in a cure-
all pill. All this if undertaken should be com-
menced and carried on for results. The very last
and least result should be the desire for education
for itself alone. Education, power, virtue, tears,
smiles, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, are all for pur-
poses. When any of these become the great aim,
instead of a means only to a higher end, their
worth and their purpose become valueless and the
results attained will never justify the labor ex-
pended to secure them. Paul said he was not
ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, not because it
was a means, i.e., “for it is the power of God unto
salvation.” Without it the end could not be ob-
tained, therefore it was all important, not for itself,
but through it salvation might be had. Surely edu-
cation in the worldly sense of the day cannot be
of greater import than the Gospel of Christ, even
though professed disciples of Christ and the self-
appointed feeders of his alleged sheep, may see fit
to place it before the Gospel as a saving factor.
If the religion of Christ is but a means we can
give no more credit and accord no more power to
education. Though the great Word-Smith—Dr.
Newman—indirectly attempt to do so.


All wise people desire to be educated. They desire
it because it gives something superior to itself, and
that something is power. Power is desirable be-
cause more good can be done by its possession
than can be accomplished without it. Good should
be done and wished, for reasons and for ends
higher than the thing itself; and when we can do
all the good we desire there will come yet higher
reasons for the exercise of our powers than are re-
vealed to us. As we go on from faith to faith,
so we go on from power to power—the highest
motives now, becoming, by the lapse of time and
the development of our powers but secondary
considerations, that lead to walks and aims yet
higher. Not that we ever lose or cease to need
the old, but that the old motives, ways, ends and
aims are ever added to, are but the stepping
stones to that which is higher and nobler still. So
on through the eternal years; ever something to
strive for; ever new heights to soar through all
time. Were it otherwise there would come a time
when the immortal would have reached a limit,
when for the Infinite there could be no advance-
ment. That limit reached, the joy of life, the pur-
pose of immortality is destroyed, the infinite is
no longer infinite and religion and faith in good
become an idle mockery and the athiest alone has
the truth.
	Ah! it is said that those who profess the name
of Christ will reject his sweet and boundless phil-
osophy for the vain theories of the world which
do not satisfy and which are as dismally full of
uncertain conjecture as ever spurious religious
creeds contained. Wrapt up in their own learning,
in the consciousness of great individual powers,
men who aver themselves, to be guided by the light
of the Holy Spirit are lured into reasonings and
to theories that end gloomily enough, for their end
is soon reached and there is no purpose to them.
The heart of the wise man is never closed to any
light. No one guided by the Holy
Spirit will claim for education a cure
for the world's evils. God has made many
things to be done in this world. To perform one
of them—to be educated—is not all; it is but one
and yet it is much. It is not in real wisdom to
claim that education or universal suffrage, or tem-
perance or honesty will bring to the earth that
happy condition which is the wish of the righte-
ous and the promise of God. There are many
laws and they must all be observed.
	It is because all that we do here is for a greater
and a grander purpose that the Latter-day Saint
gives an intelligent reason for living and he alone
gives it. It is because the theories of the most ad-
vanced ministers are unsatisfactory and vain,
that atheism grows apace and that the religious
structure of the civilized world totters and is ready
to fall. The very ministers who advance these
theories realize how insufficient they are; they
cannot trust in their own claims; they are insin-
cere and being insincere are weak. Had they but
the strength to trust God and His Holy Spirit for
direction we would not see infidelity so rampant.
	Dr. Newman talks well. He tells much truth;
but he is without that day star which lights up the
understanding of the true and humble follower of
Christ and which tells us why we are here, whence
we came, whither we return and which enables us
to place a just value upon our efforts.
	All things, however high, are but the means to
things that are higher; and when women and men
have attained the education which Dr. Newman
would have them, the purpose of life is but
little nearer its fulfillment; the mission of both
has become more important and a wider field of
immediate necessities to fulfill that mission has
but opened. Not in education is salvation to be
found, though to be saved we must be educated.
The beginning and the end of righteousness is in
obedience to the Supreme Will, for in that
obedience lies the grand and enduring strength of
Christ-like humility.
								RUPERT.


190	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

EMERY STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Knowing that you have not lately heard
from us, the young ladies of Moab, I thought
I would write you a few lines:
	We were organized a few years ago, but for
some reason did not prosper. We were there-
fore lately reorganized, and our society is now
in a flourishing condition, with Fanny Standi-
ford as President; Priscilla Warner and Dell
Darrow, Counselors; Clara Burnham, Secretary;
Rose Stuart, Treasurer. We are having nice
weather, the fruit trees at this date being all
in bloom. We have general good health, and
withal a splendid climate.
	The EXPONENT is a very welcome visitor, I
do not know what we would do without it.
				Yours,	
					FANNY STANDIFORD,
					PRISCILLA WARNER.

				MENAN.	
					MENAN, May 3, 1887.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	As our voice has never been heard in your
paper, and as we think it is our turn to give
our ideas, we write, after having long talked of
it:
	Our associations are in a rather scattered
condition. We have ten fully organized, which,
as a general thing, are doing pretty well. We
have not visited as much as we would have
liked to, but there are so many inconveniences
that it is impossible at times to cross the
streams. However, our aim is to do good and
be a benefit to the young. Some say it is not a
woman’s place to preach the Gospel, but we
think, as sisters, that it is woman’s place to
know herself, to know her God, to be ac-
quainted with the principles of the Gospel, and
we certainly have the privilege to teach and
exhort all to do right, that by keeping the
commandments of God they may be blessed.
	We have a beautiful country up here; the
fields are beginning to look green, and the
health of the people is generally pretty good.
We have had a few deaths in our stake this
season, outnumbered many times, however, by
lots of fine babies.
				Your sisters,
				SUSANNAH R. LAWSON,
				MARY A. RICKS,
				MARY A. RAYMOND,
					Of the Stake Presidency.
				SUSAN L. STEPHENS, Sec.

			WASATCH STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The half yearly conference for the Relief So-
ciety of Wasatch Stake was held in the Heber
Hall, May 6th. On the stand were Prest. Emma
Brown and Counselors, presidents of the various
branches, Prest. Abram Hatch and Coun.
T. H. Giles of the Stake Presidency, several
of our bishops and other brethren. Services
began by the choir singing, “God spoke the
word.” Prayer offered by Bishop R. S. Duke.
Minutes of former conference read and adopted.
Our Stake contains nine branch organizations,
seven of which were represented as in a flour-
ishing condition.
	Prest. Brown in her opening remarks gave
some well-timed instructions to the secretaries.
	Bro. Giles followed with the same subject,
and gave a few hints regarding the correct fill-
ing out of the blanks.
	Our conference was attended by a large num-
ber of sisters. The remarks were such as
tended to strengthen and encourage all who
felt desirous of being built up in the Kingdom

[Column 2]
of God. Several of the brethren also addressed
us, and theiir remarks were well appreciated.
	The conference then adjourned for six months.
The choir sang an anthem. Benediction by T.
H. Giles.
	JOSEPHINE CLUFF JONES, Stake Sec.

	UTAH STAKE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Having a matter of business pertaining to 
the Relief Society, I feel like penning it to
you:	
	President Smoot, Sister M. Daniels and my-
self visited Benjamin and Lake Shore Wards
on the 16th of April. In the morning we held
meeting at Benjamin; had a good time; good
attendance of brethren and sisters; we took
dinner, then drove to Lake Shore. In the
afternoon held meeting at 3 p.m. for the pur-
pose of organizing a Relief Society. Mrs.
Annie Maria Ferguson was chosen for Presi-
dent, and she chose two counselors, who were
set apart by President Smoot, Bishop Argyle
and Counselors. This section of country is lately
settled; it is a new ward; they were all strangers
to me, but seem to be a good and united peo-
ple. It is a pretty country near Utah Lake,
six miles north of Payson.
	I believe the Relief Society in this Stake
will compare pretty well with any other; there
are good people here, and very ready to assist
in anything pertaining to the advancement of
righteousness in the land. At the present
time we are passing through trying scenes and
circumstances; it seems there is no way to look
for succor or strength but from our Father in
Heaven, who is able to give to all those that
seek Him.
	In the past eight months there have been
many changes. I have lost by death a brother
and sister, leaving a family of thirteen children
between them, and now I am called to undergo
another ordeal—my husband thrust into prison
for conscience’ sake, by those that have no
conscience nor feeling for God or man; but
there is a just God in heaven who will reward
everyone according to their merits. The scale
will turn some day, and the victory will be won
by the faithful.
	I hear that Sister Snow is quite poorly;
she has lived to a great age, and has done a good
work. May peace and comfort be her portion.
Love to all and much to you.
		Your sister in the covenant,
						MARY JOHN.

	TWENTIETH WARD, S. L. CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The  eighth anniversary of the Primary
Association of the Twentieth Ward was held
in the school house, April 21st, 1887, Prest.
Emma Toone presiding. After singing and
prayer, the minutes of the annual meeting of
April 29th, 1886, and the report were read and
approved. The programme for the occasion
was next carried out. It was as follows: Recita-
tion of Welcome, by four little boys; Recitation,
Katie Sansome; Essay on good manners, Al-
bert Romney; Duet, Ida Sansome and Ida
Savage; Reading, George Ottinger; Recitation,
“A Dream and its Answer,” by Misses Tovey
and Armstrong; Recitation, Master Evans;
Song, Alice Clowes; Dialogue, on Politeness,
by four young girls; Questions and Answers on
the Godhead, by the members; Recitation,
Pauline Held; Duet, by Sarah Nott and Lizzie
Pritchard; Dialogue, “What shall we Follow?”
by eight boys; Essay, “Character,” Lizzie
Pritchard; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Recita-
tion, Pearl Culmer; Recitation, “Obedience,”
by the members; Recitation, Isabelle Romney;
Song, Irene Daynes; Dialogue, Katie Lee,
Willie and Lee Richards; Recitation, Kathie
Culmer; Recitation, Hugh Sainsberry; Recita-


tion, Artie Culmer; Duet, Lena Savage and
Kate Dunbar.
	Sister Toone made a few remarks, expressing
her good feeling towards the children, and
thanking them for their good behavior during
the meeting. She then called two of the little
boys, George Ottinger and Albert Romney, to
the stand to make a few remarks. Both of
them responded to the call, showing their obe-
dience to her by saying a few words.
	Sister Toone was presented with a nice satchel
by Sister M. Sharp, her first counselor, in be-
half of the children of the Primary.  Presents
were also given to the Secretary, Miss Selina
Puzey; Organist, Kate Romney; and Corres-
ponding Secretary, Lizzie Pritchard.
	Remarks were made by Bro. George Romney,
Prest. Ellen Clawson, Sister Felt, Sister L. A.
Wells, Bro. Salmon, Bro. Savage, Miles Romney
and Dr. Ferguson.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Singing,
“Did you Think to Pray.” Refreshments were
then partaken of, after which the meeting was
dismissed.
	In the evening the parents and a few invited
guests met in a sociable capacity, and the fol-
lowing programme was carried out: Speech, by
Bro. Romney; Recitation, “Tom’s Little Star,”
by Cecilia Sharp; Song, Fannie Savage; humor-
ous reading, “Little Yacob Straus” C. W.
Stayner; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Grand
shaking of hands and refreshments; Song,
Emma Simmons; Recitation, “How Miss Edith
Entertained her Sister’s Beau,” Belle Salmon;
Duet, Mary and Ellen Romney; Remarks, by
Bro. Salmon; Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes;
Reading, Bro. Willis; Recitation, John Airmet;
Guitar selection, Messrs. Ellis, Willis and Sim-
mons; Remarks, by Sister Presendia Kimball;
Address, by Bro. Puzey; Song, Fredrick Cul-
mer; Address, by Bro. Stayner; Comic Song,
Bro. Sainsberry; Address, by Bro. Dunbar;
Recitation, Bro. Airmet.	
						CECELIA SHARP.

			HYRUM, CACHE CO.

DEAR EDITOR:

	Thinking, perhaps, a few lines might be wel-
come, we thought we would inform you that
we are still alive as a Relief Society, and desire
to be useful in the kingdom of God.
	We held our nineteenth anniversary on
Monday, the 5th of May, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Liljenquist presiding. There were
present Sister Luna Y. Thatcher of the Stake
Presidency, Sister Mary Freeze, Bishop S. M.
Molen and Sister J. E. Molen, Stake Prest. of
Primaries, and several brethren. After the
usual opening exercises, the minutes of the last
annual meeting were read and adopted. The
Secretary then read the following report:
	Statistical: Members, 240; meetings held,
20; average attendance, 40. Financial: On
hand, May 5th, 1885, cash, $18; property,
$14.21; real estate, $665; wheat, 700 bushels.
Received: Cash, $93.42; property, $70.71.
Disbursed: Charitable purposes, cash, $84.77;
property, $61.92; hospital, $6; home industries,
$10.65.
	Prest. Liljenquist made opening remarks.
and gave a good report of the labors of the
Relief Society during the past year.
	Coun. Johnsen testified to Sister Liljenquist’s
remarks, and thanked the young men who had
met to sing for us.
	Sister L. Y. Thatcher was pleased to meet
with the sisters of Hyrum. Said, “It is our
duty to sustain the authorities of the Church
with our faith and prayers. We are too apt to
criticise. Sisters, when you are in trouble and
sorrow humble yourselves and fast and pray,
and the Lord will remove the cloud and give
you the blessings you desire.”
	Sister Freeze said, “You have a good work-
ing Society, a band of noble women, which

[Column 2]
your Bishop should be proud of. Your report
is excellent. One good thing is you have but
little in your treasury; it is better to give it to
the needy than to lay it up. Let us be humble
and not wait for the Lord to humble us; if we
serve Him in prosperity He will not desert us
in the hour of sorrow.”
	Sister J. E. Molen spoke very encouragingly.
	Bishop Molen testified to the good work the
Society  had accomplished. Said, “I am
proud of our Relief Society.” He then pre-
sented the officers of the Relief Society for the
ensuing year. Prest. Liljenquist and all the
officers were sustained as before, excepting Sis-
ter Halversen and C. C. Hansen, who were
honorably released from their duty as teachers
on account of sickness. Sister M. Winge was
elected a teacher. Singing. Benediction by
Elder William Williams.
	2 p.m. Meeting called to order by Prest.
Liljenquist. Singing. Prayer by Elder H. E.
Nielsen. Singing.
	Sister Mary Freeze said, “Every principle of
this Gospel is ennobling, and especially plural
marriage. I have no doubt but that each one
wants a celestial glory; to me there is no sacri-
fice too great for this. If we want this glory
we must obey every principle. I would not be
out of it for all I have on earth or ever expect
to have, not even if I should have to lose my
life. We women are now disfranchised, but if
we cannot vote, we can use our influence for
good, and keep the commandments of God.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom, and urged the
young to keep it.
	Sister Thatcher spoke on the word of wisdom.
Said, “It is not only in eating and drinking,
but we should not overwork ourselves.” Gave
very good counsel to mothers on training their
children. “Make home happy and cheerful for
them; get them to obey you through affection,
not through fear.”
	Sisters Unsworth, Thorsen and Wilson en-
couraged the sisters to faithfulness.
	Elders C. C. Shaw, H. E. Nielsen and Wm.
Williams addressed the meeting.
	A few closing remarks by Prest. Liljenquist
and meeting adjourned for one year. Singing.
Benediction by H. T. Johnsen.
					C. LILJENQUIST, Prest.,
					N. M. NIELSEN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	CORRESPONDENCE.

	Zenos, Maricopa Co,. Arizona,
	April 13, 1887.
DEAR AUNT EM:

	I hardly know why I have not written you
oftener, for I have so longed for a visit with
you, particularly since your eastern trip. I
have read the pieces about your visit to the
old home with much interest, for I have listened 
with childish delight to the tales of that same
New England village, for was it not also the
home of my mother? I can almost fancy I 
should feel at home there, although I never
saw the place.
	We are all in the usual health; indeed this is
a very healthy climate, and we may, with ordin-
ary care, enjoy the greatest blessing vouchsafed
to man—good health.
	We have very good opportunities for edu-
cating our children; much better, in fact, than
we thought we would have in a new country;
still not exactly as we would like, for we are
obliged to conform to the territorial law, which
is very good of its kind. Our Primary and
Young Ladies’ Associations, also our Sunday 
Schools, are in a prosperous condition.
	I wonder if in your travels sometime you
will not drift this way long enough to make us
a visit? We would find much to interest you.
We are in the midst of pre-historic ruins. A
gentleman by the name of Cushman has been

[Column 2]
excavating and examining some of them quite
recently, in fact he is not through yet. The
Smithsonian Institute of Washington are di-
recting his labors.
	Yours affectionately,
	F. P. ROBSON.

	BURHAM, New Mexico, May 8, 1887.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	After saying goodbye at your office, I re-
mained in the city until the 15th of April,
when I started by train for Thompson's Springs,
where we arrived at 11 p.m., and were obliged
to stay there two nights, in order to get con-
veyed to Moab, Emery Co., a distance of three
miles. We reached the Grande River in time
to cross before sundown, which we did in a
small boat, the wind blowing a regular gale.
We found kind friends awaiting on the opposite
side, and soon came in sight of the little town.
There are only a very few of our people here,
and during my short stay I really pitied them,
they are surrounded by such a rough element.
There are some good, faithful sisters here, but
they are unable to accomplish much with so
many things of an evil nature to contend with.
I was favorably impressed with their school
teacher, a very intelligent young lady from the
north; I felt she must be very lonely, being
away from home, as I had been. I was very
thankful to find that I could, after a few days,
continue my homeward journey, where I found
myself the eighth day from starting. I was so
rejoiced to see the dear ones at home again, and
press to my heart the little ones that for so
many years claimed a mother's love and care;
but all looked strange and new to me; I could
scarcely make myself think that the general
surroundings were the same as when I left, and
now, though I can say I most willingly assume
the oldtime responsibilities, it seems a little
harder to bear after so long a vacation, yet I
feel that the loving, encouraging words of my
many dear sisters there will prove of great
worth to me, if I can only keep them in mind.
Oh! I did feel to thank my Heavenly Father
daily, while there, that He had permitted me
to once more look upon the home and friends
of childhood, after spending nine years of iso-
lation in a New Mexico home. More especially
did I appreciate the privilege of spending a
little time in one sacred place, and the blessings
I received therein. O, it was so near Him
and the angels of light, and the sweet and
noble faces of those who labor there, would I
could keep them ever in my sight, and I feel
that the thought of them, and the grand work
that is being done in that holy house, will com-
fort me through many changing and weary
scenes the future may bring.
	How often I ask myself, “Will I be faithful
through the trying ordeals of the next few
years?” Oh, kind and loving Parent, give me
faith and strength to overcome and be worthy to
share in the rich blessing that shall be poured
out upon thy Saints who withstand the fiery,
trying times, and prove that the contact has
passed, and they remain pure and true to
Thee.
	This, I believe, is the prayer of each Saint
of God, and well we can say, “In Him alone
we trust, knowing well that all other powers
will fail.”
	Dear sister, I hope your health has improved,
and do trust that your life may be spared
many, many years to bless your sex, as you
have done, and that I may meet you and enjoy
your pleasant conversation often in life.
	There was something that was denied me
during my visit on account of bad weather, 
and that was visiting often my mother's grave.
I did feel it would be such a sweet solace to
kneel there and implore strength from above,
as I have in the long ago, but I was favored so
much that I will not complain.


Please accept this rambling letter, as I be-
lieve some of the readers of our EXPONENT
will be pleased to hear of my safe return to the
south.  I will try, ere long, to tell you some-
thing of the Navajos.
	Ever wishing to remember and be remem-
bered by the humble and good, I am,
				Your sister,
				MARY STEWART BURNHAM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A BIRTHDAY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	April 28th, 1887, being the 57th anniver-
sary of the birthday of President Catherine
Foreman, the members of the West Heber 
Ward Relief Society decided to give her a sur-
prise party, which, under the able management
of Sister Murdock and others, was a complete
success.
	They met at the Relief Hall to the number 
of forty, where tables were set, loaded with the
bounties of life, of which all freely partook,
after which the President received a present of
a black cashmere dress, the Secretary and
Treasurer also receiving suitable presents. This
was followed by many of the members testify-
ing of the faithfulness of the President, and in
having a good time generally.
				HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


Beginning in September next, Miss Rose
Elizabeth Cleveland will be associated with
Mrs. Sylvanus Reed in the management of
a school for young ladies in New York City.
Miss Cleveland will become first assistant, and
will deliver lectures on American history. She
is not to engage in newspaper or magazine
work.


OBITUARIES.

	We feel to mourn the loss of our beloved sister, Elizabeth
Clifton, of Wallsburg, Wasatch County, who departed
this life on Thursday, April 27th, 1887, at 2 o'clock in the
morning, after a long and painful illness, which she bore
with Christian fortitude  Sister Clifton was born August
21st, 1822, in Chapel of Trith, Derbyshire, England. She
obeyed the Gospel in 1843, and emigrated to Utah in 1863.
Resided in Salt Lake City until 1874, when she moved to
Wallsburg, Wasatch County. On July 21st, 1879, she
was appointed by the voice of her sisters to preside over
the Relief Society, which she did faithfully to the last.
				FRANCIS KERBY, Acting Bishop.
	[Deseret News please copy.]

	DIED, at the residence of her daughter, Mary Ellen
White, in the First Ward of Beaver City, on April 25th,
1887, Ann Long W. Holbrook. She was born in York-
shire, England, October 6th, 1807, and with her husband,
Charles Woodhouse, embraced the Gospel in their native
land; in 1857 she emigrated to St. Louis, Mo., with seven
children, and there the hand of death fell heavily upon her
taking from her a kind husband and one child. Notwith-
standing this sore trial, through her indomitable courage
and perseverance, she, the following year, with her six re-
maining children, came to Salt Lake City, and resided since
then in different settlements of the Saints. At the time of
her demise she was the plural wife of Elder O. Holbrook of
Fillmore, Millard Co. She was full of integrity, true to
every principle of the Gospel as revealed in these last days,
liberal in donations and tithes, and faithful in the perform-
ance of the office of teacher in the Relief Society, which
position she filled a number of years; she was ever ready
to administer in word or deed as the occasion required, and
the Society of Beaver feel that we have lost one of Zion's
noblest daughters, a mother in Israel in very deed. Con-
doling with her bereaved family may we emulate her many
virtues.									  COM.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	It becomes my painful duty to unnounce the death of a
dearly beloved sister and co-laborer in the work of God.
	Sister Margaret Powell, widow of the late Daniel Powell,


was born in Penbrockshire, South Wales, October 31st,
1806. Was the mother of thirteen children, four of whom
are living. Sister Powell emigrated to this country from
Rymie, Aderdare, Wales, 1865, and to Utah in 1871. She
moved to this place, Samaria, Idaho, with her youngest
son, December 22nd, 1873, where she has resided ever
since.  During her residence here she acted in the capacity
of first counselor to the president of the Relief Society,
which position she honorably filled.
	On the 15th of this month, while preparing to go to Sab-
bath school, in the house of Sister M. D. Davis, which was
her home, she suddenly fell dead.  A coroner's inquest was
soon called and a verdict rendered to the effect that the
deceased came to her death from natural causes.
	On the following day the funeral services were held in
the Samaria school-house, and after the benediction the
deceased was followed by the vehicles of the officers of the
Relief Society, Y. L. M. and Primary Associations. The
vehicle containing the corpse wended its way to the grave-
yard followed by numerous vehicles containing friends of
the deceased.  At the grave-yard we engaged in prayer, a
hymn was sung, then all that was earthly of our Sister was
confined to mother earth.  The spirit had taken its flight to
Paradise.		Respectfully your Sister in the gospel,
					M. D. DAVIS, Pres. Relief Society.


ANOTHER ART GRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York,Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


﻿BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N.Y.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1838.

Z.C.M.I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah. 
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
  We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in 
LACES, RUSHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

