
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1890	No. 1


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. N. A. W. S. A. of Utah. Birth-
day Party,—Laura Bailey. Reflections.—Eliza-
beth B. Smith. Miscellaneous. Primary Jubilee.
A Genuine Surprise. First Annual Convention.
R. S. Report,—E. E. Arygle. Primary Annual,—
Janie Alford. Housekeeping,—Juliett Wood. A
Mother’s Despair. Wedding Anniversaries.
Notes and News. One More Gone. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—First of June. R. S. Confer-
ences. Lattter-day Saints’ College. In the Senate
of the United States.
	POETRY:—Happy Childhood,—L. M. Hewlings.
Our Old School House,—Hope. Quiet Ways Are
best. Woman’s Sphere,—Woman’s Chronicle.


HAPPY CHILDHOOD.
Oh, I was once a happy child,
	Roaming ’mid green fields and flowers,
And woke in greenwood echoe’s wild.
	Wove gay wreaths to deck my bowers.
With bouyant step I oft did glide,
	Thro’ lonely brake and silent shade,
Gath’ring flowers on every side,
	Nor little dreamed they soon would fade.
Across the hard and fretted rock,
	With naked feet I oft did tread,
Heedless of scratch or gentle knock,
	When birds were singing o’er my head.
I cared not for the tattered frock,
	When climbing up the craggy tree,
Laughing to see the bird-house rock;
	And shouting forth in childish glee.
The feathered songsters were my friends,
	I fancied all could know my voice,
I called them mine, uncaged or penned,
	I knew but little then of laws—
I had a tree, a shady elm,
	A castle tall I reared beside,
And peopled it from fancy’s realm,
	Then decked myself a queenly bride.
Seated upon a mossy throne,
	In state for many an hour,
Gazing up to the castle’s dome,
	Listening to my singing choir.
My castle’s dome the vaulted sky,
	My singing choir nature’s birds,
My pictures floating clouds on high,
	My flocks were all the grazing herds,
My subjects were the wild-wood bees.
	Busy in gath’ring stores for me;
My fleets were borne on every breeze,
	With lightning speed across the sea.
Then I gave with liberal hand,
	To every child of want and woe,
Bade all protect the favored land,
	That raised a queen to serve them so.

Alas! my airy castle’s down,
	Tall battlements, lofty towers,
The skill to raise them is not mine
	Youth kept back the magic power.
	L. M. HEWLINGS.


OUR OLD SCHOOL HOUSE.
I took my time worn bible from the shelf the other day,
And in glancing o'er the pages to the fly leaf chanced to
stray;
And I read “Reward of Merit from her Teacher J. E.
Black”—
Then memory swiftly bore me down through the wild weird
track,
Of the months and the years that have vanished, since the
little book he gave
That holds in its blessed pages the truths which the world
must save.


Then quickly came before me the school house in the wood,
Beneath a spreading elm tree the humble dwelling stood;
No tall spire pointed upward no lavish wealth was there,
But a hand of happy children around the master’s chair;
Learning the simple lessons he spared no pains to teach,
Showing that ever higher the mortal mind should reach.

Oh the happy joyous school days too swiftly do they end,
Too soon will come the season when friend must part from
friend.
When all that’s left is memory of the lessons and the play
Of wildwood nuts and berries we gathered by the way,
Of the Spring and Summer flowers we wove in garlands
fair
To place in loving gladness on a playmate’s shining hair.

Oh why are teardrops falling—I am thinking where are 
they,
Who met in that old school house so happy and so gay;
Far, far our paths are sundered, to meet in time no more;
For many of that number now walk the Golden Shore,
The bridal wreath crowned Archie as we laid her down to
	rest
So soon she left life’s trials for the mansions of the blest.

Dickie and Henry laid them down where the battle cry
rung high,
When the noblest and the bravest were called upon to die. 
When the widowed, son-less mother bound up her bleeding
heart,
And in the Nation’s struggle bore her hard and bitter part,
And Johny Maitland’s sleeping too, within the quiet grave,
The tears and prayers of kindred failed his precious life to
	save.

Where do the others wander? I know not but I pray,
That in the great hereafter on some bright happy day,
We may all meet together, teacher and pupils too.
That met in that old school house where the tree of knowl-
edge grew.
May the good Shepherd lead us throughout life’s wander-
ing way,
’Til we meet in His Own Kingdom never, never more to
	stray.
HOPE.


QUIET WAYS ARE BEST.
What’s the use of worrying,
Of hurrying,
And scurrying,
Everybody flurring,
And breaking up their rest,
When every one is teaching us
Preaching and beseeching us,
To settle down and end the fuss,
For quiet ways are best?
The rain that trickles down in showers
A blessing brings to thirsty flowers;
Sweet fragrance from each brimming cup,
The gentle zephyrs gather up
There’s ruin in the tempest's path;
there’s ruin in a voice of wrath;
	And they alone are blest
Who early learn to dominate
Themselves, their violence abate,
And prove, by their serene estate,
That quiet ways are best.

Nothing’s gained by worrying,
By hurrying
And scurrying;
With fretting and with flurrying
The temper’s often lost;
And in pursuit of some small prize
We rush ahead, and are not wise,
And find the unwonted exercise
A fearful price has cost.
’Tis better far to join the throng
That do their duty right along;
Reluctant they to raise a fuss,


Or make themselves ridiculous.
Calm and serene in heart and nerve,
Their strength is always in reserve,
And nobly stands each test;
And every day and all about,
By scenes within and scenes without,
We can discern, with ne’er a doubt,
That quiet ways are best.
New York Evangelist.


HEPHZIBAH.
XXII.
Alone, and weary, among strangers too,
	What consolation could a hope impart,
Only the thought that duty, stern and true
	Implanted by religion in the heart.

	Young Mrs Harvey grew gradually convales-
cent, though she seemed scarcely to realize her
delicate condition, she mourned for her baby, it
would have been company for her in the lonely
hours, when she lay so weary day after day,
thinking how her bright hopes had been
blighted one by one, and wondering if she
could ever recover. She tried to get faith 
enough to be healed under the administration
of the Elders, who came very often and it al-
ways comforted her for a time.  One day she
recalled the circumstance of Brigham Young's
coming to administer to her at a time when
she was suffering great pain, and the words
came fresh to her mind that he had spoken on
that occasion "thou shalt rise up from this bed
of affliction and live yet many years to do
good," it was like new life to her, and she laid
hold of the promise, and began to gain strength
until she was able to sit up, and move about
the house; the weather was growing colder,
winter was coming on, and somehow she felt
the strangest presentiments; whenever she
mentioned this to Harold, he would whistle
and sing, and tell her it was only because she
was nervous and low-spirited, but he never
quite satisfied her with regard to himself; he
was attentive and affectionate always, but his
manner grew more and more restless, and
Hepsie was not in a condition to understand.
Had she been well and strong in body and
mind and able to go out, she might possible
have known more and averted the serious con-
sequences that followed, but fate it seemed
would have it so,—and she was powerless
under the circumstances.
	One day Harold came home at dinner time
and called his wife aside to say "Hepsie I am
going away, to stay two or three weeks, going
to St. Louis on business for the store, now don't
cry, as he saw her lips quiver and the tears
come to her eyes, or I shall never have the
courage to go, and it is really necessary, you 
must be brave, and try to get better fast while
I'm gone, you'll not be so thin and pale when 
I come home." Hepsie could not speak,
Harold embraced her fondly again and again
as though loth to leave her, "Come with me 
to the riverside" he said, she threw a shawl
around her and in a moment they stood on the
bank of the great river that flowed so near
their dwelling. "Once more good-bye sweet-
heart, wife, darling," as if the words choked
him, and he was gone; gone with her kisses on
his lips; she watched him in the distance, his fair
hair shining like burnished gold, his overcoat
on his arm, while her tears and sobs were
pitiful; she never forgot how he looked then,
as she saw him going away, though as she be-


[Column 1]
lieved only for a short time. Alas, how 
strangely things occur in this world, and we
know not why 'tis so.
	The three weeks went by and Hepsie watched 
and waited, in good faith, never for one moment
doubting him, though a great pain was always
in her heart, she had striven hard to be com-
posed, to regain strength; and she could read
and write a little now; during these days of 
waiting, she had so longed for a letter from
Harold, and wondered why he did not write;
in his abrupt departure, she had not thought
to ask him to write, and she had no idea where
to address a letter should she write one. So
she had nothing to do but wait. and no letter
came. Hope began to grow less, and yet she 
had no one to whom she could, or would go for 
comfort except the Lord. Prayers and tears 
were her only outlet for the grief she felt so 
keenly.
	One day a man, who knew so little of this
patient young wife, or of a woman's nature one
would think, said to her in the most careless
way "Mrs. Harvey don't you think your hus-
band has given you the slip?" She heard no
more, the shock was too much for her to bear.
	While Hepsie lived she never forgot those
words, it was as if a knife entered her heart at
first, and then she fell upon the floor in a deadly
faint. When she came to herself again she
tried to think what had happened, gradually
it dawned upon her and she recalled the cruel
words, and she felt sure, hard as it was to bear,
it must be the truth, else why had he not
written to her. But we will leave the poor
little wife for a few days alone with her
terrible sorrow.
	It is impossible to paint in words the anguish
she endured in the days that followed, but she
was not left long to herself. She was stricken
sorely, her heart was bruised indeed if not
broken, no one to appeal to, it was hard for
her to rally sufficiently to think, but she sum-
moned all her latent powers and thought over
all those who had come from her native village,
but there was not one among them all to whom
she could go. Ill and alone in a strange city,
her pride kept her apart from those who would 
have helped her, or shall we say an over-rul-
ing Providence marked out her course. "If
mother would only come now, or if Lucy
Reynolds were but here," she would repeat
over and over to herself.—
	One evening a neighbor had come in for a
few minutes, thinking to offer consolation, and
before scarcely anything had been said, a loud
knock at the door startled her, she rushed to
open it thinking surely it was Harold, but no,
it was an utter stranger.
	"Mrs. Harvey" said the stranger addressing
her by name "I have come for you?" telling
her his name, "O, you are my husband's
partner, have you brought me a letter or news
of him? is he ill? must I go to him?"
	The man was young, and was not prepared
to answer these hurried questions, in fact he
was somewhat alarmed. "Calm yourself Mrs.
Harvey he said after a moments' pause, I
have come with a message from my mother,
she will explain all, come with me, it is but
a short distance, only in Main Street." "To
night said Mrs. H. beginning to feel timid,
and with you alone?" "Yes you need have no
fear," and turning to the sister who was in the
room, he said "Mrs. J. you know my mother
don't you?" "O, yes I know Mrs. S.—y—quite
well, there is nothing to fear, however as Mrs.
H. is weak and nervous I will go with her."
Thus reassured Hepsie put on her things it
was a cold night, her long cloak with sleeves
and all trimmed with fur which came down to 
her feet—it had been made new for her wedding
tour, the cape nearly as large as the cloak it-
self, she was almost lost in her wraps; pale as
death and trembling with nervous excitement
she locked the door behind her and went out
[Column 2]
into the dark street. She did not speak a word
until they reached the house which was only
a very little way, and Mrs. J. left her at the 
door, saying "it will be better for you to go in
alone;" and Hepsie felt relieved not knowing
what she was about to hear. Mr. S. opened
the door and Hepsie was ushered into a warm,
light room where sat two young men and an
elderly lady who came forward quickly and 
almost took her in her outstretched arms, say-
ing, "dear me honey so young, so sick, sit ye
down I'll take care of you and nurse you up."
Hepsie could not speak, she was more puzzled
than ever. "What could it mean?" she said
to herself—the cold night air and the warm 
room had a peculiar effect upon her, her head
was dizzy, she was bewildered, and completely 
overcome; the old lady took off her wraps all
the time, calling her "honey" and "poor little
thing," finally Hepsie summoned courage
enough to say, "have you no news for me?"
"why am I to stay here?" The young men 
looked from one to the other and then at the 
mother, and neither spoke. Finally in tender
tones Mrs. S. said "you must wait until morn-
ing, you are too ill, come with me, and she al-
most carried her to the next room undressed
her and laid her in bed then brought hot 
rocks to warm her feet and gave her warm
drink; Hepsie had no idea what it was, but she 
felt the sympathy of this gentle motherly wo-
man soothe her, and she soon fell asleep but
only to wake again in a tumult of fears and 
tremulous emotions. Mrs. S. was in bed with 
her, and the hardwood coals were burning on
the hearth, the room was full of shadows all
strange and new. Mrs. S. finding she had 
wakened, rose and brought her more warm 
drink; Hepsie was reluctant to take it, but the 
good woman said, "honey you must take this
its only valerian you'll sleep if you take it,
and let me rub you too, you're cold as marble."
No mother could have been gentler or more
thoughtful than was this strange woman to
little Hepsie; her heart was drawn out in 
pity for her lonely and helpless condition.
	The next morning Mrs. S. was early astir
leaving Hepsie dozing half between sleeping 
and waking; she was preparing the breakfast
when the boys came down and asked if she
had told Mrs. H. anything. "No, indeed she
can't bear it yet, you must leave it all to me,
depend on't she'd die if you told her now."
The boys as Mrs. called them were glad to let
their mother have her way, for they could not
carry out the request Harold had made of
them in a letter they had received. They had
never seen a woman like Mrs. H. before, and 
had no idea how to convey sad messages. It 
was well for Hepsie that they hesitated, or, at
least she thought so afterwards, else the shock
would have been too great had it come all at
once. 
	Within two or three days, little by little
Mrs. S had carefully given Hepsie to under-
stand, that she was not dependent upon them,
that Harold had provided this home for her
until she would be strong enough to go away,
or some other arrangement could be made.
Hepsie was becoming aware by degrees, thanks
to the thoughtfulness of Mrs. S. that she was 
left alone, and she felt utterly forsaken and help-
less.
	It was a heavy blow to fall upon one so 
feeble and childish, "nervous prostration will
certainly follow" so said good Mrs. S. to her 
boys "she is the most amiable and daintiest
little woman I have ever seen, how young
Harvey could go and forsake such a wife I
can't see I've no patience with such fellows."
	"Mother he could'nt help it" said Hezekiah
the youngest of the three; "I've told you so
before, he wept like a child when he left
Charlie and I at the landing, and begged we 
would watch over his wife, until she was well
but we did'nt dare to go near her until that
[Column 3]
letter came, and then I was dumb before her 
pale face thinking of her great sorrow."
	Many conversations were held between
mother and sons about Mrs. H. during the 
short time she was with them, of which Hepsie
knew very little, she seemed more dead than
alive so far as any activity was concerned,
languid and listless, she let the days slip by; 
and seemed almost content to let Mrs. S. wait
upon her without even thinking for herself.
But another change was coming. Although
Mrs. S. was careful to avoid anything objec-
tionable to Mrs. H. yet she had noticed of 
late that "the boys" spoke of going away,
leaving Nauvoo, and they were fast becoming
disaffected in their faith, and she felt the in-
fluence was making an impression on Mrs. 
S., but she had no idea that she could make
any change until she was able to teach, which 
seemed the only alternative, and so she kept
silence.
	One day after the boys had gone out and 
by the by Mrs. S. had been reasoning sharply 
with them in the next room at breakfast 
time, and Hepsie was praising the buckwheat
cakes she was trying hard to eat, and thank-
ing Mrs. S. for her patient care and waiting 
and tending upon her, Mrs. S. inquired "How
would you like to go over the river with us to
live, these are troublous times here, and there
will be serious trouble here by Spring, and I 
don't like being here without the boys and 
they wont stay?" And as she saw Mrs. H. did
not reply she said, we don't want to leave you
here, the boys love you as their own sister,
wont you come and go with us only thirty 
miles to Farmington and I'll take good care of
you.

N. A. W. S. A. OF UTAH
	A Meeting of National American W. S. A.
of Utah was held May 18, 1890 in the 14th
Ward Assembly rooms, with Mrs. S. M.
Kimball in the chair.
	Opening prayer by Mrs. M. Y. Dougall.
	Minutes of the previous meeting were read 
and approved.
	Pres Kimball next introduced Hon. F. S.
Richards to the assembly who delivered a 
lecture upon the Municipal government of 
Salt Lake City.
	Miss Hindman's petition to Congress was
read by the secretary, after which Mrs. E. S.
Richards spoke of the lady as being personally
acquainted with her.
	Mrs. Nellie Little made a few remarks, a vote
of thanks was tendered Hon. F. S. Richards.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. 
	RACHEL EDWARDS.
	Sec'y of W. S. A. of Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIRTHDAY PARTY. 
A party was tendered to the President of
the Relief Society at Upton, Mrs. Caroline
Clarke on the 15th of May 1890, at her home.
It was a great surprise arranged by the sisters
of the Relief Society with her children and
grandchildren at her own home. In the even-
ing a delicious repast was partaken of which
had been prepared by the sisters for the
occasion. The President thanked the sisters
kindly for the interest taken in her behalf and
the respect shown  her on the fifty-ninth
anniversary of her birth. The rest of the
evening was spent in dancing and other amuse-
ments after which the company returned to
their homes wishing Sister Clark many happy
returnes of the day, and feeling the time had
been enjoyable for all.	
The Upton Ward Relief Society is in good
good working condition, the sisters of the
Society attending to their duties and doing all
the good they can.	
LAURA BAILEY, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿[WRITTEN FOR WOMAN'S CHRONICLE.]

"WOMAN'S SPHERE."

BY "ONE OF THE GOSLINGS."

[Respectfully inscribed to "One of Mather Goose's De-
scendants." Written for the benefit of "Father Gander's
Descendants."]

Where is "Woman's Sphere?" Easy question to ask,
But to answer, ah, me! what a gigantic task.
To form argument sharp pointed, and of such weight,
They can work their way through the masculine pate,
Will be work for "descendants" little and great.
And should one succeed in finding its way,
Through some "long standing" prejudice. what would they
	say?
Would this be their verdict, when pet theories fall:
"Well, she was the biggest goose of them all."
"So mote it be." It matters not what they say,
If only one unjust, erroneous idea's torn away,
Thus aiding the vision of all to see clear,
Woman knows when she's reached her limit of "sphere."
The mishaps to our "sphere searching maiden" befell,
Was because of not asking those who could tell.
To gain a true answer. we in reason suppose,
The question must be asked of the person who knows;
And from Adam's time down it has been understood,
Man sees but slowly what is for his best good.
He scents danger afar, from which he may flee;
Whilst a blessing be near he's unable to see.	
So slam went the doors to shut woman out,
"She will rob professions of dignity. Turn things inside
	out."
So they barred the front entrance; but very soon found,
Her wit and her feet could find a way round.
Poor man! Could he see an inch from his face,
Would see, elevation of woman means elevation of race,
And help with a will, through tangle and brier;
Helping her, he would naturally raise himself higher,
For he being made of much stronger clay,
Would go in advance to clear the rubbish away.
But hesitating he stands, in scorn or in wrath,
Leaving disfranchised woman to "break her own path."
She has proven her ability to grasp higher knowledge,
Thus proving her sphere extends to the college
O'er and o'er they repeat. "Home is her sphere."
Well, my dear man, have you no interest here?
Do you forget your own mother? Your wife's winning
	charms?
The kiss of your babies? Their soft clinging arms?
No. You love them. In health they are ever your care;
In hours of sickness, long night vigils you share.
Thus it was, is, and will be, from first morn to last sun,
For "home sphere" was never intended for one.
You say, "we are so dull:" you ever must tell,
You have work to do in the big "sphere" as well;
Unravel knotty problem, bring hidden meanings to light,
And, to improve every talent is your God given right.
He who gave to man talent, bids him improve,
So he must not stand still, but move, onward move.
When you talk of "God-given right," no one demurs,
But, let's ask, how came woman by hers?
If it be for man only, the task to unbar,
The path leading up to the most distant star.
And all the deep mysteries of science unroll,
Why was given to woman, sight, sense and soul,
That looking out toward worlds revolving in space,
Seeing meteor follow meteor in swift silent chase,
A flame lit her soul, piercing down through her eyes,
And raising her hands reached out toward the skies,
With desire for knowledge to read them aright,
Explore mystic paths through the shadow to light,
Whether above in the heavens, or beneath the green sod,
Whence the fountain and source? Was it the same God?
"There are depths we can't fathom," you say, but don't
	mean,
Why, bless you, you're not half so bad as you seem.
You know, Maria Mitchell's hand loosened some bars,
And confess, she intelligently looked at the stars.
When woman prove worthy of entrance here,
Does it not prove that science belongs to her sphere?
You say "it is hers to wash, cook and bake."
Well, sirs, with this "sphere" you great liberties take.
If we are not to meddle with what you call your own,
Why not set the example and let "our traps" alone?
Who cooks for Vanderbilt? Men! List what I say,
They get all the "cook jobs" that draw big pay.
And who are the bakers? You well understand,

[Column 2]

Men, daubing their pastry all over the land.
How is it with the washing? You very well know,
You have dabbled in our suds, even Foo, Lee, Shang,
	Low.
So in this "limited" sphere, that to woman you deal
Your encroachments amount, sirs, almost to a steal.
Does it seem selfish? Or, like holding ill gotten pelf,
Taking great "chunks" of our sphere, and keep yours to
	yourself?
You say, "This talk of encroachment is all so absurd,
'Tis your right. And woman's lucky if she keeps a third.
"But, let the 'descendants,' if they will, go to college,
And of law, science and physic reach the limit of knowl-
	edge.
Grant her this. But legislation, men never will hand her,
That belongs solely to the sphere of the 'gander.'
She's too fractious, too impulsive for cool legislation,
Would upset political 'stewpots' for the entire nation.
Monopolies could not stand her blustering winters,
Her legislation reducing the whole thing to splinters,
Not by strength, but mismanagement, for she's weak you
	will own
As a 'puling infant,' and never will stand all alone."
Hold! You're all out of breath; now please let me speak.
We are in our infancy; know we are weak;
But wouldn't it amuse you, when your young boy,
First seeing the "little sister,' thinks her only a toy?
Looking critically at her, in her very small bed,
 Contemptuously remarks: "She can't hold up her head."
Seeing limbs, limp as rags, more amusing his talk,
Ending with the verdict: "That thing never can walk."
Is aught taken from his dignity as time's wonders repeat.
She can hold up her head and use her two feet?
No. And forgetting his prophecy, like a brave little man.
Proud of seeing his sister walk as far as she can.
You say, "Woman prates of her 'rights' like a crank, a
	fanatic.
And on the question of temperance talks like a lu-nat-ic,
Revealing want of tact, in making a beam of a mote,
And 'bottle pockets' she won't have inside her coat.
That settles the question. Of this make a note,
Women never, no never, no never can vote!
For this is plain showing to 'ganders' of all classes,
She can't comprehend the wants and needs of the masses."
Yes, of cranks and fanatics, we have our full share,
They come in all "shades, styles and size;" bob up here
	and there,
In most spheres of life. Yet as we compare
Them with another specimen, the species seems rare,
Met with, occasionally, but fools, everywhere.
With "suffrage," woman may manage as she's managed
	before;
Plod through the slush, til she reach the back door.
Failing here, can you keep her in uncertain twilight?
No. She'll go up in a balloon, and come down through
	the skylight,
And once gaining entrance, will prove even here
The right of a small bit, to patch up her sphere.
Over all discomforts, fain would you weep,
Shouting, "Who'll wash the dishes, dust up and sweep?
Lonely our home of all comfort bereft,
In the name of great goodness, what have we left?
All glory, all honors, all blessings of life
Have walked off to congress, or the polls, with 'our' wife.
Now, who talks like a lunatic? You howl like a loon.
Will each individual woman reach for the moon?
In your "right royal" sphere what is the trend?
Toward the "up lands" of life, does each foot-path tend?
No. That "up lands" are man's right, for "men only" is a
	myth;
All surely will "get there," who have the "wherewith."
And women having "wherewith," for the "up lands" are
	bent.
"Proving up on her claim," can't she there pitch a tent?
Some will strive for the summit of wisdom's high hill,
Some will cling to the valleys and "vacancies" fill,
Many march to the "heights," should woman's cause be
	the winner.
But enough will be left to look after the dinner.—
These themes have been worn out, again and again,
But, they are the "closet skeletons" and ever have been;
So it may be "policy," now and then through the battle.
To open the door and set their dry bones a rattle—
But we'll now close the door; I have finished my task,
And leaving all lightness and jesting, I seriously ask,
Where is "Woman's Sphere?" And solemnly declare,
There is no limit. Her sphere is everywhere!
Everywhere? Yes, from Beer-sheba to Dan; 
Deny it; exclude her from it, if you can!


REFLECTIONS.
[Suggested on reading “Woman’s Thoughts
and Woman’s Work” in the EXPONENT Oct.
15th 1889.]
	Surely women have and are doing much for
the advancement of the great work of the last 
days: women will certainly have the credit
awarded them of taking the lead in many 
important things in these days as well as in
former days. A woman first suggested the
idea of a benevolent society which resulted in
in the organization of a Relief Society bless
her noble memory, then the saintly Eliza R.
Snow traveled thousands of miles to get
branches established, sparing no time to in-
struct the sisters how to set them in order and
under the guidance of the Prophets Joseph and
Brigham have done a great and good work.
Paul said the woman is the weaker vessel,
which we admit, but the Lord says I will take 
the weak things to confound the wise monarchs
and potentates of the age. Thus we might go
on enumerating the deeds of noble women.
But what are the women of Utah doing to
day some wandering in exile, others, bless
their noble memory, traveling through cold
 and storm wearing themselves out in old[-]rage
to teach and instruct those of less experience,
speaking comforting words of peace and con-
solation to the sick and afflicated, causing many
to rise from sick beds and go on their way
rejoicing. These and many other good things
we might mention are some of woman’s work,
not to mention the training of the noble spirits
oft committed to her care, who sometimes a
little wayward and reckless take so much of
her attention,but sill a mother will struggle 
with odds to gain the goal and save the dear,
her dear ones. The subject of woman's work
is endless it is eternal, it emanated from the 
throne of God was much of it no doubt planned
for them there,the work of the beloved mother
of our Savior was planned there, also that of
many other illustrious women of this and 
other ages. The spirits of the noble women of 
this age were reserved to come and do the
work they are now so well performing. Then
all should be up and awake to every duty 
devolving upon them not letting one oppor-
tunity pass where they can do good. The
night is far spent already the day star is dawn-
ing: the cry “go forth to meet the Bridegroom 
will soon be heard, then with the oil of good 
works in our vessels and our lamps trimmed
and burning, oh how happy how joyful can
we meet the dear ones gone before who have
long waited our absence.
	ELIZABETH B. SMITH
	Logan, May 12, 1890.


MISCELLANEOUS
	The heart gets weary, but never gets old.—
Uncle Esek.
	He never makes friends who never made
a foe.—Tennyson.
	Very near together are hearts that have no
guile.—Confucius.
	It is much easier to meet with error than
to find truth.—Goethe.
	A great deal of talent is lost in this world
for the want of a little courage.—Sydney Smith.
	Doing nothing for others is the undoing of
one's self. We must be purposely kind and
generous, or we miss the best part of existence.
The heart that goes out of itself gets large
and full of joy. This is the great secret of
the inner life. We do ourselves the most
good by doing something for others.—Horace
Mann.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	Editor.
	﻿Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E. South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JUNE 1, 1890.


FIRST OF JUNE.
	The first day of June the children of the Latter-
day Saints are beginning to recognize as Primary
day and throughout the several Stakes of Zion it
is coming to be observed as the childrens’ holi-
day for the Primary Associations.  They gather
for festivities and to have a good time generally
in some park, wood or large garden or hall, and
dancing, games &c., are indulged in by the little
folks, and those who have them under their care,
and no pains is spared to make the day enjoyable.
In honor of the anniversary of President Brigham
Young’s birthday it is a very fitting and beautiful
tribute to his memory that the children of Zion
rejoice; certainly all Israel have had reason to
honor and bless the memory of this great pioneer
and colonizer, who led the people into the valleys
of the mountains, and raised the flag of the nation,
the emblem of liberty and freedom upon the
loftiest peak of these everlasting hills that sur-
round this beautiful valley.
	Making June first a regular holiday for the
little people, will impress the minds of the child-
ren now growing up, and who have never had
the privilege of seeing Brigham Young, with a
love and reverence for his memory that reading
and teaching could not accomplish half so well.
More and more every day the great work per-
formed by him is dawning upon the minds of the
people at large, “a man of destiny” a man of
power and of wonderful influence was Brigham
Young, and above all a man favored of God, and
beloved by the people over whom he was called
to preside as Prophet seer and revelator.
	It was as a tribute to the birthday of the Presi-
dent and as a recognition of his position upon the
woman question, that the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
was first issued on that day June first, and he
gave the paper its name.  He distinctly manifested
his approval of woman’s free and unbiased ex-
pression of views on all subjects and was anxious
that the sisters should have a paper through
which they might speak freely and discuss the
questions of the day.  Already the women of
Utah had cast their votes for more than two years
and the establishment of a woman’s paper he
realized would strengthen their influence and be
educational in a great degree; would render valu-
able assistance to the Relief Society, and other
organizations that had been founded.
	From personal knowledge the writer is fully
aware that Brigham Young believed in the ad-
vancement and higher education of women; and
only shortly before his death spoke to some of his
family in regard to the sisters going out into the
world to lecture on “Mormon” subjects upon the
public platform, mentioning in this connection
some of his own daughters.
	That a great future lies before the women of
this Church there is no doubt, and it is proper


that they should prepare themselves for coming
events that they may not be taken unawares. The 
organizations of women that have been formed
here and everywhere throughout Zion give the
sisters excellent opportunites for thought and
reasoning and expression of views and opinions,
and through the womens’ papers they can give
the benefit of their ideas and experience to others
and thereby accomplish a greater good.
	The sisters should by all means maintain the
papers published in the interest of women for 
advocating the principles of truth and justice, and 
defending the right at all times however un-
popular it may be to do so.


R. S. CONFERENCES
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Tooele Stake will be held in Grantsville, on
Saturday the 14th of June. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Weber Stake will be held in Ogden on Thurs-
day the 26th of June. 
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, President of Y. L.
M. I. A. and Mrs. Louie Felt, President P. A.
have gone North to visit the settlements in
Oneida Stake with Mrs. Elizabeth Fox, Pres. R.
S. and Mrs. Jane Eldredge Pres. P. A. of that
Stake. They expect to be absent about two
weeks.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms in this City on Thursday June
19th, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and at
2 p. m. Presidents are expected to make verbal
reports, officers and members are earnestly so-
licited to be present. The Presidency of the
Stake, Bishops of the several wards and other
brethren are cordially invited to attend the Con-
ference.


[Column 1]
LATTER-DAY SAINTS' COLLEGE.
INTERESTING COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.
	At the Social Hall, beginning at 11 a. m., the
commencement exercises of the fourth academic
year of the Latter-day Saints' College were held.
There were present on the stand: Of the General
Board of Education, President Wilford Woodruff
and Secretary George Reynolds; of the Stake
Board, Secretary Wm. B. Dougall. Bishop Wm.
T. Reid of Manti, Don C. Young, C. E., Mrs
Zina D. Young, Mrs. Zina Y. Card, and a goodly
number of visitors.
	The exercises opened with a hymn, "Great God
attend," by the choir.
	Prayer was offered by Instructor Newton
Noyes.
	A vocal duet, "Beautiful Moonlight," was
creditably rendered by Misses Ettie Penrose and
Jennie Smith.
	Brother Nathan Gedge, a student of the Inter-
mediate Department of the college, delivered an
address in behalf of that department.
	Brother Nathan Porter, of the Academic De-
partment, delivered an eloquent address on be-
half of the students of that department.
	An instrumental selection, "Heavenward," was
performed pleasingly by Miss Kate Romney.
	This was followed by an address "Our Lady
Students," by Miss Amy Woolley. The general
sentiment of the lady students of the college is
one of the greatest satisfaction at the opportun-
ities afforded them for their advancement. A
tribute was paid to the spirit to be observed in
the institution, and the thought was expressed
that the education of the ladies cannot be dis-
pensed with.
	Instructor Joseph Nelson spoke upon the sub-
[Column 2]
ject of the "Business Courses," which have been
under his care.
	Instructor Willard Done followed with remarks
bearing upon the course in literature and history,
comprising the studies of English literature,
general history, civil government, and elementary
German, in which branches one student has
passed.
	The Principal followed by reading the names
of the following students who have successfully
passed the course prescribed by the Faculty as
necessary to advance them from the Intermediate
to the Academic Department: Emma Carroll,
Philip Maycock, Emily Hillam, Hattie Symons,
Nora Wheeler, Frank Brown, Jane Parrish, Clare
W. Reid, Nettie Davis and Donnette Smith.
	Certificates were then presented to Frank
Pomeroy and Alva Butler in the business course,
and to Laura Hyde in the course in literature and
history.
	After the rendition of a song, "Only a Rose,"
by Miss Maudie Bowring, the following report
was read by Principal J. E. Talmage:
	PRINCIPAL'S REPORT.
	To the Salt Lake Stake Board of Education, ex-
officio the Board of Directors of the Latter-day
Saints' College:
	Dear Brethren—With feelings of sincere pleas-
ure I respectfully submit to you the following re-
port of the Latter-day Saints' College, for the
second term of the fourth academic year, which
began January 6, 1890, and which ends May 23,
1890.
	THE DEPARTMENTS.
	The Intermediate Department has been con-
ducted in two divisions. Instructor William
Done has had charge of Section A, and Instructor
Newton Noyes Section B. Instructor Willard
Croxall has devoted his attention to classes in
each of these divisions.
	The Academic Department has remained in
charge of Instructor Joseph Nelson.
	In accordance with the announcements through
the annual circular for the fourth academic year,
the studies of this department have been arranged
in courses, with reference to the final graduation
of the students. Six such courses have been
provided, viz.: Physical Science, Natural Science,
Mathematics, Business Courses, Literature and
History, and Phonography.

	The Theological exercises have been conducted
during the term with no essential variation from
the methods previously reported.
	We have been specially favored during the
term with valuable instructions from Elder
George Reynolds, who has conducted the aca-
demic class in Book of Mormon study, twice per
week.
	The lady students have continued in the labors
of the Ladies' Class under the careful direction
of our Lady Superintendent, Mrs. Camilla Cobb.
The class has met in two sections, arranged ac-
cording to the ages of the members. Section A
comprised 87 ladies and has held during the term
21 sessions. Dr. Mattie P. Hughes rendered
very valuable assistance to the organization by
delivering a series of six lectures upon the sub-
ject "Personal Hygiene for Women." Class B
consisted of 14 members all under the age of fif-
teen. Of this division 16 sessions have been
held during the term.
	The Students' Society has been conducted un-
der the presidency of Instructor Done, with Miss
Anna Erickson associated as secretary. Even-
ing meetings have been held at the close of each
week with but few omisions.
	LECTURES.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, one; Dr. R. B. Pratt,
one; Elder John Nicholson, one; Don C. Young


C. E., two; Elder F. F. Hintze, one; Hon. F. S.
Richards, one; and Elder B. H. Robers, one.

	The buildings at present occupied by the
college afford but very inadequate accommoda-
tions for the departments of the institution.	*	*
	Our acknowledgments are due the railway com-
panies of this region, notably the various
branches of the Union Pacific system, the Denver
& Rio Grande, the Utah Central and the Salt
Lake City Railway for the privileges of reduced
fares which have been extended to our students
under prescribed rules; also to the proprietors
and officials of the various industrial and manu-
facturing establishments in and around the city
for numerous courtesies extended to the students
in visiting such places for study; and to the
publishers of the following periodicals for current
copies of their journals: Deseret Evening News,
Salt Lake Daily Herald, Ogden Standard, Utah
Journal, Richfield Advocate, Southern Idaho, In-
dependent, Juvenile Instructor, WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, Utah Enquirer, Young Ladies' Journal,
Contributor, and Puck, (the last named being re-
ceived through the courtesy of Margetts'
Brothers.)

THE FACULTY.
has continued to hold regular sessions during the
term, besides which a number of special meetings
have been called as occasion required. The re-
cord of the proceedings of this body are before
you.

	Brother Clare W. Reid followed with an instru-
mental selection, "Silvery Waves," rendered in
his usual creditable manner.
	Elder George Reynolds expressed his pleasure
at witnessing the extension of this system of edu-
cation among the people of Zion; and made some
excellent remarks.	*	 *
	Sister Zina Y. Card followed with an address
replete with tender feeling toward the students,
and with excellent advice especially directed to
the young ladies. She dwelt upon the associa-
tions for good which are formed among fellow
students, and expressed a hope that the influence
of these would be a guiding star of the students'
lives.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke to the young ladies
of the school, dwelling particularly upon the
necessity of personal purity, and of avoiding the
spirit of fault-finding, prevalent among some of
Latter-day Saints.
	Elder Wm. B. Dougall, in behalf of the Stake
Board, returned thanks to the teachers for their
labors, and to the students for their appreciation
of the work done during the past year.	*	*
	President Wilford Woodruff followed with an
inspiring address, congratulating alike teachers and
pupils on the work of the past, and assuring them
of his hearty co-operation, and that of the general
authorities associated with him, for the future.
He referred in a calm and dispassionate manner
to the present condition of the Latter-day Saints
as a community—despoiled of their goods and
real estate under cover of an unconstitutional law
Such a state of affairs may be taken as evidence
that this is in very deed the work of God. In
spite of these material losses the people were
willing and able to support schools for their child-
ren in which the principles of religion and of true
theology could be taught. The speaker pictured
the future awaiting the youth of the present day, 
and urged diligence and unremitting effort on
their part toward a thorough preparation for the 
great future.
	The exercises of Field Day, consisting of an
excursion to Calder's Farm, were announced,
and all were invited to join the students in the
trip.
	The choir sang "An Angel from on High," and
the benediction was pronounced by Bishop W.
T. Reid.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED
STATES.

MAY 14, 1890.

	[Mr. Edmunds introduced the following bill;
which was read twice and referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.]

A  BILL.
	In amendment of and supplementary to the act
of Congress approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two, entitled "An
act to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, in
reference to bigamy, and for other purposes."
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives of the United States in Congress as-
sembled, That the existing election districts  and
apportionments of representatives concerning the
members of the legislative assembly of the Terri
tory of Utah are hereby abolished; and it shall be
the duty of the governor, territorial secretary, and
the board of commissioners mentioned in section
nine of the act of Congress [approved March
twenty-second, eighteen hundred and eighty-one,
"An act to amend section fifty-three hundred and
fifty of the Revised Statutes of the United States
in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes,"
in said Territory, as soon as practicable after the
result of the census of said Territory to be taken
in the year eighteen hundred and ninety shall be
made known, to redistrict said Territory, and ap-
portion representatives in the same in such man-
ner as to provide, as nearly as the same may be,
for an equal representation of the people, except-
ing Indians not taxed, being citizens of the
United States, according to numbers,in said legis-
lative assembly, and to the numbers of the mem-
bers of the council and house of representatives,
respectively, as now established by law; and a
record of the establishment of such new districts,
and the apportionment of representation thereto,
shall be made in the office of the secretary of
said Territory, and such establishment and repre-
sentation shall continue until Congress shall
other-wise provide; and no person other than
citizens of the United States, and otherwise
qualified, shall be entitled to vote at any election
in said Territory.
	Sec. 2. That the offices of territorial auditor
treasurer, commissioners to locate university
lands, probate judges, county clerks, selectmen,
assessors, recorders, and superintendent of dis-
trict schools, in the Territory of Utah are bereby
vacated; and all such officers shall hereafter be
appointed by the governor of said Territory, by
and with the advice and consent of the board of
commissioners mentioned in section nine of the
act of Congress approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two, entitled "An
act to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-
two of the Revised Statutes of the United States,
in reference to bigamy, and for other purposes:"
Provided, That where any  officer above named
shall now hold his office by virtue of appointment
or commission from the President of the United
States for a definite term the provisions of this
section shall not apply until the expiration of said
term.
	Sec. 3. That the board of commissioners
mentioned in soction nine of the act of Congress
approved March twenty-second, eighteen hundred
and eighty-two, entitled "An act to amend section
fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, in reference to
bigamy, and for  other purposes," is hereby
authorized and empowered in its discretion to
cause new registrations of voters in said Territory
of Utah, or any part thereof, to be made instead
of revisions of previous lists, as now required by
the laws of said Territory; and said board is also
hereby authorized and empowered  to make and

[Column 2]

enforce rules and regulations not inconsistent
with the laws of the United States for the con-
duct of registrations and elections in said Terri-
tory.


PRIMARY JUBILEE.

	On June 2nd, the Primary of Weber
stake will celebrate the birthday of Presi-
dent Brigham Young. All the associations of
the County are expected to participate in the
exercises of that day. The use of Lester Park
and the pavilion have been granted by the
City Council and there they will hold forth.
In the morning a pleasing entertainment en-
tered into by all the associations consisting of
exercises of various kinds will be gone through
with. These exercises concluded, the officers
will participate in a little lunch and refresh-
ments at the Fifth Ward school house which
lies very convenient to the Park. At two
o'clock the children's dance will begin. This
will continue until about five p. m., when they
will return home and in the evening a ball
will be given for the officers and the larger
members and it will be select in every par-
ticular. Ford's band will be in attendance
and everything will be done to make the affair
as pleasing as possible to those who attend.
It is a grand day for the little ones, one that they
look forward to with pleasure.	Ex.


A GENUINE SURPRISE.

BESTOWED ON ONE WHO IS CERTAINLY
WORTHY OF THE HONOR.

	The anniversary of Mrs. Josephine R. West's
birthday was celebrated by the Primary Asso-
ciations of Ogden City on Saturday May 24th.
Mrs. West is the President of the Primary As-
sociations of Weber Stake. A pleasant sur-
prise was provided for her, and she was invited
to a meeting of the officers and members of the
five Primary Associations in Ogden City, which
was held at 2 o'clock in the Second Ward
meeting house under the auspices of the Asso-
ciation of that ward.
	Mrs. Mamie Richards presided over the
pleasant gathering. There were present be-
side the presidency of the several associations
in the City, Bishop Robert McQuarrie, of the
Second Ward, and W. G. Child, one of his
counselors.
	After the usual exercises, a written address
of welcome and congratulation was read by
Miss Aggie Herrick. The address was ably
written, and proved to be a eulogy of Mrs.
West's labors in the primary associations in
the past, and dwelt in glowing and truthful
words on the benefets accruing from her labors
and those of her assistants who had worked
with her and under her direction. It wished
her long life and many years of usefulness in
the sphere in which she had so long moved as
to make herself indispensable to the success
of this institution—the Primary Association.
	This address which deserves special mention
for its neatness and elegance in expression,
while void of embellishment other than that
merited by the subject of the address, being
finished, a short programme, consisting of suit-
able recitations, was rendered by members or
officers of each ward.
	The following speakers were then introduced,
all of whom spoke of the labors of the various
associations throughout the stake and the
effect they had in the training of the youthful
minds for good, and accrediting to Mrs. West
a great deal of the success that these associa-
tions had met with in the past few years:
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie, Mrs. Elizabeth
Y. Stanford, counselor to President West;
Harriet Nye, counselor to the president of the


Fifth Ward association; W. G. Child, counselor
to Bishop McQuarrie.
	A hymn was then sung by the children.
Then came the following speakers: Wealthy
Ensign, president of the First Ward associa-
tion; Nina Rich, president of the Third Ward
association; Maggie Chambers, president of the
Fourth Ward association; Caroline Ballantyne,
president of the Fifth Ward association;
Marian Burton, secretary of the Stake Board;
Letitia Peery, Mrs. R. J. Taylor, counselor to
the president of the Third Ward association;
Mrs. Jane S. Richards and Mrs. Emily
Shurtliff.
	Mrs. Josephine West closed the speeches.
She could scarcely speak for the joy that welled
up in her heart at seeing the many friendly
faces before her and the satisfaction that
beamed on each countenance. She said that
they had that day done her an honor she
would never forget, one that caused her a joy
and happiness that no gift could possibly have
bestowed. It was a genuine surprise to her
and was therefore the more appreciated. She
thanked one and all for the interest in her be-
half and the appreciation of her labors and the 
esteem they had that day shown to her.
	The meeting over, Mrs. Mamie Richards in-
vited the officers and guests to Mrs. West's
residence where a splendid repast had been
prepared during their absence, which proved a
second surprise to Mrs. West.		Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FIRST ANNUAL CONVENTION.

SANPETE WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION,
HELD AT MANTI, ON MAY 19, 1890.

	Called to attention at 10 A. M. by Pres.
Ellen Jakeman. Singing by the tabernacle
choir, "Spirit of God." Prayer by Mrs. L. L.
Dalton. Singing "I live for those who love
me"
	Mrs. Jakeman briefly stated the purposes
of the convention, the condition of the S. A. in
Manti etc. Expressed her faith in the justice
of woman's claim that she has a right to pro-
test against taxation without representation;
against bearing all the burdens and penalties
of citizenship without any of its privileges and
honors; but protested that woman is not seek-
ing, as some opposers maintain, to change
places with man, to rise only by pulling him
down. No! woman wants to be recognized as
an equal, a co-citizen, a co-sovereign. Main-
tained that the greatest good to the greatest
number is attained by joint effort, and that
man and woman must rise and fall together.
	The motion was now made and carried to
suspend rules, in order that no probable
blunders might mar the ease and freedom of
the proceedings.
	The next speaker was Mrs. Alvira Cox;
and your correspondent deeply regrets being
otherwise engaged and thus failing to take
the points of her admirable address.
	Mr. C. P. Larsen professed to feel proud be-
cause he had been invited to place himself on
record on the Woman Question. Called the
withholding of woman's entire equality before
the law an anwarrantable usurpation of power.
Refered to Nebuchadnezzar's image, and ex-
pressed belief that the toe-kingdoms could
never again become one, an universal king-
dom of strength and grace until woman's
voice and influence should be incorporated
among the powers that be. Hoped the ladies
would never falter because of opposition, but
feel assured that the hour of triumph and
bloodless victory will surely come, and they
who now oppose will be glad to ask for your
votes and your assistance. In this effort for
emancipation woman has truth and justice as
allies, no sophistries to establish, no sinister
motives to conceal; therefore just as surely as

[Column 2]

truth is mighty and will prevail, her cause
must win.
	A choice rendering of "Hannah Jane" by
Mrs. Adelia B. Cox Sidwell came next.
	Report from Fairview branch by Mrs. Eu-
phrasia Day.
	Reading of letter from Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, President of Utah W. S. A.
	Reading of a lecture by Henry Ward
Beecher on woman suffrage, by Mrs. L. L,
Dalton.
	Address by Bishop Wm. T. Reed.
	Men are in duty bound to honor and defend
women. Was not prepared to say that in this
respect she had always received justice at his
hauds, but felt prepared to say that it shall
not be withheld from her in future. Thought
the most promising feature in her case well
expressed in the  words, "He would be free,
himself must strike the blow." Begged that
the ladies would not attempt to leave us behind,
because wherever you go, we will surely fol-
low." (Applause.) His sympathies have always
been with the ladies, but is not sure he will
not be called upon to sympathize with their
brothers yet, for present indications are that
some men may be disfranchised here in Utah.
In that case if women gain the franchise
they will be the political superiors of men,
and men could try their hands at "silent in-
directinfluence" and being "the power behind
the throne." If women do not succeed in
gaining the right of franchise, then at least
we shall all be sailing in the same boat.
	F. R. Kenner Esq. opened his remarks
with an anecdote of Lorenzo Dow and a "crow-
ing hen;" but made amends for the ungallant
insinuation by asserting that if the ladies had
been "crowing," then he was fain to admit that
the performance was quite as good as that of the
greater number of "us roosters." Went on to
say that woman's achievements in literature,
art, medicine, law, and even in politics would
compare very favorably with those of man
with all his boasting. As a Southern man felt
free to assert that Mrs. Stowe's book, "Uncle
Tom's Cabin," did more to abolish slavery
than all other forces combined. "When a
woman will she will;" and if she is in earnest
to will her own emancipation, men must sur-
render sooner or later. Assured them that if
disfranchisement were to them half the bitter,
burning insult that it was to him, he wondered
at their patience. Hoped they would never
give up the struggle until they should have
achieved victory; also that if "Uncle Sam"
does send "us" back to the same boat, the
ladies will give us kindly welcome; but he
would rather be a dog and bay the moon than
a citizen without a franchise.
	Mrs. Dalton apologized for rising a second
time, but had made a grand discovery, and
wished to call attention to it. Had learned
from the remarks of Bishop Reed and Dr.
Kenner that "Uncle Sam" favors equality for
woman, at least in Utah. These two gentle-
men had both spoken about being "sent back"
to "the same boat" with the ladies. It is
plain that no one can be sent back without
first being ahead, and no one could be put
into the same boat with others unless he before
was in a different boat.  Since these gentlemen
have admitted that they are in a different boat,
and ahead of us, it may be that our dear old
Uncle's fine sense of justice will lead him to
take away their boat and force them to sail
with us. (Laughter.)
	Mrs. Snow desired to lift her voice in favor
of woman's rights. Spoke of her duties, her
services to the human race, and the depth of
her love and devotion. A man should place
woman not above his head, not beneath his
feet, but at his side in all places, even at the
polls. God is over all, and truth will triumph.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde of Spring City, was very
glad to see women seeking to gain knowledge

[Column 3]

which would fit and qualify them for wider
duties. Their motherhood demands cultiva-
tion, liberty and honor for its proper exercise.
All truly great men testify to the strong
influence of their mothers. We have many
friends among the best of men, and more than
that, in the days of Joseph Smith the Prophet,
a key had been turned in the door of woman's
limitations, and she should surely emerge from
her prison house of pain.
	Pres. Jakeman said her own highest ambi-
tion was to be a true mother to her children,
and it was with this end in view that she
sought to become endowed with full liberty,
and full equality with her fellow-citizens.
Did not believe it possible for a human being
to be limited to a very narrow sphere and yet
do a mother's perfect part. Refering to the
sayings of previous speakers that men would
surely follow wherever women go, she said if
that be true, then women have need to be very
careful where they go. Believed nothing
would so completely conservatize woman as
for men to deliberately follow her lead. Oppo-
nents of Woman Suffrage never object to
letting woman follow armies and mingle with
men of every stamp to wait on them in hospitals.
and bind up their wounds on ghastly battle
grounds; or earn her bread at weating, grind-
ing ill paid toil; and the more cruelly men
sneer at our efforts to inform our minds on
executive and judicial business, the more I, for
one, suspect them of desiring to trade upon our
ignorance for their own petty ends. Had no idea
when a year ago this little band was organized
to co-operate with others in the effort to set
women on terms of equality with men, that
the United States would so soon become an
ally; but did not approve of the plan of hold-
ing the front ranks back; though it would be
better to bring the rear ranks forward.
Wished Dr. Kenner not to let his grief be
wild about his dismal prospects but reflect that
every minority is practically disfranchised,
and not relieved of any of the duties of citizen-
ship. Felt very grateful for all the kind en-
couragement this particular association had
received from the best men in the county;
also to the visitors, the musicians, and all who
had contributed to the success and pleasure
of the convention.
	By-laws read and amended.
	Officers for the second year elected.
	Dr. Kenner asked and received permission to
publish his own report of the proceedings in
the Manti Sentinel. Announced the Convention
adjourned for one year.
	Singing "Lord Dismiss us."
Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca Wareham.


R. S. REPORT.

LAKE SHORE.

	There are quite a number of the sisters in
this ward taking the EXPONENT at the present
time and they all seem to appreciate the value
of the paper and the good instruction it con-
tains and also the good counsel to us as
mothers in Israel. Our annual meeting was
held last month. Our numbers are not many
we are living in a farming district and are in
a very scattered condition, we have a pretty
good attendance at our meetings. Also our
Young Ladies, and Primary Associations are
doing splendidly. At our annual meeting
our President Sister Mariah Ferguson pre-
sided, singing, prayer by Bishop Lorenzo
Argyle, singing "Come let us anew our journey
pursue." Sister Ferguson then bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we are
engaged she felt like encouraging the
sisters to still continue in the good work which
they had undertaken.
	Counselors Letetia Banks and Julia A. Han-
son also spoke well, felt like going ahead and


doing their duty according to the will of the
Lord. The different officers were then placed
before the meeting to be sustained by Bishop
Argyle and there was a clear vote to sustain,
them all in their different offices.
	Sister Mariah Ferguson then spoke a few
minutes about the prosperity of our society
said that she thought, we were doing well, did
not feel to occupy more time but would like
to hear from the brethren present.
	Brother Andrew M. Ferguson thought as a
society we were doing well, said the sisters
had done better than the brethren according
to their means and time, said we needed a
house to meet in and was glad to see that we
talked of having one in the near future; told
us what the society was organized for by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. He felt to encourage
the sisters and said that the Lord would bless
them in as much as they performed their
duties, in righteousness, and humbleness of
heart; that we must work faithfully to the end
if we wished to gain the reward for which we
are striving, that our Father in heaven would
reward us if we would magnify our callings
according to his will in meekness before
Him.
	Bishop Lorenzo Argyle bore his testimony
and said it was our duty to help strengthen one
another, said that he thought it the duty of
every brother and sister in the Church to be
teachers to each other, if we lived our religion
as we ought. Said the greater our labors the
greater our reward, and the greater our knowl-
edge the greater our condemnation if we did
not do our duty. Advised the sisters to be
punctual in their attendance, thought we would
feel better if we met often and bore testimony
to the truth of the work of the Lord, said he
hoped the sisters would encourage their hus-
bands and help them in being faithful; that
we had an influence with them for good or bad
and that if we used it for good, we would be as
a mighty pillar of strength in Zion in helping
to roll on the Latter-day work, also that as
parents, we should be careful of the example
that we set before our children. Spoke of the
sorrow and pain we would endure if our little
ones should go astray through any example
we have set before them; told us as sisters not
to murmur against our president but sustain
her in the position she occupied; exhorted us
to be faithful in our labors of love for the
dead, to be diligent in our endeavors to do a
work for them, finally counseled us to be faith-
ful in all things both great and small.
	Pres. Ferguson then spoke about buying a
piece of land for our Relief Society house to
be built on, we then had a committee of five
appointed as a building committee. Meeting
then adjourned, singing "Lord dismiss us."
Benediction by A. M. Ferguson.
		E. E. ARGYLE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.

	Minutes of the 19th Ward S. L. City Primary
held May 19th 1890, Miss Bessie Dean presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing, "The
Golden Rule." Prayer by Miss Maud Bliss.
Continued by singing "In Our Lovely Deseret."
The report of the Primary Association was
then read. 100 members present. Programme
was carried out as follows:—First was a
"Memory Gem""Virtue is better than wealth."
by Miss Lilly Dean, which was repeated by
the Primary. A bible story by Miss Gertie
Derbedge about "Abraham." A Recitatiou
by Miss Vernie Fanes. A duet by Polly
Colbert and Nellie Fitz. The paper "The
Golden Hour" was read by its editor Miss
Edith Farnes; the next was a correspondence
between Janie Alford and Carrie Edwards.
An organ solo by Lucy Dean, an essay by
Miss Libby Edwards; questions were asked by


Lilly Patworth and answered by Mamie Silver,
Lilly Dean, Ruby Irvine, Eddie Bliss, Parley
Patworth, and George Fitz. A story by Miss
Collett; Sister Louie Felt, Pres. of all the
Primaries in the world, spoke a short time in
favor of our Primary. Sister Felt was well
pleased with the paper, and asked a few ques-
tions. Sister Felt congratulated Pres. Bessie
Dean in the good way she had brought the Pri-
mary forward and said she had enjoyed our meet-
ing very much. She told us to listen and obey
all that the Pres. would tell us. Motion song
"Rock a by Baby" by Carrie Armstrong, Ada
Smart, Vernie Farnes, Lilly Patworth, Lilly
Dean. Mamie Newton, Amy Beesley, Laura
Newton, Ruby Irvine, and Emma Wattz.
	Sister Clawson Pres. of the Primary
Associations in S. L. County spoke a short
time. Sister Clawson was much pleased with
the opening prayer, the Memory Gem and the
paper. She said that she had enjoyed our
Primary Annual very much. Sister Clawson
was much pleased with the order and she
believed that we knew how to act in a build-
ing that was dedicated to the Lord. She was
much pleased in the way Pres. Bessie Dean
conducted the Primary. Brother Derbedge
then addressed us in a very interesting way.
Sister Mary E. Cook said that it was not the
first time that she had been to our Primary.
Sister Cook spoke a short time upon the life
of Christ. The Primary sang "Nearer My
God To Thee." Miss Ella Nebeker, Pres. of
the 22nd Ward Primary Association spoke a
few interesting words and asked a few questions.
Sister Neal Pres. of the Relief Society of the
19th Ward made a few remarks, and was much
pleased with our meeting. She thought it was
so good that there was nothing to add to it
to it to make it better. Sister Neal said if we
obeyed our Pres., that we would be blessed
because she taught us such good things.
Sister Irvine, the late Pres. of the Young
Ladies M. I. A. spoke a short time in favor of
our Primary Association and also was pleased
with the Pres. and her counselors. She noticed
that they were being brought up in such a
good way that they would soon be members
of the Y. L. M. I. A. Sister Irvine said good
bye to us because she was going to leave the
ward she asked us to pray for her little Jennie
who was very sick. Sister E. B. Wells spoke
a short time, in favor of our Primary and
asked a few questions. Programme for next
meeting was read Sang "Home Sweet Home."
Prayer by Elder Derbedge.
		Janie Alford


FOR THE EXPONENT:
HOUSEKEEPING.

	Housekeeping is one of the most important
duties devolving upon the young lady, wife or
mother. It does not consist wholly in cleanli-
ness; nor does it depend solely upon economy.
It takes patience, love, tidiness, ambition, and
cheerfulness; and above all a will not to be
called an idler. Why not have some elegance
even in a humble cot, yet there must be clean-
liness, which is the especial elegance of the poor.
Beauty is not all yet that it should be in
social and domestic life, in art and science, yet
we cannot scarcely pass the door of a friend's
house, but that we can tell whether resides
there a person of taste, or untidiness. There
should be an air of neatness, arrangement and
refinement, which would give a thrill of
pleasure. There should be a flower in the
window, or a picture on the wall, to show taste.
The furniture though common, should be free
from dust. The art of living extends to all
the economies of the household. There is not
always profusion, or great variety of eatables,
but all should be clean and wholesome.
Everything should be clean enough to cause


your appetite to become at once excited. You
can look into homes of another class, and you
will see neither taste or order. The expendi-
ture may be large, yet you do not feel "at
home" there. Books, shawls, hats, and stock-
ing in course of repair are thrown down about
the place. Two or three chairs are loaded,
with clothing; the rooms are in confusion. No
matter how much is spent, taste is yet wanting
by the manager of the household. It may be
a humble cot, and its doors darkened by
poverty; but it can be sweetened by good order,
and a proper means of organization. House-
work is of course principally controlled by
womankind, therefore a great responsibility
is resting upon her kind. The first duties of
women in the household capacities is to be use-
ful with their fingers in the simple manufacture
of clothing, cooking etc., etc.
	Perseverance is another useful trait in house-
keeping. When we know of a good plan we
should make use of it and adhere to it.
Punctuality is another qualification worthy
of our remembrance. How many unpleasant
words and deeds would be avoided if more at-
tention was paid to this virtue. Housekeeping
is a science of loving, helping, forethought and
calculation.
	Yours respectfully,
		JULIAETT WOOD.
	Mar. 23rd, 1890.


A MOTHER'S DESPAIR.

	It is asserted that the laws are more than
just to the sex which has no voice in making
them. The assurance is reiterated that "women
have no grievance." The San Francisco
Chronicle of May 8 tells the following story:
	A painful scene occurred in Judge Lawler's
court yesterday, growing out of the removal of
a child from its mother's custody.
	On Saturday last a writ of habeas corpus
was granted to David Reulein, commanding
Mrs Anna Clarke to produce her son, Charles
Henry Clarke, aged four years. in court.
The petition for the writ stated that Reulein
and his wife, Kate, were the lawful guardians
of the child, and that he had been forcibly
and illegally removed from their custody by
Mrs. Clarke and Rebecca Herringer, her
mother. In a suit filed on the same day, Mr.
Clarke asserted that she had consented to the
adoption of her son by the Reuleins some
months ago,through fear of personal violence
at the hand of her husband, James P. Clarke,
a brother of Mrs. Reuleins.
	When the case was called yesterday, Attorney
M. Cooney, representing the mother, asked for
a continuance, basing his request on a physi-
cian's certificate, that his client was in such
a delicate condition that it would be danger-
ous for her to leave her home or to be sub-
jected to any undue excitement. Judge Lawler,
however, denied the request, and Mr. Cooney
dispatched a messenger for his client and had
her brought into court. Testimony was
taken which showed that, while the Reuleins
had legally adopted the child fifteen months
ago, he had ever since continued in the custody
of his mother and that she had provided for
his support. An attempt was made by Mrs.
Clarke's attorney to show that the adoption
paper introduced was invalid. Henry I.
Knowalsky, Reulein's attorney, objected, and
Judge Lawler sustained the objection. He
further denied a motion to dismiss the writ,
and despite the protest of Mr. Cooney, decided
the child should be returned to its guardian.
	The bailiff of the court attemped to enforce
this order, but the mother clung to her child
with a strength born of desperation, and re-
sisted every effort to take him from her.
So heart-rending were her cries that the bailiff
at length desisted. Another deputy-sheriff


was sent for, and while the court waited, the
mother strained the child to her heart and
sobbed out in her grief such disconnected
sentences as, "They shall not take him from
me! I will go to jail first! He is my baby!
I suffered for him, and now they would steal
him from me!"
	The child also sobbed, and there were very
few dry eyes in the court room. When help
arrived another vain attempt was made to
wrench the boy from his mother's arms, and
again the officers had to desist. Judge Lawler
tried to induce Mrs. Clarke to give up the
child peaceably. She refused, however, and
again the deputy-sheriffs, obeying the judge's
order, as he hastily left the court-room, seized
the distracted woman, and while two of them
held her tighty, a third person seized the
screaming boy and bore him from the room.
	"My baby—oh, my baby!" shrieked Mrs.
Clarke, hysterically, as she fell from the
officer's arms to the floor. Again and again
the heart rending cry was uttered, but it fell
on ears that were deaf to her supplications.
For fully ten minutes the poor mother refused
to be pacified but sobbed and moaned as
though her heart was broken. Those about
the court room withdrew and left her alone
with her friends and her grief. She was finally
sufficiently calmed to permit her parents to
lead her from the court-room and started
towards home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WEDDING ANNIVERSARIES.

	We print herewith what is pronounced by
good authority the correct wedding anniversa-
ries:
	First year—Cotton wedding.
	Second year—Paper wedding.
	Third year—Leather wedding.
	Fifth year—Wooden wedding.
	Seventh year—Woolen wedding.
	Tenth year—Tin wedding.
	Twelfth year—Silk wedding.
	Fifteenth year—Crystal wedding.
	Twentieth year—China wedding.
	Twenty-fifth year—Silver wedding.
	Thirtieth year—Pearl wedding.
	Fortieth year—Ruby wedding.
	Fiftieth year—Golden wedding.
	Seventy-fifth year—Diamond wedding.


Our happiness ih this world depends on
the affection we are able to inspire.—Duchesse
de Praslier.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Japanese princess is in Berlin studying
the management of hospitals and charitable
institutions.
	MISS LILIAN WHITING, formerly literary
editor of the Boston Traveller, has become the
editor of the Boston Sunday Budget.
	Msss Kate Kane, of Chicago, was admit-
ted to practice before the bar of the U. S.
Supreme Court in Washington this week, on
motion of Robert G. Ingersoll. Miss Kane
is the eighth woman lawyer to add her name
to the Supreme Court list.
	MISS HARRIET HOSMER, 	in a talk before
the Fortnightly Club of Chicago, May 16th,
announced that she will present to the Art
Institute of Chicago her cast of the clasped
hands of Mr. and Mrs Browning, with their
autographs. This rare work of art was cast
in Miss Hosmer's studio at Rome years ago,
and is a valuable memento because of its
beauty and suggestiveness. It is valued also
because of the allusion made to it in Haw-
thorne's "Marble Faun," and because there
is not a duplicate in existence.


ONE MORE GONE.

	The President of the Relief Society of Woodland Ward
departed this life Tuesday May 20, 1890, aged forty one
years, and having presided eleven years over the Society.
	Yes, one more bright spirit has taken its flight to realms
above, as a flower that has been cut down before its time
so has our beloved sister been snatched away from us by
the cruel hand of the destroyer.
	A good kind mother, sister and friend she has proven
herself to be and as the President of the Relief Society of
this ward she was honored and respected, but she has been
called to dwell in a higher sphere, there to await in great
glory, in the mansions of the blest, the coming of her loved
ones and friends.
	Sister Turnbow was possessed of a firm, resolute will,
and a dauntless spirit, ever in the defence of right; and she
seemed at all times to act according to the dictates of her
conscience. The true dignity of womanhood characterized
her every action.
	At the bidding of our Father in heaven that noble spirit
has taken its flight, to be a shining light in the world be-
yond. 
	We may shed many bitter, blinding tears, but all have this
consolation, that our sister who has just left us was worthy
to go and abide with those behind the vail, and that if we
labor diligently pressing ever onward and upward in the
path of righteousness and truth we will meet her again.
	To the bereaved husband, sons and daughters, we would
say; may God bless you, and strengthen you in this you
hour of dark trial and woe, and may you be enabled to see
His hand in all things, that you may be brave and live in
such a way that you may meet the pure spirit of the de-
parted one when your earthly sorrows and troubles are at
an end, and may you be enabled to see God's wisdom and
acknowledge His hand and His ruling in all things.
		SARAH REID, Ass't Sec.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.

"Judge not the Lord by feeble sense
	But trust him for his grace,
Behind a frowning Providence
	He hides a smiling face."

"His purposes will ripen fast
	Unfolding every hour
The bud may have a bitter taste
	But sweet will be the flower."


IN MEMORIAM.

	We the sisters of the Relief Society of the Fourth Ward,
S. L. City, unanimously adopt the following resolutions:
	To the memory of our esteemed Sister Jane S. Smith,
who departed this life May 11, 1890, aged 64 years 8
months and 16 days, cause of death paralysis.
	She passed away at the residence of her daughter
Calls Fort, Box Elder Co., where she was visiting a short
time. She was an active member of our Society since its
organization, and Counselor to the same for ten years be-
ing released but a few months since by her request on ac-
count of ill health.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father, to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend,
	Therefore be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister, the loss of a wise counselor and colaborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and un-
complaining endurance as an example worthy of our imi-
tation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and with them acknowledge an
Almighty and just God in our bereavement.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded on the records
of the Relief Society and also be published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and that a copy of the same be forwarded to
the family of the deceased.
		Respectfully, 
			M. A. HADLEY,
			M. A. WEILER,
			C. C. KIRK.

Sister Jane has gone to rest,
To mingle with the pure and blest;
She fell asleep in Jesus arms,
To wake again in heaven's charms.


As teacher in the Sunday School.
	Oh! how we loved her Golden rule;
	The kind instructions that were given,
	Were deeply prized as if from heaven.

	So may the friends she left behind,
	Remember always to be kind;
	And follow the example given,
	And we will surely meet in heaven.
		CECILIA C. KIRK, Sec.
S. L. City, May 23, 1890.


Tickets
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
PRINCIPAL POINTS 
EAST,  WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH 
AT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
J. V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from 
the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1890.	NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	Aim to be Useful. Hephzibab. Time,—Annie
Thompson. Another Relief Society. A Token
of Respect,—E. Crane Watson. Our Mountain
Home,—Annie N. Bowring. Primary Confer-
ences,—Evelyn Adams. R. S. Reports,—Emery
—Snowflake. W. S. A. Annual Meeting,—Rich-
field. An Address,—E. Alice Hoyt. Notes. and
News. Hanging Portfolio.
	EDITORIAL:—The Church Property Question.
Latter-day Saints' College. Historical Cantata.
Interesting Meetings. Comforting Words,—M.
O. K. Reorganization,—Ann E. Neal, C. C.
Raleigh. Mill Creek Primaries, Belle White.
Golden Wedding,—M. A. T.
	POETRY:—All is Well,—Ella Wheeler Wilcox.
Sing Me the Sweet Old Songs of Youth,—Lucy.
The Single Sin,—Richard E. Burton. Wearied,
Emily Pfieffer. Bedtime,—C. E. H.


ALL WILL BE WELL.

All will be well.  I heard this blest assurance
	Flung o'er the borders of the unseen spheres.
It gave me faith and courage and endurance
	To walk serenely on and meet the years.
Like the sweet voice of some consoling spirit,
	Down through the silence of the night it fell.
My soul's fine ear was rightly turned to hear it:
	"All will be well."

All will be well.  Why should we ever doubt it?
	There were no blunders in creation's plan.
When God's vast mind conceived and went about it,
	He was not aided or controlled by man.
The stars that move in such immortal beauty
	Through their appointed pathway seem to tell
Our questioning souls, if we but do our duty,
	"All will be well."

All will be well. Let not our hearts be troubled
	By passing clouds or shadows that may fall.
We must press bravely on with faith redoubled;
	The glorious end will justify it all.
I believe that voice from heaven's portal
	Clear as the utterance of a silver bell—
It spoke to me a truth that is immortal:
	"All will be well."
		ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


[WRITTEN FOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT.]
SING ME THE SWEET OLD SONGS OF
YOUTH.

LUCY.

Sing me the sweet old songs of youth
	The dear ones I loved so well;
Sing them with all the love and truth,
	That once chained me like a spell.
Like blissful dreams it woke my heart,
	To pure loving thoughts of thee,
Ever its singing tones impart,
	Tender thrilling charms to me.
'Twas sweet as songs of Summer birds,
	In their forest waving home.
The dearest voice I ever heard,
	Was thine, in those songs; thine own;
Sing them not to another heart,
	To create such witching spell,
Nor pour such mellow music out,
	From the songs I love so well.
But sing them love, once more to me,
	And breathe forth the same soft tone,
Answering notes shall tell to thee,
	That my heart is all thine own.
Oft I repeat those tender words,
	When my heart seems sad and lone,
And thoughts come rushing o'er my soul,
	That thou art not all my own.


But while you sing it speaks to me,
	Of constancy and of truth,
Then sing oh, sing again to me,
	Those sweet old songs of our youth.


AIM TO BE USEFUL.

	Let us be useful my dear sisters while young,
not allow our time to go to waste, as there is
so much for us to learn, and to do both in
spiritual and temporal works; let us not trifle
it away on foolish and nonsensical objects, but
in all our works keep our eye on the future,
and ever bear in mind that the manner in
which we improve the present will have effect
on our future condition and character. As we
live in a very important age, an age teeming
with events, and if our lives are spared, each of
us will have a part, and many duties to per-
form and without putting our trust in our
Heavenly Father and asking for his aid and
assistance we will not be able to stand the
trials and the many temptations that we may
be called to pass through. We should study
to make ourselves useful by early habits that
we may accustom ourselves to be agreeable
and happy, that our every day duties of life
will be a pleasure; how much better and
nobler it is to derive pleasure from imparting
happiness to those around us, than to seek it
in the indulgence of that little selfish feeling
which extends no farther than self, and has no
other object than mere personal gratification.
Let us cultivate independence of mind to
"dare to do right," that will inspire us with
moral courage enough to shun evil examples,
at all times realizing that the eyes of the great
God are continually upon us. Let us be wise
and appreciate the many blessings that we
have regardless of the smiles and frowns of our
enemies and those who disregard the authority
of the priesthood.
		C.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXIII.

	There's One above who watches o'er us all,
		Who even hears the lonely raven's cry,
	He notes each little sparrow if it fall,
		And to the humble He is ever nigh.
	
	To Mrs. S—y's question Hepsie knew not
what answer to make she was so completely
taken by surprise, she felt as though she had
turned to stone. The last hope seemed gone;
Mrs. S. had told her she was not dependent
that provision had been made for her until
Spring and it was not yet Christmas time. She
sat like a statue. Mrs. S. did not repeat the
question then and Hepsie did not even ask an
explanation. She saw preparations were being
made during the next few days, and finally
when nearly everything had been packed up
Mrs. S. ventured to speak again.
	"I'll pack up your things Mrs. Harvey" she
said "we are going very soon and you'll have
to go too, for we can't think of leaving you
here, the city is likely to be burned by the
mob."
	Slowly and deliberately as if each word cost
a great effort Hepsie answered. "No Mrs. S.
I cannot go with you and leave Nauvoo; I
shall stay here if I die in the street. I have
left all that was near and dear to gather with
the Saints, and I will not forsake my religion

[Column 2]

now not for anything that could be offered
me."
	"But you cannot work, you have no money,
you are too proud to ask assistance it is useless
to remonstrate you must come with us, we can-
not refund the means your husband invested
in the business, for it is all gone."
	Hepsie waited breathlessly until Mrs. S.
finished the sentence and then in the most posi-
tive tone and manner said, "leave my few
things out, I cannot go I prefer to die."
	Years afterwards when the young wife re-
called the scenes through which she passed at
that particular time, she wondered at the cour-
age which carried her through and felt per-
fectly sure that a power which she did not
then comprehend, sustained her in the midst of
trials and difficulties such as few so young are
left to endure alone.
	That night before retiring Mrs. S. had finished
packing bureaus, trunks and boxes, leaving
only the necessaries for the breakfast; she
spoke to Hepsie again in the most pleading
manner, "Let me put up your things too, I feel
very tenderly for you, I never have had a
daughter and you are so weak and nervous,
and the boys promised your husband to take
care of you until you could teach; come with
us I'll do all I can to make you comfortable,
and you can get good wages as a teacher in
Iowa as soon as you are well, do come with us
I can't leave you here alone." It was all to
no purpose Hepsie was determined; she never
forgot that night, sleep she could not; she re-
alized that Mrs. S. as well as the boys had the
spirit of apostasy; she had already had an ex-
perience of that kind with Harold's mother,
and she felt that she could face anything
rather than that, she prayed fervently that the
way might be opened up for her to escape
from this trial. She looked out into the de-
serted streets; all was quiet; the stars were
shining out clear in the midnight sky. "What
shall I do, where shall I go?" she exclaimed
aloud. And instantly as it were a feeling of
peace came over her, and she became calm;
though she never closed her eyes in sleep until
the grey dawn of morning when from sheer
exhaustion she fell into a profound sleep.
	Mrs. S. was greatly troubled, and rising
early she talked over the matter with the boys.
"Mrs. Harvey will not go over the river with
us boys, she will not leave Nauvoo, she is a
thorough little saint, she believes implicitly in
the Prophet Joseph and in Brigham Young,
such devotion I have never seen in one so
young, my heart aches for her, what will be-
come of her left here alone? Is there anything
we can do boys?" The young men looked
from one to the other, and finding no solution
to the question Ezekiel the eldest a lawyer of
some repute said, "Well mother leave her
something to eat, and I think after two or
three days she'll come to us." "No, she won't"
replied Charles, "Harold said when he went
away 'its no use asking my wife to go with
me, she would sooner die than give up her re-
ligion.'"
	"Its enough to make any one believe that
Mormonism is true," said Hezekiah the
younger. "And it is true," interposed the
mother. "Well suppose it is, we are as safe
over the river as we are here until the storms
are all past," said the eldest.
	When Hepsie rose in the morning Mrs. S.
repeated what had been said thinking Hepsie
might decide after all to go, but she remained


[Column 1]

firm as ever and no amount of persuasion or
entreaty could induce her to change her mind.
Hepsie knew not what she could do, but she
was as firm as the hills in her resolve to stay
in Nauvoo let what would come. The day
was a gloomy one. Mrs. S. was more tender
to Hepsie than ever, and several times Hepsie
felt great sobs in her throat that choked her
utterance, but she would not allow Mrs. S. or
the boys to know how she felt. "We are go-
ing to-night Mrs. H. we shall sleep at Montrose
and go on to our destination tomorrow. I do
not feel that it is prudent for you to remain
here alone,will you go to Mrs. J. if you are so
opposed to leaving the City, she is a fine
woman, a good Mormon and very well able to
give you a home." Hepsie could not speak
she was too full of sorrow. Encouraged by 
her silence Mrs. S. went on to say, "Mrs. J.
has an unmarried son, and she is very fond of
you, you'll marry again sometime, he's a nice
young man; my boys either of them would
gladly marry you I know that, before Mrs. S.
could say more Hepsie fairly shrieked "O, Mrs. S.
don't, you'll kill me if you talk like that!"
	Mrs. H. was now more than ever determined
to break up all communication with the family;
to be told almost in a breath that either of the
boys who had been associated with Harold had
ever had such thoughts about her was over-
powering. "Why should I struggle for life
when fate seems against me?" said Hepsie to
herself, "if death would only come to my
relief but no, I must face the world alone and
so totally unprepared."
	Mrs. S. felt she had said too much, and
strove to soothe and pacify the poor child. The
boys were away and towards evening Hepsie
partly regained her composure and at dusk
she went out a few moments for a walk and to
be alone; under the shining stars, and the clear
cold moon. She had always loved to gaze up-
on these beauteous orbs of night, and on this
particular night, she was more than ever im-
pressed with the glory and grandeur of the starry
heavens. Many thoughts passed through her
mind, which we have not space to record here,
but not for one moment did she lose her self-
possession, young and inexperienced as she was.
Remember gentle reader she was left entirely
alone, no relative, no friend, to whom she
could go. After strolling for a few moments
near the house she felt more calm and peace-
ful in her spirits, and concluded she would go
in and remain alone if the family carried out
their intention to cross the river that night,
In the hall she hesitated a moment thinking
she heard familiar voices, and on coming into
the dimly lighted and bare room, she saw and
heard two strange ladies conversing with Mrs.
S. They came towards her as she entered
with greetings but evidently much shocked to
see her so changed. She recognized them as
two of the sisters who had joined the company
of Saints in which she traveled at Albany N.
Y. on the way up to Nauvoo, they were both
from New Haven, Conn. After making some
inquiries as to her health the married lady said
"Mrs. H. we have come to offer you a home,
we heard that Mrs. S. was going to leave the
City and we knew that in  your delicate state,
you were not equal to any great change. We
are both of us anxious to have you." And
noticing that Mrs. H. was rather confused,
Mrs. F. explained still further. "We do not
want you to feel we offer you charity, we
sympathize with you because of your youth
and your loneliness." All this time the old
maid for such she was remained silent, and
Hepsie knew not what reply to make. Mrs.
S. came to her aid by saying "Mrs. Harvey
you'd better accept this offer for the present,
you're too ill to be alone, and I've been tell-
ing these ladies how much you need nurs-
ing and attention." This was the opportunity
for Miss B. she saw the hesitancy of Mrs. H.

[Column 2]

and she put forward a claim. "Mrs. F." she
said "would take you right home and as soon
as you are able you could teach the children
and do light sewing, but I want some one for
company, I'm all alone and I need society."
Mrs. Harvey took in both situations momen-
tarily. She remembered the two children of
Mrs. F. a boy and girl, and how unmanageable
they were on the journey, and she made up
her mind that she would go with Miss B.
if she went away at all. The ladies both pre-
sented their claims, and dependent as she was,
they both seemed anxious to secure her.
Finally she said as if to give them an opportu-
nity to take in all the situation, "I want you
to know beforehand that I am not able to wait
upon myself at all, and ague is still troub-
ling me, you see how thin I am, and it will
take me all this winter to recover I'm sure,
besides I am not fit for company I am too low-
spirited and melancholy myself." "I'll see to
that," said Miss B. "and wait upon you until
you are well,"—"and so would I," said Mrs.
F. "and would think it only a pleasure."
	Mrs. Harvey seemed unwilling to make the
choice seem selfish, so she said "I'll go with
Miss B. she needs me for company and I'll
come to you Mrs. F. when I am quite well,
you have both husband and children and Miss
B. has no one." Mrs. S. was sorry to part
from her, she loved her, and she admired her
spirit, and the courage she had shown in re-
maining with the saints. She called her
"honey" over and over and told Miss B. what
she must do for her, and how to nurse her up.
"I'll send the boys over with your things as
soon as they come in, they'll be awfully
disappointed to find you're gone," and Mrs. S.
who was a woman of years with bachelor sons,
actually cried at parting with Mrs. H. though
she had only been with her such a short
time.
	Who can picture the feelings of Hepsie
as she went out that night, though the place
had not been a home to her, it had been a
refuge, a shelter, the inmates had been most
kind and tender, now she was to go among
strangers again, this woman was a peculiar
type—Hepsie had noticed that when on their
journey to Nauvoo. She remembered how
much she had talked of money, and her queer
ways, and she wondered if she could endure
to live with her, and eat and sleep with her,
the three ladies went out together and as it
was but a few steps to Miss B's house they
were soon at the door.
	"I've bought these two houses Mrs. H. this
one I live in the other there is rented, I've
plenty of means, you need'nt worry while
you're with me, I took a real fancy to you on
the canal boat, when we were crossing York
state. You put me in mind of my sister
Elizabeth, she was just such another as you,
delicate, and full of romance, wrote verses and
so on; but come in and rest I know you're
tired, and she unlocked the door. "I'll say
good night now" said Mrs. F. "I live on
Temple hill you know, its rather a long walk,
would have been too much for you to-night
Mrs. Harvey, but I'll see you again soon, we're
both from one place you know Maria and I,
that is she lived in Bethany just out of New
Haven, but we were in the same branch."
	Almost as soon as Mrs. Harvey had taken
off her wraps, a knock at the door announced
the arrival of her trunks and other odd
things, Miss B. answered the door but
Hezekiah and Charley insisted on seeing Mrs.
Harvey. Miss B. told them she was tired
and would see them in the morning, but they
were persistent and finally Mrs. Harvey came
to the door and shook hands with them, wish-
ing them prosperity and happiness, and add-
ing "I shall never forget your mother, she has
been so good to me," It was rather an affect-
ing interview, this parting, and Hepsie felt

[Column 3]

now that she had parted not only from Harold,
but those who were his friends, and when she
closed the door after them, she felt such a
keen sense of loneliness, that she shivered from
her head to her feet with a nervous spasm.
	Miss B. had a great deal to say that night
in fact Hepsie thought she would never tire,
she was not like dear Mrs. S. trying to nurse
her up, but talked incessantly of herself and
her money, what she had lent to the Prophet
Joseph Smith and also to Brigham Young,
and Hepsie began to think she had come from
one Apostate to another.
	Finally tired of hearing only repinings she
aroused herself sufficiently to say "Well Miss
B. if you feel distressed about your money why
dont you have it refunded?" "O, as for that I
know its safe enough and I shall get a good
interest." Hepsie concluded it was her
disagreeable way of looking at things and
there and then conjectured that the old maid
had a sinister motive in taking her in. I
wonder what she should want me for, is it to
keep me until Harold comes back and she can
get money for boarding and waiting upon me,
she knows how generous hearted he is and that
he buys the most expensive things; but no, it
couldn't be that, and what can it be, perhaps
my similarity to her dead sister as she says,
and for my society, if for the latter I fear she
will be disappointed.
	Hepsie realized the difference between Miss
B. and the kind motherly care Mrs. S. had
given her from the first, she was shaking with
cold and excitement yet Miss B. made no effort
to warm her or administer sedatives; she lay
awake until morning thinking over her
miraculous escape for she had fully expected
to be left alone in the house, which at any
moment she might be compelled to leave with-
out a shelter to go to. Hepsie acknowledged
that night the goodness of her Father in heaven
in providing this temporary home, where she
might have food and a refuge until some other
change should come about. Ever after during
her life she felt assured that her guardian
angel was near on that occasion, and kept her
from yielding to the entreaties and arguments
of those who professed the utmost sympathy
for her lonely condition. She gave the Lord
the glory for she felt in herself that she had no
power only through Him. That night in
her prayer, she acknowledged the goodness of
God in her behalf though she said nothing to
Miss B. who had been the instrument in the
Lord's hands of giving her safety and repose.
	The early morning found her wide awake and
weak from nervous exhaustion, and Miss B.
wieh all her self-appreciation knew not what
to do. "Mrs. Harvey will you have a Dr.
called to prescribe for you. you are so ill and
weak?" "O, no" replied Hepsie "I have not
had a physician through all my illness only
Mrs. Billings, she has such faith, but I shall
be better by and bye, the ordeal of last night
was too much for me in my weak state."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


The custom of lifting the hat had its origin
during the age of chivalry, when it was cus-
tomary for knights never to appear in public
except in full armor. It became a custom,
however, for a knight, upon entering an as-
sembly of friends, to remove his helmet, sig-
nifying, "I am safe in the presence of my
friends."
	If men knew what felicity dwells in the
cottage of a  virtuous man, how sound he
sleeps, how quiet he rests, how composed his
mind, how free from care, how easy his posi-
tion, how moist his mouth, how joyful his
heart; they would never admire the noises, the
diseases, the throngs of passion, and the violence
of appetites, that fill the house of the luxurious
and the heart of the ambitious.—Bishop
Taylor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SINGLE SIN.
 
He walked for years in ways of righteousness
	Good deeds unnumbered dropping from his hand;
Then, lo! a single sin he must confess,
	That bruited was far up and down the land;
And all the people drew a solemn face,
	And all called him trickster; whispered his disgrace,

'Twill be a wondrous world, to heaven full nigh,
	If ever men whose common life is sin,
Shall do one act of good whereat a cry
	Of saint shall fill the air with ready din;
The people quick forgetting all the past,
	And glad to see God's image show at last.
		—RICHARD E. BURTON.


WEARIED.

Dear nature, hide me in thy inmost heart,
	Safe from the pangs of doubt and strife of will,
	My own and others: I would fain lie still,
Bathed in thy silence, of thy life a part;
Unconscious and unerring as thou art,
	Bear me as mothers bear their babes, until
	Of thy pure strength my weakness takes its fill,
And I may dare on some new course to start.

Find me some quiet grave wherein my soul
	May lie as bodies lie when life is fled,
Freed from the madness of its own control,
	By wisdom's self through unknown changes sped;
In sleep unvexed by dream of end or goal,
	And, living still, be all as good as dead
		EMILY PFIEFFER.


BED-TIME.

BY C. E. H.

Every night
A little girl, dressed all in white,
Comes to me
And, kneeling, lisps "My God, to Thee
I bow my head, and bend my knee;
Watch me through the long, long night
Till the light.
Keep my little feet from straying,
Keep my little tongue from saying
One bad thought
Make me gentle, good, and kind;
Make me pure in heart and mind,
As I ought.

Lead me in the way of right
Day and night.
Keep me in Thy thought and sight;
Let me battle for the right
With Thy might."

Then the little girl in white
Says "Good-night!"

And goes quietly to her bed,
On the pillow lays her head,
Then to sleep.

While I bow my head and pray
That my darling never may
Find more roughness in her way,
More cause to weep!


TIME.

	"Lost, yesterday, somewhere between snn-
rise and sunset, two golden hours each set
with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is
offered for they are gone forever."—Horace
Mann.
	Time is the measurement of duration.
With perseverence, the very odds and ends
of time may be worked up into results of the
greatest value.
	We should not let time pass without learn-
ing something that will result in good in our
after life.
	We should cultivate some good principles
and overcome bad habits. The Lord never


placed us here on earth to waste and idle away
our time, but, if He gives us one talent He
expects us to improve it, that we might gain
more. Time is the only little fragment of
Eternity that belongs to man; and like life it
can never be recalled. We should improve
the shining moments for we know not how long
they may stay, and as the old saying is "Time
and tide wait for no man."
		ANNIE THOMPSON.


ANOTHER RELIEF SOCIETY.

	On May 1 1890 at Lawrence, Emery Co.
Utah a meeting was held for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society under the direc-
tion of President Annie Larsen and counselors.
The following names of officers were presented
to the congregation and accepted.
	Catharine E. Moore, President, Lydia
Mc Niven First Counselor, Amy Roper Second
Counselor, Mary E. Bunnel Secretary, Lucinda
Hill, Assistant Sec. Emma Tanner, Treasurer.


A TOKEN OF RESPECT.

	Last Friday June 6th being the birthday
of onr stake president and secretary of the
Primary Association, the officers thought it
would be a very appropriate time to offer some
slight evidence of their appreciation of the
untiring zeal manifested by Sister Sarah
Morris ever since the first organization of these
associations when she was president of the
ward, for quite a number of years, and now
fills the office of stake president. About 4
p. m. all those acting in the interest of this
worthy institution with well filled lunch baskets
betook themselves to her picturesque little
cottage where they were received with tearful
embraces and greetings being overcome for a
moment by so many putting in such a sudden
appearance. A number presented small tokens
of their esteem to the motherly lady, who had
that day reached her 65th year. She was full
of gratitude to all. The repast was sufficient
to have gratified the appetite of an Epicurean,
and was heartily enjoyed; after an indulgence
in social chatting of the past, we were dismissed
with warm thanks for the thoughtfulness of the
sisters. On separating the party expressed a
decided satisfaction in having the power to
create a little sunshine for one who leads a
somewhat sombre life, on account of her hus-
band being afflicted with blindness. Such
movements cost little more than an effort and
they make a comforting impression that as long
as memory lasts no time can erase, especially
upon the minds of the aged and afflicted; time
and trouble are likely to imprint this mark upon
the most sprightly and gay; bearing this in
mind we will surely deal gently and fondly
with those dear grey-haired fathers and mothers
who have for so many years longer than we
been facing the changeful vicissitudes of life,
and their most hopeful days spent in the wel-
fare of those who were younger and stronger.
	Success to your appreciated publication the
EXPONENT.
		E. A. CRANE WATSON.
	Parowan JUNE 8, 1860.


[Column 1]

﻿OUR MOUNTAIN HOME.

	In contemplating the blessings of our
Heavenly Father and the beauties of nature
our admiration is particularly drawn out in
viewing the magnificence of our lofty moun-
tains, thereby expanding the mind with a sense
of their vastness and grandeur; "standing as
they do on the East and on the West of us
like sentinels guarding the towers of Zion," or
over enchanted ground, filling our minds with
a sense of safety from all impending disasters

[Column 2]

such as floods, tornadoes, etc., which are so
prevalent in the world in this dispensation,
thus fulfilling the words of the Lord to the
Prophet Joseph who in speaking of the gather-
ing to these mountains says that "it may be
for a defence and for a refuge from the storm,
and from wrath when it shall be poured out
without mixture upon the whole earth; there-
fore let Zion rejoice while those who do
wickedly shall mourn."
	Then as the eye gradually descends what do
we behold, the lovely fertile valleys of Ephriam
which for so many years had lain an arid
waste, devoid of vegetation, parched with the
sun of many summers,now in all the richness of
her beauty, delighting the eye of the beholder
whatever direction he may chance to turn, no
more an arid desert but filled with the
bounties of heaven.—a choice land above all
others,abounding with happy homes and grate-
ful hearts, where the youth, the middle-aged
and the aged respond together in songs of joy
for the goodness of our God to us "for verily
Jacob doth flourish in the wilderness."
	See our lovely Temples rearing their towers
heavenward smiling down blessings upon all
who enter there with honest hearts. Our
beautiful Tabernacles where all both young
and old can be edified and instructed by
gathering there and listening to the voice of
the servants of God. Our numerous places of
industry. The cattle upon a thousand hills,
our farms and gardens filled with choice vege-
tation, luxuriant trees, verdant shrubs,and last
but not least Utah's Best Crop our numerous
but beautiful children, the joy and delight of
our homes, may they grow in purity and good-
ness and prove a source of happiness to their
parents throughout the endless ages of etern-
ity.
	Then while enjoying so many favors and
blessings of the Almighty let us show our ap-
preciation and gratitude, not only in words but
in deeds that characterize the name of a Lat-
ter-day Saint by being diligent in observing
the laws of the Creator,in keeping His command-
ments, by loving one another, helping the poor
and needy, visiting and comforting the sick
with a kind word and a cheerful countenance,
these are a few of His commands but how
much we can do to lighten the burthens of
each other if we keep the spirit of God burn-
ing in our bosoms and do not dwarf it by
letting the cares of the world over-balance the
finer and purer instincts of our nature; by these
little acts of kindness we win the love of our
fellows, and enjoy a richer portion of the
blessings of our Father, for charity never
faileth to secure the promised reward.
	The rule of the wicked is drawing to a close
and the day fast approaching when the nations
of the earth shall honor Zion, and shall say
surely Zion cannot fall for the hand of the
Lord is there; the next thing is for each one
of us to ask ourselves the question, am I one
of the pure in heart for surely none other can
belong to Zion and to become such is an every
day labor with a firm determination within us
to set our faces as flint against evil and the
vanities of this world having the work of the
kingdom ever in view thereby adding to our-
selves renewed faith in the Lord and in his
promises for protection under all circum-
stances, then will the people of the Lord re-
joice upon the mountains and flourish upon
the hills and will more fully appreciate the
place provided for us by the Lord. Our
Mountain Home.
		ANNIE N. BOWRING,
	Brigham City.


MRS. REBECCA T. SWENNING, of Davenport,
Iowa, has been allowed a patent for her
water-color paint, especially adapted for fine
portrait work.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1890.


[Column 1]

﻿THE CHURCH PROPERTY QUESTION.

	The confiscation of the "Mormon" Church pro-
perty seems to have aroused a greater interest
and more newspaper talk than anything else the
government has done with a view of breaking up
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Many of the journals and daily papers have
spoken of it as a dangerous experiment, for a
free government, while they sustain all that tends
to abolish the practise of polygamy (termed
plural marriage) and to punish all offenders, yet
the taking of the public property has been in
many instances condemned strongly by the public
press and by many of those who visit Utah, people
of influence and also those persons whom the
people meet in their journeyings. To many it
seems a subject of wonderment, and they can
scarcely credit that such a thing could be done,
in free America.
	Even in Congress it seems to have been ques-
tionable although the majority of the Supreme
Court decided that it was the proper thing to do.
	The matter of how this money shall be appro-
priated is another subject for differences of
opinion, here again is an opportunity for Senator
Edmunds and his colleagues to show what power
they have and can use, to dispose of the property
held in trust by the Church for public uses and
benefits. Why Senator Edmunds and some few
other congressmen who have the same sort of an-
tagonism towards this Church should be so
anxious to immediately dispose of the means
which has been the accumulation of years of toil
and the blessing of the Lord, is very strange in-
deed.
	He appears specially anxious to make himself
conspicuous through his interference with Utah
affairs, no matter how far removed from his pro-
vince to meddle in them. He knows nothing
comparatively of the people who have given this
means to the building of Temples and the spread
of the Gospel; with all his statesmanship and
political ability and influence he is not competent
to judge in the least the motives or acts of the
the people whose principles he so strongly con-
demns.
	The Gospel in its simplicity teaches the
humblest Latter-day Saint things far above his
comprehension; the Savior said He would take
the weak things of the world to confound the
wise. If he imagines that the spoiling of the
worldly goods of the Saints of God will lessen
their faith, then he will be greatly disappointed,
it will plant more firmly the roots of the tree of
life and knowledge that has sprung up on this
American continent.
	Congress cannot break in pieces the Church of 
Jesus Christ, it is founded upon a rock that is
sure and steadfast, the rock of divine revelation
and it will stand secure when the kingdoms of the

[Column 2]

earth shall totter and fall in pieces, and when
those who have fought against it and sought its
overthrow have past away and their names are
forgotten. Zion will assuredly triumph for the
prophets ancient and modern have foretold it and
their words cannot fail of fulfillment.
	Those who seek the destruction of the Church
and aim at the youth of Zion whom they look
upon as lawful prey, are straying wide of the
mark in persecuting the fathers and mothers;
they are only fastening more firmly the cords of
union and love that bind the Latter-day Saints
together,and every blow aimed at the religious or
political liberty of the parents causes a spirit of
admiration and reverence to spring up anew in
the hearts of the young, for the nobility and
charity which characterizes those thus deprived of
the sacred and inalienable rights of free American
citizens, and they begin to comprehend wherein
lies the strength that supports the Saints under
such trying and adverse circumstances. Those
who had heretofore been careless and indifferent
on these subjects are thus made thoughtful and
inquiring and the seeds of the Gospel implanted
in their hearts, begins to show forth in the blos-
soms that will in the near future yield abundant
fruit. The children will carry out the designs
and purposes of the parents and there is no fear
that the strength of Zion will be lessened, or her
numbers decreased because of persecution.
	These things are grievous to be sure they
cause sorrow and heartaches but in the Pro-
vidence of God all will be made right, and
those who endure will come off more than con-
querers notwithstanding the severe ordeal they
may have to pass through, for has He not said
they shall be as gold seven times purified.


[Column 1]

﻿LATTER-DAY SAINTS' COLLEGE.

	We have before us the "Annual Circular of the
Latter-day Saints' College" for the coming year
commencing September 1, 1890 and closing May
22nd, 1891, divided into two terms, the first six-
teen weeks,the second twenty weeks. The winter
vacation will begin Dec. 20, 1890 and will end
Jan. 4, 1891.
	The teachers are James E. Talmage D. S. D.
Ph. D., Principal—Willard Done and Joseph Nel-
son Counselors, with John J. Walton, Richard
Haag Instructors and Mrs. Camilla Cobb, Lady
Superintendent, also Evan Stephens, teacher of
Vocal music. Lectures are to be given by Elder
George Reynolds on the Book of Mormon, Elder
John Nicholson, Theology, Seymour B. Young
M. D., Sanitary Science, Hon. F. S. Richards,
Political Science, Richard W. Young L. L. D.,
Commerical Law, Don C. Young C. E., Archi-
tecture, Romania B. Pratt M. D., Hygiene for
Women, Bishop O. F. Whitney.
	The Circular contains a historical sketch of the
school which was first called the Salt Lake Stake
Academy, but was last year changed, to Latter-
day Saints' College, and on April 7th, of this year
the College was appointed "The Central Normal
College of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints."
	The sketch closes with the following para-
graph.
	"The career of the school during the four years
of its active operation is now a matter of record,
both in the archives of the institution, and in the
hearts and memories of its patrons. It is there-
fore with pleasurable anticipations, and a firm re-
liance upon the continued and increased support
of our people that we issue the circular for the
fifth academic year. The patronage bestowed in
the past is a convincing proof that the people recog-
nize the necessity of an educational system which
shall provide for the harmonious development of
the mental and spiritual faculties of the children
of Zion. Only by such a system can symmetri-

[Column 2]

cal growth be realized; and to assist in bringing
about this result is the earnest desire of the of-
ficers of the Latter-day Saints' College."
	The circular contains terms of admission, tui-
tion, incidental expenses, and traveling etc. De-
partments, with the names of all the branches
taught including courses in Theology, language
and history, Latin, German and Spanish, phonog-
raphy, elocution, Courses in Mathematics, busi-
ness courses and science and agriculture. Nor-
mal Department; Ladies' Class includes besides
hygiene and habit and other topics, systematic
calisthenic drill, and instruction in various
branches of needle work. Graduation, Records,
Apparatus, the Library, the Field Club, and the
Students Society. All these subjects are care-
fully explained in the circular. Weekly meetings
of the Faculty are held for the purpose of re-
porting and considering matters pertaining to the
school.
	The Executive Committee of the Stake Board
of Education are Angus M. Cannon, W. B.
Dougall, W. A. Rossiter. All communications
should be sent to the principal Dr. J. E. Talmage
P. O. Box 1047, Salt Lake City,
	It is a great satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints
that Church schools have been established,where-
in the children while drinking at the fountain of
knowledge, may imbibe also portions of the Holy
Spirit which Spirit leadeth into all truth, giving a
sure key whereby one may interpret correctly the
wisdom of the world and not be deceived therein,
	Looking back over the past one cannot help
feeling that this step would have been a great
advantage to those now grown to manhood and
womanhood. Too much care cannot be taken of
the youth of Zion not only in the home, the Sab-
bath School and Young Peoples' Associations,but
in the school room as well, that the children may
be preserved in the purity of the faith.


HISTORICAL CANTATA.

	Mrs. Susa Young Gates has written for the
children a historical cantata entitled "The Life of
Brigham Young," the music was composed by
Prof. H. E. Giles; the cantata was rendered in
Provo June 4, in honor of the birthday of Pres.
Young, June 1, which is being kept by the Pri-
mary Associations. This year the first of June
was Sunday, consequently the celebrations were
as soon after as could be made convenient.
	The cantata opens with a chorus, "We meet
to-day to celebrate the birth of Brigham Young.
Then follows a "Dialogue with events in his life
in the year 1830." Closing chorus, "Born in a
backwoods cottage."
	Part II. "The restoration of the Gospel."
Chorus, "Come listen to the story given."
Dialogue containing points of history from 1830
to 1847." "Oh dreary comes," by Misses Lula
Gates and Ida Boshard, Chorus, "God gives to
man His Spirit."
	Part III. Entrance of the Pioneers. To his
death. Pioneer song. Mourn for the Prophet
dead." Invisible Chorus "Lift up your hearts."
Final chorus, "Brigham Young stands beside the
the throne."


INTERESTING MEETINGS.

[AT THE RESIDENCE OF SISTER SARAH JANE
CANNON,—CANNON FARM.]

	Minutes of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Farmer's
Ward held June 6th, 1890 at 10 a. m. at the resi-
dence of Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Meeting opened
by singing  "Come Follow Me." Prayer was
offered by Sister Margaret Peart. Continued by
singing "Earth with her ten thousand flowers."
Roll was called showing a good attendance.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young then addressed the


[Column 1]

﻿young ladies, urging them to make good use of
their time in youth. We will be blessed by study
ing sentiments from the different Church works
and always try and respond with one when our
name is called from the roll.
	Sister Mary Freeze said she always felt as if
prayer was of great importance to the young
girls. We should always try to follow in the
footsteps of the Savior. Thought we should read
the Church works especially the "Story of the
Book of Mormon" because we know it was trans-
lated by the power of God. Attend to all your
meetings, Fast meeting is always a spiritual meet-
ing and the spirit of God is often manifested
greatly. Strive to become perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.
	Sister Della Eardly thought we should set an
example at all times worthy to be followed after.
We should never think we have too much work
to do, but always be willing to do any thing
which will forward God's work.
	Sister Jane Freeze felt pleased to see an in-
crease in the attendance of the society thought
the young ladies were doing a good work. The
older sisters should assist the younger ones by
bearing their testimonies of the truth of the work
of God. Do not find fault with each other we
all have our faults and we should try to over
look them in others. Each one work with a de-
sire to make the meetings a success.
	Sister Phelps said she knew we had come on
this earth for a purpose and as young ladies we
should be obedient to our parents. A good
daughter always makes a good wife, and good
mother. Testified of how we could obtain bless-
ings through faith and prayer. "May God bless
you that you may grow up to be noble women in
Zion."
	Sister S. M. Kimball said: "Our greatest happi-
ness is obtained by receiving the spirit of God,
and may God grant a portion of this spirit to be
with you.
	We should appreciate this privilege which we
have of meeting together and being blessed with
parents who belong to the Church of God."
	Sister Emily S. Richards then gave some very
good instructions after which the choir sang "The
glorious day." Benediction by Dr. E. S. Barney.
		VILATE PEART, Sec.
	After the close of the meeting a delicious lunch
was served and lively and, spirited conversation
until time for the afternoon meeting came. Mean-
time other sisters had arrived from the City with
Pres. Jane S. Richards from Ogden. Following,
a[---] the minutes of the meeting.
RELIEF SOCIETV FARMER'S WARD.
	Minutes of Farmer's Ward Relief Society held
in the parlors of Sister Sarah Jane Cannon, Fri-
day af[-]rnoon June 6, 1890. Sister Emma Wood-
ruff pre[-]iding. Meeting opened by singing "O,
say wha[-] is truth," Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Zin[-] D. H. Young, continued by singing
"How fir[-] a foundation." Roll called and
minutes re[-] and accepted.
	Pres. Em[-]a Woodruff made a few opening re-
marks, was [-]leased to see the sisters who had
come to visit us and would like to hear from
them.
	Sister Sarah Richards was the first speaker,
dwelt upon the g[--]dness of God to us and how
many blessings an[-] privileges the sisters enjoyed
now, that they did [-]ot in former times. Advised
the sisters to be pe[--]emakers, and never be the
cause of trouble, but [-]e ever charitable and love
each other.
	Pres. Jane S. Richar[-]s, felt thankful that she
had a testimony of the [--]uth, knew there was a
great deal of good we cou[--] do, even if we were
not able to do much pu[--]ic speaking; related
some interesting incidents of healing through
faith etc., spoke feelingly [--] the kindness we
could show to the sick, and exorted the sisters to
teach the children to keep t[-] Sabbath day,

[Column 2]

spoke of the little respect some people manifested
for that holy day. "We should do all in our
power to have our children grow up pure and
honest. We ought to be able to bear all things
whatsoever may come and keep the faith." Re-
ferred to the work for the dead and told us how
good and glorious it was to minister for the de-
parted ones in the house of the Lord.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said she had had a great
many thoughts during the morning meeting and
also in the afternoon; it had been a feast to her.
Spoke upon prayer, and of faith, she had seen
her sister healed almost instantly, after having
used crutches a year and a half. Made some re-
marks upon order, and thought our children ought
to be more inclined to obey and to attend meet-
ing; we must prepare ourselves to meet the
Lord; related items concerning her travels among
the people giving instruction to the young ladies;
thought if the daughters of Zion would live as they
ought, they could accomplish great things.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball desired to speak to
benefit the sisters, alluded to a visit she had made
with Sister Snow when language was given them
to benefit each other. Spoke upon order in our
meetings and public places of worship.
	President Zina D. H. Young said there had
been a great many good points touched upon,
said she loved to bear her testimony, urged the
sisters to exert themselves to overcome all imper-
fections and weaknesses, and seek alway to keep
the spirit of God, and live so as to claim the bless-
ings of the Gospel.
	Pres. Emma Woodruff thanked the sisters for
coming and for the good instruction they had
given to the Society.
	Sister Taylor spoke of the wonderful manifes-
tations of power, she had seen in the old country,
and the sacrifice she had made in leaving home,
children and all for the Gospel, hoped to do a
work for her dead in the Temple.
	Sister Margeret Peart expressed her pleasure
in meeting with sisters, and hearing so many good
subjects spoken upon; desired to be a help in
the Relief Society; and testified to the truth of
the Gospel which we have embraced.
	Sister E. B. Wells, spoke upon faith and the
building up of Zion, thought there would not be
greater trials than we would be able to bear in
cheerfulness, thought we should exert ourselves
to help each other in the labors we have in our
organizations; these have been a great blessing to
us all, desired to dedicate her time and all the
best energies she posssessed to do good in the
kingdom of God.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said she loved to attend the
sisters' meetings, dwelt upon faith in the ordi-
nances among the sisters, thought we should try
to keep every commandment that had been given;
rejoiced in the great and good work that had been
done by the Relief Society.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Cannon felt benefited
and blest in the spiritual instruction given this
day; she did not need an eloquent speech to
comfort her, a few words from the heart with the
right spirit always helped her; she felt blest en-
couraged and strengthened in the meetings to-day.
It had been a spiritual feast to have the sisters in
her home, some of them had never been there
before; it had really been a time of rejoicing.
	Sister Emily S. Richards felt there were so
many who were older and more capable of giving
instruction present, that she would prefer to
listen, but was very glad of what she had heard
and especially in reference to order in the house
of the Lord. She admired a spirit like that Sister
Kimball had, that when she knew she was right
she was not afraid to speak out. Expressed
some of her views on the subject of etiquette
among the young, and also of her work as an of-
ficer in the Day Nursery.
	Sister Zina added a few words more to what
had been said of order in places of worship, and

[Column 3]

suggested that the Primary was a good place to
begin teaching the children.
	Sister J. S. Richards made some further sug-
gestions upon the same subject, and also in re-
gard to the care of children.
	Sister S. M. Kimball followed in the same
strain speaking of her mother's teaching and ex-
ample in these matters when she was a child;
and also spoke of its having become common in
some of the Churches to have women act as
Deaconesses.
	Sister E. Woodruff made a few closing remarks,
spoke of the feast she had enjoyed and again
thanked the sisters for their visit. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks, singing, "Praise ye the
Lord," dismissed with prayer by Sister Delight
Woodruff.
		M. A. CANNON, Sec.
	After the meeting was dismissed the sisters
had a sociable time in talking over current events
and later repaired to the dining room to partake of
a most excellent dinner, which had been pre-
pared for the occasion. The bouquets of roses
and other fragrant flowers added greatly to the
appearance of the room and gave zest to the ap-
petites of the guests. About this time President
Woodruff arrived his kind and fatherly manner and
presence giving still greater pleasure to those
assembled under Sister Cannon's hospitable
roof. It was a day to be treasured in memory's
cabinet.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


L. D. S. WOMENS' MEETINGS. 

	Synopsis of minutes of general meeting held in
the 14th Ward hall in this City May 24th, 1890
commencing at 2 p. m., Pres. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing "Welcome best of all good meet-
ings," prayer by Sister Julia Pack, singing "O,
my Father." Minutes of previous meeting read
and accepted, also the minutes of the 11th Ward
P. A. Pres. Horne made opening remarks wel-
comed all, was pleased to see Sister Zina Young
and her daughter Sister Zina Y. Card and invited
them to address the meeting.
	Sister Zina Card expressed her pleasure in
meeting with the sisters at the fountain head, she
had been away a long time, related some of her
experiences in helping build up a new colony;
she gave some very good advice urging the sisters
 o be true to their covenants, to remember the
counsel that had been given not to sell their
homes to their enemies, to be united in doing
good, and not criticise those in authority nor find
fault with their brethren and sisters; related a
dream her uncle had many years ago, compared
it with what was now taking place; thought it
necessary every one should have a testimony for
herself in order to withstand the temptations that
come in the way of every saint; the Lord had per-
mitted trials to come upon us which would be
for our good, if we could endure faithful to the
end. Sister Zina referred to the advancement be-
ing made in Canada, and of the happy, peaceful
times the saints enjoyed there; the officials of the
government that had visited them spoke well of
the people, as being law-abiding and industrious.
"Our people there number about four hundred,
there is plenty of water, and everything seems
favorable, but you all know what it is to settle a
new country. I want to urge the sisters to be
particular to send their children to the Church
schools, it will be a great help to them, and by
kindness to turn the hearts of the children to the
Gospel," concluded by asking the Lord to bless her
aged mother and Sister Horne and give them
health and strength to perform the labor assigned
them, to bless all the saints and all who are
working for the kingdom of God.
	Sister M. McMaster bore her testimony and
made some good remarks, said it was fifty years
since she received the Gospel, spoke principally
upon the power of God manifest in the healing of


the sick, thought prayer should never be forgotten,
was sad because of the death of one of her Coun-
selors Sister Larsen. Referred to the necessity
of the work for the dead.
	Pres. Zina Young spoke impressively of the
work for the dead urged the sisters not to delay,
there are thousands waiting there for the work to
be done for them. We are living in a great day
the Gospel gives us comfort and peace, entreated
the sisters to be faithful and the blessings of God
would be upon them.
	Sisters Mc'Gregor, M. E. Kimball, Snow,
Waterfall, Dyer and Watmough spoke upon the
subjects already touched upon in an interesting
manner.
	Pres. Horne alluded to the remarks of Sister
Card said, there is the true ring of the Gospel in
them, could see the hand of the Lord in things
now taking place, if we watch the signs of the
times, we can understand that the prophecies are
being fulfilled. Referred to the good work being
done in the Church schools and said many ex-
cellent things. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing "Come hither all ye weary souls," bene-
diction by Sister E. Stevenson.

	Synopsis of minutes of general meeting held in
14th Ward hall June 7th, commencing at 2 p. m,
Counselor Sarah M. Kimball presiding. Singing
"For the strength of the hills we bless Thee,"
prayer by Sister Mary Silver, singing, "Where
the voice of friendship's heard." Minutes of pre-
vious meeting read and approved. Sister Kimball
thought we could have a good meeting though
few in number and called upon the sisters to join
in prayer in behalf of Sister Wheeler who was
sick. Sister Diana Reid President of the 16th
Ward Relief Society gave a brief sketch of her
recent visit to Canada, felt thankful for the privi-
lege of being at home again, thought there was no
place like home.
	Several sisters then bore their testimony, among
the number Sister M. A. E. Watmough who
made excellent remarks and was followed by
Sister Julia C. Howe who bore a strong testimony
and referred to the dreams she had before she
came into the Church, and spoke of an only
brother who could not think of the Gospel with
any degree of tolerance because it had been the
means of breaking up the family, but she knew it
was the truth and worth all the sacrifices made
for it.
	Sister Pratt bore a good testimony, referred to
the mother's great responsibility in teaching the
children, and made excellent remarks upon many
subjects. Sister Mary Silver felt happy to be
numbered with the saints and another sister spoke
in a similar strain.
	Sister S. M. Kimball gave notice of the Relief
Society Conference and also announced that
there would be a meeting of the Utah W. S. A.,
on the following Saturday June 14th. Singing
"The time is far spent," benediction by Sister M.
E. Kimball.
		VILATE C. YOUNG, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COMFORTING WORDS.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	You will please continue to come to my address,
and if we both live on Earth 18 years longer, we
will still "dwell together" you come to me as a
white winged messenger of a nameless love and
neverdying union.—DEAR SISTER, I did not
expect my little "May Tribute" to waken so great
and deep a tenderness of true sisterly sentiment,
'tis only a very small tithe that finds an outlet
thus and is so beautifully echoed in your sweet
words, which like heaven's own honey-dew heal
and comfort as the "bread cast upon the water,
after many days it will return." This is the
prayer of your sister, as ever.
		M. O. K.
	Colton, Cal., June 2, 1890.


REORGANIZATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you of the change in the or-
ganization of our Relief Society. As our Ward,
the 19th, has been divided it necessitated a reor-
ganization which was made on the 9th, of June
last year. Bishop James Watson appointed Sister
Ann C. Neal Pres., Sister Ann Player first and
Sister Annie Rawlins second Counselors, Emily
P. Raliegh Treasurer, Caroline C. Raliegh Sec.
	The death of our beloved Bishop occuring
soon after, the setting apart of these officers was
necessarily deferred till a new Bishop was ap-
pointed. Accordingly on the 30th of April 1890,
Bishop Isaac Barton with his Counselors
Alexander Edwards and Joseph Derbidge met
with the Society and set them apart to act in
their respective callings.
	Wishing you every success in the great cause
in which you have so long labored, we remain.
		Very respectfully,
			A. E. NEAL, Pres.
			C. C. RALEIGH, Sec.
	Salt Lake City, June 3, 1890.


MILL CREEK PRIMARIES.

	The 10th, annual meeting of the Primaries of
Mill Creek met in the Mill Creek Ward house
June 3rd, 1890 at ten o'clock. The weather was
very unpleasant but there were assembled a large
number of children, and also parents and friends,
who greatly enjoyed the exercises. There were
present on the stand Bishop J. C. Hamilton of
Mill Creek, Pres. Ellen C. Clawson, Counselors
Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann Wells, of Salt Lake
Stake, Sisters E. Davis and M. Cahoon of Cot-
tonwood, and Pres. Mary McAllister, Ann Lemon,
M. A. Birch and Frances Hanson of Mill Creek.
	The forenoon session was presided over by
Pres. Hanson; the programme consisted of songs,
solos, recitations, etc. After which, good instruc-
tions were given by Pres. Clawson, Sisters Wells
and Cobb. After singing all retired to the vestry
where tables were spread with the bounties of the
earth. The children enjoyed an intermission of
two hours. Then meeting commenced, Pres.
McAllister presiding. The programme was well
rendered, and all appreciated the labors of the
presidents in their endeavors to make a pleasant
and instructive day for parents and children.
	Good and encouraging remarks were made by
Pres. Clawson, Sisters Cobb and Wells and
Bishop Hamilton. The day was well spent and
will long be remembered by the little ones.
		BELLE WHITE, Sec.


GOLDEN WEDDING.

	The 7th of June being the fiftieth marital day of
Brother and Sister Graves, a committee formed and
invited through the papers and otherwise all those
who wished to celebrate the occasion to repair
to their grounds "The Park Garden" with picnic
on that day; a great many people from the various
wards assembled as also from other settlements,
a remarkable occurence was the presence of the
bridesmaid of fifty years ago. The bridegroom,
who is 84 years of age, walked up the avenue
with his bride upon his arm receiving congratula-
tions as they moved on to the head of the tables;
the old gentleman attired in white vest medals
attached and a white rose and ribbon in button-
hole, and his lady wearing a white lace cap neatly
trimmed with white satin ribbon. The wedding
cake was placed at the head of the tables upon
which a bounteous repast was spread decorated
with flowers.
	Prof. Daniels made an appropriate speech in
behalf of the company and presented the vener-


able couple each with a gold coin, after which
grace was said and all seemed to relish the viands
the band discoursing sweet music in the Pavilion.
After dinner dancing commenced, then an in-
terval for speeches, songs and recitations when
dancing was resumed until 5:30 p. m., other
souvenirs were presented the worthy couple who
felt very grateful for honor shown them.
		M. A. T.
	Provo, Utah.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Primary
Associations of the San Juan Stake was held
at Bluff May 26th 1890, Pres. Julia Butt
presiding.
	On the stand Pres. F. A. Hammond, Coun.
Wm. Halls, and Wm. Adams, Bishops of the
different wards, Presidents and Counselors of
the different branches etc.
	Meeting opened by singing "Never from
Thee let us stray." Prayer was offered by
Brother Wm. Adams. Continued singing
"Hope of Israel."
	Minutes of last Conference read and approved.
	The programme was then carried out by the
children which consisted of songs, recitations,
and instrumental music.
	Pres. Josephine Wood of Bluff, Coun. Jane
M. Walton of Monticello, Sister Mary Burn-
ham of Burnham, Sister Luella Halls of
Mancos, Sister Annie Stewart of Moab, all
gave in favorable reports of their respective
branches. Pres. F. A. Hammond, Wm. Halls,
and Jens Nielson made very instructive re-
marks on several different subjects, encourage-
ing the children to attend their Primary
meetings.
	Pres. Julia Butt made a few closing re-
marks. Conference adjourned for three
months. Singing "Beautiful Zion." Benedic-
tion by Bro. J. B. Decker.
		Evelyn Adams, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

EMERY STAKE.

	Minutes of the Semi Annual Conference of
the Relief Society of Emery Stake held at
Ferron April 18th, 1890, at 10 a. m. Present
in the stand Pres. Annie Larsen and Coun.
Ann Pulsifer of Huntington. Meeting com-
menced with singing. Prayer by Bishop Olsen
of Ferron. Singing. Pres. Annie Larsen then
addressed the meeting in a pleasing and in-
structive manner, giving the good advice that
is so essential, spoke of her visit to Salt Lake
City to attend April Conference, the enjoyable
time she had and the spiritual blessing she re-
ceived.
	Presidents of the different wardsgave good
reports of their branches of the So[-]iety. Some
of the brethren present gave go[-]d counsel to
the sisters urging them to pres on in the
good work.
	Afternoon services were we[-] attended and
many good things were spoke[-] of by the sisters
bearing their testimony an[-] feeling to con-
tinue to perform their man[-] duties.
	Pres. Annie Larsen with much praise and
many thanks to the sister[-], adjourned the Con-
ference to meet at O[--]ngeville in October
1890.
		M. A. [--]RSEN, Acting Sec'y.

SNOWF[-]AKE STAKE.
	The Relief Soci[-]y Conference of the Snow-
flake Stake was h[-]ld at Snowflake, May 31st,
1890. After si[-]ging and prayer Pres. Emma
S. Smith welco[-]ed all to conference and ex-


[Column 1]

﻿pressed pleasure in meeting once more with
the sisters.
	Lois Bushman, of St. Joseph, spoke on the
training of children and advised the mothers,
who are unable to explain the principles of the
Gospel, to read biography, that they may have
a knowledge of the lives of the good and
great and thus be able to show them to the
little ones in such a way as to create a desire
to imitate their examples.
	Mary J. West, of Snowflake, said the sisters
show by their lives that they are trying to be
saints. We cannot comprehend the magnitude
of this work unless we are filled with the Holy
Spirit. The Savior said: "Pray without ceas-
ing." If we do this and attend meetings
regularly we will be pretty sure to be in the
line of duty. Compared the advantages of
education that the children of to-day have,
with those that were afforded to their parents
twenty years ago, and thought as there was
much given there would be much expected of
the rising generation.
	Verbal reports of the Taylor and Pinedale
branches of the R. S. were given by Frances
R. Thompson and Sophia Johnson. Both of
these branches are prospering, but at Taylor
the attendance is very small considering the
number enrolled.
	Lucy H. Flake of Snowflake and Ellen
Greer, St. Johns Stake, also addressed the
meeting.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis spoke on  the
necessity of living so as to claim the blessings
of our Heavenly Father. Counselor Sarah
Driggs spoke upon the importance of a mother's
mission and of her giving suitable instruc-
tions to her children.
	Sister Jemima W. Smith was pleased to
have the privilege of meeting in conference.
Mentioned Heber C. Kimball's prophecy con-
cerning the time when we would not be per-
mitted to hold meetings. Her parents died
when she was young but her mother had
taught her true principles. She had learned
to read from the Testament and obtained her
knowledge of arithmetic by the numbers of
chapters and verses. She said her great aim
in life was to work for the dead. Had had
but little association of kindred on earth and
was desirous of meeting those who had gone
before.
	Sister Phebe Kartchner said: "No matter
how much wealth or education we may have
we will not be happy, or be able to do much
good unless we have a good honest heart. I
trust we will be faithful and true as our
mothers have been. The Gospel is worth liv-
ing for; it brings joy and comfort to our hearts
and homes. By reading or praying we are
often enabled to drop the cares of life and
then go on with our work more cheerfully."
	Statistical and Financial reports were read.
The officers of the Stake and the various
wards were presented and sustained.
	Pres. Emma S. Smith was desirous of living
so as to meet the dear ones on the other side.
Hoped while on earth she would be able to
do good. Was thankful to have had honest
parents and for the day in which we live.
Spoke at some length on our being prepared
to meet the Redeemer at his coming and the
happiness we have in teaching our children
the principles of the Gospel.
	A few very interesting remarks were made
by Pres. Lorenzo H. Hatch after which con-
ference was adjourned for six months.
	June 1—there was a meeting in the even-
ing for the  sisters. There were many in-
teresting subjects spoken upon. Among them
were the duties of wives and mothers, implicit
confidence in our Heavenly Father and the
necessity of attending meetings. All were
well paid for coming and expressed a desire to
ive nearer to the Lord. A good spirit pre-

[Column 2]

vailed and it seemed a time of rejoicing and
thanksgiving.
		DELLA FISH, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. ANNUAL MEETING.

	The W. S. A. of Sevier Co. held their
annual meeting in Richfield, April 5, when
the following officers were elected. Pres. Miss
Alice Hoyt, 1st Vice Pres. Mrs. Louisana
Heppler, 2nd Vice Pres. Miss Aggie Gardner,
Secy: and Treasurer Miss Flora D. Bean.
Executive Committee Mrs. Henrietta Wright
Chairman, Mrs. Aggie Thurber, Mrs. Caroline
Morrison, Mrs. Maria Hansen, and Miss
Sarah Gardner.
	We have since held a special meeting where-
in many interesting speeches were made, and
considerable enthusiasm manifested.
	The introductory exercise was an address
by Hon. Wm. H. Seegmiller who expressed
himself as being heartily in sympathy with
the woman suffrage movement, and in favor of
woman's rights.
	Related an incident of a young lady who
he thought had exhibited more enthusiasm
than judgment because she held that all the
offices should be thrown open to women;
enumerated many offices he deemed women
unqualified to fill.
	A paper was read by Miss Alice Hoyt
which will be found in this issue.
	Miss Aggie Gardner gave an address
illustrating the many deeds of courage and
patriotism of American women.
	A recitation was finely rendered by Miss
Annie Morrison. Mrs. Louisana Heppler
encouraged the members and welcomed the
visitors present.
	The above exercises were interspersed by
music by the Band. and other vocal and
instrumental music.
	A branch association has been organized in
Glenwood, Vice Pres. Louisana Heppler
presiding over it.
		MRS. CELIA E. BEAN. Cor. Sec'y.

AN ADDRESS.
	It is our desire, today, not to be sensational,
but to reach out towards the hearts and minds
of the intelligent amongst us, and there station
a few time-tried unsullied facts.
	Like all other true progressive movements,our
cause has its firm adherents and its determined
foes,whose opposition like that of many other
unfortunate antagonists, is due to a blindness
in regard to our purpose, a misunderstanding
of our aims. This fact is confirmed by the
array of arguments brought forth by many.
A woman who is aspiring and ambitious is
termed "office-seeking" "Masculine" etc. Such
appellation would occasion no change of feeling
in one who stood upon the ground of purpose
and determination, except, perhaps, one of
pity for such a lack of wisdom.
	Can it be, sisters, that your star of intelligence
and advancment can fade in the simple regard
of your position in the estimation of the general
public? Or is it possible that your purpose
can be swayed by these borrowed, passed-around
opinions.
	But, say a thousand voices, woman's mission
is to be a wife. Her desire should be to edu-
cate herself in the skilful performance of her
household duties. True, indeed, but ours is a
higher aim a loftier ambition. You would edu-
cate wives: we would educate mothers, which
education embraces all.
	She is counted right who nurtures and
cares for her mortal body, with a view to be-
ing strong perfect in health and physical
organism, that she may engender this perfection
upon her children, but nobler far she who
adds to this attribute intelligence, wisdom and
knowledge which alone gives refinement of
character.

[Column 2]

	Who has not tired of the chattering parrot-
like, affected, mincing, ways of so many of the
gentler sex? What wonder that such have
been deemed fit only for the band-box, the
wash-tub or the parlor shelf?
	But even allowing the average number of
the feminine sex to reach no higher degree of
intelligence than these, cannot something be
done for their improvement? Will not a
method of organization tend towards her eleva-
tion? Or, would such proceedure result in
making her masculine? If so let her be mascu-
line.
	Woman cannot attain to a great advanc-
ment with out the aid of her stronger brother.
	But, thank God! the intelligent of this mighty
sex favors every move for the advancement of
woman.
	Apostles, Prophets, and the wise and good of
all nations have hailed the approach of a
better day for woman kind.
	God has ordained that man should be the
stronger and stand at the head, and to him we
accord that right, nay, that duty.
	But was it the design of the Creator that
man should oppress her lest she might gain an
equality, or that she herself should crush every
lofty desire and high endeavor in order that
she might not rise above her woman's standard?
	Is He not able to carry out his own designs?
And granting to woman only a low ebb of in-
telligence,is it not her duty to cultivate that to
its highest stress?
	Is it possible that God has given to woman
talents and strength of mind to lie dormant
either because she does not see the necessity of
their cultivation; or because she has not the
courage to maintain her rights, and place
herself in that position where advancment
could be made.
	We will say  nothing to day about the place
woman occupies in this great Republic; nothing
about her meager remunerations they could
never be termed Salaries. Nothing about her
government by officers thrust upon her without
her voice or consent, but will speak only of her
platform socially; or rather the status of her
education.
	Strange as it may seem, we find arrayed
against our cause many of our own sex. We
have only two causes to advance for this un-
reasonable state.
	That woman who is opposed to us either
does not understand us, or is a coward lack-
ing courage to break through the flimsy
cobweb barriers, which retard her progress.
	"But" says a certain party, "We do not
want to make family trouble."
	Make known to every member of your family
the real object of your aspirations, and you
will have the hearty co-operation of every
father, son. husband, and brother.
	Let them know that our purpose is not a
selfish one: that,although you may not (in their
estimation) have the power to train and teach
men and women there is a time when you leave
them solely in our charge; that it is then the
condition of your mind and your power to in-
struct, that measures the greatness of the future
nation.
	When this is done they will proudly co-
operate with you. If they do uot keep it a
secret. Do not let the world know that you
are tied to, and associated with such nonentity
—such sordid intelligence.
	Woman! Do you not know it is you who
make the atmosphere from which future men
and women will imbibe purity and intelligence
or sin and ignorance? That it is yours to
make or mar the brightness of future lives?
That it is you who is expected to lay the founda-
tion for that great regeneration which will lead
us toward a perfect life.
	Do not misunderstand me. I do not mean to
detract from the glorious mission of man but
would if the time were mine portray my idea


of the happy union that should exist in the
labors of man and his sister woman: how their
lives should be extended hand in hand for the
mighty fulfillment of a glorious purpose.
		E. ALICE HOYT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. JAMES DURAS, under the name of
"Felix Gray," is the accomplished book re-
viewer of the New Orleans Times-Democrat.
	MADAME JEANNE DE FRIENBERG, head
mistress of a French normal school, has just
been made a chevalier of the Legion of
Honor.
	MISS ANNIE THOMAS, the sister of Julia
Thomas, who was the founder of the system
called Psycho-Physical Culture has been teach-
ing the art all winter in the fashionable circles
in New York City, and will go to London
this summer to introduce the system in some
of the schools.
	MRS. HARRIET STANTON BLATCH addressed
a recent parlor-meeting in London on
woman's suffrage, with especial reference to
Wyoming. Some one in the audience asked
whether Wyoming was not "a very insignificant
State." Mrs. Stanton Blatch answered that
it was larger than Great Britain and Ireland,
and that it promised to become one of the
richest States of the Union.
	In England a great sensation in educational
circles has just been caused by the publica-
tion of the mathematical tripos of Cambridge
University. The success of the girl students
has been remarkable. The highest educa-
tional honor yet won by woman has been won by
Miss Philippa Fawcett, aged twenty-two, who
is bracketed as superior to the senior wrangler.
Previous to this the first place was occupied
by a Miss Ramsay, who took the first rank in
the classical tripos in 1887, and has since
married the master of Trinity College, Cambrige.
In addition to Miss Fawcett's fine achievement,
two ladies figure in the list of wranglers, ten
are senior optimes and four are junior optimes.
No woman failed to pass but six men failed
completely. Miss Fawcett is a daughter of
the late Prof. Henry Fawcett, the blind post-
master-general of England, and of Mrs. Milli-
cent Garret Fawcett, a leading advocate of
woman suffrage, and the author of a text-book
on Political Economy which is used in several
American colleges.
		Ex


HANGING PORTFOLIO.

	Take two pieces of pasteboard, the back
pieces longer than the front by several  inches.
Slope or scallop the top of this in any way you
may fancy, having the highest point in the
middle. Now cover both pieces with gilt or
white satin paper, lace the sides of pocket and
back together with narrow ribbon or cord,
paste a pretty picture on the front, and hang
with cord and tassels, or ribbon, as preferred.
This is ornamental, as well as useful for hold-
ing newspapers or letters, or any small articles.
It may be made any size that is wanted.


IN MEMORIAM.

	To the memory of Marion Shanks Perry, wife of
Alexander Perry and daughter of James and Isabella
Shanks. She was born July 16, 1837 at Paisley, Scotland,
and died at Willard City, April 21, 1890 in the 53rd year
of her age. In the year 1880 she was chosen first counselor
to the president of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Willard City,
which position she held until Sept. 15, 1884, when she was


appointed president of the association. She was also an
active teacher in the Relief Society faithfully performing
her duties to the last.
MEMORIAL AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Memorial of respect to the family of Marion S. Perry,
President of our Association.
	Whereas, Our esteemed President and fellow-laborer
has, by Divine Providence, been removed from our midst
by the hand of death; and.
	Whereas, By her regular attendance at meetings we
have been able to know and appreciate her good character.
	Therefore be it resolved, That we, the members of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Willard City, deeply mourn the loss of
our President and tender our sympathies to the bereaved
family in the loss of a dear and respected mother.
	Resolved, That it is with deepest sorrow, in this the hour
of our affliction, we bow to the dispensation of God's Pro-
vidence in removing from our midst our worthy leader, and
that we hold in remembrance her sterling virtues and good
qualities in discharging her duties, while we sincerely feel
her loss.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
family of the deceased, also a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication, and the same be placed in the
minutes of the Association.
		S. E. JOSEPHSON,
		H. E. CHANDLER,
		M. E WARD,
		E. J. DAVIS,
			Committee.

IN MEMORIAM.
	Mary Ann Shelley died at American Fork, May 19th,
1890. Her disease was dropsy.  She was born May 1st
1827 at Southam, Warwickshire England. Baptized 1848,
emigrated to Utah 1852, married to James Shelley 1853.
She was the mother of seven children five of whom are liv-
ing to mourn her loss. She also leaves eleven grandchild-
ren.
	She was a loving wife and mother, and has been a faith-
ful teacher in the Relief Society since its organization in
1868, and by precept and example she has left a record
worthy of emulation.
	Therefore be it,— Resolved that we, the members of the
Relief Society do deeply deplore the loss of an earnest
worker and a true friend, and that we tender to the be-
reaved husband and family our heartfelt sympathy, and
pray our Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence
of His Holy Spirit rest upon them in their hour of bitter
trial.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be tendered to
the bereaved family, and a copy be placed upon our re-
cords, and one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
to the American Fork Independent for publication.
		MARY S. HINDLEY,
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
		ORPHA ROBINSON,
		MARY B. ADAMS,
			Committee.


OBITUARIES.

	At Meadow, Millard County, Utah, May 4, 1890, Ellen
G. Bennett, wife of Bishop H. B. Bennett, and daughter of
Abraham and Sarah Greenhalgh. Deceased was born at
Radcliffe, Lancashire, England, July 27th, 1851; baptized
July 16,1865, came to Utah with her parents in 1853. She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint, and died in full faith of the
Gospel, leaving a husband and eleven children (the
youngest not two  years old) to mourn her loss. The
eldest son is now on a mission to the Samoan Islands.
Deceased was a counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. and a
teacher in the Relief Society. Her last words were: "Tell
Jesse to fill his mission honorably."
		M. A. Y. G.

	Died in Spring City, Sanpete Co. Utah, June 1890.
Sister Emma Robinson after a long and painful illness in
the 60th year of her age. She was attacked with paralysis
when on her way home from Salt Lake City Conference in
April last year (1889) from that time has been a great
sufferer.
	Sister Robinson has been one of our most useful and
energetic members of Society. Having been a teacher in
the R. S. for many years; latterly head teacher. Also took
great interest in Sabbath School with her husband who was
Supt. At the time of her death she was Pres. of the Pri-
mary Association, in which position she excelled.


Her funeral was largely attended. The principal speakers
were J. E. Ellis of this place and Brother Wheelock of Mt.
Pleasant. R. N. Allred and Bishop Allred spoke of her
many good qualities. She emigrated with her husband from
Birmingham, Engiand in 1856.
	Her memory will be cherished by a host of friends. She
leaves four daughters (one daughter is far away) and one
son who cared tenderly for their afflicted mother and kind
neighbors were on hand to assist day and night.
		M. A. H.


Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS 
EAST, WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH
AT 
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
J.V. PARKER,
Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt. 

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1890.	NO. 3.


CONTENTS.
	Hephziba h. Trip Through Oneida Stake,—
May Anderson. Conference and Meetings.
Myths About Woman.—Ex. Joseph Smith and
Patriarchal Marriage,—Eliza D. Gibbs. R. S.
Reports—San. Juan—Utah. The Coming Brother-
hood,—Miss Frances E. Willard. Notes and
News. Throwing the Glove.
	Editorial:—Wasatch Reunion. History of
Utah. Editorial Note. A Social Event. Wed-
ding Anniversary. In Memoriam. Utah W. S.
A.—Rachel Edwards.
	Poetry:—Open the Gate,—W. E. Pabor.
Good Night and Good By,—Ida M. Davis. A
Reminiscence,—Emily H. Woodmansee.


[Column 1]

OPEN THE GATE.

A Message from the Mountains.

[Read by W. E. PAEOR, of the Grand Junction (Col.)
Daily Star, at the National Editorial Convention in Boston,
June 25, 1890.]

I.
PRELUDE.

In distant zones, where ice-locked seas
	Conceal the secrets of the pole,
The arctic day dwarfs men and trees,
	And shadows rest upon the soul,
As well as on the eyes of men;
	Hiding the happy lands that lie
Beyond the reach of human ken
	Beneath an Andalusian sky.
With glittering grace the iceberg floats
	Southward, to lose its shape at last,
Where white sails flap on pleasure boats
	To sound of singing, sailing past.
All nature's lessons ever tend
	To teach new truths to fit new times,
As arctic nights at last must end
	And icebergs melt in tropic climes;
And so to-day the woman's night
	Is merging in the woman's morn;
The wrong is yielding to the right;
	The Woman's Suffrage day is born.

An echo comes out of the darkness
	Of the ages, that have been;
A plaintive, yet passionate pleading,
Blent with womanly interceding,
	With questions of why or when,
One being was made superior
While others were deemed inferior—
	As women are deemed by men.

And lo! i the wavering shadow,
	A woman, with lifted hands,
In the uttermost pose of pity,
At the gate of a mighty city,
	A patient suppliant stands.
There are riveted bars of iron,
And the city's gate they environ,
	As with adamantine bands.

A city that looms through the darkness
	And built when the world was young;
A city made famous in story
By legends as old and as hoary
	As ever were said or sung;
While under its shadowy arches,
Float echoes of musical marches,
	And flags on the air are flung.

But ever comes up through the darkness
	Outside of the city's gate,
The appeal of a helpless woman;
In the name of all that is human,

[Column 2]

	For present or future fate!
That the gate be opened as broadly,
As the city itself is lordly,
	To women who outside wait.

But over the walls comes one answer
	To th' women on bended knee;
We men are the lords of creation;
We rule in the halls of the nation;
	And the ballot, is the key
To the glory that we are grasping.
To the scepter that we are clasping,
	To the flag that we call free.

We are powerful while we hold it;
	Through its magic we are strong;
With its Archimadean lever
We have bound to ourselves forever
	The rights that to it belong;
There's none for the sex that is weaker,
Though we honor and love the seeker.
	And will praise her charms in song.

And thus through the gloom and the darkness
	Of the long departed years,
There has drifted these sounds of pleading;
And of womanly interceding,
	Blending with hopes and fears;
And still, in the season of trial,
Has come back the voice of denial,
	In despite of woman's tears.

For without is the veil of darkness
	And within, the blaze of light;
But the gate of this stately city
To appeal of justice or pity
	Is barred in the day and night;
And without are the women, weeping;
While within, are men who are keeping
	Them out of the Suffrage Right.

II.
PRELUDE.

A drop of water on a rock
	In time, a channel makes; and so
These later ages feel the shock
	Begun long centuries ago.
The city's gate is now ajar !
	The darkness lifts, and lo! we see
The rising of the woman's star
	Upon our nation; not yet free,
Until man throws his greed aside
	And, taking woman by the hand
He matches love with equal pride
	And bids her close beside him stand
The while she drops the ballot in;
	That white slip symbol that will show
How woman can her welcome win,
	Through gates where men could only go.
Rise star of glory! East and West
	And North and South! upon our land
Let the bright rays of Suffrage rest 
	Till men and women equal stand.

For there cometh out of the darkness
	A glimmering, golden ray;
It runs down the edge of the shadow,
And over the green of the meadow
	And lights up the blooms of May;
whispers to those who are waiting,
And wondering, watching, debating,
	If this is the woman's day:

Be patient! The long night of darkness,
	Is yielding at last to light;
The dawn of a newer creation
And of woman's emancipation
	From error, and wrong, and might;
When man, long by selfishness blinded
At last will in justice be minded
	To give to woman her right.

[Column 3]

And up from homes of the nation,
	The hosts of the wronged ones rise;
Up, out of the lanes of the lowly
And out from the shrines of the holy
	With eager, impassioned eyes,
They reach for the rose of reprisal
They join in the hymn of revival
	Whose echo shall reach the skies.

No longer the shackles of serfdom
	Should fetter one half the race;
The ages of womanly terror,
And the eons of human error,
	Are all passing to their place;
And there cometh now an era,
Drawing nearer, nearer and nearer
	As the world moves on through space.

When we'll see through the lifting shadow,
	All roseate, warm and bright,
The city we sing of—whose g'ory,
Is the crown of the nation's story—
	Will be open, day and night;
And its iron gate will no longer
Be shut on the weak, by the stronger,
	And might no longer make right.

From the peaks of the snow crowned Sierras,
	We have seen the flush of morn;
And this message we bring from the mountains,
Where are hidden the hearts of the fountains
	Where the sparkling streams are born—
THROW OPEN THE GATE; for the column,
Of women who, sweet faced and solemn,
	Th' homes of the nation adorn.

They wake from their dreams of dependence
	Our equals they seek to stand;
Shall we count, as men count dumb cattle
These who move in the van of battle
	For home and truth in the land?
By martyr blood staining pages
Of Time since the earliest ages,
	Come, give them a comrade's hand.

Shall we on this issue be silent?
	Brothers, whose tongue is the pen,
Echo thou the song they are singing!
Herald thou the dawn they are bringing
	Equal in all things; and when,
With ballot in hand they come to us
With beauty and strength to subdue us
	We'll own them, equals of men.

The message I bring from the mountains
	Should find echo in this place;
On the shores where the Mayflower landed
Let the gift of Suffrage be handed
	To the women fair of face!
Oh brothers! the robe of dishonor
Is ours, if we place not upon her,
	The ballot that crowns the race.

And if, in the days that are coming,
	The land should a queen implore,
By all that's divine in the human,
By all that is loving in woman,
	We'll give her one honor more
And welcome her on to the station
The highest of all in the nation!
	We win through the White House door.


The Wimodaughsis, or "Union of Women,"
which has been incorporated to procure suit-
able grounds and buildings for a permanent
headquarters for the National American Wo-
man Suffrage Association, has placed its 
capital stock at $24,000, divided into shares
of five dollars each. Persons wishing to take 
stock may address Miss Emma M. Gillett, 802
F Street, Washington, D. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HEPHZIBAH.
XXIV.

Locked in the secret chamber of her heart,
	A living sorrow, nursed by silent grief;
Henceforth thro' all her life to be apart,
	Whatever else might come to bring relief.

	The next few days after Mrs. H. was install-
ed in the home of Miss B. as companion, were
very sad and sober ones, the weather was un-
pleasant and Hepsie was so low-spirited that
it seriously affected her health, and Miss B.
grew nervous and almost irritable. It was
just Christmas time too but there were no signs
of festivities in Nauvoo. No gay shop windows,
not even on Main street, everything seemed to
wear a sombre and desolate appearance.
	Hepsie's grief was something new and
strange to her new found friend, she could not
comprehend how she could cry day and night
too, and reproached her rather severely on two
or three occasions, showing very little
sympathy for her forlorn condition, except to
give her food and shelter. It was just as well
however; for to the young wife, no one per-
haps could have said exactly the right things;
and she seemed to desire most of all, to be left
to herself.
	"How can you grieve yourself to death for a
man who has treated you so cruelly? such a
helpless creature as you are too, taking you
away from every one you loved and cared for,
I should hate him. Why its all I can do to
endure being alone as I am, and for that mat-
ter I came of my own accord and had nobody
to leave that I cared a cent for, so I've nothing
to go back to."
	"But" said Hepsie, "you came for your re-
ligion did'nt you, and you can't give that up
whatever trials you may have. I know you
are lonely and I'm sorry you're disappointed
in me, I am not companionable, and perhaps I
never shall be again, but I mean to get well
and then I expect to teach, and earn my own
living."
	"You'll not teach here in Nauvoo, there's no
prospect of future prosperity here, the people
will have to move from this place, I'm pretty
sure of that, why Joseph was making every
calculation on going into the wilderness be-
fore he was killed, don't you know that he even
crossed over the river in the night to go, and
Emma and some of his friends induced him to
come back again!"
	"No, I did not know it, never had an idea
of the people leaving here, this is the gathering
place, and the Temple is to be finished and
dedicated, that must be done," said Hepsie.
	“Nauvoo is full of apostates, and many are
somewhat disaffected, who have not declared
themselves open enemies, a fire is smoldering
just about ready to burst, the crisis may come
at any time, and I'm not at all certain that the
Temple will be completed."
	"But Miss B. you will keep with the Saints,
go or stay with them, wherever their lot may
be cast?"
	"Mrs. H. you are very confiding, notwith-
standing your having been left so utterly de-
pendent, I should think you would be embit-
tered beyond trusting any one again, I posi-
tively don't appreciate such devotion."
	"My trust and faith is in my religion, not in
man. Henceforth my life and labor shall be.
given to the cause I have embraced."
	"You cannot do anything at present, look
at your poor thin face and colorless hands,
totally unfit and unprepared for work of any
sort."
	"I am not discouraged however," replied
Mrs. H. "I know now that my Heavenly
Father protects me since He sent you to me on
that dreadful night, when I was about to be
left so utterly alone."
	Christmas and the New Year came and went

[Column 2]

not however without awakening intense emo-
tions in Hepsie's heart, and stirring its inner
fountains to their utmost depths, no one to
speak to except auntie, as she called Miss B.,
and she was full of bitter repinings, that were
as unpleasant as the weather was cold and dis-
agreable, and there was nothing to call either
of them outside. Such intense loneliness, and,
Hepsie waiting, longing and praying fot a let-
ter from Harold or from home, yet dreading
to receive one lest it should confirm her sus-
picions. She knew the dear ones in the home
nest would write if they knew what to say, but
her lips were sealed, she could not speak of
her circumstances, lest it should seem like a
complaint. Day after day she looked anxious-
ly for news from Harold, she could not be-
lieve he had gone from her heart forever; she
looked forward to his return at some future
time when a full explanation would be made;
and at night she often dreamed of the fulfill-
ment of her bright hopes and ardent wishes.
The dreamy life she led, and the queer com-
panionship of her protectress, together with the
condition of her nervous system, tended to pro-
nounced melancholy, but she struggled in
prayer and the exercise of the best feculties
she possessed and conquered in part. One
evening there came a letter in the familiar hand-
writing she knew so well; poor child she trem-
bled so it was with difficulty she broke the seal,
her tears were falling in great drops like rain,
and it was hours before she could finish read-
ing it; Harold had writen to her as though he
had not wounded her beyond recovery; his
words were tender, but hard as it seemed to the
tender-hearted wife she felt they were hollow
and meaningless. He called her, "Hepise my
darling wife:—" how could he write like that;
knowing as he must, that he had separated
her from her dear ones, and that henceforth an
insurpassable chasm lay between them that
could never be spanned. Miss B. wanted to
know what news from far away, she had
guessed from Hepsie's excited manner that it
was from Harold; it was useless to question
her however, silence seemed to Hepsie the best
safeguard; then and forever after the contents
of that letter remained locked in her own
heart, and were never revealed to friend or foe,
yet looking back after the space of many
years and recalling the sweet and tender
words expressed therein, and remembering that
sweet Summer-time among the New England
hills when all things wore the couleur de rose,
she marveled that she had not given up all
for him and the promises he held out to her of
fidelity and devotion; it was the spiritual na-
ture that conquered and kept her from yield-
ing to Harold's entreaties to come to him in
the sunny Southern Islands.
	A few days later another letter came, and
finally the third and last, for never again by
word or message of any kind did Harold make
known to her any personal knowledge of him-
self or his after life.
	The words he had written met with no re-
sponse from her lips or hand, though we may
not know what impression they made, or what
answering echo they found hidden deep down
in her wounded woman's heart; but she lived
through all—cold and impenetrable seemingly,
but as the Spring days grew warm and bright,
a faint color came back to her pale lips and
cheeks.
	A final separation from Harold was inevita-
ble, he was not coming back, and she had such
an innate conviction of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the truths re-
vealed through him, of the everlasting Gospel
that she could not consent to leave Nauvoo
and the chosen people of God; though she
should henceforth be left dependent upon her
own exertions.
	A letter from Lucy Reynolds stating that
she was about to start for Nauvoo comforted

[Column 3]

her somewhat, and another soon after from
her mother saying, "we expect to come in Sep-
tember," seemed to awaken new life in her
dormant faculties.
	She talked much to Miss B. of her mother,
telling her of her wonderful faith, her know-
ledge of the Scriptures, and of her arguments
with learned men, especially ministers, who had
ridiculed the idea of Joseph Smith an unedu-
cated youth being a Prophet of God. She
sought to inspire in. Miss B. a greater degree
of faith, for it was very irksome to be associ
ated with one so unbelieving and worldly-
minded, one who had no spiritual life and who
was always dwelling on the dark-side of things.
She longed intensely for her mother, full of
faith and energy, thinking no sacrifice too
great to make for her religion. During the
winter she had gone out a few times only to
meetings and lectures in the Masonic Hall—it
was not far, but it was almost too much for
her, and Miss B. never wanted to go with her; 
but Hepsie kept alive a spark of living faith,
that enabled her to hold on to the truths of
which she had become so thoroughly con-
yinced since coming to Nauvoo, even though
there had been many stumbling blocks in her
pathway, yet her faith never wavered.
	Just before the news came from the East of
Lucy Reynold's and her husband's coming, she
received a verbal message from the Harveys'
Harold's father, mother and brother to come
to them at Laharpe, they fully believed if she
would, Harold could be induced to return
home once more. Harold's father would come
for her with an easy conveyance, and she
should be waited upon until she was fully re-
covered; "if she had not been so obstinate about
leaving Nauvoo," Mrs. Harvey's message said
repeating her very words, "Harold would not
have gone away, baby would have been living,
and much sorrow averted." This message
stung Hepsie to the very centre of her soul,
but with her accustomed outward serenity she
answered the brother and sister who had
brought her the word, (they were professed
Latter-day Saints) "I cannot leave Nauvoo; on
that point I am still as determined as ever, if
Harold comes he will find me here if I am liv-
ing at all."
	"But" added the stranger "the Saints will
certainly be driven from here into the western
wilds, you are not equal to such hardships."
	"If this people go from Nauvoo I shall go
to, my nome hereafter shall be with the Saints,
it is useless to ask me to go backward, I can-
not."
	"And you would give up your husband
and all, his family are well off, you would
never have to lift your finger, Mrs. Harvey
says you have decided literary taste, there
would be every opportunity for you as a writer
to make yourself known better hero in Illinois
than in New England where there are so many,
you understand."
	Hepsie knew these were Mrs. Harvey's own
words, but they made no impression upon her.
	"Then am I to say to the Harvey's who
wished me to urge you to come, that you re-
fuse to accept their proposals." 
	"Say to the Harvey's, I will not leave
Nauvoo though I should die of starvation in
the street."
	"And nothing more," said the stranger.
	"Only my love to Harold's brother, Oney
Andre."


There is no fit search after truth which does
not, first of all, begin to live the truth which
is known.—H. Bushnell.
	The longer I live the more certain I am
that the great difference between the great
and insignificant is energy—invincible deter-
mination—an honest purpose once fixed, and
then victory.— Goethe.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD NIGHT AND GOOD BYE.

When the gold and red of the setting sun
	Grows pale and fades at the close of day;
When the melting splendor is over and done,
	And night draws on and covers the way;
We do not hope its return in vain,
For we know that the morrow will come again,
		This is good-night.

When we part with a clasping hand at night
	From the friend we love, we feel regret,
And the bright, warm heart takes with it the light
	And joy of our own hearthstone; and yet
This regret is not a hopeless pain,
For we know that the friend will come again.
		This is good-night.

When we leave the shore that has known our birth,
	When turn our longing sight to fill
Our hearts with memories of sorrow and mirth
	Of the sweet and vanished past, until
The night draws on, we strain our eyes
For a long, last look in our paradise,
		This is good-bye.

When a soul is called from the busy throng,
	To tread the paths of an untried way,
And the night seems cold and dark and long,
	And we look our last on the form of clay,
We know we have said our last adieu,
And the broken vows we cannot renew.
		This	is good-bye.

When we stand at the gate at eve with those
	Who have filled our lives with joy or pain
To watch the light as it dimmer grows,
	And know we shall never watch it again.
We say the words and hear the reply,
And we know the farewell is spoken for aye,
		This is good-night and good-bye.
			IDA M. DAVIS.


TRIP THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.

	On June 8th a party left Preston to make
a trip through the Oneida Stake in the in-
terests of the Relief Society, Young Ladies
and Primary Associations.
	The party consisted of Sister E. S. Taylor,
Gen. Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Sister Louie
Felt Gen. Pres. and Miss May Anderson Cor.
Sec'y. for the Primaries, all of Salt Lake City,
Sister Elizabeth Fox Stake Pres. and Sister
Edith Hawkes and M. J. Hendricks Coun-
selors for the Relief Society. Sister Esther
Hendrickson Stake Pres. and Sister Susie
Parnell Stake Sec'y. for the Young Ladies,
Sister J. J. Eldredge Stake Pres, and Sisters
Rosenbaum and Mickleson for the Primaries.
	There were twelve wards visited, and 28
meetings held in eleven days. The Relief
Society and Young Ladies' Associations held
their meetings conjointly in many of the wards
owing to the time being so limited. The saints
generally are feeling well and most of the
societies are in good working condition.
	Some new associations were formed and
some re-organized.
	In the Primary associations the good order
maintained by the children was especially
noticable.
	The trip was a very pleasant one, the saints
being very kind and hospitable and doing
everything to make it easy and comfortable
for the sisters.
	Visited the dairy of Brother Sharp who
presented the company with a nice cheese,
which was very much appreciated during some
of the long drives. Leaving Mormon Ward
June 11th drove to Soda Springs where Bis-
hop Lau and wife very kindly entertained
the company. The next day was spent in
visiting eight of the different springs and hav-
ing a most enjoyable time. And in the even-
ing continued the journey to Chesterfield. In
Weston the Brass Band serenaded the com-


pany, and played at the opening and close of
the meetings held in that ward. The meetings
were brought to a close in Franklin on June
the 20th.
	The people were very much pleased to have
the sisters visit them, especially those from
Salt Lake City.
	In most of the wards the Bishopric and a
good representation of the Brethren attended
the meetings, and seemed very well pleased
with the instructions given by the sisters.
There is much credit due to Sister Eldredge,
who managed the whole affair in the most
efficient manner and made all arrangements
for stopping places.
		MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]

CONFERENCE AND MEETINGS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, and Coun-
selors, Mrs. Elizabeth Allred and Mrs. Sarah
A. Petersen, together with Miss Stena Wil-
lardson, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake ac-
companied by Mrs. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
City, Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of Manti, Mrs. Ellen
Dorius of Ephraim and others took a trip
through the north end of this county on the
14, 15 and 16 of June. The report if given
in full might prove too lengthy, so I append
but a brief sketch. We left Ephraim on Fri-
day evening and drove as far as Mt. Pleasant,
just happening to be present at the grand re-
ception tendered Ferdinand Erickson, a young
man just returned from Ann Arbor, a young
disciple of the law. We drove to Fairview the
next morning where Relief Society and Young
Ladies' conference was held the same day.
The attendance was good, the instructions ex-
cellent, and the utmost harmony prevailed.
	Sister Hyde spoke in tongues in the after-
noon at the Youngs Ladies' meeting, which be-
ing interpreted was an exhortation of great
fervency, and a prophecy of their future
achievements.
	The next day, June 15th,the party aug-
mented by Bishop Petersen of Fairview, and
others took their way to Indianola. Every
where from Manti to that place the crops
looked beautiful.
	Meeting was held at 10 o'clock of the same
day, and a reorganization of the Relief Society
made. The following are the names of the
officers: Charlotte Seeley, Pres. Elvira Seeley
First Counselor; S. G. Tanner, Second Coun-
selor; and Mary Seeley Sec. and Treasurer.
	A Y. L. M. I. A. organization was also
made with the following officers: Sarah
Spencer, Pres. Retta Lauretta Spencer First,
and Lillian Hjust Second Counselor.
	After dinner they began the return trip
holding meeting at 4 o'clock at Millburn, a
small newly organized settlement at the right
of the usual road. There are twenty-five
families and the town has every appearance of
prosperity. Here one new organization was
made. The Relief Society officers as follows:
Mary Christina Grayban, Pres. Terressa
Stewart First and Margaret Harker Second
Counselors; Mellicent Cox, Sec., and Elvira
Stewart Treasurer. There were so few mem-
bers that it was not deemed wise or expedient
to make a separate organization for the Young
Ladies, at present; they were accordingly in-
vited to join the Relief Society.
	The ladies then drove over to Fairview,
where they spent the night; going to Mt. Pleas-
ant the next morning in time for a ten o'clock
meeting. The two wards heretofore existing
having been consolidated into one ward, it be-
came necessary to reorganize the Relief Society
and Young Ladies' to correspond. These are
the names of the officers retained in the Relief
Society: M. F. C. Morrisson Pres. Caroline

[Column 2]

Simpson First, and Botilda Neilsen Second
Counselors; Louisa Hasler, Sec, and Tiny
Erickson as Assistant Sec., and Christina Peel
Treasurer.
	The following are the names of the officers
selected to preside over the Y. L. M. I. A.
at Mt. Pleasant.
	Augusta Erickson, Pres. Ellenor Reynolds,
First, and Celia Johansen Second. Couselors;
Caroline Lonegren Sec., and Anna Madson,
Treasurer. This completed the reorganizations.
In every case the former members were rein-
stated in their membership, and the officers
were set apart for their respective callings.
	Meeting was held the next day at Spying
City, which completed the labors of the visitors
who returned home on the evening of the same
day.
	I should personally have been glad to tran-
scribe the good instruction given in the meet-
ings for your readers; and told them of the
beautiful scenery, the cordial welcome extended
everywhere, and the respect aud courtesy
shown us by all; the numbers of beautiful
girls and angelic children that we saw,—the
highly appreciated conversation  of Sister
Horne and others on our long drives, but it
would swell this article to a volume; so will
close by saying that we traveled 70 miles, held
seven meetings, and effected five organizations
in three days.
		M. A. HYDE, Pres.
		E. J. Sec. pro tem,


MYTHS ABOUT WOMAN.

	Woman's first appearance has been a fruit-
ful subject for the legend mongers. The
Phoenician myth of creation is found in the
story of Pygmalion and Galatea. There the
first woman was carved by the first man out
of ivory and then endowed with life by
Aphrodite.
	The Greek theory of the creation of women,
according to Hesiod, was that Zeus, as a cruel
jest, ordered Vulcan to make woman out of
clay, and then induced the various gods and
goddesses to invest the clay doll with all their
worst qnalities, the result being a lovely thing
with a witchery of mien, refined craft, eager
passion, love of dress, treacherous manner, and
shameless mind.
	The Scandinavians say that as Odin, Vili,
and Ve, the three sons of Bor, wrere walking
along the sea beach they found two sticks of
wood, one ash and one elm. Sitting down the
gods shaped man and woman out of these
sticks, whittling the woman from the elm and
calling her Emia.
	One of the strangest stories touching the
origin of woman is told by the Madagascarenes.
In so far as the creation of man goes the
legend is not unlike that related by Moses,
only that the fall came before Eve arrived.
After the man had eaten of the forbidden fruit
he became affected with a boil on the leg, out
of which, when it burst, came a beautiful girl.
	The man's first thought was to throw her to
the pigs, but he was commanded by a mes-
senger from heaven to let her play among
the diggings until she was of marriageable age,
then to make her his wife. He did so, called
her Baboura, and she became the mother of all
races of men.
	The American Indians' myths relative to
Adam and Eve are numerous and entertain-
ing. Some traditions trace back our first
parents to white and red maize; another is that
man, searching for a wife, was given the
daughter of the king of muskrats, who, on be-
ing dipped into the waters of a neighboring
lake became a woman.	Ex.


During the summer, the Woman's. Tribune
will be published fortnightly instead of weekly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JULY 1, 1890.


[Column 1]

﻿WASATCH REUNION.

	A reunion to the members of the Wasatch
Literary Association was given on the evening of
the 18th of June at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
F. D. Kimball. The entertainment was exceed-
ingly pleasant, and a perfect success socially, and
as a reminiscence of the past, when this Society
was in its glory and the young men and maidens
in the bloom of early life full of enthusiasm and
gaiety enjoying to the utmost the meetings, and
social entertainments that grew out of the organi-
zation.
	Many friendships were formed there that will
last forever and marriages consummated between
those that were thus associated in those halcyon
days of youthful enjoyments.
	The idea of a reunion had been talked of for
some time and finally resulted in an agreeable
social interview of old friends. The matter was
taken in hand by a few of the prominent members
of the early time, who formed committees, held
informal meetings, and prepared everything for
the delectation of the guests.
	On the evening of the entertainment the
grounds were handsomely illuminated and tables
spread on the lawn in readiness for the feast.
	The old members arriving in groups or a soli-
tary one from a distance, each warmly welcomed
by the host and hostess and a committee on re-
ception. A band on the lawn played charmingly
and everything betokened a joyous and festive
occasion.
	About nine o'clock the roll was called and the
old familiar names, (many of the ladies' names
sounding rather odd as they had since been 
changed).
	First on the programme of exercises "Remi-
niscences of the Wasatch" by O. F. Whitney—
followed by a piano solo "Gottschalk," Lena
Fobes, Reading "The Water Mill," Kittie Hey-
wood, Reading "Bill Nye," H. M. Wells, Violin
solo, Stan Clawson, accompanied by D. C. Young.
Sketch, H. G. Whitney, Anecdotes, B. S. Young,
Vocal duet Cornelia and Mattie Horne, Reading
of the "Budget Box" H. M. Wells, Critic, H. L.
A. Culmer.
	The Budget Box in former days was the source
of a great deal of fun, though sometimes very bit-
ter personals and satires caused a black cloud
occasionally to rest on the brow of a member,
who was thus severely handled. On this occa-
sion things in the distance seemed very funny,
and though some members were rather roughly
dealt with figuratively speaking, yet the thought
that it was of the dim and distant past made a
vast deal of difference. The critic gave a kindly
review rather than criticism, which with the remi-
niscence and sketch made quite a history of the
Wasatch of other days.
	The exersises over, the band on the lawn

[Column 2]

struck up lively strains of music cheering to the
soul; social conversations and friendly greetings
followed and each one had some remembrance
"of the good old days," until the call to supper on
the lawn for which ample provision had been
made, tables beautifully ornamented with flowers
and fruits, and each member of the Association
received a small hand-painted placque in flowers
tied with soft narrow ribbon, and containing
a written motto. After the supper was over
Bishop Whitney in behalf of the Association made
a presentation of an exquisite basket of flowers,
to Miss Kate Wells who had painted the charm-
ing little placques that were distributed to all the
members. Returning to the house after the sup-
per and presentation the band played "Auld lang
syne," the young people singing snatches of the
dear old song. The company enjoyed themselves
until "the wee sma hours" and dispersed with
happy hearts and many tender memories
awakened of the reminders of the days gone by.
Three at least of the prominent members had
passed away to that better land, and that of
course called up sad but sweet thoughts of the
dear departed ones who were wont to mingle their
voices in song and mirth, and jest.
	One thing we had almost forgotten to mention
in this notice of the pleasant reunion on Hey-
wood's Hill, at the old homestead, and that is that
telegrams and letters were read from some of the
members living at a distance, these were very
characteristic. We give below the programme of
the first gathering out of which grew this once
very popular Wasatch.

	Minutes of the first meeting of the Literary Asso-
ciation known as the——at the residence of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, State road January 21st 1874.
	Society met and organized, O. F. Whitney was
elected Chairman by a majority vote. Major W.
W. Woods became Chairman of the executive
committee by ballot, but resigned in favor of Miss
Mamie Jones who accepted. Misses Belle Clay-
ton and Cornelia Horne were elected assistants
by a majority.
	Miss Emma Wells was elected Secretary.
	It was moved and seconded that officers should
be elected each month by ballot—carried.
	The duties of officers were then debated upon
and settled.
	Moved that candidates for membership be ad-
mitted by ballot and rejected by three blank
votes.
	Moved that a critic be appointed each evening,
—carried.
	Enrollment of members present P. Margetts,
H. B. Emery, James Ferguson, Misses Kate and
May Wells and Rose Sipple became members.
	Moved that visitors be admitted at the next
meeting. Carried.
	Committee reported programme for next meet-
ing January 28th which was accepted.
	Executive Committee was enjoined to report
several names for the Society the next evening
session.
	Miss Mell Whitney by request read Mrs. Caudle's
lecture on "Spring Clothing," and was followed
by Major Woods who read "The one hoss shay," a
vote of thanks was tendered.
	By motion the meeting adjourned until January
28th, at the residence of H. K. Whitney 18th
Ward at the hour of 7:30 p. m.
		EMMA WELLS, Sec.


HISTORY OF UTAH.
	The Prospectus announcing the history of Utah
by Bishop Whitney has just been issued from
the press.
	The author gives some few ideas in reference
to the work he has undertaken to do. The his-
tory will comprise three large volumes of prob-


ably over 800 pages, and will include "a complete
narration and description of the settlement and
formation of the Territory, its growth and de-
velopment up to the present time."
	"Social, industrial, educational, political and re-
ligious" conditions will be carefully considered
and treated upon. Climate, scenery, natural re-
sources, churches, schools, railroads and institu-
tions in general; the various vocations and pro-
fessions practised by the people;" the work will
also include "biographies of notable men and
women with fine portraits accompanying."
	"Other illustrations such as cities, towns, pub-
lic and private buildings, scenery etc., will like-
wise appear."
	The book is to be published in Utah, by Dr.
John O. Williams of Denver and Chicago, who will
take personal charge and assume the entire re-
sponsibility of enterprise.
	The prospectus is followed by three pages of
testimonials from prominent men and women.
	The first testimonial is from the First Presi-
dency of the Church; the venerable President
Wilford Woodruff being the foremost pioneer of
'47 to enter the valley with Brigham Young.
George Q. Cannon came in with the first com-
pany that followed the pioneers who put in the
first crops, built the fort and opened up the
canons, Joseph F. Smith, Lorenzo Snow, F. D.
Richards, D. H. Wells, and others who have en-
dorsed the history have been the active colonizers
and associated in the arduous labors and various
movements incidental to founding and building up
a modern civilization, civil, political and gov-
ernmental in a heretofore uninhabited desert; and
in developing its natural resources, and establish-
ing industrial and educational enterprises.
	The women whose testimonials are given are
those who have figured conspicuously in the
settling of the desert etc., or are the daughters of
the real pioneers born upon the soil. The work
is very substantially endorsed by leading people
of the Territory, and will no doubt be satisfac-
torily completed in due time, but such an immense
undertaking as these books cannot be hurriedly
written. No doubt every facility possible will be
afforded to the writer, who enjoys to the fullest
extent the confidence of the people.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	We take great pleasure in the contemplation of
a truthful and correct history of Utah Territory,
and the selection of Bishop Orson F. Whitney
to write the history is eminently proper, as he has
been familiar from childhood with the lives and
experiences of the foremost men and women who
have founded a thriving and prosperous Territory
in the midst of an uninhabited desert. The Bish-
op's poetic and classic style of writing tends to 
originality, and his fine conception of the subjects
he has heretofore undertaken naturally leads to 
the conclusion that he will succeed in making this
important work not only lasting but interesting
and versatile. Moreover his heart is in the labor
which is an essential characteristic in a work of
such magnitude. We have no hesitancy in
heartily endorsing the choice made by the pub-
lisher's and believe and trust the enterprise will
be a permanent success.


A SOCIAL EVENT.
	On the 17th of June a pleasant party of ladies
gathered at the residence of Mrs. Maria W. Wil-
cox in this city to celebrate the anniversary of
her birthday. It was quite a surprise to the lady
herself as the invitations had been given out and
preparations made by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson
and Mrs. Wilcox daughter Ella and her son's
wife Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox.
	The company was a congenial one, of old-tim


friends and relatives and the conversation was
general with interchanges of greetings and con-
gratulations.
	Mrs. Wilcox has been for many years an
active member in the Relief Society and since
the Stake organization of the R. S. has filled the
place of Cor. Sec'y., and was chosen two or three
years since President of the Relief Society in the
14th Ward of this city, a position which requires
wisdom, charity, experience and good executive
ability. The many friends who met on her
birthday after congratulating her and wishing for
her many happy returns of the day with health,
happiness and prosperity, also offered her con-
gratulations on her son's account C. F. Wilcox,
who recently returned from New York where he
graduated with honors a full-fledged M. D. Al-
together the affair was a success excepton ac-
count of the absence of some particularly dear
friends who were invited, but whom circum-
stances prevented from coming. Mrs. Wilcox
received some very tasteful and elegant presents
as souvenirs of the happy meeting and we must
also add that the flowers were lovely and the
refreshments delicious and handsomely served.
	The writer adds her grateful acknowledements
for the very pressing invitation given her and ex-
presses her regret that she was unable to attend,
but hopes to enjoy the society of those who met
to honor that day on many similar occasions in
the future.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
	At "the old home" of the Howards' in Cotton-
wood on the 25th of June 1890—Mr. and Mrs.
Isaac Brockbank celebrated the thirtieth anni-
versary of their marriage.  Among the guests
were many of those who had graced the marriage
feast thirty years before.  In those days the
mention of "the Howard home" in Cottonwood
was significant of a good time; many a pleasure
party has been held there in the days gone by,
that will be remembered with vivid emotions
sacred to friendship while life shall last.  Of those
who were in the habit of assembling there in
those days some have gone to "that better land,"
but many yet remain who also shared in the fes-
tivities and hospitalities that were so enjoyable
and so cordially extended.
	Miss Kate Howard (Mrs. Brockbank) was the
eldest daughter of the Howard family, and has
now been married for many years, and is the
mother of a large and interesting family who were
not present on that auspicious day three decades
ago.  She appeared at her thirtieth anniversary
in the identical wedding dress, worn when a
young and blushing bride, which looked fresh and
charming, and the lady herself with her sparkling
black eyes, and wavy iron grey hair was all the
more stately and dignified for the crown of wife-
hood and motherhood she has wrought for her-
self out of the golden threads of her full and
beautiful life as the years have been borne along.
	The bridegroom's manner betokened happiness
and prosperity, if his appearance was not as
youthful as it had been thirty years before, and
the party altogether was a most enjoyable affair.
The feast was elaborate and served in excellent
style, the most delicious fruits and beautiful
flowers adorned the tables and the rare old china
and silver brought by the Howards from over the
seas, showed to great advantage.
	The presents from the family and friends were
in good taste, and suitable to the occasion; and
in short the festivities were all of a character
calculated to produce and leave a pleasant and
gratifying impression.  One of the interesting
features of the gathering, was the reading of a
poem in memory of the wedding day which had
been celebrated at the same place, composed by
a very dear friend Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee.
	We add our sincere congratulations to Brother
[Column 2]
and Sister Brockbank on having reached this
milestone of the matrimonial journey, and hope
and trust they may arrive in safety together at the
fiftieth anniversary, and then and forever after en-
joy all the blessings spiritual and temporal with
the rich experiences that fall to the lot of those,
who are seeking eternal life in the celestial king-
dom.
A REMINISCENCE.
	[Affectionately inscribed to the author's esteemed friends
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Brockbank, on the 30th anniversary
of their wedding day.]

Is't possible Katie 'tis thirty years since—
We danced at your wedding that sweet summer night,
While the birds sang their songs and th' wild roses bloom'd;
And Nature herself was to gladness attuned,
And existence was fraught with delight.

I recall so distinctly, that beautiful day—
In June, eighteen sixty, the time you was wed;
The bridegroom was buoyant, the neighbors were gay;
And "City folks" too, quite a goodly array—
Graced the feast so deliciously spread.

Hospitality! ope'd her beneficent hand;
And sweet strains of music pervaded the air;
The young "country couples" of course lent a hand,
And a ball (unexclusive) was cleverly planned,
'Twas refreshing indeed to be there.

'Twas a jubilant wedding! the high and the low—
Were equally honored in Utah, (just then):
One was good as another, (decidedly so);
And haughty, King Caste, wasn't potent, for lo—
There was really no proud "Upper Ten."

Times and customs have chang'd, sure we cannot but see,
The poor, are too often "left out in the cold."
Those primitive days were delightful to me,
I marvel, so many were happy and free
Without either silver or gold.

Surpassingly sweet, is the morning of life;
The future looks cloudless, the prospect is fair,
But later, we learn that afflictions are rife,
That mortals must struggle with sorrow and strife,
And wrestle with "Giant Despair."

But, thanks be to God, for the strength He bestows,
For the peace that He pours into desolate hearts;
When adversity's blast like a hurricane blows,
In "The Mighty One's" mercy the meek can repose;
Such comfort, "Our Father" imparts,

Oh Spring time of hope, evanescently bright,
Thy "castles" so shatter'd, we've ceased to deplore;
Shake hands, "Father Time" and with spurs speed the
flight—
For wisdom and rest, comes with age, and with night,
And friendship is sweet as of yore.

Ah! little it matters if tresses turn gray,
If eyes lose their luster, (as doubtless they do)
The loving, are lovely, and youthful for aye,
Though the body must weaken, and yield to decay—
The spirit for ever is new.

And, what if you're wedded, for thirty years more?
'Twill be only a preface to love's lasting theme;
When humanity's sorrows and failings are o'er—
On the opposite side of Eternity's shore—
Love and Truth will be valued as never before;
Then, we'll realize poesy's dream.

Life's practical lessons, are needful we know,
But conjugal pleasures, at times they destroy;
Affection, and patience, together should grow;
True sympathy, confidence, courage and lo,
All partners of love and of joy.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, June 25, 1890.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Our beloved President, Harriet A. Snow, wife
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, passed away from
earth on Monday, May the 12th, at three o'clock
a. m., after an illness of four weeks, having suf-
fered severly from paralysis.


Harriet Amelia Snow, daughter of Aaron and
Elizabeth P. Squires, was born Sept. 13th 1819, in
Aurora, Portage Co. Ohio. Her honorable lineage
is established by the fact, that her parants were
natives of New England, one of her grandfathers
served in the Revolutionary War, and her pro-
genitors came to America in the Mayflower.
	She embraced the Gospel when 25 years of age.
In January 1846 she married Elder Lorenzo
Snow, left for the West in Feb. '46, stayed in
Mt. Pisgah ’till the Spring of '48, then left with
her husband for the Rocky Mountains, and ar-
rived in the fall, of the same year.
	She succeeded Sister Leonora Morley (sister to
Eliza R. Snow) as president of the Relief Society
of Brigham City 1871, in March '78 she was ap-
pointed president of the Relief Society of the
Stake, which position she held with great honor
until the time of her death. 
	“Aunt Harriet,” as we lovingly called her, was
a woman with a strong mind and a tender heart
full of humility and submission, firm in faith and
hope, duty was her law, she, was loving and wise
in nursing the sick, in washing and anointing,
we felt perfect faith that the Lord heard her sup-
plications; she had gained the full confidence of
the sisters of this stake, hers was a disposition
the better we knew her, the more we loved her.
“Aunt Harriet” was a hard worker, a true
“mother in Israel," and would never slight duty
to gratify her own comfort. These are the heart-
felt sentiments of the sisters of Box, Elder
Stake.
	Resolved, that we present a copy of this
Memorial to her husband and to the members of
her family, also a copy to be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	SUSANNAH P. BOOTH, 1st Coun.
	OLIVIA WIDERGORG, 2nd
	MARY E. SNOW, Sec.
	FANNIE GRAEHL, Treas.
	EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


UTAH W. S. A.
	Minutes of the Woman's Suffrage Association
of Utah held Saturday June 14, 1890 in the 14th
Ward Assembly rooms.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball presided,prayer by Mrs. M.
Mitchell. Minutes of the previous meeting read
and accepted.
	A committee of 7 was appointed to appoint
honorary vice presidents throughout the Terri-
tory, consisting of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. J.
S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
E. B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, and Elizabeth Howard.
	The following ladies made a few remarks.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt, Mrs. E. S. Richards,Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. MacFarlane, Mrs. C. E. Dye, Mrs.
P. Y. Beatie,Mrs. M. Mitchell, Mrs. P. C.Young,
Miss R. Edwards and Mrs. A. E. Neal.
	Dr. Pratt moved that Miss Edwards lecture
upon Parliamentary law at the next meeting,
carried. Meeting then adjourned until Sept.
				RACHEL EDWARDS, Sec.


JOSEPH SMITH AND PATRIARCHAL
			MARRIAGE.

	While confined to a bed of sickness from
which I was recovering, my mind reverted
back to the early ages of bible history. My
mind concentrated on a man of great notoriety.
One held in profound reverence in the present
age. Although thousands of centuries have
come and gone; rolled into the insatiable
abyss of eternity still his name, his fame,
implicit obedience to the will of his Creator is
a theme sung by poets and divines of every
sect in Christendom. A personage so favored
of God that he talked face to face with Him
as one man talketh with another. God also


[Column 1]
appointed him to stand as father and Patri-
arch to His chosen people; a people designed
to be the receptacle of His divine call; also
through the lineage of this people was des-
tined to be born the Redeemer of the world,
who will eventually reign King of kings and
Lord of lords over all His vast creation.
	Such a favored and exalted personage as
this old patriarch Abraham was, we would,
certainly without doubt—accept it as an
established fact, that he must be a perfect
pattern of righteousness, purity, and unsullied
virtue; without spot or blemish. But strange
as it may appear to this enlightened Christian
generation this honored and holy, God chosen
personage was a veritable polygamist at the
very time, while he was receiving the divine
law right from the mouth of Jehovah. Had
he lived in this age of morals and purity he
would have been thrust into prison, or per-
chance shot down in the street. Not only did
this ancient worthy practice the obnoxious
principle but he transmited it to his prosterity.
His grandson had four wives and thus it was
handed down from generation to generation as
long as the descendants of Abraham existed as
a nation. Moses the great law receiver and
law giver who also talked with God face to
face—received the law direct from Jehovah,
was himself also a polygamist.
	Thus do we trace the practice of this man
—condemned—principle down to the reign of
kings.
	King David a man after God’s own heart
had hundreds of wives and his son Solomon
after him, and in neither case were they even
reproved for the number of their wives.
	David was condemned and his wives taken
from him because of his sin in the case of
Uriah’s wife, and Solomon because of his tak-
ing strange wives from idolatrous nations.
Through the prophet Nathan God said, He
gave David his wives and would have done
more for him had he not sinned. There is not
an instance either in the old or New Testament
where a man was reproved or even censured
in the least for the number of his wives.
Surely if the Lord had been the least displeased
with the practice He would have forbidden it,
especially those receptacles of His divine
law. 
	On the contrary it is very plain He did
not.
	After the reign of David and Solomon little
mention is made of plurality of wives, but one
thing is certain, there cannot be found in
sacred or profane history anything to prove
that it was abolished before or since the
Christian ears, until we come down to the days
of Catholicism.
	After the establishment of the Christian
church at Rome and death of St. Peter heresy
began to creep into the church; they adopted
the rites and ceremonies of the heathen nations
around them. Splendid robes, mitres, tiaras,
wax tapers, crosiers, images, gold and silver
vases and so on were adopted into the church
from the Romans, Greeks, and Pagans from
their idolatrous institutions.
	The laws of Rome in regard to matrimony
were monogomy, and before three centuries of
the Cristian era had passed away restrictions
were placed on matrimony. All were restricted
to one wife and their priests to none. And so
the church continued to digress until scarcely
a vestige of its former self existed.
	Thus, in this, the 19th century what do we
now behold? a mere skeleton; scarcely that, for
it is not a perfect structure of the Primitive
Church; only an unsightly and deformed wreck
disrobed and disrupted
	Stripped of all its primitive adornments
and graces—without a Prophet, without
Apostles, or any guidance to hold them in
unison; that oneness which the Savior ex-
horted His disciples to adhere to.—
[Column 2]
	The Apostles and Prophets of the old
testament foresaw all these sad events; and
they also forsaw the restoration; not only the
restoration of the Gospel but the restoration
of all things, in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. The epoch so notable in
scripture, the theme of ancient Prophets and
also of former day saints, who through the
spirit of inspiration and visions of the Al-
mighty penetrated thousands of years down
from the era in which they lived and spoke
and prophesied, in such glowing terms of the
fulness of times, the restitution of all things
spoken of by all the holy prophets since the
world began.
	It would make this article too lengthy to
enumerate all that has to be restored. Suffice
it to say, every thing connected with this
planet, man and beast including the face of
the earth, with all the changes which sin and
and the adversary of all righteousness have
wrought to mar and deface its beauty, have
(from the sayings of the prophets) all, to be
restored in the times of the restitution of all
things.
	The next thing to be considered is, what is
the first of all to be restored? In all ages of
the world, when the Lord designs to over-
throw a place or people He sent a prophet to
warn them. In the case of the flood, Sodom
and Gomorah, Ninevah and many others too
numerous to mention, He always warned them;
then what are we to expect at the great event
of the restitution of all things? when the whole
vast universe is to be changed cleansed from
sin pollution, regenerated and restored to
its primeval beauty and purity; of course the
Lord would send a prophet who could through
the inspiration of Almighty God look through
the vista of unborn ages and acquaint the in-
habitants of the earth with the events about
to occur in the near future, thus prepare the
world for the great revolution about to take
place, and warn them of the judgments pre-
pared by an angry God to be poured out upon
them.
	The next thing to be restored is the gospel
in all its fulness and purity, with all its primi-
tive gifts and blessings that adorned it, as es-
tablished by Jesus Christ in the flesh.
	Consequently every principle of truth from
the earliest period of creation to the present
time, must be restored and linked together to
make a perfect chain, when the times of the
restitution of all things takes place. Now,
who dare assert that the principle of patriar-
chal marriage was not a divine principle? in
flat contradiction of Jehovah.
	Therefore as it stands forth substantiated by
the words of God, it must of necessity (accord-
ing to the Prophets) be restored. It is a part
and portion of the Gospel of Christ, for every
truth revealed to man through the inspiration
of the spirit of God, belongs to the Gospel and
is a portion of the grand and glorious plan of
salvation for the redemption of the human
family. But with many other glorious princi-
ples of salvation, it was cast out by the church
of Rome and trampled in the mire of heathen
mythology. Therefore, it must, with every
other principle of truth, Jehovah has in any
age of the world vouchsafed to fallen man, be
restored at the restitution of all things.
	We read of those who have professed to be-
lieve in this principle of patriarchal marriage,
but where was ever the man found; when has
the man ever lived, since the apostacy of the
Romish church, who dares to raise his voice in
public and promulgate this man-condemned
doctrine? None! until a Prophet of God-
holding the Holy Priesthood—clothed with
Divine authority to restore the pure, unadul-
terated principles of the Gospel of Christ, in
all its fulness, was raised up and commanded
to proclaim it to the world.
	He had, through the inspiration of Heaven,
[Column 3]
a perfect assurance of its consequences, he
knew if he proclaimed that obnoxions princi-
ple publicly, death would be the inevitable re-
sult; and human nature was weak and he
shrank from the fearful ordeal, but sustained
by infinite strength, he calmly and patiently
submitted to the Divine injunction; laid down
his precious and valuable life in defence of the
sacred principle.
	How important—how infinitely important,
in the plan of redemption, must be that princi-
ple of the Gospel, to require so noble a sacri-
fice; and how very careful should we be about
breathing one derogatory word, or speaking
lightly of a principle that cost the best blood
of the nineteenth century. Still with what
enmity and unabating hostility is that sacred
principle followed up. Its advocates incarcer-
ated in prison, their wives and children de-
nounced as illegal and illegitimate, cast out by
the law into the cold pittiless world, without
protection from those bound by love and cove-
nant to guard and protect them, and also, de-
barred from redress by the laws of the land.
A land baptised in blood to purchase the free-
dom and liberty which guarantees to every
individual the right to worship Almighty God
according to the dictates of his or her con-
science.
	Nevertheless, although the adversary may
rage and the nation conspire against the truths
of the Gospel—even all the world—to abolish
this Latter-day work, established by Almighty
God for the redemption of a fallen world, to
restore it to its pristine glory and splendor;
their efforts will prove futile; for who, or what
is man, that he should measure arms with His
Creator. Therefore fear not, or be cast down,
ye Saints of the Most High, but rather rejoice
that ye are of that assembly who are willing to
stand firm in the vindication of the truth and
commandments of Heaven, though not admis-
sible by the laws of the land, to practice the
principles in which we believe, yet we know in
whom we trust, that He is able, and in His
own due time, will deliver His people.
Although like a green bay tree, the enemies
of truth flourish for a short time—make lies
their refuge, behind which they strive to con-
ceal their hideous hydra-head; ere long the
whirlwind will sweep away their refuge of lies
aud the waters will overflow their hiding
place. And when the sword of Heaven is un-
sheathed and wars and bloodshed deluge the
land; and famine and pestilence shall sweep off
the inhabitants thereof, until few men are left,
then will the righteous, those who have stood
valiant for the cause of truth, stand in holy
places and be not moved. Therefore ye who
have kept all the commandments of God lift
up your heads and rejoice. 
					   ELIZA D. GIBBS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the San Juan
Stake Relief Society was held at Bluff May 25,
1890. Pres. Jane M. Walton presiding.
	Singing "Lord we come before thee now."
Prayer by Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing "How
pleased and blessed was I."
	Pres. Jane M. Walton made the opening re-
marks, felt well to meet with the sisters, spoke
 of the different Wards she had visited since
last conference, and reported them as doing
well. Thought the sisters should be united,
in order to do the most good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of the Relief Society and
its members.
	Minutes of last Conference read and 
accepted.
	Pres. Kristen Neilson reported the Bluff
Society said it is in good running order, and


the sisters are trying to do all the good they
can. Pres. Abigail Stevens reported the Olio
Society, and invited the officers of the different
branches to attend a reception to be given at
Olio on the 12th of July in honor of the
organization of the society.
	Treasurer Jane Perkins reported the
Mancos Society. Bore a strong testimony to
the work of God. Counselor Annie Baily
reported the Monticello Society.
	The general and local officers were
presented and sustained.
	Stake Coun. Martha Hammond related her
visit to the Conference in Salt Lake City, also
the good instruction given there. Gave some
excellent advice, to all, but in particular to
mothers.
	Stake Coun. Josephine C. Wood made a
few pointed and exhortive remarks, spoke of
the responsibility of mothers in raising their
children. Sisters Mary Burnham, Eliza Redd,
and Harriet Ann Barton spoke in substance
as follows.—God has given women an im-
portant mission upon the earth. By trusting
in God and obeying his servants we will be
enabled to gain the good we have set out for.
All felt proud of being members of the Relief
Society.
	We have a large field to labor in. Sister
Agnes Allan and Mary B. Adams bore
testimony and exhorted the sisters to
obey counsel.
	Sister Elsie Nielsen felt to respond and to
keep up with the times.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond thought we had a
very enjoyable time, and had recieved the
best of counsel. Spoke at some length upon
the great mission of woman, and the importance
of the Relief Society.
	Stake Pres. Jane Walton made closing re-
marks. Gave the officers a special invitation
to attend the reception at Olio in July.
Adjourned the conference to meet at Monticello
in Aug.
	Singing “Oh how my spirit rests etc.”
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Holts.
		SARAH JANE ROGERSON Stake Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake held in Provo
City, May 30th 1890. Sister Mary John
presiding with her Counselor Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer
minutes of former conference read and approved.
Pres. John thought the sisters showed their
faithfulness by attending conference, our
minutes are good, have heard that Sister
Johnson is sick, hope the sisters will remember
her in their prayers etc.
	The different wards were represented by
those presiding over them. Those that at-
tended meetings regularly were full of
faith and zeal, striving to do all the good
that lay in their power, and were looking
forward for a brighter day for the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Caroline Daniels was honorably re-
leased from her labors as President of the
Relief Society of Timpanogas Ward, on account
of having moved from the ward.
	Br. Graves spoke on the silk industry,
hoped the sisters would not give up raising
cocoons. Considered he had a mission to pre-
form in trying to keep the silk-culture from
dying out, it was a mission given him by Pres.
Young and he felt like persevering although he
was 83 years old. He gave considerable advice
in regard to what was needed in the way of
machinery, to make it a success etc.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, felt that our time
was precious, was rejoiced to meet with us;
spoke of the work in the Temples and what a
great blessing and privilege it was that we
were permitted to go there and work for our

[Column 2]
dead. Let us live so that we will be ready to
meet our Saviour let us do right;do we keep the
word of wisdom,it is just as easy to ask the Lord
to give us strength to overcome the use of tea
and coffee as to ask him to bless it when it is
on the table: the day is coming when Satan
will strive to weaken our bodies as our faith,
let us keep faith enough to banish the
evil spirits. Let us have charity for
those that have gone astray, be humble and
prayerful, pray for our enemies. The earth
is the Lord’s and the fulness thereof.
	Afternoon session; convened at 2 p. m.
opened with singing and prayer. Sister M.
Daniels thought if we followed the example of
our Saviour we would be doing right; let us
be like little children humble in spirit and
action, spoke of the responsibilities resting
upon us in this day and age of the world.
We should cultivate charity and not disunion.
Let us not forget our prayers but so live that
we may meet in the Kingdom of our God.
	There was a great deal of good instruction
given on various subjects, and a great many
testimonies borne in regard to the truth of
this gospel and the healing of the sick through
the administration of the Elders and the prayer
of faith. The spirit of the Lord was with us
and we had a joyful time. Pres. John added
her testimony to those already borne, felt that
we had been blessed in this conference, spoke
a few words in regard to the silk industry etc.
Conference was adjourned for three months.
	Benediction by Sister Eggerston.
					Caroline Daniels, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
﻿	THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.

	(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.) 
	A synonym for “knight” is "chevalier,”
and comes from the French "cheval" a horse,
because a chevalier rode on horseback; those
who tilled the ground were called villains,
and they walked—stubbed around on foot—
and were called "clod-hoppers" and all sorts of
things; and so the knights thought themselves
of great account because they could gallop off
to the wars on horseback. War was the aris-
tocratic profession and labor was something
very low down. But the good book predicts
the time when men shall "beat their swords
into plowshares and their spears into pruning
hooks." In these latter days the word
"knight" has been united with "labor," and
thus has been formed the right relationship.
The true knight, the true chevalier, the true
gentleman, is the one who works, and not the
one who goes off fighting and killing people
and devasting the world. We have come to
a better civilization, and something of worth
has been done for the country in giving it the
idea of the "knight" as part and parcel of the
"labor," bringing those two words, which have
been opposites, into one thought, and proving
that the laboring man can be a true gentle-
man, in all that goes to make up the beautiful
significance of that word.
	Many and urgent are the questions that the
workingmen and women of to-day must help
to decide. But whatever may be said of
methods in general, and of special methods, as
strikes, in particular, as a temperance woman,
I am confident that the best strike is to strike
against the saloon, and then to strike against
all politicians and parties that do wrong to the
workingmen. These are the two strikes that
will pay.
	The boycott of the saloons is the greatest
thing and the most helpful thing that has ever
come to the Knights of Labor, or a similar
organization. In one of the towns of Illinois a
banker put his private mark on the money he
paid out on Saturday night to the wage-workers
of the town who patronized his bank, and on
Monday night, of the $700 paid out and mark-

[column 2]
ed privately, over $300 had come back to him
from the saloons of that town! There is noth-
ing that cramps, belittles and dwarfs the possi-
bilities of the labor movement in America like
the saloons, and some guilds of workingmen
show that they know it by boycotting the
saloons and all liquor dealers, not allowing
them to be seated with reputable men whose
work brings back a good return.
	The labor question is a wonderful and
mighty issue; but wage-workers would do well
to study with it the temperance question, the
prohibition question. Do well to remember
that nine hundred million a year are expended
by our people in America across the counters
of the saloons and in the liquor trafic. Nine
hundred million dollars, to say nothing of the
money that is lost by those who would be at
work except for the temptation of the saloon!
	If the women of the nation had the ballot,
they and the good men of the nation would
hold the balance of power. We believe it
doesn't make any difference whether a woman
is a Protestant or Catholic, whether she is
black or white, cultured or ignorant, native or
foreign-born. We believe that, as a rule,
women, for the sake of protection for them-
selves, their children and their homes, stand
solidly against the dram-shop. We believe
that prohibition will come whenever woman
has the ballot. Out in Washington Territory
they gave women the ballot, and it was such
a terror to the saloonmen that they worked
away with the Supreme Court, and finally suc-
ceeded in making out that they had left out
a comma, or a semicolon, perhaps, or some
punctuation mark, or else some little word, in
the name of the bill, and so the Supreme Court
said that the bill was not legal. What hap-
pened? There were bonfires and rejoicings in
all the cities and towns and villages of Wash-
ington Territory. There were bells ringing,
not the bells in the steeples, by a large major-
ity, but the ding donging of all the old cow-
bells and sheep-bells they could get. There
was beer to be had on tap, placed there by
saloon-keepers, and a great jubilee from one
end of the Territory to another. Who got it
up? The saloons. Why did they get it up?
It was their celebration to think that the wo-
men had lost the battle. Tell us what the
liquor men are afraid of, and the temperance
people want it, and it is sure to be friendly
to the home.
	The workingmen are going to give us pro-
hibition by their votes; but, after they have
driven the nail of prohibition in a sure place,
they will need the hammer of woman's ballot
to rap it into place so that it would hold
strong and steady and durable.
	Another vital issue in the labor question is
that of the wages of women.
		Alas! that gold should be so dear,
		And flesh and blood so cheap.
	We read about women in Chicago who make
twelve shirts for 75 cents, and furnish their
own thread; about women who finish off an
elegant cloak for four cents; about children
who work twelve hours a day for $1 a week;
about some women who are glad to get the
chance that offers six cents for four hours'
work. Things like these our papers are full
of, and other things too bad to tell about.
	Now, many people say that they do not be-
lieve in paternal government. But we believe
in a paternal and maternal government,
and that if a few more women had something
to do with the affairs there would not be so
many white slaves in Chicago.
			(To be continued.)


Miss Eleanor L. Fleury, of the London
School of Medicine for Women, has a record
in three colleges of the highest honors that a
woman medical student can attain.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mme. Leon Bertaux, the sculptor, has peti-
tioned the French Government to open a
School of Fine Arts for Women.
	Baroness Gripenberg, of Finland, has
witten a book entitled “A half Year in the
New World.” It is said to be of great interest.
	Alexander Swift, of Cincinnati, who married
a sister of Alice and Phoebe Cary, owns the
old Cary homestead, and is anxious to make it
a memorial of the sister poets.
	Mrs. Tirard, the archaeologist, delivered a
course of lectures lately on “The Tombs and
Temples of Ancient Egypt,” at the British
Museum.
	Mrs. Khasma, a Jewess of Bagdad, manages
a factory which employs five hundred Jewish
women and girls. They make calico em-
broideries on covers, curtains, etc.
	The House of Lords has rejected the bill to
enable women to serve on County Councils.
To the American mind, this is a new proof
that the House of Lords ought to be abolished.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe passed her
seventy-eight birthday very quietly Saturday
June 14. She received a few calls from per-
sonal friends, and from her publishers, Messrs.
Houghton, Mifflin & Co., a box of cut flowers.
	“Mary Anderson was married in June to
Mr. Antonio Navarro at the little Catholic
Church in Hempstead, of which she was a
regular communicant while living in London.
Only a few personal friends witnessed the cere-
mony, and her half-sisters, Blanche and Juliet,
acted as bridesmaids. There will be some
social gain—a longer life, perhaps a happier
one, for Mary Anderson; but what a loss to
the stage! Her splendid genius, her exquisite
beauty, her high ideals, her absolute truth, her
wonderful voice—when and where will these
rare gifts be again found embodied in one
young girl! This wedding, and welcome to
Mrs. Navarro, is the death of Juliet and
Perdita, of Galatea and the Daughter of
Roland, and it shuts out forever the dream of
a future for Antigone and the classic drama.”
	The woman question has been brought be
fore the French Chamber of Deputies by M.
de Gaste, Deputy for Finisterre. M. de Gaste
is a hale old Breton of eighty-two years, who
has been an advocate of equal rights for more
than forty years, and has taken up many un-
popular causes. Most of them have succeeded
and he believes that the woman question will
be victorious in France, though not so soon as
in the United States and Great Britain. M.
de Gaste proposes a revision of the constitu-
tion as follows:
	'That the Senate be reduced from 300 to 200, and the
Chamber to 400; that the seats in both be equally given to
men and women over forty; that as in the United States,
no member of the Senate can fill any salaried public office;
that the President of the Republic be elected for five years
by delegates of all electors, and be replaced if he die, retire
or go mad within his term of office, by a Vice-President;
and that, finally, women be eligible for the Presidency or
Vice-Presidency."
									Ex.


THROWING THE GLOVE.
     To throw the glove as a signal of a chal-
lenge is referred to by Shakespeare, when
Troilus says to Cresida:
	For I will throw my glove to death himself
	That there's no maculation in thy heart.
The meaning being, says Johnson, "I will
challenge death himself in defence of my
fidelity."  The glove then thrown down was
popularly called "a gage," from the French,
signifying a pledge.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Martha Ann Jones Wride, who de-
parted this life April 14, 1890. Was born December 30,
1839, in the Parish of Egroshell and Glameganshire, South
Wales. She leaves a fond and devoted husband and four
children and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
Always cheerful and pleasant, her bright smile won friends
wherever her lot was cast. She was a faithful, consistent
Latter-day Saint, and was secretary of the Relief Society
for some time but resinged on account of ill health.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in his infinite wisdom
has taken from our midst our beloved sister Martha,
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Second ward
Relief Society feel to tender our love and sympathy to the
memory of our departed sister.
	Resolved, That in this great bereavement we feel to ac-
knowledge the hand of God and bow in humble submission
to his will, but realize that in her we have lost a true friend
and faithful laborer.
	Resolved, That we hereby tender our love and sympathy
to the bereaved family of the deceased and express an
earnest desire that the Holy Spirit may impart comfort and
consolation in this sad hour of affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the
family, the Utah Enquirer, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
kept in the record of the society.
		SARAH A. SCOTT,
		MATILDA LOVELESS,
		SARAH GOODMAN,
		ELIZABETH BROWN,
					Committee.
Tread lightly, do not wake her,
She has earned the sweet repose.
From the shadow of our night,
She has passed into the light.

Would we summon her again
To a world of woe and pain?
Ah, no, we’d have thee stay
Where life is joy alway.


A NOBLE WOMAN.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to write a few incidents in the life of my
beloved mother, Elizabeth C. Rawson, who passed away
from earth at 10:30 p. m. April 21st 1890, after an illness of
ten days, she had a light stroke of paralysis which deprived
her of her speech, but she kept her right mind to the last.
	She was the wife of the late Horace S. Rawson and was
born Oct. 18,1807, in Montgomery County, Tennessee.
She was married Oct. 9, 1825, settled in Randolph Co.
Indiana, and was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Levi W. Hancock in
1831; her husband joined a few months after. In 1832
they gathered with the Saints in Jackson Co. Missouri; they
were driven by a mob from their home five times, and finally
came to the valley and to Ogden in 1850, passing through
all the incidents of a pioneer life without a murmur. Owing
to her infirm age she came to Harrisville a short time ago
to live with her children. She was the mother of 13 child-
ren, 95 grandchilren, 155 great grandchildren in all 263,
she was aged 82 years, 6 months, 3 days. She was chosen
as a Teacher of the Relief Society where she labored faith-
fully for many years, she never resigned her office. She
bore a strong testimony to the work of God she knew for
herself that this was the true Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, she died as she had lived full of faith and
love for all with whom she became acquainted. The
funeral obsequies were held at the East Harrisville school-
house, Bishop P. G. Taylor presiding, consoling remarks
were made by Pres. C. F. Middleton, Bishop P. G. Taylor
and Patriarch Joseph Taylor who spoke of the many good
qualities of the deceased and family. A large assembly
viewed the remains and a long cortege accompanied them
to the Ogden City Cemetery where they were laid by the
side of her deceased husband, thus passes away an honest
and devout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother.
		"Dearest mother thou hast left us,
		 Here thy loss we deeply feel, 
		But the God that has bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal."

		"Yet again we hope to meet thee,"
		When death’s gloomy night has fled,


Then on earth with joy to greet thee
		Where no bitter tears are shed."

"Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like her's
	is done;
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."
							SARIAH OWENS.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
﻿EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies. 
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoos.	
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES, Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 19.                     SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1890.          No. 4.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. Fremont Items,—S. J. M.  Notes
and News. Miscellaneous. Woman’s Calling,—
E.A. Crane Watson. R. S Reports,—Box Elder,
Salt Lake Stakes. The Coming Brotherhood,—
Frances E. Willard. The Coming of the Savior,
— M. A. M. Pratt.
	Editorial:—Lawn Fete,—Speeches and Songs,
etc. Editorial Notes.	
	Poetry:—Sowing and Reaping,—Alice L. Cole.
Eventide,—Ida M. Davis. Lines,—By Andrea.
A Song,—A. J. Crocheron. Equal Rights,—
E. H. Woodmansee.


[column 1]
SOWING AND REAPING.

When waking from their slumber
Were forest, field and hill.
And freed from icy fetters,
Were rivulet and rill,
A youth went forth one morning
To sow his early seed,
Choosing the sunny hillside
Rather than shady mead.

He with untiring patience
Had worked with plow and spade,
Till by his earnest labor
A garden plot had made;
And out on the sunny hillside,
Over the fertile land,
He sowed the seed that morning
With true and careful hand.

Spring, with its balmy breezes,
Soon passed from hill and plain.
And the soft breath of Summer
Waved the swift growing grain.
Summer, and still the sower
Did work with patient toil,
For tho’ they be not planted
Weeds spring up from the soil.

The waving grain grew higher
And caught a golden glow
That deepened with each drawing, 
Tho' oft a hungry foe
From a safe distance watching
Did long a share to reap,
He could not for the sower
His ceaseless watch did keep.

And when the tints of Autumn
Were over wood and hill,
He who had sown in Springtime,
And labored with a will
Throughout the changeful season,
His rich reward receives;
With joy he marches homeward
Bearing the golden sheaves.

Another youth one morning,
Careless of where it fell
Scattered his seed at Springtime
Within a grassy dell;
The weeds sprang up and choked it,
But thinking he had sown,
And naught remained but reaping
When the rich grain had grown.

He spent no time in labor,
But all the Summer long,
Idled away the moments
With pleasure, laughter, song.
And when at time of harvest
He forth to reap did go,
To where with careless motion
He sowed in Springtime, lo!

[column 2]
Save weeds, and stones and stubble,
And dead leaves, naught was there;
And he quite empty-handed—
Returned in deep despair,
Learning that in the Autumn
Naught reap we from the soil,
Unless in Spring and Summer
We patiently do toil.

Those who in life's brief seasons,
Carelessly sow the seed,
And think—the sowing over,
To work there is no need,
Will find that in the harvest, 
There are more weeds than grain.
And having gained that wisdom
Wish to sow o'er again.

Too late for recommencement,
When life's best years have flown,
And then to learn the lesson
We reap as we have sown.
How many lives are wasted?
How many hearts cry then
With a sad, useless cadence,
"Alas! it might have been."

You have your lives before you,
Your springtime yet you hold;
Oh may you fill the moments—
Ere autumn finds you old—
With earnest useful labor,
Sowing ere springtime leaves;
Else you shall not in autumn
Garner the ripened sheaves.
				ALICE L. COLE.
	Edited by Mrs. L. A, Penniman and dedicated to the
youth of the Latter-day Saints (all over the world).
	Mauston, Wis., June 30, 1890.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
XXV.

	Always and ever the moan of the sea,
		Sobbing and sighing, she seemed to hear;
	A subtle foreboding of what was to be,
		Sleeping or waking it filled her with fear.

	When the strangers who had brought the
message had left with Hepsie's decided an-
swer in the negative; she felt that the associa-
tions of her married life were ended, that a
new epoch for her must begin, the name was
all that was left, except the terrible sorrow
that hung about her like a funeral pall.  She
experienced some regret on account of Har-
old's brother, who had shown so much real
affection for her, that Mrs. Harvey was accus-
tomed to say, "one cannot tell which loves
Hepsie the most, Harold or Oney."
	How hard it was for Hepsie to face the
world alone, can never be told in words; one
thing only was left, her faith in God; she
prayed unceasingly for divine help, for sub-
lime courage, and it was given her.
	Miss B. had a cousin in Nauvoo, whose
children came occasionally to visit her, and
they had noticed "the pale sick young lady,"
at auntie's, as they called her, and had
spoken of her at home, and the mother had
become somewhat interested, and desirous of
knowing who her "old maid cousin" had
taken to, as she knew her eccentricities.
	She sent word by the boys, that she would
like to meet this young stranger, and told
them to ask auntie to come up and see her, and
bring Mrs. Harvey with her. The answer to
the message was: "Tell your mother she need
not waste her sympathy on Mrs. Harvey, I'll
[column 2]
take care of her, she never has troubled about
me, its only because she's young and pretty,
but she can go if she likes, she'll be sorry if she
does that's all."  Hepsie heard it all. and she
felt keenly the bitterness of spirit, that would
deprive her of a little enjoyment, when she
was so much in need of a change. It was
not long however, until an opportunity came
for her to meet Miss B's. cousin, it was quite
unlooked for, and no one could have been to
blame in the matter but fate, and it proved
fatal to Mrs Harvey, as far as the friendship of
Miss B. was concerned.  After Hepsie's in-
troduction to Miss B's cousin, which was
purely incidental, she became quite familiar 
with the family, and Miss B. became highly
indignant, and one day burst out in her anger.
"If you like cousin Ann so well, you'd better
take up your abode there, you're no good to
me and I'm tired of your going backwards 
and forwards all the time, I can live without
you, but its very ungrateful, when you know 
what I've done for you, taking you in and wait-
ing on you."
	Hepsie could not reply, she was too deeply
wounded, her sobs and tears were her only
answer, and she resolved then, whatever the
consequences might be, that she would not re-
main longer with one who manifested such a
spirit.
	It was true, she had become interested in
Miss B's cousin, for she was a woman of great
faith and never wearied of explaining the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, and of telling Hepsie
about Joseph the Prophet, and the days of
Kirtland, the wonderful manifestations in the
Temple, and the scenes of persecution through 
which the early converts had passed in Ohio,
and in Missouri.  All this had a peculiar
charm for Hepsie, and she felt her faith in-
creased and her spiritual strength renewed day
by day, as she listened to the conversation of
this good, devout woman. Finally Mrs. W.
knowing how unsuited she must be to her
queer cousin, said to her one day, "you might
have a little school here, a sort of governess
like, you would be your own mistress in the
matter, and if a better opportunity came,
you would be at liberty to accept it."  Hepsie
realized the great difference in the spirit of
these two cousins, one was full of zeal in the
Gospel, the other constantly finding fault with
everything, and she accepted the offer Mrs.
W. made, though she never mentioned any
remuneration except the privilege of a home.
	She dreaded telling Miss B., but it was un-
avoidable, and in the gentlest way possible,
she explained the matter, but her motives
were all misconstrued and finally when she
saw how useless words were, she burst into
tears and cried until she was really unfit for
anything. Miss B. was so very much annoyed
that she said so many disagreeable things, and
her manner was so offensive that it made Hep-
sie still more anxious to go where she could do
something to pay her way.  She was not in
need of clothes, and therefore cared very little
whether she earned money or not, for the pre-
sent. Miss B. wound up at last by saying: "I
took a fancy to you at first, and as for cousin
Ann, she's got so many of her own, big and 
little, she'll not trouble about you; but its just
like her, she came and took my sister Elizabeth
away once when we were girls, wanted her to
go out west to Ohio with her, tried to win her
affections away from her own family, and
you've always reminded me of my sister, now


[Column 1]
﻿she’ll take you away and leave me alone
again.”
	Little by little Hepsie was learning some of
the hard lessons of life; and all the time griev-
ing at night, even after a peaceful day, her
pillow would be wet with tears. Such a sense
of loneliness even in the midst of congenial
companionship. She never tired of hearing Mrs.
W. talk of Mormonism; but all the time deep
down in her heart, was the longing to see her
mother, though she knew she could not un-
bosom her feelings even to her, and the in-
tense desire to know the fate of her absent
one; she did not wish or expect him to re-
turn, yet she longed to hear of his welfare.
His last letter was from the West Indies, and
he had spoken of “roving on the the wild sea,”
and she intuitively felt he was out upon the
ocean, he had dwelt much in times past on
his love for the music of the ocean; and in
former days had written a song of the sea, and
called it “memory,” that he was very fond of
singing; and she also recollected her emotions
as she sauntered on the beach in the twilight
when a child, and the sort of presentiment she
had then, that the sea would be in some way
associated with her life; she dreamed of the
sea, and its “bounding billows;” and she
fancied she could hear its sobs, the echo of her
own, she longed sometimes to fly away that
she might listen to the reality, it would, at
least, be a sort of sympathy she need not re-
pel. In her calmer moments she knew such
a thing to be impracticable, and that hence-
forth labor in the great work-a day world
was to be her portion.
	She taught a few children in a desultory sort
of a way for a little time, and then was en-
gaged to teach a school in the eastern part of
the city, in a log school-house, and this time
there was no other way but to board around
by the week, but this was among the Latter-
day Saints. Once she had refused to do this,
but many things had changed since that time,
and this opening seemed to her providential in-
deed; another new experience.
	Just before Hepsie went away to teach the
school, Lucy Reynolds and her husband ar-
rived in Nauvoo, and rented rooms near Mrs.
W’s. where Hepsie was staying. Hepsie
found Lucy the same dear old friend, but
Lucy was terribly disappointed that she would
not confide in her, and in consequence of this
there was a temporary estrangement between
them.
	Lucy told her much of her mother’s affairs
and the anxiety she had felt on her account,
thinking to draw Hepsie out on the subject,
but it was of no avail. In regard to her
troubles she was as silent as the grave; work,
now she was better, seemed the best remedy for
both body and mind. Hepsie was greatly in-
terested in her school, she had some large
girls in whom she felt the deepest interest,
knowing how soon they too would be likely to
enter married life, and remembering her own
experience, she sought to instil into their
minds, moral truths, and impress them with
the realities of true womanhood. Her mind
was absorbed during school hours, but when
her tasks were completed she resumed her
accustomed methods of day-dreaming, and im-
agined all sorts of extraordinary things,
almost believing she should hear news of Har-
old, though she never made in quiry of any one
likely to know; in fact she had heard nothing
of the S—ys, Harold’s former partners, and
she was confident, had the Harvey’s heard
from him, they would not have communicated
with her. She was not in the habit of writing
home now, for what could she say; one after
another of her brothers, sisters and school-
friends had expressed in writing to her, indig-
nation against Harold, and denounced his
conduct, blaming Mormonism for all, and she
could not endure such reproaches; so she gave
[Column 2]
them all up. In September her mother
would come, her term of school would close
the last of August, and she would be at 
liberty.
	Occasionally she scribbled verses, but
none of them appeared in print, except on one
occasion, some verses on Friendship she had
sent to a friend, had appeared in an English
journal. Hepsie was astonished, for she had
not thought herself in a condition of mind to
write, but it was true, they had been accepted,
and there they were with her signature at-
tached. Had she sent them herself, she
would only have given her initials, or a ficti-
tious name; however, she consoled herself by
thinking no one knew her scarcely, for she
was very modest about her writing; and afraid
of criticism.
	The weary summer months dragged along,
very little like that other summer, two years
before, when she had been so light-hearted and
full of expectancy. There were many rumors
of mobs in the outlying districts around
Nauvoo, and many actual disgraceful wrongs
perpetrated against the Saints, and work on
the Temple seemed to enrage those who had
arrayed themselves in opposition to the
Church. Hepsie had no fears or misgivings
when she heard of mobs coming almost to
Nauvoo and the threats they made of putting
an end to Mormonism, destroying the Temple
and so on; she felt her courage rise and al-
most forgot her individual troubles in those
of her people.
	Her school had closed, she had said her
farewell to the children, and had gone to
stay with Mrs. W. temporarily, looking for-
ward to her mother’s coming; counting the
days and the hours almost, weary of waiting,
when one bright afternoon, a girl came run-
ning towards the house; Hepsie was standing
in the doorway, repeating over to herself
“when will mother come;” the girl almost
stunned her with the news, “your mother has
arrived, she is at Br. P’s. and wants you to
come immediately.” Hepsie fairly flew over
the ground in her excitement, and at sight of
her mother as she crossed the threshold she
fainted dead away; when she came to herself,
she knew it was the tumult of recollections
that crowded upon her brain, at sight of her
mother’s face that had overwhelmed her and
overpowered her. The meeting was an embar-
rassing one after all, much as Hepsie had cal-
culated upon it, bringing up the trying ordeals
through which Hepsie had passed since leaving
her chidhood’s home, the baby’s birth and
death, the sorrow of that time and what fol-
lowed. Then Mrs. Hathaway had many
questions to ask relative to the situation in
Nauvoo, aud poor little Hepsie had to act as
sort of guide and instructor to her mother;
everything was so different to New England
ways, habits and customs, and Mrs. Hathaway
though well acquainted with the theory of her
religion, knew very little of the practical side,
such as one learns by coming in contact with
those of the faith in the daily associations of
life. But Mrs. H. had her religion at heart,
and therefore difficulties were easier for her,
than those not so firmly rooted and grounded
therein.
	Towards the latter part of September, Hep-
sie’s friend Lucy had a little daughter born,
and she was so absorbed in her mother du-
ties and housekeeping, that Hepsie lost sight
of her for a time. So it is the dearest
friends get separated through circumstances,
though the strong ties that bind them need
not necessarily be dissolved.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


A Christian is a man who is restoring God’s
likeness to his character.—Robertson.


FREMONT ITEMS.
				June 17th, 1890.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Thinking that some of our friends who read
the EXPONENT, would like to hear from their
sisters up here in the tops of the mountains, I
thought I would write a few words in their be-
half.  The Saints here, as a general thing, are
striving to live their religion.  Our Sunday
schools and meetings are well attended, and
also an increase in our Relief Society meetings
of at least one third.  We have had a great
deal of sickness here during the latter part of
winter, and through the spring, but we have
great reason to thank the Lord that He has
answered our prayers in  behalf of the sick, and
for the manifestation of His goodness to us in
many ways  The EXPONENT is a welcome
companion in my house, as it gives us many
valuable instructions, and also gives us an op-
portunity to hear from our sisters in different
parts of the world.	Yours truly,
								S. J. M.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The House agreed July 8th, to the Senate
amendment to the bill for the admission of
Wyoming, and the President signed it July
10th, delaying his signature until half past
five, to give Delegate Carey opportunity to
finish up pending business, as the signature of
the President reduces him to the ranks, and
leaves Wyoming without representation.—Ex.
	The Idaho bill passed the Senate and re-
ceived the signature of the President July 3rd.
The President consulted Delegate Dubois
whether he would rather have Idaho come into
the Union on the Fourth, or have its star
added to the National flag on that day, as the
law provides that the star of a new State is
added on the Fourth of July succeeding its ad-
mission.—Ex.
	Wednesday the 23rd of this month is the
day when Wyoming celebrates its statehood.
The magnificent flag to be presented to the
State by the women as a token of their appre-
ciation of their citizenship is now having the
forty-fourth star added to it. The hearts of all
who love fredom, will send an electric current
of sympathy and congratulations to this
youngest and fairest daughter of the Union.
—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Forbearance is attended with profit.
	To persecute the unfortunate is like throw-
ing stones on one fallen into a well.
	You can outlive a slander in half the time
you can out argue it.—Uncle Esek.
	One ray of moral and religious truth is
worth all the wisdom of the schools.  One
lesson from Christ will carry you higher than
years of study under those who are too en-
lightened to follow this celestial guide.—
Channing.
	As far as possible dwell on the good side of
human things.  There are family boards
where a constant process of depreciating, as-
signing motives, and cutting up character goes
forward.  They are not happy places.  One
who is healthy does not wish to dine at a
dissecting table.  There is evil enough in  man
God knows!  But it is not the mission of every
young man and woman to detail and report 
it all.  Keep the atmosphere as pure as pos-
sible, and fragrant with gentleness and char-
ity.—Dr. John Hall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EVENTIDE.
At sunset on the beach I watch
	The children in their glee.
One picks a pebble from the sand,
	And throws it in the sea.
A tiny thing to agitate
	That vast immensity !
Its circles widen, widen out.
	Then, faintly closing o’er,
Are lost in waves more turbulent,
	Or swept upon the shore.

My life is like that pebble tossed
	On time’s refluent sea;
A sudden ripple stirs its face,
	Then glides out silently
In ever widening circles, till
	Its last faint breath is still,
As, weary with the strife to fight,
	Where strength must measured be,
It rests its aching head within
	Sweet sleep—eternity.
					Ida M. Davis.


LINES.
BY ANDREA.
  To Sister Mary Dewey of Deweyville on the death of her
son Horace, who departed this life Aug., 26th 1889.

	A blessing, a prize, a jewel came.
	Some two and twenty years ago;
	To fill your humble cot with joy;
	Much care on him you did bestow.

	And how that kind parental care.
	Which so enshrouds a mother’s heart, 
	Grew and expanded day by day,
	As he performed his childish part.

    	And thus for years your watchful eye,
	Your mother-heart with tender care.
    	Traced every action with delight;
	And ne’er forgot in secret prayer,

	To ask of God who reigns above,
	To fill his heart with noble love;
    	That he might choose the wiser part,
	And serve the Lord with all his heart.

	Your prayer was answered; Horace grew,
	To strength and manhood, good and true;
	And your kind heart did thrill with joy,
	When you beheld your noble boy.

	With ready hands to take his part,
	And do his best with willing heart,
	As time has flown since first he came,
	Into your home without a name,

	A jewel down from God above,
	To claim attention, training, love—
	You, in your labor for his good,
	Did just as any mother would.

	Loved and trained the noble boy,
	And filled his childish heart with joy;
	But failed to think ’twas God’s desire,
	Your boy should aim at something higher.

	Therefore He gave him that sweet rest;
	And he has gone to join the blest,
	His labors now are more of worth.
	Than when he dwelt upon the earth.

	The Lord needs help of good and true;
	And noble minds He must have too,
	To aid Him in'His work in heaven,—
	And to your boy this task is given.

	Therefore I would not call him back,
	To journey on life’s weary track.
	But in the church-yard let him rest,—	
	His soul is safe;—the Lord knows best.

	Of course we’ll miss his presence here,—
	For to his friends he was so dear,
	But do not grieve,—you know he’s gone
	To join that blest and happy throng.
	In humbleness we’ll all proclaim,
	"God gives, God takes, Blest be His name."


[column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S CALLING.

	During the enlightened progress of the age,
we are gaining a more elevated view of the
true mission of woman, of the dignity and im-
portance of her labors and duties, and of the
true happiness which will be the result of a
faithful performance of woman’s work, if her
good efforts are appreciated and sustained by
those holding the power of reason and justice.
At the present time there is quite an agita-
tion at large, involving many theories, and
even speculation, as to woman’s rights and
wrongs. Who can deny that there is not a
wonderful power, social and moral, in the
keeping of every good wife, every devoted
mother, and every true woman, married or
not.  This power is now seeking expression in
nearly every portion of the civilized globe.
There must be some cause for this! ’tis not a
freak or whim of one separate party, religion
or denomination, or nationality, and will one
day be universal. We, of course, must expect
failure and opposition, but our victory will be
so much the greater. To reflecting, intelli-
gent women, whose faith rests on the teachings
of Jesus Christ, this will be no drawback,
women’s calling is grand and all-ennobling, by
her mission being conducted as the great Mas-
ter intended, all mankind will be promoted to
a higher standard, and better qualified to teach
the restored Gospel as taught by Christ him-
self; thereby saving and exalting the souls of
men in the eternities.
	The calling of our sex is not duly appreci-
ated, woman’s efforts receive but little encour-
agement, and she is not given the advantage
due her; her trust is responsible, sacred and
sublime; that of bringing to earth the body
and spirit of man; of training and cultivating
the mental, physical, and spiritual make up in
the most impressible period of childhood; this
is just as important and sacred as anything
ever acquired or accorded to man, for this
alone, all advantages and honor should be
given to every true mother, and she should be
considered man’s equal, as she verily is, nor is
this the end of her world, the limit of her
sphere, her duties here do not in any wise
make her incompetent for any of the intellec-
tual pursuits of life, inasmuch as her natural
abilities and desires qualify her.
	After Eve was given unto Adam, ’twas said,
“a man shall cleave nnto his wife and they
both shall be one flesh.” Woman was created
for a helpmeet to man, we have nothing on re-
cord to make us think God made the female
inferior in any way to the male portions of
creation, ’twas not suggested that she possessed
just enough intelligence to make a very pleas-
ing plaything or toy for the sterner sex,
neither was it proposed that she should be his
slave or drudge, because her mind was not
sufficiently large to grasp knowlege of a higher
order, but ’tis written plainly woman was
created for a helpmeet, not in any particular
branch or sphere, but, a helpmeet, and that
embraces all that was to be done, every requi-
sition devolving upon mankind, as a matter of
fact woman’s labor is more closely connected
with home affairs and ’tis her duty and privi-
lege to become educated, that she may be pre-
pared to instil in the minds of her daughters
the best methods for saving labor, of using
economy, yet-producing the finest results, being
an expert in the domestic regions, need be no
detriment to one having a perfect knowlege of
any of the arts and sciences; of the laws of the
country the most beneficial regulations, and
most desirable systems of executing the same.
	There are in all communities, some who
were never destined to reign either in the pa-
rental sphere or that of wifehood, their intellec-
tual attainments are oftimes of a very superior
nature; and I argue that their calling is equally
grand, and one writer I know says, higher

[column 2]

than those who rule only in their own homes,
because their aims and interests are for those
who are the offpring of others, and who are
not bound to them by the ties of blood, but
their labors are given cheerfully, because of
the intense desire they possess for the onward
and upward march of God’s children; should
they be kept from the performance of their
natural incline ion and abilities? should their
minds be dwarfed to keep them on a level with
those who could not, if they would climb to 
such heights? I say decidedly, no! they should
also be remunerated as liberally as though
they were of the masculine persuasion. It
really looks, if even-handed justice was dealt
to our sisters and daughters, there would be
less enthusiasm displayed for the right of polit-
ical power which is now deemed necessary in
order to obtain the former points of equality,
although I believe women perfectly capable of
becoming acquainted with everything political,
religious or otherwise; yet I can observe noth-
ing elevating for a woman to make herself
conspicuous in a political primary meeting, or
at the polls, I know too well my opinion here
will be opposed, but I calmly submit to your
disapproval, for it is my sincere views upon the
question, and I fail to see any real benefit we
could obtain by laws and penalties, the power
of right we so earnestly crave will only be
gained by the gift of love and duty, man and
woman are either incomplete without the
other, no great thing can be accomplished if
they are separated, we can only fill our des-
tinies unitedly. We are God’s daughters,
Paul tells us, “we must be in subjection to
our husbands” also our “husbands should love
us, and not be bitter towards us,” if this admo-
nition is heeded by our liege lords, they will
consider our cause, grant us all rights and ad-
vantages, for developing womanhood, and ele-
vating our sex generally. We hold the
priesthood in connection with our husbands,
the right to rule with them, to be a helpmeet
in all things which is only obtained through
the covenant we make to "love honor and
obey.” I am an advocate of justice in every
sense being accorded to women, but I fear
the remedy will not be procured by her be-
coming a party in the fight for political power,
I think it is for our eternal good to make
the best use of our time, improving every op-
portunity to expand our minds, enlarge our
understanding, that our mental capacity may
be sufficient to contain all intelligence, for
that is the glory of God; would those who
withold our privilege, grant us the right of
equality with themselves, they would be re-
warded with wiser mothers for their offspring,
sons and daughters with finer intellectual quali-
ties and brighter crowns to adorn their brows
in that world where they will be devoid of
power to deprive us of the advantages the
great Designer intended should be ours.
						E. A. CRANE WATON.


Minutes of Relief Society Conference, held
at Mesa, June 19th, 1890. Meeting opened
by the usual exercises. Pres. Sarah M. Pom-
eroy presiding. Pres. C. I. Robson, with 
quite a number of the brethren were present,
altogether a very good attendance.
	The reports brought in were of an encour-
aging nature. Pres. M. A. Hakes of Mesa,
Lizzie MacDonald, Lehi, Ann Klienman,
Alma, Susan Savage, Papago, and Esther Open-
shaw of Nephi wards, all felt encouraged and
made some excellent remarks.
	Pres. C. I. Robson, with a number of the
brethren, gave some good and timely advice
and instructions in their addresses to the peo-
ple. A general good spirit prevailed.
	Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy and Sister Emma
Hill made a few closing remarks.
	Benediction by C. H. Allen. Adjourned 
for three months. 		F. E. Robson, Secy,


Womans Exponent.
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.	
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	July	15,	1890.


[column 1]

﻿LAWN FETE,

GIVEN BY THE W. S. A. OF UTAH.

	On the 10th of July the very day Presi-
dent Harrison placed his signature to the
bill to admit Wyoming into the Union with
Woman Suffrage in her platform, the ladies
of Salt Lake City celebrated the event with a
lawn fete at the beautiful gardens of Mrs.
Caroline E. Dye.
	The decorative committee spared no pains
in ornamenting with flags, banners and stream-
ers. Chinese lanterns were hung in every
available place among the trees, vines and
shrubbery, and a couple of head-lights from
the railroads were so arranged as to give
brilliancy to the effect.
	A stand for the speakers was very taste-
fully draped and hung with pictures of cele-
brated women, at the back of where the ladies
were seated.
	The reception committee did their work
gracefully and thoroughly; throughout the
grounds the chairs and garden-seats were so
arranged that the hundreds of people assem-
bled were all comfortably seated. The whole
scene presented an oriental appearance in
grandeur and coloring.	The perfume of
fragrant flowers filled the air, and the band of
music helped to make the charm more com-
plete.
	It was a large intelligent and imposing as-
sembly of ladies and gentlemen. About half
past eight the exercises opened by music from
the band, a national air, followed with a song
to the tune of the Star Spangled Banner,
written for the occasion, and sung by Mrs.
Agnes Olsen Thomas, whose clear rich voice
is so well suited to the music. She sung with
spirit and expression, and her high notes rang
out melodiously upon the soft night air.
			A SONG.

	TUNE, STAR-SPANGLED BANNER.

Where the mountains eternal, lift up to the sun
Their summits snow-crowned and unchanging forever,
Where the streams leaping forth to the valleys below
Bring harvest and joy from the Father and Giver;
There’s a light shining forth there’s a voice we can hear,
Through the dark o’er the earth, oh how sweet and how
	clear;
'Tis the spirit of God and where’er they may roam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.

Not for riches of earth would we barter away
The title of Saint and the joy of our mission.
Though the world may oppose, all our trust is in Him
Who hath lighted our souls by each glorious vision.
Let the truths we have heard in the Temples' still peace
Fly with wings of a bird to each spirit’s release;
'Tis the voice of our God and where'er they may roam
He is calling the pure to our own mountain home.

[column 2]

Come ye then to the fountain of truth and of love
All ye noble and great, all ye suff'ring and lowly.
Lo! thy King draweth near and the faithful shall be
Gathered in to the feast and be blessed and holy.
Lo! thy steps have been late, He hath called ye so long,
Come, thy joy will be great, come and join the glad song
O’er the weary, wide world, o’er the waters wild foam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July 5, 1890.

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, then came the address of welcome by
the president Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.

Gentlemen and Ladies:
	I have the pleasure in behalf of the asso-
ciation who have arranged this entertainment,
to extend to you kindly greetings and a cor-
dial welcome. 
	The object in gathering you under these
beautiful vines and flowering trees is to show
you that suffragists’ bow at friendship’s call,
and pay homage at the shrine of love, purity
and beauty.
	This being our introductory fete, we ask our
friends to help make it enjoyable to all.
	A short programme will be rendered, after
which, the tables the platform and the
grounds will be subject to the tender mercies
of our guests.

	After some excellent music by the band,
Mrs. Emily S. Richards delivered an elo-
quent address in a clear voice and most happy
manner.

		MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS.
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen :—We
are here tonight under the auspices of the Wo-
man Suffrage Association of Utah. Although we
have been organized nearly two years, the objects
of the association are not generally understood,
and therefore it has not received the support to
which it is entitled. We hope that the exercises
and social intercourse of this evening may result
in a more perfect comprehension of this impor-
tant subject, that new sympathies may be
awakened and additional efforts made to advance
one of the noblest works of the age.
	The object of Woman Suffrage is to secure
universal liberty and maintain human rights—not
of women only, but of all mankind. Its funda-
mental principle is human equality. Wherever
any class of people are deprived of equality be-
fore the Jaw, there is a legitimate field for suffrage
work.
	Until recently we exercised the elective fran-
chise equally with men, and therefore did not feel
the need of suffrage organization. We did not
fully realize the value of this precious privilege
until Congress deprived us of it, and then we
wished for its return.
	We have allied ourselves with the National-
American Suffrage Association, whose object is
to secure the enfranchisement of all women. A
host of valiant souls are doing noble work in
Dakota and other places, while our proud sister
Wyoming has entered the Union today with wo-
man suffrage as the brightest star in her diadem.
It has been truly said that "this is the first genuine
republic the world has ever seen, the first recog-
nition in government of the great principle of
equal rights for all.”
	But, why, says one,do you want the suffrage?
Why are you not content to be “queen of the
home” and leave the political arena to men? Be-
cause past experience has demonstrated the un-
willingness of men to accord equal rights to wo-
men. Besides, there are thousands of women
who have never been privileged to wear the crown
of wifehood and who are dependent upon their
own labor for support. It is estimated that there
are over a million of unmarried women in the
United States and nearly as many more in Great

[column 3]

Britain. What must be the grand total of the
civilized world? It is largely for the protection
of these that suffrage associations are organized.
	Until quite recently,and long after the inception of
the suffrage movement, colleges and other insti-
tutions of learning throughout Christendom were
closed to woman. She was not permitted to
practice the learned professions, even if she pos-
sessed the requisite qualifications. During the
first half of the century, feeble rays of light for
woman shone forth from Troy Seminary and
Oberlin College, but not until 1865 did the dawn
of intellectual day begin to break at Vassar; fol-
lowed by a flood of light from Michigan, Harvard,
and other notable institutions, where women now
enjoy equal rights and privileges with men, and
merit alone, without regard to sex, marks the
standard of excellence.
	Today, the pulpit of our land sends forth words
of life and hope from woman’s lips; her voice is
heard at the bar of justice and its echoes fall upon
the highest tribunal on earth; she brings healing
to the sick and solace to the distressed: her brain
and pen contribute power and might to the press;
she is foremost as a teacher, and does much to
mold the minds and shape the destinies of men;
she forms an important factor in the commercial
world and her presence is felt in the office, the
store, the workshop and the factory. Who will
say that she is out of place in any of these positions?
It cannot be denied that she does her work well
and fully earns her compensation.
	So much has been accomplished without the
suffrage, how much more might be done with it?
Already woman has been raised from the status
of a chattel and legal nonentity almost to the
equality of men in property rights. Why should
she not be his political equal? She has ceased to
be a puppet and has become his companion, in-
tellectually as well as socially. Why should she
not share with him the responsibilities of govern-
ment? Her influence would be elevating and re-
fining, while the average of intelligence and edu-
cation of electors would be raised. She could do
much to promote the cause of freedom and pre-
vent discrimination against her sex. Her peculiar
knowledge of home and domestic life would prove
most beneficial in the legislative department of
the State. As a juror she would be both merci-
ful and just. Her devotion to the cause of tem-
perance would strongly tend to promote sobriety
and thrift. Her love of peace would hasten the
time when national differences would be settled
by arbitration, instead of war. Even though she
were not in office herself, the fact that she had a
vote would make the representatives of the people
considerate of her wishes and mindful of her
welfare.
	“Political equality means civil, social and re-
ligious liberty.” We can all do something to-
wards attaining it, if we will.  The glorious
achievements of the past are due to united effort.
Every name added to the the suffrage roll gives
prestige to the cause and is felt at Washington.
A few years ago Congressmen scoffed at the idea
of woman suffrage. The other day one of their
committees reported a constitutional amendment
providing for it. Of us but little is asked; let a
generous response be given.
	The fear has been expressed that such a
change in woman’s status would endanger the
quiet of home and create discord. The absurdity
of this idea was demonstrated during the seventeen
years that women voted in Utah. The same ob-
jection was once made against the higher  educa-
tion of women,but experience has shown that femi-
nine charms and graces are not lost by the study of
Latin and chemistry. On the contrary, learning
and mental discipline add system and competency
to the performance of domestic duties.
	The great majority of women do not care to
hold office or engage in public life. To them the


[Column 1]
powers of womanhood are consecrated to the
hallowed precincts of home; but, while they are
content to modestly shine there, they would in-
sure to their less fortunate sisters who have to
earn their own living, as well as to those who en-
gage in the contest from choice, equal chance
with men to obtain the comforts of life and the
rewards of excellence.
	In all my acquaintance I do not know of a wo-
wan who wants political office, but I do know
many who believe their sisters have equal rights
with men to strive for the blessings of life, and
who think that the quantity and quality of work
done should determine the compensation, without
regard to sex.
	We are seeking the elevation of woman,
morally, intellectually, socially, politically—in fact
in every way. We would not destroy or impair
a single womanly instinct. We would cultivate
and improve every attribute that forms a part of
perfect womanhood. We would not sow seeds of
discontent in any heart that now enjoys the sweet
tranquility of home, but we would place in the
hands of women who are battling among men for
existence, the ballot, to make them equal in the
fray. Intelligence, refinement, purity and grace
are first among the gems we seek. Equality and
justice are the watchwords of our cause. May
they find lodgment in your hearts and utterance
from your lips in favor of human freedom.
	More music by the band and Mrs. Martha
Horne Tingey, read in a very easy and grace-
ful manner, with a voice perfectly modulated,
clear and distinct, an able and effective essay,
written by her mother, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, upon Scripture women, proving
clearly their influence and power by practi-
cal examples.
Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
	In presenting a few of my ideas upon the
subject of Woman’s Suffrage this evening, I
desire to prove to the satisfaction of my hearers,
that it is not the Great Creator, our Heavenly
Father, who has placed woman in the position of
an inferior being, but it is the abuse of the power
that he has committed to her brother, man, that
has kept her back, and placed her on such an un-
equal footing. To do this, I will call the atten-
tion of this intelligent company to a few incidents
in Bible history, which will tend to convince the
unprejudiced mind that God, with His superior
intelligence is no respecter of persons, that He
created and placed His daughters side by side
with His sons, and both are equally responsible,
intelligent and useful in their respective spheres.
	When our Mother Eve was placed in the
garden of Eden she was for a helpmeet to her
husband, not his servant, and the same blessings
were confered, the same promises given to her as
to the man: and when she yielded to temptation
she was equally guilty and just as severely cen-
sured and punished as he, which would not have
been just,had she been a less intelligent and re-
sponsible being. Although Mother Eve has been
greatly censured for her disobedience, as the
text shows, it was only after she had become
convinced that it would make one wise, even as
the gods, knowing good and evil, that she had
the courage to partake of the fruit, willing to
suffer the penalty if she could gain increased
wisdom and knowledge. While we do not desire
to sanction disobedience, it is to her spirit of
progression that we are indebted for the opportu-
nity of gaining that experience and knowledge
that will enable us to return and dwell in our
Father’s presence. And the characteristics she
then exhibited have been transmitted to her
daughters, for to the true woman no sacrifice is
too great,no suffering too severe,if it will result in
good to her posterity and the elevation of the
human family.
	Later in the world’s history when the Lord

[Column 2]
made the promise to Abram that in him and his
seed should all the nations of the earth be blessed,
and in making the covenant with him changed
his name from Abram to Abraham, as contained
in the seventeenth chapter of Genesis, the Lord
said unto him. “As for Sarai thy wife, thou
shall not call her Sarai but Sarah shall her name
be and I will bless her, and give thee a son of
her,and she shall be the mother of many nations;
but my covenant I shall establish with Isaac,
which Sarah shall bear unto thee.” Thus show-
ing that the covenant was made between Abraham
and Sarah, changing both their names to confirm
the covenant made to them and their posterity.
	We next find that in the days of the Judges,
(4” Chap.) the children of Israel came to Debo-
rah, a prophetess, for judgment, for she was a
Judge in Israel, and through her the Lord spoke
to his people. At one time she sent for Barak,
the leader of the army, and said unto him. “Hath
not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying,
Go and draw towards Mount Tabor, and take
with thee ten thousand of the children of
Naphtali and of the children of Zebulon? 		
And Barak said unto her, “If thou wilt go with
me, then I will go but if thou wilt not go with me
then I will not go.” And she said “I will surely
go with thee, notwithstanding the journey thou
takest shall not be for thine honor, for the Lord
shall sell Sisera into the hands of a woman. And
Deborah rose and went up with him.” This
prophesy was fulfilled by Jael, the wife of Heber
the Kenite, slaying Sisera their enemy while he
was asleep in her tent. Thus through a woman’s
agency did the Lord deliver the enemies of His
people into their hands.
	Another beautiful instance is recorded in the
27th chapter of Numbers of the Lord giving
equal rights to woman. Zelophehad, one of the
heads of the families of Israel, died in the wilder-
ness, leaving no son, but five daughters. They,
being women of intelligence Woman Suffragists
if you please, stood before Moses and Eleazar
the priest, and all the congregation, and said
“Why should the name of our father be done
away from among his family because he hath
no son? Give unto us, therefore a possession
among the brethren of our father.” It would seem
from reading the circumstance that even the
great prophet and law-giver Moses, was not
clearly certain upon the subject of woman’s rights
and privileges, for we read, “And Moses brought
the cause before the Lord. And the Lord spake
unto Moses, saying, The daughters of Zelophehad
speak right. Thou shalt surely give them a
possession of an inheritance among their father’s
brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of
their father to pass unto them.   *	 a 	*
And it shall be unto the children of Israel a
statute of judgment, as the Lord commanded
Moses.”
	Another instance where God called a woman
to fill an important position was in the case of
Miriam, Moses’ sister, In the 6th chap. of Micah,
in reproving the people, He says, “For I brought
thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed
thee out of the house of servants; and I sent be-
fore thee Moses, Aaron and Miriam.”
	Huldah was also another prophetess to whom
the priests and scribes came for the word of the
Lord.
	We have another beautiful illustration of
woman’s fortitude, courage and self-sacrifice, as
also her political influence, in the case of Queen
Esther. When the kicked Haman besought
Ahasuerus the king to have all the Jews, her
people, men, women and children, put to death
and to take their spoils for their prey, he said to
the king, “There is a certain people scattered
abroad and dispersed among the people in all
the provinces of thy kingdom, and their laws are
diverse from all people, neither keep they the
kings laws; therefore it is not for the king’s

[Column 3]
profit to suffer them. If it please the king, let it
be written that they may be destroyed, and I
will give ten thousand talents of silver to the
hands of those that have the charge of the busi-
ness to bring it into the kings treasuries.” So
letters were sent by post to all the king’s provinces,
signed by the kings seal, that the Jews should be
put to death. Mordecai, a prominent Jew and
uncle of Queen Esther, sent a copy of the decree
to the queen, and besought her to go before the
king and make supplication to him for her
people. She answered him that there was a law
that no man or woman should go into the king's
court who was not called, under the penalty of
death, unless he should hold out to them the
golden sceptre, and she had not been called to
come unto the king for thirty days. But with
characteristic faith and heroic courage she sent
word for her people to gather themselves to-
gether and fast and pray in her behalf, and said
she, “I will go in unto the king, which is not
according to the law, and if I perish, I perish.”
Her noble self-sacrifice was rewarded. She
found favor with the king, who held out to her the
golden sceptre, listened to her petition and
granted her request. Thus through her influence
her people were saved, and their enemies
confounded.
	When the Lord designed to raise up Samson
to deliver Israel from the bondage of the
Philistines, it was to a woman the angel was sent
and to whom instructions were given. She told
her husband, and when he also desired to see
the angel, he appeared the second time to the
woman, who called her husband, and he then
talked with the angel, but was afterwards afraid,
saying, “We shall surely die because we have
seen an angel of God.” But his wife exhibited
greater faith and force of character, and comforted
him, saying, “If the Lord wanted to slay us
He would not have received the burnt offerings
at our hands and shown us such things.
	An exemplary instance of woman’s wise counsel
and sound judgment being the means of allaying
anger and preventing bloodshed is recorded in
the 25th chap. of the First Book of  Samuel.
When Nabal a Carmellite, through his churlish-
ness had insulted David and provoked his anger
to that extent that he had determined to take his
soldiers and entirely destroy Nabal and all his
household, Abagail,the wife of Nabal,who is rep-
resented as a beautiful woman and of good
understanding, hastened to take a peace offering
and present herself before David, and with wise
and judicious pleadings assuaged his anger and
persuaded him to relinquish his purpose. And
David said unto her, “Blessed be the Lord God
of Israel which sent thee this day to meet me.
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou
which has kept me this day from coming to shed
blood.” Thus should woman’s influence ever be
used to avert evil and establish peace.
	We also read in the New Testament that many
women were fellow-laborers with the Apostles in
their ministry, and to whom they refered with
much honor and respect. Our Savior was a
great friend to woman when He was on the earth
and appeared to her and gave her the first commis-
sion after his resurrection,saying,“ Go tell my dis-
ciples I have risen.” Woman never deserted Him
in His hour of trial, but was last at the cross and
first at the grave, while His Apostles each went
their way one of them even denying Him with an
oath for fear of the multitude. But the women
were faithful and true.
	These are but a few of the many instances con-
tained in the Scriptures of woman’s influence in
public as well as private affairs. In presenting
these few items of history for your consideration,
I have endeavored to show that woman’s sphere
is not necessarily confined to the home circle.but
that her Creator designed her to stand as a fellow-
helper, to man in all the affairs of life. And when


she is permitted to take her proper place socially
and politically, she will remember the higher
platform on which she stands, and act as a magnet
to draw society and politics up to her standard
of morality, purity and honor.
	Mrs. Bancroft, of Dakota, was introduced
by Mrs. Kimball; she read a very elaborate
paper npon women suffrage, in a very sweet
voice and pleasing manner.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon, made a short
speech impromptu, expressing his approval of
the suffrage movement, and giving his opinion
of woman’s political equality. His remarks
were forcible and inpressive, and will carry
weight in the right direction.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley then de-
lighted the audience by singing “Equal Rights
song” in her charming voice, so high and
perfectly controlled, floating out upon the
night air in its most silvery and exquisitely
cultured tones.

EQUAL RIGHTS.
TUNE, HAIL COLUMBIA.
	Rise Columbia's daughters rise;
	Heaven has surely heard your cries,
	Yet, to the world we must appeal;
	Arise, ye Mothers of the race?—
	Enjoy your heaven appointed place,
	Demand the rights the world accords—
	Freely to “Creation’s Lords”
	Now let woman's watchward—be—
	“Equal Rights, and Liberty."

CHORUS:
	Sisters, brave of heart and true,
	Now for simple justice sue;
	Claim the birthright of the free—
	“Equal Rights, and Liberty.”

	Shall we longer count as naught—
	Rights for which our father’s fought?
	The rights which all their sons enjoy;
	Can impartial justice sleep?
	Servile silence shall we keep?
	Need we bear for evermore—
	All our wrongs so deep and sore?
	Why should women still be bann’d
	Virtual slaves, in Freedom's land?

CHORUS:
	“Equal Rights," for small and great;
	"Equal Rights,” whate’er our state—
	No more, no less than this we claim;
	Let others think 'tis woman's fate—
	Always submissively to wait,
	For equity we’ll still contend—
	And work to gain the wish'd for end;
	Take courage, friends, and don't forget—
	That “Equal Rights" await us yet.

CHORUS:
				Emily H. Woodmansee.
S. L. City, July, 7th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Kimball then announced the close of
the exercises, and that refreshments were next
in order also dancing; the band playing enliven-
ing strains of music. The tables were hand-
somely decorated with flowers, the refreshment 
committee deserve the utmost praise for the
effective work done.  Dancing and animated
conversation was kept up until midnight, when
the guests dispersed.
	The lawn fete was certainly a brilliant 
affair, and the several committees worked with
a will to ensure its perfect success. They
realize most fully the truth of the saying,
"there is no excellence without labor."


We call the attention of our readers to the
article, entitled Woman's Calling, hoping to hear
from other ladies on the subject.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young left home on Thursday 
morning July 10th, stopping in Cache Valley a
few days on her way farther north.  Friday July
11th, she went to Wellsville with Mrs. Lettie
Thatcher and Mrs. Adeline Barber and attended
a meeting of the Relief Society of that place.
Saturday met with the R. S. of the second ward
of Logan which met to reorganize. Sunday at-
tended meeting in the Logan Tabernacle, and
Monday evening at 8 p. m. left with her daughter
Mrs. Zina Y. Card and family on the train
for Canada.  Wrote to us from Butte City
Montana enroute July 15th. Sister Young expects
to visit a few weeks in Canada where her daughter 
resides, and will return home if all is well some-
time in September.
	The fourth of July was appropriately celebrated
in this city, that is after the usual manner, by
men, and a woman to represent the Goddess of
Liberty. Miss Ella Olsen had the honor of the
position. Miss Susan B. Anthony advised the
woman suffragists to celebrate the fourth of July
this year in some suitable manner. When men
and women can celebrate their political freedom
as in Wyoming the honors on Independence day
will be more equally divided.  Ogden celebrated
with the Grand Carnival; other towns in Utah
many of them had suitable exercises and proces-
sions, and everywhere cannons and fireworks
were almost deafening.


R. S. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society, Box Elder Stake, convened on the
10th of June, in the Third Ward Meeting
House, Brigham City.
	Meeting was called to order by counselor 
Susannah P. Booth.
	Singing: "Once more we come before our 
God."
	Prayer by Bishop Tingey.
	Singing:  "Know this that every man is 
free."
	Counselor Booth was the first speaker. “I
am thankful I am here this morning, but it is
with peculiar feelings that I arise."  Spoke
feelingly about our departed president, also of
her own sister who died suddenly.  Said: we
should always be prepared to leave this exis-
tence, I trust I may not yet be called, I am
not prepared, I have a desire to fill my mis-
sion.  The Lord has power to do all things,
let us pray that He will not place more on our
shoulders, than He will give us strength to
bear.  Let us pray for the youth of Zion, I
want to do a mother's part, whether my chil-
dren or others do theirs or not.
	Mrs. Hubbard, Pres. of Willard:  "I am
pleased to be here, but we all feel to mourn,
still our loss is sister Harriet's gain, let us live
so we may meet those who have gone before
us.  We have great reason to rejoice, that we
can meet in peace.  We must be faithful, we
must be true, and love one another."
	Mrs. Jane Perry, Pres. Three Mile Creek:
It is a year to-day, since I had the privelege
to meet with you, and perhaps this is the last
time.  How thankful we should be that the
Lord has permitted us to receive this Gospel, it
is more than my meat and my bread, think of
the many in the world longing to come to
Zion.  We are drifting too much apart, when
we leave this life we will take nothing with us
but our knowlege.  Sister Hariet has laid her
work down after having performed it well,
she has lived up to the principles of the Gos-
pel; she is rejoicing now.  This is the work of
God.

[Column 2]
	Presidents, Peterson of Bear River City.
Mary Goodliffe of Snowville. Christine Jensen
of Mantua, each spoke a short time.
	Fannie Graehl: I feel well although "Aunt
Harriet" has left us, and I still have a desire
to do my duty.
	Sister Rowher:  I hope I may always desire 
to do my duty.
	Sister Johnson of Beaver Dam:  "I feel a 
desire to serve God, prayer is the key to Hea-
ven.  I rejoice in the principles of the Gos-
pel."  Asked the mother's to send their chil-
dren to the Primary.  Singing.  Benediction
by Olivia Widerborg.
	Afternoon session.  Singing;  "We thank 
Thee, O God for a Prophet."
	Prayer by Bishop Jensen.
	Singing:   O, my Father, Thou that dwell-
est."
	Emilia D. Madsen, read a Memorial to the
memory of our departed President, Harriet A.
Snow.
	Presidents Harriet Hunsaker and Dewey,
each spoke a short time.
	Bishop Tingey: It is a great privilege to be
a Latter-day Saint, let us be humble and pray-
erful, let us guard against evil.
	President Harper:  It behooves us to attend 
to our duty.
	Counselor Adolph Madsen, asked the
mothers to encourage their children to attend
the primary meetings.  We should make our
children our confidents, that they may feel
we are their best friends.
	Mary E. Snow:  We certainly miss "one"
to-day from our midst, although we would not
call her back.  The mothers generally enjoy 
their meetings, perhaps, when we were young-
er, we felt to excuse ourselves in being a little slack.
	President Rudger Clawson:  There is a good
influence in this room, and Oh, what an influ-
ence the sisters wield in the church and king-
dom of God, we felt we could hardly spare one,
and that was the president, she died very much
beloved and respected, she has gone to a bet-
ter place and would not choose to come back,
nothing greater can be said of any sister, than
"she has done her duty."  Use an influence 
with your children, that they keep the Sabbath
day holy.
	Sister Watkins President of the Fourth
Ward:  I feel the Lord has been with us with
His Spirit, we should strive to live and work
up to the duties laid before us.  I have been 
in this church fifty-four years, my parents laid
their bodies down in these valleys.
	President Mary Anderson:  The Lord says,
"if you love me, keep my commandments," if
we love Aunt Harriet as much as we profess,
then we ought to live up to some of her coun-
sels, if we try to perform our duties every day,
that is all that can be asked of us.
	Bishop Anderson:  There is a good feeling
and spirit, it is a glorious thing that we can
meet together in peace, to have the privilege to
show what we will do for each other, ourselves
and the kingdom of God.
	Counselor Olivia Widerborg:  We miss
Aunt Harriet, let us follow her example, she
was a true, faithful Latter-day Saint, living
her religion every day in her life.
	Sister Hardy;  Woman is not without the 
man, we should work in unison, administer in
kindness in our families.
	Minnie J. Snow:  Every day that I live, I
feel more the value of the Gospel, unless we
improve every opportunity, I am afraid we will
be weak, when we think we are strong.
	Susannah P. Booth thanked the sisters, said:
if we will work up to the counsels of "Aunt 
Harriet," we shall be faithful, we have always
worked together in unison and love with her.


Conference adjourned for three months, sing-
ing “The spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
	Benediction by Bishop Dewey.
				EMILIA D. MADSEN,
								Cor. Sec’y.
		   SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of this stake was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, June 19th, Pres. M.
Isabella Horne, Counselor Mrs. H. M. Whit-
ney, and Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, with the Secre-
tary, Mrs. E. Howard, occupied the stand.
	Conference opened by singing, “Come let us
anew,” etc., prayer by Mrs. Margaret McMas-
ter; singing, “Do what is right.” Roll, called
23 Presidents, 8 Counselors. 2 Secretaries and
2 Treasurers responded.
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks,
in which she urged the sisters to appreciate
the value of the Relief Society, as it had been
considered of such importance as to be record-
ed in the Book of the Law of the Lord.
	The following branches were then represent-
ed: Mrs. Margaret Steele, First Ward; Mrs.
Ann McGregor, Second; Mrs. Frances Smith,
Third; Mrs. Celia Kirke, Fourth; Mrs. Ann
Brimley, Fifth; Mrs. E. Briton, Sixth; Mrs.
H. Woodbury, Seventh; Mrs. E. B. Fletcher,
Eighth; Mrs. Barrow, Ninth; Mrs. Jennie Mc-
Lean, Tenth; Mrs. M. McMaster, Eleventh;
Mrs. Julia Druce, Twelfth; Mrs. L. A. Wells,
Thirteenth; Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, Fourteenth;
Mrs. Mary Grey, Fifteenth; Mrs. E. Davis,
Sixteenth; Mrs. Emma Bull, Seventeenth;
Mrs. Hannah Wright, Eighteenth; Mrs. Ann
E. Neal, Nineteenth; Mrs. M. Sharp, Twen-
tieth; Mrs. Jeremy, Twenty-second; Mrs. S. J.
Cannon, Farmers; Mrs. S. Gibson, Sugar
House; Mrs. E. Stevenson, Big Cottonwood;
Mrs. Ann Griffith, Union; Mrs. C. Smith,
Draper; Mrs. Bodell, Herriman; Mrs. Mary
Dixon, Mountain Dell; Mrs, W. Olsen, Sandy;
Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan; Mrs. M. A.
Webster, North Jordan: Mrs. Mary Porter,
Granger; Mrs. A. S. Hirst, Pleasant Green;
Mrs. Jane Silcox, Riverton; Mrs. M. A.
Hazon, Brighton; Mrs. M. A. Mousley, Bluff-
dale.
	Pres. Horne made a few encouraging re
marks, said she thought we should all help
and especially some of the young ladies should
take hold and do some of the work.
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
doxology, benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session:	Meeting commenced by
singing, “Oh, my Father, Thou that dwellest,”
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; singing, “Mid
seenes of confusion,” etc. The opening ad-
dress was made by Pres. B. W. Smith, in
which she exhorted all to be faithful, and to
prepare for the coming of the Savior, to be
diligent, keep the Sabath day holy, and to up-
hold the Relief Society.
	Counselor H. M. Whitney spoke upon a
oneness of spirit, and of feeling, she sorrowed
for those who turned away from the truth,
knew they lost great blessings, felt the greatest
blessings followed obedience, knew we had a
great mission to fill; hoped we would all be
prepared to meet the Savior.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell, spoke of her desire
to do good, her appreciation of the blessings
she had received, thought it was time we
stepped forward and became acquainted with 
politics, that we might understand the laws of
our country, and know our rights and privi-
leges, and then we would be better able to help
fallen humanity to arise from their fallen con-
dition; knew that we needed the spirit of the
Gospel and faith to accomplish what we
ought to do.
	Mrs. E. McDonald of St. George, spoke elo-
[Column Two]
quently upon faith, patience and wisdom, re-
joiced in the Gospel, felt that there was com-
pensation in it for all our trials; gave excel-
lent practical advice in regard to bestowing
charity upon the needy.
	Mrs. E. Howard, spoke of her recent visit
to Grantsville, where she attended the Relief
Society conference of Tooele Stake; thought
many of the Saints were slumbering and sleep-
ing, carried away with the things of the world;
spoke well upon the saving of grain by the
sisters.
	Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, made some very. good
remarks, thought we should always be able
to give a reason for the hope that is within us.
	Pres. Horne, spoke upon punctuality in
attending meetings, said we should not dwell
too much upon our trials, but prepare our-
selves for whatever might come, we should
get credit for the deeds done in the body,
whether they be good or evil. Spoke of her
interesting visit to Sanpete, where she had en-
joyed herself in doing Temple work, and in
visiting the Relief Society, “they are loving
and united there.”  Urged the sisters to get a
spiritual education, said in this respect we
have had the same blessings as our brethren;
we can have the same privilege and elevation
that they have; exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of our religion,
and to live good lives, and set a good exam-
ple, told the sisters to try and get in all the
wheat they could this harvest, it would be
wanted, and to urge the members to attend
meetings, it would increase their faith, and
help them in good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said her labors had
been in the Relief Society for nearly half a
century; thought our young sisters should take
hold in the Relief Society and not let all the
burden rest upon so many old and middle-
aged, would like to see a greater unity in our
work; the Relief Society should help the suf-
fragists and they should work with the Relief
Society and young ladies, and all help mu-
tually for improvement. We should advise
our young people, try and keep them in the
paths of virtue, we should never do anything
we cannot ask the blessing of God upon. Ex-
pressed a wish to hear a woman read the
Declaration of Independence on the Fourth of
July, prayed the Lord to inspire us individu-
ally, to work in that channel where we would
accomplish the most good.
	Pres. Horne made a few closing remarks,
hoped all would think well of what Mrs. Kim-
ball had said upon the woman question, it re-
minded her of what the five fatherless girls
did in ancient times; in the days of Moses.
Those girls obtained their rights of inheri-
tance the same as their brethren; through in-
terceding, though Moses had to ask the Lord;
hoped we would have something to do with
government behind the veil.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
singing, “We thank Thee, O God,” etc., bene-
diction by Mrs. Julia Druce.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.

(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.)
	The Woman's Council can do something in
this line. Representatives of about seventy
societies of women have already joined it.  If
those women, representing seventy different
societies and tens of thousands of good-hearted
members, if they would hold a council on the
subject of white slaves, if they would work up
 a petition to city councils, something would
come of it.  A city council would not act be-
cause of the petition alone, but the people who
sign the petition will think about the subject.
Let the petition ask that there shall be women
appointed as inspectors; that there shall be a

[Column 2]
municipal ordinance providing that in the
given city there shall be women to serve
without salary—well-to-do women, who would
much better invest their time in this manner
than to swing in hammocks and read story
books—to be appointed to visit the places
where women work, and to make official re-
ports to the city council.  Then let the work-
ingmen, who have the majority in every city,
demand that there shall be a fire-escape to
every building where there are wage workers,
instead of having them piled in there and
killed and burned as thoughtlessly as if they
were so many sardines in a box. Then let it
be put down as another section of that law,
that there shall be so many in a room of a cer-
tain size, and no more.  Why, in some places,
the girls are told that they must take short
threads, for if they did’nt their needles would
go into the eyes of the one in front!  Then
the law should provide that they should have
their lunch room, and not have to stand up,
huddled together like so many sheep, to nibble
away at their lunch; and they should have an
hour, and not an half an hour, at noon; and
that there shall be the best sanitary conditions
and conveniences.
	But the law is nothing unless you have an
enforcer. Let the women enforce the laws.
Let the men and women sitting in their clubs
and saying what a wonderful country this is,
that a woman can dress so cheaply, that the
sewing machine has made such a difference
that you hardly have anything to pay for
your clothes, and have so much more time and
money to improve your mind, know how it is
they get their collars and cuffs so cheap.  Let
them look into the wan faces of the women who
make these garments, and receive these prices
for their work!  Women are too good hearted
to tolerate all this, if they know the cause.
Bring them face to face with the workers, and
they will soon work up such a public opinion
that the hours and rates of wages will be
changed for the better.
	In order to get your minds stirred up by
way of remembrance, read "The Prisoners of
Poverty," by Helen Campbell.  When I was
in Boston, in the winter of 1888, I read in the
papers that some of the professors of Harvard
University had been having a great deal of
talk with a socialist. His name was Laurence
Gronlund.  He was a Dane, and those men
said he was the most sensible socialist they
ever met.  Many think every socialist an
anarchist, but here was one who was most re-
putable.  I had the pleasure of an interview
with him, and I was wonderfully interested in
his ideas.  He said to me:  "People generally
will not read my book, because it is dry, but
there’s a wonderful gifted man who has put
my book into a story, and the name is 'Look-
ing Backward.' "  So I read that; and Ed-
ward Bellamy, its author, says that from the
year 2,000 he looked backward to the year
1887, and saw, from that blessed and wonder-
ful time, the terrible condition we are in now.
He tells what might be done, as if it had really 
happened.  Of course there are characters in
the story, and there's a spice of romance and
all that; but it is to me a wonderful book.  I 
do not see why what is in it should not come
to pass. If all would say, “Let us have no
enmity, let us have no outrage, let us have
mutualism, let us have collectivism, let us
have arbitration, let us have co-operation in-
stead of the wage system, and let it come not
by revolution, but by evolution,"  I think it
might be.  The best part of this evolution will
be the little white papers dropped into the
ballot box.  That is the way it is to be done.
	Workingmen are reading the Testament.
They are reading and studying about the
wonderful character—The Carpenter’s Son.
They are reading and studying about His
ideal of brotherhood, and what kind of a


world we could make this if we set out on the
principles that He taught, and on the princi-
ple that He lived.  I am glad that they are
studying the temperance question, studying 
the woman question, and studying the New
Testament.  They are thinking whether we
could not make a heaven out of this world.
Let them go on, those men who find that it
is for their interest to have a great big trust
and a great big monopoly.  Perhaps the peo-
ple will some time discover that there are two
who can play at that game.  They may find
that the trust with "We Us & Co." for the
name, that such a trust as that might make
things go into a sort of brotherhood in this
country, and that it could be brought about
through the ballot-box  Only a country that
has Christianity could ever have ideas of bro-
therhood, only a country that has the broad-
ness and the sweetness of the Gospel could
ever care for such things. Bishop Simpson,
preaching in Evanston when I was a student
in college there, said:  "Boys, the very but-
tons on your coats you owe to Christ."  I pon-
dered on that a great deal, and I concluded it
was God’s truth.  Carlyle the great Scotch
philosopher, said, as he sat under the hedge
side by side with Emerson, the great American
philosopher, and pointed with his long finger
across the meadow to a church spire: “Christ
died on the tree!  That built the kirk yonder,
and brought you and me together."  So it was
Christ, who died on the cross, who put the
bright light into the earth that is spreading
everywhere.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE COMING OF THE SAVIOR.
	Acts 1st chap. 11 ver. "Ye men of Galilee,
why stand ye gazing up into Heaven? this
same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye
have seen him go into heaven."
	The Latter-day Saints are the only people 
that are looking for the Savior to come as
Peter said He would, and the only ones that 
will be prepared. Joseph Smith received a
revelation to gather out from the world the
honest at heart, that would receive the Gos-
pel of Christ, I'll quote from the Book of
Covenants, Appendix Section 133, 4th ver.
commencing at, "wherefore prepare ye, pre-
pare ye, O my people; sanctity yourselves;
gather ye together, O ye people of my church,
upon the land of Zion."
	5th verse. "Go ye out from Babylon. Be
ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord." 
	8th verse. "Send forth the Elders of my
church unto the nations which are afar off;
unto the islands of the sea;—firstly upon the
Gentiles, and then upon the Jews."
	The Gentiles have been almost thoroughly
warned, and the Jews will be.	
	10th verse. "Yea, let the cry go forth
among all people: Awake and arise, and go
forth to meet the bridegroom, behold and lo
the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
him. Prepare yourself for the great day of 
the Lord."
	Watch, therefore,  for ye know neither the
day nor the hour.
	Let them therefore, who are among the 
Gentiles, flee unto Zion.
	And let them who be of Judah flee unto
Jerusalem."
	Here the Latter-day Saints have the word of
the Lord, and know just what to do. First
the elders preached the gospel to them, then
the gathering, so that they could be prepared
to go in to the marriage supper of the Great
Bridegroom. "And when this Gospel of the
kingdom is preached, the end shall come."
	The Holy word speaks of the signs that will
ake place just before His coming. “The

[Column 2]
waters would go beyond their bounds, there
would be earthquakes, fire, and vapors of
smoke, men's hearts failing them for fear of
the things that would take place on the
earth."
	Some would say the Lord delayeth His
coming, but Malachi says: "He will suddenly 
come to His temple." Then a temple must be
built for Him to come to. What people have
built a temple but the Latter-day Saints? and
who are looking for His coming?
	In the last chapter of Revelations it is re-
peated twice: "And behold, I come quickly,
and my reward is with me to give every man
according as his work shall be." This same
Jesus that Peter saw go up into Heaven will
come again to reign on the earth a thousand
years, of which the Sabbath is typical, being
the end of the six thousand years of labor and
toil, the seventh thousand year comes in as a
day of rest, and there shall be nothing to hurt
or destroy in all my holy mountain saith the
Lord. And He will come as a thief in the
night, they will be eating and drinking marry-
ing, etc., as in the days of Noah, until the
flood came and took them all away. We the
Latter-day Saints have gathered out from the
world to prepare ourselves for the coming of
our Redeemer, we ought to be the most faithful
of any people on the earth, keeping ourselves
unspotted from the sins of the world, from all
its allurements, and whether we live or die,
we shall be ready to meet our Lord, as Paul
says the dead in Christ shall rise first, and ever
be with the Lord.
	"Now we beseech you brethren, by the com-
ing of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gath-
ering together unto Him, that ye be not soon
shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit,
nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as the
day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive
you by any means; for that day shall not come.
except there come a falling away first, and
that man of sin revealed, the son of perdition."
Thessalonians II, 2nd chapter. 
	This we know to be true, as there never was
a time, when there was such a commotion by
sin and unbelief, because they received not the
love of the truth, that they might be saved, 
so strong delusion was sent to them that they
should believe a lie, who believed not the
truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister Bertha
Greenwood who died quite suddenly at American Fork
June 7, 1890.
	Sister Bertha Eyring Greenwood was born June 12, 1839
at Saxony, Coburg, Germany, and came to America in
1853 and joined the Church in St. Louis in 1859.  She has
been a faithful officer of the Relief Society of this ward ever
since her residence here having acted invarious capacities
and always been on hand to do what was required of her.
	She was a good Latter-day Saint and a true friend to
the poor and needy.  She was also a teacher in the Sun-
day School for several years and has been a great comfort
to her afflicted husband during his long and painful illness
requiring her constant attendance.
	Sister Bertha has been subject to attacks of acute rheu-
matism for several years past and suffered at times very
severely. She had an attack of rheumatism on Sunday pre-
vious to her death which developed into rheumatic fever,
and the slender thread was snapped quite suddenly on Sat-
urday afternoon causing grief of the wildest description
among her family and friends.
	Therefore be it resolved,that we the members of the R.
S. of American Fork tender our sympathy to the afflicted
husband and to the children who are bereft of the care and
counsel of their beloved mother.
	Resolved,that we deem it a just tribute to her memory to
say that she was loved and esteemed by a large circle of
friends and associates and her sudden death is mourned by
all.
	Resolved,that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family also that one be sent to the American
Fork Independant and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and that it be spread on the pages of our record.


Tho', hard it seems to part with friends,
	Yet we've the assurance given
That ties so dear we form on earth
	Will reunite in heaven.
				MARY S. HINDLEY,
				ELLEN D. CLARKE,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
				ORPHA ROBINSON,
				MARY B. ADAMS,
								Committee.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S ﻿EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
Vol. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1890.		No. 5.


CONTENTS.
	Hephzibah. The Coming	Brotherhood.—
Francis E. Willard. Pride, How Shall We Define
It?—Mary. Montpelier Primary.—Rose Hillier.
Widows In India.—Selected. R. S. and P. A.
Reports.—Bear Lake—Uintah. How It Came
About.—Maud Muller. Notes and News.
Editorial. An Interesting Time. W. S. A.
Celebration. Editorial Notes. Honoring the
Aged.—A. C. W. The Bitter and the Sweet.— 
M. E. K.
POETRY. In The Old Days Of Long Ago.—Lu.
Afterwards.—Ida M. Davis. Supplication.—
Charity. Lines.—Alice M. J. Tanner.


IN THE OLD DAYS OF LONG AGO.
BY LU.

In the old. old days of the long ago
	This world was a loom, it is said.
Wherein truth and error wrought together,
	Thro' the woof and the warp of its thread.
So firmly they wove that few could sever,
	Or fairly trace out the false from the true,
Only persistent, constant endeavor,
	Caught sight of the error, woven all through.
Then such beautiful things were woven in,
	Rich dazzling colors both of light and dark.
Glimmering all over its strife and din,
	That the deepest wisdom could scarcely mark
Where the truth came in; or error was placed.—
	Fashion and folly mad passion and hate,
Were wrought with truth in extravagant haste,
	Adown through the ages early and late.
Fearless and free without halt or delay,
	Backward and forward the swift shuttle flew,
Evil and good traveled along through the way,
	The woof and warp, held the false and the true.


AFTERWARDS.

When rushing swift to some vague goal
    We cast chance glances by the way,
But have not time to pause or look
    Lest we the unknown world shall stay,
We snatch quick sight of pleasant things;
    And when we find ourselves at last,
Within the land we made such haste
    To reach, and see the flowers fast
Fade in the dullness of decay,
    We think of glimpses that were flashed
From deep rich tints of summer’s bloom.
    As o’er the way we careless dashed.

Thus when we struggle to attain
    Some cherished plan, some topmost hight.
That seemed the one alluring way,
    And to that end both day and night
We hurried swift, nor noticed aught
    Of modest grace in humble ways,
Till fades the sky's enchanting blue,
    And we remember then some days,
Whose swift, sweet hours flew by like birds
    Upon the wing with merry lays.
Whether they flew to north or south,
    We heeded not till after days.

Returning late they brush their wings
    Close to our face; and then we feel
Something we lost and gave no thought.
    Till thus we’re smote in mute appeal.
And standing dizzy and alone,
    We dreaming measure years apast.
By just these hours, How strange wee birds,
    Ye should usurp the throne at last.
					IDA M. DAVIS.


[column 1]
HEPHZIBAH.
XXVI.

    In all the shifting scenes and toils of life,
	Where’er her fortune, or her lines were cast;
    Battling for right 'mid all the storms and strife;
	Buoyant and hopeful even to the last.

	The fall and winter following Mrs. Hatha-
way’s arrival in Nauvoo were of special note
in the history of the Church, and each and
every event that transpired made upon her a
deep and lasting impression, as also upon Lucy
Reynolds and her husband, for though they
were staunch Latter-day Saints they were
totally unacquainted with the spirit of moboc-
racy, that pervaded Nauvoo and its suburbs,
and one might almost say Hancock Co., and
the State of Illinois. During that winter the
Nauvoo Temple was so far completed, as to be
ready for ordinances, and this seemed to arouse
the evil passions of the wicked mobs beyond all
reason; persecution raged to the very extreme,
and an exodus of some of the Saints, especially
the leaders of the Church and their families,
was talked of early in the winter. So many
occurrences took place about this time that it is
impossible to do more than barely touch upon
them; and that is perhaps sufficient for the
story we are writing.
	The Saints who were in good standing were
anxious to receive their blessings in the beauti-
ful Temple that had been built at such great
expense, under such trying circumstances, and
while many of those who worked upon it were
so poor they were scantily supplied with the
necessaries of life, yet they had toiled on, de-
termined to finish the Lord’s house. Brigham
Young, who by virtue of his position as Presi-
dent of the Quorum of the Twelve was really
the leader of the people, was desirous that as
many of the Saints as could, should have the
privilege of the blessings to be given in the
House of the Lord, while there was still an
opportunity granted them, for prophet as he
was, he foresaw the hindrances that weuld fol-
low; and day after day the Temple was
crowded with brethren and sisters. It was a
grand and beautiful sight and one that can
never be forgotten while memory lasts, not
only inside the magnificent and holy edifice,
but to see the Saints flocking up the broad
steps and to the doors of the Temple as we had
read of in ancient days during the short time
they were permitted to work therein.
	Hephzibah had many excellent opportunities
of becoming familiar with the highest and
most exalted principles and truths pertaining
to the Gospel, as well as to the great and grand
work which was being performed in the
Temple; and it really seemed that she had been
mysteriously led without her own volition into
a channel of association whereby she might
obtain certain great blessings and privileges
not only for herself, but for her mother; who
was such a devout and faithful exemplar of
the first principles taught by the Elders and
also so intelligent concerning the prophecies of
scriptures, which she had so carefully studied.
Coming to Nauvoo at a time when one great
event was crowding thick upon another, with-
out being known except by a few, she (Mrs.
Hathaway) would not have had the privilege
of going into the Temple as she so much de-
sired, had it not been that the way had been
opened for her through Hepsie’s misfortunes
and sorrows, that had thrown her into the
[column 2]
society of those who “went in and out of the
Temple day and night.”
	Hepsie realized now it was in her power to
get the privilege of Temple ordinances for her
dear mother who had been so zealous and
earnest an adherent to the Gospel ever since it
was first preached in the little country village
in New England, though she had not had the
opportunity of gathering to Nauvoo in the
life-time of the Prophet, and hearing his voice
for herself which she had so ardently desired.
	It was a great comfort to Hepsie that she
could assist her mother in this way spirit-
ually, even at the time, but in years after-
ward she realized more fully, how surely the
hand of Providence, had guided her in ways
she knew not, and against which her spirit and
her pride had. wofully rebelled, though she
had kept silence, and none knew except her-
self the struggles she had undergone in her
heart and soul.
	All this time she had heard nothing from
the Harvey’s, and she knew now that she had
hoped against hope, with regard to Harold.
She felt confident in her own mind that he was
dead, though no word or message came save
the still small whisper down in the depths of
her own soul, which told her plainly that she
was free and at liberty, to make choice of
another if she so desired. She did not know
whether she cared for this freedom or not, she
had passed through so many trying ordeals,
that she seemed only to think of peace, she
had been so completely subdued and remolded
that she was not sure if she still possessed any
of the romantic characteristics of former days.
She had given up everything; all her girl-
friends, all her associates, and once she had
thought that weuld be impossible; even Lucy
Reynolds seemed more her mother’s friend,
than hers; what did it all mean? Mrs. Hatha-
way quickly discerned after her arrival the
great change that had taken place in Hepsie,
though she rejoiced that it had increased in-
stead of lessening her faith.
	“Hepsie,” she said one day when they were
alone together, “what has made such a radical
change in you? It seems incredible to me, (and
I am your mother,) that you should have lost
your ambition to be a writer, or teacher, your
poetical taste, your aspirations for fame, that
we once thought so firmly rooted and grounded
in your nature from early childhood, can you
explain what has caused it? Is it Harold's un-
faithfulness?”
	Hepsie’s lip quivered, her eyelids trembled,
her whole soul convulsed with peculiaremo-
tions; she knew not what to answer, but feel-
ing as she always had her mother’s superiority,
and recognizing her right to question, she col-
lected her scattered thoughts and replied
hastily. “Don’t question me, mother, I can’t
bear to talk of these things now, everything in
this world has changed for me; henceforth my
religion shall be my all.”
	Mrs. Hathaway never questioned Hepsie
again, but she saw and felt that she was
absorbed as it were in something that engrossed
her thoughts and occupied her mind to the ex-
clusion of all else, and she remarked to
Lucy Reynolds (now Mrs. Adams) one day
when they were talking. “Can you tell me
Lucy, what has come over Hepsie to work such
an entire change in her?” “No,” replied Lucy,
“unless it is the Temple work and the exalting
nature of the principles taught by the Apostles
and Elders concerning a spiritual exaltation


[column 1]
through sacrifice, that she seems to think so
far in advance of all the learning and wisdom
of the world.”
	Shortly after the conversation between Mrs.
H. and Lucy, Hepsie said to her mother in a
sort of casual way, “the leaders of the Church
and their families are preparing to leave
Nauvoo and go forth into the wilderness to
seek a place of refuge from their oppressers, as
the Pilgrims did, only instead of crossing the
sea, they will go over the great American
desert.” Mrs. H. looked up from her sewing
in surprise exclaiming, “and do you think of
undertaking this journey?” .“Why, mother
would it be such a dreadful thing to do? there
are many young women going, and there is
nothing to hinder my trying a new experience,
there will be plenty of toil and hardship con-
nected with it no doubt, but to travel through
an unknown country will be interesting in the
extreme!” “And do you take into consideration
that you will be leaving your mother and all
your own kindred?” And Mrs. Hathaway al-
most broke down as she said it Hepsie had
scarcely seen her mother weep in her lifetime,
and it was almost too much for her, she had
not thought she would take it so to heart, and
it was a few minutes before she could reply,
and when she did, it was with a great effort she
maintained her composure, but she felt she
must speak out, and choking down her sobs and
looking up at her mother’s sorrowful face, she
said “Something tells me I must go mother,”
and before she could finish the sentence her
mother interrupted her saying, “and some-
thing tells me if you go we shall never meet
again.” By this time mother and daughter
were both in tears; it was indeed a trying scene,
Hepsie felt as she had expressed herself that
she was impelled to go by some irresistible
force, and she hoped to make a satisfactory ex-
planation to her mother, though it almost
broke her heart to be separated from her again
so soon. Words seemed powerless to express
her feelings and her great love for her mother
made it very hard for her to decide,and yet the
whisperings of her own heart were all the time
urging her forward.
	Lucy (Mrs. Adams) coming in put a stop
to the conversation for a few minutes, but ere
long Lucy said “Hepsie is it true that you are
going away to Upper California beyond the
Rocky Mountains?” Hepsie made no reply.
But Mrs. Hathaway who was specially anxious
to know what had made Lucy inquire, said ex-
citedly, “Who says Hepsie is going away?” “O,
Brother Kimball says so, and I’ve heard others
say it too, I thought ’twas all settled, I only wish
I was going, but we can’t go yet, but we’ll be
sure to follow after.” Then you approve of
this move and expect that all the Saints
will go as soon as they can?” Mrs. Hathaway
said, anxious te know what her opinion was.
"Most certainly, why Brother Kimball says
its the grandest move the Church has ever
made, there they’ll be free to worship God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, with none to molest or make afraid.”
“I am very glad to hear Brother’s Kimball’s
views, I know they must be correct, though that
does not reconcile me to parting with Hepsie,
and I am not prepared to go now in such haste.”
“It is not expected that widows will go with
young children this winter,” said Mrs. Adams,
who seemed as anxious to tell all she knew
about the matter as Hepsie was to keep silence
on the subject, “but the Church will send for
the widows and children, the aged, and those
who cannot go now, as soon as they get located.”
	“Really Hepsie are you going, because if
you are I’m sure you are expecting to be
married again.” Hepsie was now fully aroused,
no one had ever mentioned marriage to her in
presence of her mother, and she resented
such an insinuation, as though it were an in-
sult; in the bitterest tone she said, “Lucy
[column 2]
Adams how dare you talk to me like that, am
I not already married, and have I not suffered
enough for a lifetime?” "O, as to that,” re-
plied the incorrigible Lucy, “you were never
so desperately in love with Harold that it need
to hinder you from marrying again, and in all
probability he’s dead anyway, I saw his brother
the other day, and he declares Harold is dead,
or he would have come back before now, for
he wrote him a letter and said, he would come
back for you within a year if he lived, and the
year is long past now.” Even Mrs. Hathaway
felt this was too much upon such a painful
subject, and addressing Mrs. Adams, said “you
are simply torturing Hepsie beyond all en-
durance, she has no thought of marriage I am
positive.”	
	What Mrs. Adams had said about Harold’s
death had its effect upon Hepsie, she could
not dismiss the subject from her mind by night
or by day; and she resolved to ascertain if
possible whether he was living or dead.
	After that day Hepsie felt she could never
meet Lucy again and she was anxious to go,
and to get away from all those who would be
likely to mention Harold’s name to her. Mean-
time she made the matter a subject of con-
stant prayer in her heart, as she performed her
daily duties, and she struggled with her feel-
ings to know how to bear the separation from
her mother, which she knew was inevitable if
she concluded to accept the offer she had to go
with the first company, who were to leave the
beautiful city of Nauvoo in midwinter. She
never thought of the hardships to be encount-
ered, the journey had no fears for her; to be
with those who had the word of the Lord,
with prophets and Apostles,to be always gaining
a knowledge of those things that pertain to
eternal life, and the advancement of the Lat-
ter-day work was her object. She tried by
persuasion and entreaty to reconcile her mother,
believing in her heart and assuring her, that
she would by going forward herself, be able to
advance her interests and help her more than
if she stayed behind. “I am no longer a child,”
she said, “but able to think and act for myself
relying upon my Heavenly Father for guid-
ance and protection.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


[column 1]
THE COMING BROTHERHOOD.
(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.)

	There is nothing so grand as work:
	Labor, all labor, is noble and holy;
	Let thy great deeds be thy prayer to thy God!
	
	Work is not great because many people have
heard that we do it- Work is great because it
is done in a royal spirit.  Work is getting to
be aristocratic; and not to work, dishonorable.
It is not uncharitable to say that a person who
does nothing is a drone in the hive, and does
not amount to anything.  It is the sweat of
the brain and the sweat of the brow that
makes us Somebody with a capital S, instead
of Nobody with a capital N.  Then let us be
glad that we are workers with God who never
ceases in His benefactions. We live in a
world where every insect and bird and creature
is always doing something, because to do some-
thing is to be happy; and so when the time
comes that the true aristocrat shall make the
world something like a home,and not altogether
like a desert; when they come to their kingdom;
when they have the opportunity for the culture
of their minds as well as the development of
their hands, which they ought to have; when
there are no grades in society except grades of
moral excellence, grades of industry, grades of
intellectual nobility; when there is no wealth
that makes aristocracy,  but when what
we are, what we have done, fixes our place in
the world, then I believe we shall see the world
that Christ came to bring.  We are going to
[column 2]
see it far sooner than we think, because we are
living in a time when ideas get around almost
as quick as a flash of lightning.  Every throb
of sympathy from the heart towards such as
the “white slaves,” every outraged sense of
justice that ever stirred a human heart, has
helped to bring about this great time of
deliverance.  We have talked a great deal
about charity.  I am glad to live in a day when
we are talking something about justice.  We
women want justice.  All the laboring man
wants is justice and fair dealing.  All that
these “white slaves” ask is that they shall not
be slaves; that rich men shall not give so much
to a school, so much for building a chapel and
so much for missions. as if they were great
Christian philanthropists, yet all the time put
the thumb-screw on these poor girls.  That
has got to be done away with.  Peoples eyes
are being opened.  God grant that the doctrine
of Christ, which is “fair dealings to others as
you would yourself be done by,” may come to
every workingman and woman in America.
	And yet the Nation is full of real Christian
men and women who “deal justly, love mercy
and walk humbly with God.” They heed the
voice of Christ in its tender cadences saying:
“And all ye are brethren!” God grant their
number may be multiplied!  Even men of the
world admit that London’s four hundred city
missionaries mean more for peace and quiet
than four thousand police would mean.  Even
infidels admit that McAll’s Mission in Paris
prevents barricades and riots by teaching the
French workman a more excellent way to the
brotherhood of which he dreams.  For the
book of peace and goodwill says: “This is the
fast that I have chosen, that ye break every
yoke.”
	Let me give you my “shorter catechism,, of
political economy from Ruskin: “There is no
wealth but life.  Life, including all its powers
of love, of joy and admiration.  That country
is the richest which nourishes the greatest
number of noble and happy human beings;
that man is the richest who, having perfected
the functions of his own life to the utmost, has
also the wisest helpful influence, both personal
and by means of his possessions, over the
lives of others.  A strange political economy
founded on self-interest being the fulfillment of
that which once brought schism into the
policy of angels and ruin into the economy of
heaven.”
	Dear friends,
	Your bark is wafted to the strand by breath Divine,
	And on the helm there rests a hand other than thine.

Other than yours—that steadfast, loving hand
of Him whose hand was pierced for you and
for me, who shall one day hold the scepters
of the world, who cared not for Himself, but
whose very prayer was for us all.  There is
no “I” in the Lord’s Prayer, it is all “We;”
it is all the Brotherhood of Man and the
Fatherhood of God.


A lawn party was given to Miss Susan B.
Anthony in Indianapolis on July 25th, in aid
of her work in South Dakota. The committee
having the affair in charge were: Mr. and Mrs.
E. C. Atkins, Hon. and Mrs. Joseph E.
McDonald, Mr. and Mrs. George Merritt, Dr.
and Mrs. H. G. Carey, Mr, and Mrs. Franklin
Landers, Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Kregelo,
Mr. and Mrs. Stanton J. Peele, Mrs. Mary
McKenzie and Mr. and Mrs. Theodore L.
Sewall. Speeches were limited to five minutes;
Mrs. Sewall made some bright and vigorous
remarks; and among other speakers were:
Rev. H. A. Cleveland, Mr. John L. Griffiths,
Mr. Augustus L. Mason and Mr, Alfred F.
Potts. Music lent its charm to the occasion.
								Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUPLICATION.

Lord thon who see’st all my heart,
	And know’st my every thought:
Help me to do Thy holy will
	And serve Thee as I ought. 

And when my path seems dark and wild,
	And hope burns low within;
Look down upon Thine erring child,
	And keep my heart from sin.

Help me to bear my daily cross'
	Though it be hard to bear:
Oh! may I feel through every loss
	I've still a Father's care.

And when at length my day’s are passed,
And all the world grows dim
Oh! may I anchor safe at last
	And be at rest with him.
						CHARITY.


[column 1]
PRIDE, HOW SHALL WE DEFINE IT.
	King Solomon says: "Pride comes before
destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall."
Now since we have fallen to that degree that
our enemies rule over us, (or at least those who
are enemies to this Gospel, and say such a
doctrine shall not exist,) how shall we account
for this change, is pride the cause? Well, you
say it is right to have a becoming kind of pride,
yes pride enough to be decent to be cleanly to
be respectable. 
	If this is pride why did the Lord say "He
resists the proud but He giveth grace to the
humble." I think we can maintain those quali-
ties without a particle of pride.
	In my opinion dignity and self-respect be-
long to the Deity. Did not Jesus say "Be ye
perfect even as your Father in heaven is per-
fect." In this we learn that God is our Father.
Accordingly those who believe this and obey
His commandments will obtain His spirit
which when it is obtained they will find it
gives them dignity and self respect, for these are
attributes of the Diety and not pride as one
may suppose.
	No this is a portion of our Father's char-
acter and naturally we inherit the same; not
only so, but we have an earnest persevering
zeal for the rights which belong to us, this
we saw in the grand parade last winter, but
the Lord can not make saints of proud people,
accordingly our humility must be tested. But
how about this self-respect; we are told by
Jesus that no unclean thing can enter the king-
dom of our Father in heaven.
	No, we must be pure in mind and body; for
it is written, First Epistle of John 3 chap. 3
verse "Every man that hath this hope in Him 
purifieth himself, even as He is pure. This
then is a portion of our Father's character and
not pride as many suppose. We must not be-
come filthy, or we would be loathsome objects
not fit to come back into our father's presence.
	He also speaks by the prophet Moses say-
ing to the children of Israel: "Be ye holy for
I am holy.” Strict obedience is required to
keep our feet from stumbling, we see.
	Yet we as a people often use the word pride
quite out of place, because it is not properly
defined by us, you will hear it said I am proud
of this or proud of that, yes proud to belong
to this cause. Is this right? I think
we may be gratified and pleased and delighted
yet not proud at all in all this; what does the
the Savior say, He says "the Lord resists the
proud but gives grace to the humble."
	Can we obtain His spirit then while we har-
bor pride in these tabernacles of ours? I think
not; besides we are in danger of losing that
portion we did obtain when humble, even as
King Solomon did. Do you remember his
dream? (Kings 4 chap. and 5 ver.) The Lord
asks "what shall I do for you?" he told the

[column 2]

Lord he was but a child did not know how to
go out or come in yet, he had need of wisdom,
he had a great people to rule over."
	He then earnestly pleaded for wisdom. The
answer was "Since he did not ask for long life
or riches, nor the lives of his enemies, but
only for wisdom he should have great wisdom,
and also riches." This he realized to the
fullest extent. He was honored and beloved
by all who knew of his wisdom, and heard his
voice, until he forgot God's commands given 
by Moses, saying "there are a people the
Israelites should not mix with, or in other
words should not go unto them neither should
they permit them to come into their domains.”
Yet King Solomon at last ventured to take
wives from these people.
	Now see what vanity did. And St. Paul says
that we are as subject to vanity as the sparks 
that fly upward. This vanity overcame King
Solomon. Read what he says when the Lord
took from him this flow of the good spirit. He
says "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity and
vexation of spirit." Of all the good things
under the sun none was any satisfaction to
him after losing that good spirit which he
once possessed so profusely.
	Now let us bring the subject nearer home.
I remember seeing the effects of vanity not
only once but often. I will only speak of
a friend of mine, a near neighbor who was
talented and had an education competent to
fill positions of trust.
	When he first came to this valley he worked
for the government, (under Cap. Stansburg.)
After this he was Chancelor of Deseret Uni-
versity. And finally one of the Twelve
Apostles. He filled his positions so well he
was called to preside over a branch of this
vineyard; yes several times did he fill this
position. But he became vain. This vanity
led him to do that which the Lord of heaven
and earth has forbidden.
	He not only lost his office but also his stand-
ing in the Church of God, and was cut off.
He was humbled to the dust and truly re-
pented after a time wished to be baptized, I
never knew if this was granted, but I do re-
member what the Savior said to Peter who
asked how often he should forgive, if 7 times,
"Yes," was the answer, "until 70 times 7." Show-
ing you should always give encouragement to the
penitent to forsake evil and cleave unto that
good spirit which gives light and joy and
peace.
	But oh! the mischief that vanity will bring
upon the human family. Each of us can know
this for ourselves. How often we find it like
the weeds on our garden sprining up ere you
are aware choking the good seed which al-
ways is a benefit to the person who possesses
it.
	How earnestly should we pray our Father
for wisdom that we may not be confused and
dark in our minds on this subject or any other,
but that we may know which spirit to cleave
to and which to forsake that we may not be-
come vain and foolish in these last days, when 
so much light and intelligence is requisite to
fill our positions properly.
	Vanity and self-conceit are dangerous pro-
perties. Why should one become vain be-
cause they have arrived at some attainment
which another has not. They may fill another
position the first is not capable of filling.
	Let us reflect and be more wise in the future
than we have been in the past, is the prayer of
		One of the Old Folks.
								MARY.


MONTPELIER PRIMARY.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	On the morning of June the 1st, 1890 the
children of Montpelier Ward met at the


school house for the purpose of celebrating the
birthday of Pres. Brigham Young.
	After all had assembled, we then set out for
our Montpelier canon, a place having been
selected for our enjoyment. After all had ar-
rived we were called to order by Sister Bunney.
The children sang “Gladly meeting,” after
which prayer was offered by Brother John
Bunney.
	Pres. Bunney then addressed the children
for a short time, told them the reason they
had met, spoke of some of the great and
noble deeds performed by that great and good
man.
	A selection was then read by Rose Hillier,
entitled “The funeral of Brigham Young.”
The forenoon exercises consisted of songs,
recitations, dialogues, readings etc.
	Brother O. Swinson then spoke to the
children, said it afforded him much pleasure
in meeting with the primary children in these
gatherings, endeavored to show them the many
blessings they enjoyed compared with the
children of the outside world.
	The meeting was then adjourned by singing
“I'll be a little Mormon,” benediction by
Brother E. L. Burgoyne.
	The tables were then prepared and after
asking a blessing on the food, it was freely
partaken of by all. The afternoon was spent
in playing games and gathering wild flowers
in which the children enjoyed themselves very
much, at about 5 o’clock we all prepared to re-
turn home with happy hearts and smiling
faces.
					Rose Hillier, Sec.
Montpelier, Bear Lake Co., Idaho.


WIDOWS IN INDIA.
	For a year after the death of the husband
the widow has special rites to perform. For
thirteen days after the funeral she must not
change her clothes. No one pays any atten-
tion to her or gives her a kind word. She
must be content with one meal a day and at
the end of that time her head is shaved. At
certain intervals throughout her life she is ex-
pected to fast and these intervals include two
days of fasting during every month of her
widowhood. During these days she must
touch nothing in the shape of liquid or solid
food, and whether she is sick or well, it makes
no difference. The Hindoos say that the soul
of a man after his death,goes to heaven quickly
and pleasantly in proportion to the sufferings
of his wife during the month after his death.
Consequently the mother-in-law and the rest
of the relatives try to make these sufferings
as great as possible. The widow can never
take part in any festivity, and it would be an
evil omen if she attended a marriage- She
gets no word of pity from the women of the
household, and she is lower than the servants.
Even in death she has not the funeral of other
women. Her body is not burned in the
clothes she has on, and only a coarse, white
cloth covers her as she lies on the funeral pyre.
Her husband, if he would, could not help her
condition. Women cannot inherit property
among the Hindoos, and if any thing is left by
the husband, it goes to the children.
	In the northwest provinces of India, where
the holiest of Hindoos live, the treatment of
the widows is even worse than that described
in the above statement. Here the woman is
often dragged along with the husband’s corpse
to the cremation. She is pushed into the
water and made to stand there, while the body
is burning. She comes home in her wet
clothes and she dare not change them. It
matters not if she be sick, or whether the
weather be warm or cold. She sleeps in these
clothes for thirteen days and she is persecuted
by all.						Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,			EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST	15	1890.


AN INTERESTING TIME.
	In company with Mrs. Jane S. Richards, First
Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H. Young we left this
City on Thursday August 7 to visit the sisters in
Iron County and attend Conference in that Stake
also to visit Beaver Co., and if possible Fillmore
on our return, but finding the distance very long
and it being necessary for us to reach home as
soon as possible, we deferred our visit to Fillmore
and other places in Millard County until another
time.
	We reached Cedar City Friday evening after a
drive of fifty-five miles, and went direct to the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Birkbeck where
several of the sisters were gathered to meet us.
	Saturday we met with the Relief Society of
Cedar and after meeting drove to Parowan ex-
pecting to reach there in time for the children’s
Primary Conference. However we were delayed
on account of a wind storm so that we were
rather late but had an opportunity to hear a great
many of the children’s exercises, singing, recita-
tions etc., and to look upon their beautiful,intelli-
gent faces. There were a goodly number of them
assembled not only those living in Parowan but
from Cedar City, Summit and Paragoonah;
Kanarra not being represented on account of the
diphtheria which we heard was among the child-
ren at that place.
	The President of the Stake and his Counselors
were present, also many of the parents
which must have been very gratifying to those
who labor in these associations, and we were both
very pleased to see the interest that was taken in
the little folks, and the encouragement given to
the sisters, who have charge of these organiza-
tions.
	The following day the Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Parowan Stake was held
occupying both the forenoon and afternoon. The
Presidency of the Stake were present also the
Presidency of the Relief Society of the Stake.
We were entertained at the house of Sister
Richard Benson over night and dined at the home
of Brother Morgan Richards, Counselor to Pres.
Jones, with a large number of brethren and sisters.
After the Conference adjourned we visited the
sick and took supper with the President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of Parowan Stake, Mrs. Mitchell.
	We drove over to Paragoonah and met with
the Relief Society in the evening, Bishop Jones of
that place and many other brethren as well as
the sisters were present, we had a crowded house
and an excellent meeting. The following morn-
ing we left Iron Co. to go to Beaver where we
were entertained at Pres. J. R. Murdock’s.
	We met with the Relief Society in the evening
in a sort of general meeting; every one was in-
vited and there were about as many men as wo-
men present. The President of the Stake, also

[Column 2]
the President of the Relief Society of the Stake
Mrs. Lucinda Houd were present, and Mrs.
Houd’s Counselor Mrs. E. J. Bennett who is also
Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver Stake, and
the Presidents of the two branches of the Relief
Society in Beaver City, Mrs. Ruth W. Tyler and
Mrs. M. J. Bickley. We noticed in the audience
Elders Daniel Tyler, Wm. Fotheringham, Benja-
man Bennett and other prominent brethren,among
them Brother Shepherd an old-time Elder in
Israel.
	Tuesday morning we left Beaver accompanied
by Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley and met with
the Relief Socity at Minersville at one o’clock,
after having dined with Mrs. Mary E. Lightner;
at her house we saw Mrs. Elizabeth Gilbert one
of the oldest members of the Church, the widow
of Sidney Gilbert prominent in the days of Kirt-
land and also in the persecutions of the Church
in Missouri. Mrs. Gilbert has just passed her
ninetieth birthday Aug. 7, she is not feeble as one
might expect, she talks well, told us she was bap-
tized into the Church in 1830 and had never been
reproved or brought before the teachers or author-
ities in all those sixty years. That is a good
record to leave when she passes away. Mrs.
Gilbert is the aunt of Mrs. Lightner and of Elder
Henry Rollins.
	After our meeting in Minersville we turned our
faces homeward, arriving on Wednesday morning
Aug. 13, having enjoyed our visit and labors very
much indeed and having been everywhere so
kindly and hospitably welcomed. It is exceed-
ingly pleasant and interesting to travel among the
people and see them in their homes and assem-
blies. The Relief Society and other organizations
are doing great good in the midst of the Saints
wherever they are located.


W. S. A. CELEBRATION.
	On the afternoon of Wednesday the 23rd of
July, the same day that Wyoming celebrated her
statehood, the W. S. A. of Utah assembled in
Liberty Park, Salt Lake City to honor the occa-
sion, and rejoice in the good fortune of their
sister Territory and with the women of Wyoming
that they had obtained political freedom. The
affair was rather impromptu, and hurriedly ar-
ranged; the exercises commenced at 4 p. m.,
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball in the chair.
	A song from a French opera by Miss Alice E.
Bridewell of New Orleans gave spirit and a tone
of vivacity to the proceedings, her rich clear voice
rang out among the tall and stately trees, full of
melody and sweetness. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. E. B. Wells. Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read
in excellent voice and pleasing manner a brief
speech written by her sister Mrs. Susa Y. Gates
who was not well enough to attend the gathering.
	“That women are today shouting the Battle Cry
of Freedom in unison with Wyoming’s glad
triumph, surprises no one! Yet, if the veil of the
future could but be torn aside, for every cry given
by woman man would send a thousand fuller,
deeper notes of joy into the echoes of Eternity.
Can he with eyes fail to see that for every step
gained by the mother, the son will leap a rod
beyond. Every inch of width, every foot in
height which you add to the home walls of the
mother,deepens and broadens in four fold measure
the natures nurtured beneath her eye. When will
men understand this? “You cannot gather figs
from thistles,” but how well the delicate peach
repays the years of cultivation, which brought
the acrid plum from the steppes of Russia to hang
in rosy lusciousness on southern walls.
	To vote, means not alone the right to drop the
ticket in the ballot box. It means a gate open-
ing on a thousand avenues, which lead to peace
and equality. It is because those few brave wo-
men so many years ago at Seneca Falls walked

[Column 2]
up and demanded entrance at the gate, that we-
men have since scaled the barrier and have en-
tered the paths of Surgery, Law, Mercantile and
other pursuits all leading outward from this gate.
	Does it unfit men for husbands and fathers to
cast their votes? Does it unfit them as hod-
carriers, brick-layers, as Senators as physicians.
Why then should it unfit woman for her various
occupations?
	The one object to be gained in educating men
or women is to make them think. The educated
few have always ruled the ignorant many. But
now with the opening wedge drived into the iron
wall of prejudice by the bold hand of Wyoming,
we may hope to see Education rising, from the
masses even as the clouds from the whole face of
Ignorance watering into life and glory the flowers
of Thought—equal and independent Thought.”
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards then addressed the
ladies present in a very graceful manner, compli-
menting the women of Wyoming upon their
energy and efficiency during the twenty years they
had enjoyed the franchise,and congratulating them
on enjoying equal political rights with men in full
possession of statehood. Said there was no
jealousy in the hearts of the women of Utah to-
wards Wyoming even if they had been disfran-
chised, they rejoiced in the good fortune of their
sister territory; though Utah was her elder sister
and in every way entitled to the same rights and
privileges. 
	Dr. R. B. Pratt was the next speaker, she went
over some of the ground of the opponents of wo-
man suffrage and referred to the weakness of
their arguments, particularly those of Southern
Congress-men. She gave some of her views in
reference to the colored race, and woman’s posi-
tion generally;—the remarks upon the colored
people called forth some statements on the sub-
ject from Miss Bridewell who seemed pretty well
posted on the woman question in the South;
though she had never belonged to a suffrage as
sociation but was a member of a Ladies’ club, and
took a great interest in all matters pertaining to
women; she believed what the Southern women
needed was education on the subject, and the op-
portunities of becoming acquainted with the
merits of the cause; and they would be ready to
take hold of the work. Referred to the chivalry
of Southern gentlemen and their desire to show
woman special respect and honor; but she was
fully aware there were many women who had no
protection, and who consequently must fight their
own way in the world; and how much better to
be qualified and the condition of things adapted,
to such circumstances. Miss Bridewell was
listened to with marked attention; it was so new
to most of those present, to hear a young Southern
girl speak so feelingly upon the question of wo-
wan’s political equality.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt proud of the Territory
and State of Wyoming, she was a suffragist from
principle and believed in equal rights for men
and women, thought woman’s reign had now be-
gun in earnest since the women of Wyoming had
been privileged to become enrolled and were
secure in statehood. South Dakota was struggl-
ing for the same privilege and she believed would
be successful, many able women were there aid-
ing the cause, California donated liberally and
other states were helping on the good work.
	Mrs. Kimball suggested three cheers for
Wyoming which was responded to by all present
joining in the hip, hip, hurrah, which was heartily
repeated.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber rose in response to the
Chairman’s invitation and expressed herself in
sympathy with woman suffrage all over the world,
firmly believed women should have the ballot,
and did not think they would vote for men to be
elected to office because they treated them in a
saloon. Mothers would wish to purify the at


mosphere for their sons and for mankind gen-
erally, and a better condition of government would
exist when women took an equal part in it.
	Dr. E. S. Barney believed in women and their
equality, she thought they would make good
judges, gave a graphic illustration of a stage trip
across the plains at which time the presence of a
lady in the stage coach, had been a sort of equa-
lizer to keep things moderate. Her idea as far as
progress was concerned was that women were in
advance. and certainly in charity which was the
acme of good.
	Mrs. C. Chapin of Ohio believed in woman
suffrage, said it had not been agitated in the town
where she lived, but she had been much interested
in it since she came to Salt Lake.
	The Chairman Mrs. Kimball made a brief ad-
dress and announced that a dispatch had been for-
warded to Mrs. M. E. Post at Cheyenne Wyom-
ing, the following is a copy.
	"The women of Utah send joyful greetings and
congratulations to their favored sisters of Wyom-
ing. Utah is proud of her little sister and recog-
nizes woman suffrage as the brightest jewel in her
crown of Statehood."
	The telegram was signed by Mrs. Kimball, as
President of the Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah, and endorsed by the members here and
will be we are perfectly sure by all the thousands of
women in Utah who believe in equal rights. The
Chairman then announced refreshments and the
ladies arranged the tables and benches.
	Near Mrs. Kimball was a box which had not
been opened, after all the guests were seated Mrs.
Kimball opened the box and displayed a dainty
little silver tea set with tray, this she presented to
Mrs. Dye, who sat opposite, with these words:
	"Mrs. Dye: The ladies of the W. S. A. of Salt
Lake City have assigned to me the pleasure of
presenting to you in their behalf this silver Tea-set
which we ask you to accept as a testimonial of
appreciation and love."
	Mrs. Dye though taken unawares made a grate-
ful response thanking the ladies for their beauti-
ful remembrance and telling them her lawn and
grounds were open to them any time in the future.
	A bright and animated discussion of the wo-
man question was kept up while partaking of the
refreshments, and soon after the company dis-
persed, having spent a few delightful hours in
very proper recognition of the victory achieved
for women not only in Wyoming but for the cause
everywhere.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Letters received from President Zina D. H.
Young since her arrival in Canada inform us of
her improvement in health and that she has at-
tended meetings of the sisters there and is enjoy-
ing, her visit among the Saints. She does not ex-
pect to remain away from here very long, will
probably return early in September.
	On Friday the 18th of July in company with
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, we attended the Relief
Society Conference of Davis Stake held at Kays-
vllle. Mrs. Susan Grant President, and her
Counselors Mrs. Mary S. Clarke and Mrs. Lucinda
Brown were present, also many other leading
sisters and some of the brethren of that Stake.
There was a representation from the Relief
Society of nearly every ward and their reports
made a good showing. We dined at Mrs. Sarah
Layton’s Pres. of the Relief Society of Kaysville,
and had a very pleasant time of social conversa-
tion. Mrs. Layton is in delicate health, but
spiritually alive to her duties in the office to
which she has been called and set apart. The sisters
in that Stake seem to appreciate the privileges of
the organization, and to be making good progress
in their work.


Mrs. Rachel Grant gave a sketch of the Relief
Society in Manassa where she had been visiting
recently, and of the disadvantages under which
the sisters labor who are so far from the centre
stake of Zion. The day was an Interesting one
and we trust profitable to all those who attended
the meetings.
	On account of circumstances which it was im-
possible to control and which cannot be explained
here, there was no issue of the paper on the first
of this month, although the number of the paper
will be the same as if it were dated August I, and
the volume will contain the twenty-four num-
bers, as we shall make up the missing one during
the year, so that no one of the subscribers need
feel wronged, and we earnestly solicit a greater
interest on the part of agents and Presidents of
the Relief Society and Primary Associations, also
those who are connected with the Woman Suff-
rage Associations, and ask them to take into con-
sideration the fact that the Woman's Exponent
is their organ of representation; that it has pub-
lished in their interest always, and for nearly
eighteen years was also the organ of the Young
Ladies’ Associations. We do not hesitate to say
that it ought to be well patronized by the women
of Zion, whose interests it has ever maintained
and now that the subscription is reduced to one
dollar per year, it must be within the reach of al-
most, if not quite, every home throughout the land.
The Relief Society wherever organized cannot
afford to do without it, because it is their official
organ and all special or general instruction is
given in its columns. Each one learns what
another branch of the Society is doing, as well as
each Stake, and thus they are enabled to work in
greater harmony. There are many reasons why
the paper should be better sustained and more
widely circulated, and we sincerely hope the
sisters in the various localities appreciate the
benefits of having a paper of their own and
will renew their diligence to make it all that they
desire.


HONORING THE AGED.
	On Thursday July 31st, Aunt Mary Snow Gates
was 77 years old. Sister Ann C. McFarlane pre-
pared a little surprise to cheer the aged lady.
Sisters Emma Morris, her Counselors Mary G.
Whitehead, Ann Hardy and a few others took in
a few presents and refreshments to gratify the
taste, pie, cake, melons and grapes etc., it was
really appreciated by the dear old lady whose con-
dition calls forth our sympathy and kindly feel-
ings; she has been comparatively helpless for
about three years from the effects of a paralytic
stroke. She has been a great reader in her time
and her sickness has impaired her hearing and
her eye sight also her speech. She feels very
forlorn through not being able to read as that was
a source of real comfort to her.
								A.C.W.
St. George, Aug. 3, 1890.


[column 1]
THE BITTER AND THE SWEET.
or
OLD FOLKS DAY.

	We often hear this remark: the bitter and the 
sweet are mingled in this probation or life and I
think the remark quite an appropriate one. But
on Old Folks Day it was vice versa, there was
far more aweet than bitter.
	Having arrived at the age of of 70 years I was
anxious to see how many people were living who
crossed the plains 42 years ago; knowing so
many had passed behind the veil during this
period of time.
	I was glad to see the Captain of our company
Bro. George Wallace. He was captain of our ten,
[column 2]
Bro. O. T. Smoot captain of fifty. Both are liv-
ing, Glad also to see Sisters Nebekar and Dewey
or Woolley, they looked charming yet, but their
husbands had passed away and are with eleven of
the apostles, some who were captains of a hundred
wagons and familes. Bro. Taylor was one, Bro.
Parley Pratt was also one. In the year 1847 we
followed the Pioneers. They started in April,
and our companies the first of June. They arrived
July 24th, we about September 15th. But I must
not forget others. One was Perigrene Sessions
and wife I met on this occasion. He begins to
look aged, but his mother who is 96 looks well
yet. I see her faculties are failing however, (she
was not there.) I would not forget to say the young
people who waited upon the tables looked angelic
in their white and bright colored dresses, with a
blue ribbon upon the left arm, and a white cap
with a blue bow etc. but their countenances
brightest of all beaming with love and admiration
while serving so gracefully at the tables. At
one time after all was over, the music struck up a
tune which gave animation to the young people;
the isles were alive with many of the girls, two
and two waltzing while the tune lasted.
	This shows they were not exhausted by fatigue
on this occasion; although it must have been a
tiresome task to wait upon so many. Four hundred
from the norh besides those from our City and
from the South. It was indeed a great day.
	And what made it still better, were the speeches
from Officials, that honored us with their presence.
I was highly gratified with the speech of our
Mayor George M. Scott, whose remarks I could
hear best. To me it sounded as though every
word he spoke was heart felt.
	Our Governor Arthur L. Thomas seemed in
earnest, but I could not hear distinctly, was glad
to see it in print afterwards which I expected to
do. I was favorably impressed with him when
he was Secretary for Gov. Murray. But realize
that now he is between two fires.
	I noticed Hon. F. S. Richards was applauded
but could not hear why; therefore was glad to
read his remarks knowing as I did that he was
better acquainted with us as a people than the
others who spoke.
	I believe I was more anxious to read Judge
Powers remarks, because I have supposed him
to be our bitter enemy. But I found a great deal
to admire in the article read by him for I noticed
that it was not extempore. I noticed his remarks
were refined and intelligent and respectful to the
aged as a friend to the human family &c. And I
felt to say, could the venom he has manifested
heretofore be extracted from his character he
would make a splendid Latter-day Saint.
	Well, I think this is enough! No not enough.
I was charmed with the hearty good-will with
which which Brother Charles R. Savage gave out the
presents to the old folks who were not able to live
without labor, there were quite a few who re-
ceived presents. But when he called for a man
who had not had a dollar in his pocket for a
month no hands were raised; and again for two
weeks but no hands were raised. This shows
that they were not greedy but rather honorable
men who had lived to become benefited through
the principles taught them by the gospel, which
are uprightness, honor, integrity and truth. These
when perfected will make its possessor a Saint;
because they are the teachings of our Saviour
who was called faithful and true.
			From an Aged One,
							M. E. K.
	July 21st 1890.


R.S. AND P.A. REPORTS.
			Bear Lake Stake.
	The Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake of
Zion, held their semi-annual conference May
31 and June 1 in the Stake Tabernacle


[column 1]
Services commenced by singing "Lord we
come before Thee now." Prayer was offered
by Pres. William Budge, singing again; the
roll was called and minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved; the statis-
tical and financial reports were then read
The various branches of the Relief Society in 
the Stake were represented by the Presidents,
the reports were very complete and satis-
factory.
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt thankful for the
privilege of meeting in this beautiful building,
thought it a credit to the stake. She had 
listened to the reports of the sisters with
pleasure, did not know of a time when they
were represented so well, urged upon the
sisters the necessity of attending to their spirit-
ual and temporal duties, hoped we realized our
positons as mothers in Israel to, "do good to
all" made many other remarks comforting and
encouraging to all present.
	Pres. William Budge spoke very encourag-
ingly to the sisters, said through all our perse-
cutions there is a source of enjoyment which 
man cannot give. The only way we can
stand the assaults of our enemies is by in-
creased diligence. Thought that attending to
the poor was the first temporal labor for the 
sisters to perform.
	Singing "Praise God." Prayer by Elder 
Dalrymple.
	Sunday, 2 p. m., singing "Softly beams the
sacred dawning," prayer by Bishop Price, sing-
ing "Earth with her ten thousand flowers."
The sacrament was then administered.
	Coun Elizabeth Collings said that through
the blessings of God we would be able to stand
all the trials we are called to pass through;
and to gain His blessing we must obey His
laws, mothers in Israel should teach their
children to honor their Father in heaven and
all to whom honor is due. Bore her testimony
to the truth of the work we are engaged in.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt thankful for a name
and standing in the kingdom of God. "There
is a dark cloud hanging over us, but the Lord
will be on our side if we are energetic in our 
endeavors to serve Him."
	Pres. Julia P. Linsday felt pleased with the
reports from the young folks, also to have Sister
Alice Rich with us again after her long afflic-
tion and to hear her acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all her sufferings; all the trials we
pass through only help to strengthen our faith.
	Stake Pres. of the Primary Association,
Annie Laker made a few very appropriate re-
marks.
	Pres. Geo. Osmond and Bishop Price each
gave some very good instructions and en-
couraged the sisters in their labors. Singing
"When shall we all meet again." Benedic-
tion by Elder H. Finley. 
	LOTTIE PRICE, Cor. Sec. of Stake R. S.
		UINTAH STAKE P.A.
	Minutes of quarterly conference of Primary
Associations of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Stake House, Vernal, June 2nd, 1890. Pres-
ent on the stand; Pres. Abigail Oaks, Second
Counselor, Anne Hacking, Sec. Caroline A.
Stringam of the Stake Officers. Also the
presidents of the several ward Associations, 
with their counselors, members of the Priest-
hood etc. Conference was called at ten o'clock
a. m. by Pres. Oaks: singing by all present,
prayer by a little boy of Ashley Association,
Ashley Bartlett. Singing.
	An excellent programme was then rendered
not one failing to respond. Interspersed
through the programme were reports from the
different associations of the Stake, which were
more than usually favorable.
	The exercises of the children were well nigh
perfect, and if space permitted we would like
to have given them all especial mention. As
[column 2]
it is we will speak of a few of the smaller
children.
	A song by Emma Freestone 6 years of age
of Ashley Ward Association was sung in the
sweetest manner, also a song entitled "The little
Church by the Hill" was sung by four little
girls of Merrill Association. Their voices
chorded charmingly, and it was indeed a joy
to listen to them.
	Two little girls of Mill Ward Association,
Pearl and Myrtle Johnson, aged respectively
four and six years, sang a dear little hymn
about the coming of the Savior, Myrtle ac-
companying on the organ. A song entitled 
"Gentle Smiles" by Willie, Pearl, and May
Timothy of Riverdale Association was sung in
such a lovely manner that pen would fail to
describe the heavenly music. Also a recitation
entitled "Mother's Darling" by Jennie Johnson
a little dot of a girl from the same ward, was
rendered in a most charming manner.
	The opening prayer in the afternoon was
offered by Zina Stringham a little girl of Mill
Ward Association three years of age, her little
voice was heard in all parts of the house, and
the audience responded with a fervent amen at
the close of the prayer.
	"Beautiful Home" was sung by Edie Wardle
of Glines Ward, her father and mother assist-
ing her, Brother Orson Calder accompanying
with organ. This was a beautiful song indeed
sung by well trained voices.
	Instrumental pieces were rendered by child-
ren from the several associations, and without
doubt showed considerable skill.
	Robert W. Winner of Mountain Dell Asso-
ciation gave us a solo on the Violin, which
was highly appreciated.
	Little Zina Hacking, six years of age, sang
"Little drops of water"her father (Pres. James
Hacking) accompanying her on the Organ.
	A dear little couple, Susie Marlow and
Amasa Packard, of Merrill Ward sang very
sweetly together and the recitations, dialogues,
essays, etc., of the remainder of the pro-
gramme were rendered in an excellent manner.
	Bishop George Freestone of Ashley ad-
dressed us during the afternoon. The sub-
stance of his remarks were as follows. Was
highly gratified with the manner in which the
children had recited. Years ago, he had
noticed people that placed their children for-
ward at every opportunity that presented it-
self. Thought at that time they were over
zealous, but had lived long enough to change
his mind. For he could point out children of
these very people that had grown to be noble,
useful members in the kingdom of God. "Our
children if trained when young, are not apt to
depart from the teaching they receive. Our
children have the principles of the Gospel in-
culcated into their minds, from the teachings
they receive in these Primary Associations, 
while older persons are often surprised to find
that they can receive instruction on important
matters from these little children. It is too
much the case, that the greater burden of
training these children, rests with the officers
of these associations, this should not be,
mothers send your children to Primary, go with
them when you can, and always assist the
officers with your faith and prayers and every
means that may be within your power." Felt
to bless all connected with this noble work. 
	Pres. Abigail Oaks, felt well repaid for at-
tending this conference, said that those that
had had the training of the children had done
well, "may we ever train them in truth and
righteousness." Thought that shortly our
house would not begin to hold the children.
	Gave out the next conference for the third
Saturday in September, called for five exer-
cises from each ward, and for reports to be
ready by the 1st of September.
	Thought it advisable for each ward in turn
to lead the singing, and choose the songs for
[column 3]
our ensuing conferences. The Ashley Associa-
tion to choose for the next conference.
	The Stake Officers were then sustained by
unanimous vote as follows, Abigail Oaks, Pres.
Elizabeth Bingham, First, and Anne Hack-
ing, Second Counselors, and Caroline A.
Stringam Sec.
	We felt to tender our hearty thanks to our
Chorister, Brother Thomas Bingham, also to
the Stake Organist, and Brother Orson Calder
their efficient aid.
	The conference closed with singing by all
present and benediction by Pres. James
Hacking.
	It was without doubt the best conference we
have ever held.
			CAROLINE A. STRINGAM, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOW IT CAME ABOUT.
		(BY MAUD MULLER.)
	"Watch the baby dear, Mamma will soon be
back." The speaker, a tall graceful figure,
addressed herself to a group of little children,
three in number as they played under the
shade of the trees not far from the door; and
turning hastened through the field, to where
two cows were feeding, they having escaped
from a little pasture close by. And while she 
is in pursuit, allow me, dear reader, to intro-
duce her to you, and give you a little history
of her past. Some eight years before our story
opens, Harry Seawell became acquainted with
"the lovely Flora Mapleton," daughter of
Mathew Mapleton a poor but honest farmer.
They soon became fast friends, and to an ob-
server it could easily be seen, that these oft re-
peated visits meant something more than mere
friendship. It's the old, old story, of love and
marriage! old yet ever new; and friends and
acquaintances felt that it was a good match.
Flora had always been a delicate girl, but her
unbounded love for Harry prevented her from
raising any objections, when he laid his plans
to start a home in a new country sparsely set-
tled; those who have had the experience of
settling new homes, know what this term im-
plies; how, with everything new and strange,
having to temper the elements, subdue the
soil, clear and break up land, make roads,
fences and water-ditches, there is a great deal
of outcome, and but very little income for the
first few years at least.
	But youth and love smiles at such small
trifles, so in course of time our young friends
anchored their little barque firm and fast, in a
rough unbroken country, with its advantages
and disadvantages, life seemed full of sunshine,
no cloud to dim the horizon of their future.
But experience has taught us that no matter
how fragrant the rose, thorns lie hidden under
its foliage, just so with this loving couple.
	Sickness soon visited their humble dwelling,
a little one was added to their number, a poor
weakly little thing, inheriting from that
fragile mother a delicate constitution, and
like some lovely flower blossomed to day to
droop and die to-morrow. These were sad days
for the young parents. But all this was bu-
ried, thro' the anxiety and care that was now
given to the young mother; for days and weeks
her life was despaired of, many times the fond
husband feared his home would be made deso-
late by the loss of his companion; but after
many weeks of watching, she passed the
crisis, and 'twas with joy her friends nursed
her back to health again. Although but a
wreck of her former self, she was in time, able
to attend to her household cares. When his
wife had regained her health, and Harry had
time to look about, he found he had become
so deeply involved, that he would have to seek
work where he could obtain the means to ex-
tricate himself with. This of course could not
be obtained at home, for money was scarce.


He could see no other way than to leave home,
and go in search of work where he hoped soon
to get enough to pay all his debts, and build
a comfortable home for his wife. He laid his
plans before her, painting them in glowing
colors and she, the same good patient loving
soul ! shut her feelings in her heart and bid
him God Speed! and he was gone! gone, and
she was alone, without the kind husband to
soothe her when sleep would leave her pillow.
but she stood it bravely this little heroine of
ours and waited patiently weeks and months
for his return.
	And Harry what of him, day after day he
tried in vain to obtain work, one misfortune
after another overtook him, and finally after
months of disappointment and bad luck he
wended his way homeward, to receive that
encouragement from his darling, which she so
stood in need of herself. But in this case as
in all cases of adversity the woman was the
stronger, she was ready to receive him with
words of cheer, and laid all manner of plans
for the future.
	But nothing could throw off the despondency
that settled down on Harry Seawell; nothing
but himself. And this he seemed utterly
unable to do. He knew that he had failed to
obtain that which would make his family
comfortable. He would look at his patient
little wife notice her wasted form caused by not
having the necessary food till at times it seemed
he would go mad; at such times he would
feel that her smile or words of cheer were
only a reproach. Years went on and as mis-
fortune does not come single-handed, things
went from bad to worse. It seemed as if
she had laid her merciless hand so heavily up-
on him, that he could not get from under the
grasp. Three little ones now shared their
home. To be sure they were a comfort,and no
fonder father or mother lived than Harry and
Flora Seawell. It was this great love for them
that made poverty so hard to bear.
	To think they were in need of the comforts
of life, and he unable to supply their wants
was more than he was able to endure, and at
times might have been tempted to a rash or
desperate act, had it not been for the cool-
headed, patient wife that never murmured.
Although it was selfish for him to put so much
upon her yet he did it. He did not seem to
realize that these fits of despondency made it
harder for her to bear although she never
reproved him.
	If he had been the strong noble man he was
when he took her from her father’s door, he
would readily have seen his course was kill-
ing her. Not that he meant to be cruel to her
but he had become so used to complaining,that
he looked on the dark side of life and could
see no bright side in the future. And in fact
did not appreciate the many little blessings
that came to him daily.
	They had chosen for their building spot for
their future home an elevation on their land
where you could see in the distance the thrifty
little village that was rapidly growing, and
bid fair to be a flourishing town in the near
future, near by is the creek, whose banks are
shaded by trees and underbrush. ’Tis a cool
retreat from the rays of the scorching sun, and
the murmuring of the water as it glides over
the pebbles below, lulls you off to a forgetful-
ness of the cares around you. Near this in-
tended home is a large canal running thro’
Harry’s land that he not only uses, but 'tis for
the benefit of those who own land miles below
his own. While preparing to build, and, to
make his family as comfortable as possible, he
formed a rude shelter among the heaviest
underbrush and trees; to protect them from the
heat of summer,and the winter blasts. There-
fore the house was between the river and canal,
with the hills half a mile distant for a back-
ground. A beautiful little spring enhanced
[Column 2]
the value of his property, and was a great
prize to the family. A nice lucern patch
which supplied his stock with feed for the
winter,was another blessing attached to Harry’s
farm. But under the existing circumstances
Harry was unable to appreciate these blessings
as he might otherwise have done, he could
not see that in the future this would bring
him many returns for his unceasing labor.
It was the present wants that absorbed his
mind making him feel poorer than he really
was. Poor Flora. It made her very un-
happy to see her once cheerful husband give
way to these melancholy moods.
	It darkened their home and many times
this poor wife would pray that some day,Harry
would be his own dear self again. It came
sooner, and in a way she little dreamed of.
The morning on which our story opens,Harry
started to the canyon for a load of material
for his house. The morning was calm and
clear, nature had on her loveliest dress, the
fragrance of the wildrose, the fields of waving 
grain, the sweet, clear notes of the meadow-
lark,bespoke the goodness of an Allwise Creator.
Harry could not help but partake of this
sweet influence,as he rode along. Time passed
very busily for Flora, she sang a sketch of a
favorite song as sbe did up the morning’s work.
Harry had been more cheerful this morning
than usual. and her thoughts were so taken up
with this, and her labor, that she did not go
to the door for some time, when at last she did
it was with no little surprise that she noticed
an approaching storm! the sky had become
overcast with dark and threatening clouds her
first thought was of the children and as she
hurried to the spot where they were at play,
she spied her cows feeding outside of the en-
closure.
	Finding the little ones all right, with the
injunction to watch baby she was gone. She
hurriedly corralled her cows and made her way
back to the house. As she neared the house,
she noticed the baby was not with the children
she quickened her steps, at the same time look-
ing in all directions but did not see the little
one. She hurried to the spot and breathless
with excitement exclaimed, “The baby! chil-
dren wheres the baby?” They looked up in
amazement; of course they had not seen it go
did not know anything about it. Had it
followed her, and she had not seen it! Wild
with excitement she hurried to the river! O
what if he had fallen in and perhaps this very
moment was being washed away from her!
The thought lent her strength, it seemed that
her feet did not touch the ground! still it
seemed ages to that crazed mother,she reached
the bank at last, she scanned the river up and
down, but could see nothig of her baby. He
must have fallen in and floated down the
stream! The thought no sooner entered her
mind than she was off. Down the banks she
ran over rocks, thro’ the brush shrieking at
the top of her voice! “O my baby! my baby!”
The thought that he might have sank impelled
the wretched mother to plunge into the stream
feeling for the little body she knew must be
there somewhere. The excitement must have
taken wings for the news went out, that Flora
Seawell’s babe was lost, men women and chil-
dren, came upon the scene, then the search
began in earnest. Every spot where they
thought he could get, they searched it
thoroughly. Men searched the river with pitch-
forks, hoping to catch the dress of the little
one; to make the scene more impressive, the
storm burst upon them in great fury. The
rain came down in torrents; but they never
relinquished their energy: little ones worked
with a will, they crossed the canal thinking
it might have walked the plank that reached
across its banks, and off towards the hills as
if some unseen power was urging them on,at
every step calling him by name; when O
[Column 3]
joy! under a bush weeping bitterly; they
found the little one drenched to the skin but
alive and well. It did not take long to re-
turn with their treasure, to the anxious
workers; but now the babe was found where
was the mother? They hurried down the
stream, shouting their success at every breath.
Far down the stream they found her a
picture once seen never to be forgotten. Her
hair hanging down her back, her eyes start-
ing from their sockets, wringing her hands,
and screaming as one bereft of reason. “My
baby is lost! my baby is lost!” Stout men’s
hearts gave way, at the sight of that wretched
mother: but when they made known their
success she was overcome with joy. Taking
her tenderly in their arms, they carried her
to the house where gentle hands removed her
wet clothing, put her in bed, and made her
as comfortable as possible.
	Of course the news reached Harry before
he reached home: the joy of that fond father
on beholding his little treasure again no pen
can describe. He was greatly surprised to
see his little wife looking so well. In a day
or two she was herself again. When he
looked at them and thought what might
have been. his better nature was stirred to
the very center. His heart went out in
gratitude to God for the watch-care He had
had over his family, and the restoring of
their little one to them again. He resolved
that with the help of the Lord, and his
patient companion, he would be more worthy
of them in the future. He would try and
look on the bright side of life; and he did:
To day there is no happier home than that
of Harry Seawell’s.
	If clouds loom up in the horizon, he drives
them away with a smile, and fondly gazing
at his little flock will say “I have you all
and I am content.” The change it wrought
upon Harry is noticable to his friends, mak-
ing them happy in his company so the losing
of their babe proved to be (as Flora says) “a
blessing in disguise.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LINES.
[TO MY DEAR MOTHER ON HER SEVENTIETH ANNI-
					VERSARY.]
	Seventy years have passed away
	Since you first beheld the light of day.
	Our Heavenly Father sent you here
	A widowed mother’s heart to cheer,
	A father’s love you ne'er did know,
	To guide your feet as they should go.
	Some cruel fate his path had crossed,
	And he was to his loved ones lost.
	
	Your noble mother, with grief most wild,
	Found comfort in her darling child;
	And with a mother’s love did strive
	To teach her child how she should live.
	The Gospel light soon bursting forth,
	You both did find and prize its worth;
	And comfort found beyond the grave,
	This Gospel promised souls to save.

	When you had grown to womanhood
	A companion found both true and good,
	Life's battle with him o’er fifty years
	You've shared amid its joys and tears.
	Like other Saints, from home were driven
	For espousing a pure religion.
	Vile, wicked men in mobs arose
	And proved that they were Zion’s foes.

	The martyred Saints full well you knew
	And you're a living martyr, true.
	'Twas thought a battle would take place,—
	Your friends and mobs stood face to face;
	Did you not start to friends to fly,
	With them to live, or with them die?
	And when the flag of truce displayed
	You realized those Saints were saved.


The mission was filled by a noble band.
Freedom's banner waved on this very land.
While you my dear mother, untiringly striving
For your own little ones was gaining a living.
When father returned he did not long rest
'Till he found you a home in the distant West.
'Twas thought, were the Saints on a far off sod,
Their foes would allow them to worship their God.

The Church has grown, thousands gathered,
For saving souls missionaries labored.
Societies formed in Utah's fair land
Are working together with heart and hand
To comfort the sad and aid the distressed
That all the afflicted may truly be blest.
While you, my dear mother, with unceasing zeal
Have ever put your shoulder to the wheel.

Your wise counsels your colaborers heed
And surely are prospered in each valiant deed.
And by their works do honestly prove
They are engaged in a labor of love,
They with your family meet here today.
With hearty good wishes we fervently pray
That your Seventieth birthday all may enjoy
And care and sorrow not come to annoy.
				ALICE M. J. TANNER
Beaver City, U. T., 25th Feb. 1890.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	The Queen Isabella Association asks Pres.
Palmer to appoint as three of the nine women
commissioners from Chicago, Dr. Julia Holmes
Smith, Dr. Francis Dickinson and Catherine
V. Waite.
	As late as 1850 the number of female 
graduates in medicine could be counted on the
fingers of one hand. To-day upward of 2,000
American women hold a medical diploma, and 
the chance of a first-class medical education is
within reach of any woman who seeks it.—
Baltimore Sun.
	Canon Wilberforce, during his tour in
India, has been speaking with more than his
usual eloquence. He says that there is no sex
in citizenship, and that India should develop
the intelligence of her women. "No nation 
can attain strength that is afraid to educate its
women."
	WATER COOLED WITHOUT ICE.—Where ice
cannot be procured, water may be cooled by
wrapping the pitcher containing it in a towel
of loose texture which has been previously
impregnated with ammonium nitrate (and
dried), and moistening this with water. The
same towel may be used repeatedly, being
dried thoroughly beforehand each time.—
Medical Classics.
	Rev. Robert Laird Collier died of apoplexy
at his country home, "the Everglades," near
Salisbury, N. J. at midnight, recently. He
was stricken with paralysis the night before
and never regained consciousness. Mr. Collier
was born in Wicomico County, Aug. 7, 1835.
Like Saul of old he opposed equal rights until
he saw light; then, like Paul, he heartily es-
poused the good gospel of woman suffrage.
	A Mohammedan woman; a native of Bakshe-
Serai, in the Crimea has recently passed with
flying colors her examination as physician
and surgeon at Odessa, and, having received
her diploma, is now practising medicine among
the Mohammedan ladies of the district
from which she hails. Her name is Dr. Razie
Koutloiaroff-Hanum, and hers is the first case
on record of a Mohammedan lady practising
medicine as understood by Western nations.
Women, too, are now being employed for the
first time by the Government as telegraphic
clerks and ticket agents on the Trans-Caspian
Railroad.
								Ex.
	It is not often that a bride stops while mov-
ing toward the altar, and breaks the line of
[column 2]
the procession of her own sweet will. But
Miss Dorothy Tennant did this on the occasion
of her marriage to Henry M. Stanley the other
day in Westminster Abbey, and walked slowly
to the tablet under which lies the dust of
Livingstone and placed thereon a wreath of
white flowers, in the center of which was the
letter "L" in scarlet. This gentle courtesy in
honor and memory of a departed hero, recalls
what Dickens says of that beautiful trait in
human nature which causes us to remember
most vividly the dead in moments of our
greatest joy and peace. For grace and dignity,
this simple act is unsurpassed. It will be
remembered that Miss Tennant was the model
for Millais' famous picture of "Yes, or No?"
And this counterfeit presentment gives a face
of gentle sweetness and quiet power.
						Woman's Cycle.

	The report on permanent organization of
the Columbian Commission of the World's Fair
at Chicago, proides for a Board of Lady
Managers, consisting of two women and
alternates therefor from each State and Terri-
tory and the District of Columbia, which shall be
known as the Woman's Department of the
World's Columbian Commission, and the
commissioners from each State and Territory
and the District of Columbia shall nominate,
from their respective States and Territories
and the District of Columbia, such lady
managers, and the president of this commission
shall appoint said nominees to said Board of 
Managers, and in addition to the members
from each State and Territory and the District
of Columbia, the president of the commission
may appoint nine women of the City of Chicago
The respective Commissioners at Large shall
in like manner nominate eight women and
Alternates at Large to act upon said Board of
Lady Managers, and that the whole number
of women so nominated and appointed shall
constitute the Board of Lady Managers contem-
plated by the act of Congress. It is further
provided, that the Board of Lady Managers be
constituted officers of the World's Columbian
Commission, and as such shall receive the
compensation of six dollars per diem, and
travelling expenses,the same as the men.
									Ex.


OBITUARIES
	Died at Meadow, Millard Co. Utah,July 8,1890, Sophia
wife of E. A. Beckstrand. She was born at Oland,Sweden,
Oct. 9, 1833, embraced the Gospel and was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1855.
Emigrated to Utah 1861, and was married the same year
to Brother E. A. Beckstrand, in Salt Lake City.
	She was a good wife, affectionate mother and a sincere
friend, and sister. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She leaves a husband and four children to
lament her loss, her eldest son is on a mission to Sweden.

	Death softly came, and bore away
		A sister true, and tried.
	In the calm twilight of her days,
		In faith and hope she died.

	She suffered long, then calmly bent
		To meet death’s fatal blow;
	An arrow sure, in mercy sent,
		To sufferers here below.
					M. A. Y. GREENHALGH,

Meadow, July 11, 1890.

	Died at Payson, April 3rd, 1890, Annie Elizabeth, be
loved wife of John Henry Box; deceased was born July
11th 1813 in Switzerland; embraced the Gospel and emi-
grated in 1876. Lived and died in full faith of the Gospel
and in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolutions of Respect adopted by the Relief Society of
the 4th District—Payson.
	To the memory of Sister Annie Elizabeth Box;—
	Whereas; it has pleased our Heavenly Father by the
hand of death to take from us our beloved Sister we bow in


humble submission to the divine will of Almighty God,we
realize in her death we have lost a good woman.
	Resolved; that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society record, also a copy be presented to the bereaved
family and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		LAMECIA A. SCHARRER.
		ANNA JONES,
		EMMA CURTIS.


[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Gent. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
Vol. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER<August> 1<5>, 1890. 		No. 6.


CONTENTS.
	A Midsummer Day In The Country.—E. T.
Hephzibah. An Answer To The Article Entitled
"Woman’s Calling.”—Mary Anderson. Notes
And News. National Pension Funds For Nurses.
—Englishwoman’s Review. R. S. And P. A.
Reports. Wyoming’s Day.—Woman’s Tribune.
John Howard Pane.—Hearth And Hall. Benefits
Of Primary Associations.—Ida May Smith.
	EDITORIAL. Commencment Of Schools.
Editorial Notes. Dedicatory Exercises. Agri-
cultural College Of Utah.—J. W. Sanborn.
Letter From Lula.—L. L. Greene Richards. In
Memoriam.—Willmirth East. Woman’s Meet-
ings And Conferences. Unjust Decision.—Mary
Ann M. Pratt.
	POETRY. Sundered.—Ida M. Davis. Memory’s
Mirror.—L. M. Hewlings. New Every Morn-
ing.—Susan Coolidge. A Lonely Home.—E. A.
Crane Watson. The Song Of The Sea.—Richard
E. Burton.


SUNDERED.

Swifter than bird upon the wing,
Swifter than time when joy reigns king,
	Softer than southern wind’s caress.
	Softer than mother's tenderness.
Sweeter than roses in red June,
Sweeter than nightingale’s low tune,
	Are, the thoughts that I speed to you today.
	O, messenger, fly, nor my love delay.

Slower than sleep to the haunted brain,
Slower than dawn to night of pain.
	Sterner than grief that never weeps,
	Sterner than fate that never sleeps,
Sadder than sorrow's bitter sigh.
Sadder than exile’s yearning cry,
	Is the message inbourne to me tonight,
	O, heart, can it be that once you were light 
							IDA. M. DAVIS.


MEMORY’S MIRROR.
In the shadow of age, sad, weary and worn,
	On memories fair mirror gazing intent,
Feeling stricken, forsaken, friendless, alone.
	In the garments of mourning tattered and rent.
Soon familiar footsteps are heard drawing nigh,
	Some one mysteriously enters the door,
And quietly seats himself down by her side,
	Commences to talk as in past days of yore.
Of the changes of weather, times and the tide,
	Hopes of his manhood, great bargains he’d made,
Then back to the days of his love and his bride,
	Thence to his boyhood, of the pranks he had played.
Then there floated out voices, prattling and sweet;
	Many glad voices, of children at play,
And the glad welcome sound of pattering feet,
	Were greeted with joy, from a long ago day.
Sweet red rosy lips were held up for a kiss,
	Soft golden curled heads, bright laughing blue eyes,
Cherub faces, dimpled with smiles of pure bliss,
	And the touch of soft hands, with joy she descries.
The play is over, tales told, and songs sung,	
	Eve'ning drifts in from the shores of day,
Quiet broods over busy brains, buzzing tongues,
	While each dear white-robed child is kneeling to pray.
Now the soft sweet good-nights float out on the air.
	And earth seems heaven, transfigured by His grace,
The long years roll back, with their changes and care,
	Time’s weary worn garments, have all been effaced.
The tenderest light sifts and quivers and falls,
	Flits all over thro’ flowers, and vine made screens,
Over garden, and grasses, and tree-tops tall,
	Entrancing her soul in a fairy like scene.
The dear little cottage, the home she loved best,
	Hid among the grasses, vines flowers and trees.
The orchards, and meadows in beauty were drest.
	Sweet summer retreat for the birds and the tees.
Memory's Mirror wrought a wonderful charm!
	Dissolved the dark shadows, so sombre and gray,


Brought soft summer zephyrs, with healing like balm,
      Breath of sweet clover, scent of newly mown hay.
								L. M. HEWL1NGS.


A MIDSUMMER DAY IN THE
COUNTRY.
		"See	the glowing sunlight now
		Tint the mountain's misty brow.”
	Who ever does see the first gleam of sun-
light, is well repaid for the effort, for it re-
quires an effort to shake off our drowsiness
on a summer’s morning. It is not only the
rosy gleam that first “tints the mountain” and
then steals across the valley and bursts upon
us with a glory only surpassed by heavenly
brightness, but it is all nature, from the wee
innocent flower half hidden by the green damp
grass, to the tall towering mountains that form
the background to all the scenes so dear to us
the mountain people.
	All living creatures rejoice in the beauties
of life, and dull must be the brain,and callous
the heart, that does not as the lark
		"Tune its first lays to its Maker’s praise.”
	We must rejoice with nature but there is
work for all, and, by the time a farmer’s wife
has prepared the morning meal she is so tired,
and a sweet piping voice reaches her she al-
most wishes the baby had slept until after
breakfast, but when a vision of white-robed
figures fill the door, with eyes beaming with
pleasure at the thought that they have brought
the baby, all thoughts of murmuring vanish,
and as warm loving arms encircle, and baby
kisses are showered unsparingly, there comes
to the tired mother the greatest happiness
that life has to give.
	As the mid-day sun glances down upon us our
weariness increases, and we do not see so much
beauty in nature, as in the mid-day of life we
feel the heat and the burden, but when the
long lingering afternoon passes over and we
have had time for a little rest, we begin again
again to enjoy living, but not with the same
buoyant happiness of the morning, for many
disappointments have darkened the bright
dawning, a long-expected letter; a long-wished
for friend has not arrived, with many other
petty, but annoying vexations, but with a
calm, almost holy feeling, akin to awe, we
realize that with all our hopes, joys, fears and
disappointments we have  drifted one day
nearer eternity.
		"Sweet is summer's evening hour,
		Soothing in its magic power,
		Gentle whispers seem to say
		Life is but a summer day;
		And its close if spent aright
		Tranquil as a summer night.
								E. T.
July' 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		HEPHZIBAH.
		XXVII.
Sad was the parting, weary was the way,
	The Prilgrims trod, while journeying along;
Many the trials’ encountered day by day,
	And yet at eve the merry dance and song,—
The drooping spirits cheer'd and hope grew bright;
	And when they knelt upon the ground to pray, -
They seem’d to see a resting place in sight,
	And holy angels, guarding all their way.

[Column 2]
	Hepsie felt that parting thus from her
mother, after all she had suffered alone, was
indeed a test of her faith, and sincerity; and
she prayed fervently for strength,and firmness,
to take this final step, that seemed to her a
cross,—a sacrifice, greater than any she had
voluntarily made; and she was doing this her-
self; it appeared much harder since her mother
had spoken her feelings on the subject, in fact
prophesied of the future; and it did look cruel,
yet an irresistible impulse led her on. When
alone she questioned her own heart as to the
motives which induced her to take, what looked
to others to be, “a leap in the dark.”
	Was it because Harold’s unfaithfulness had
killed out all affection, and made her cold and
and distrustful, and desirous of burying her-
self among those, who were not akin to her,
and could have no claim upon her love, or
gratitude? sometimes she felt afraid it was so;
—that she was selfish; and then there would
come over her, a wave of singular emotions, so
exalting in their nature, that she seemed
wafted into a celestial atmosphere, where all
human love was swallowed up in the great
river of life, that flowed ever onward connect-
ing the seen with the unseen, the real with the
ideal, the earthly with the eternal. At such
times her thoughts would take the most lofty
flights, that made the present appear like a
shadowy myth,compared to the glory to be at-
tained by sacrifice, and compliance with the
will of God, which under certain influences
seemed so plain to her understanding. This
knowledge was so sacred in its character, and
its effect upon her was such that she did not
dare to explain it to any one if she had been
inclined, not even her mother.
	To Hepsie it was above and beyond all the
education the world could give; and to which
in the past she had aspired with so much en-
thusiasm. No sacrifice looked too great if she
could only endure it in view of the promises held
out to her in connection with the principles
she had been taught. Hepsie realized in a
very small degree what sacrifice and endurance
meant, but she was naturally hopeful and
having had some sharp trials that cut very
keen and close into her heartstrings, she
naturally enough thought these lessons had
paved the way for higher ones. And so indeed
it proved.
	There were some discouragements thrown
in her pathway, and there were those beside
her mother, who tried to hinder her from leav-
ing Nauvoo with the first company. There
were offers of this kind and that, and objec-
tions raised of various kinds, but these had no
weight whatever,she had set her face Westward
and was not to be thwarted in her purpose for
trifles. One young friend and companion used
every effort in her power to hinder her from
undertaking the journey and when she saw
how immovable Hepsie was, she accused her
of never having truly loved Harold, and went
so far as to say, “you dare not face his father
and mother, you are going away without see-
ing them; they have been told that you are go-
ing, and they mean to put a stumbling block
in your way, for you are still his wife what-
ever you may think, and they are determined
you shall not go; they know very well if you
do Harold will never come back. What have
you to say to them, will you be answerable for
his utter ruin?
	Hepsie quickly replied, “my religion has
aught me to love my enemies and although I


[Column 1]﻿
am far from perfect in that lesson which the
Savior taught, yet I am not afraid to meet
Harold's parents; I know I have not wronged
Harold or them my conscience is clear and you
can tell them so.”
	“Well Hepsie, they’ve sent for you to come
out to Laharpe and see them,there’s a carriage
waiting at Uncle Jo’s for you now will you go?
Have you no fears that you may be persuaded
to remain? they will offer you great induce-
ments to stay with them, you know they have
lots of money.”
	“Katie their money weighs nothing with me,
they would not give one cent to Harold and I
when they knew how destitute we were before
baby was born, but I can forgive them even
that, and I will go, if you will go with me,
and they shall see I am not a moral coward,
and could face the whole world were it neces-
sary to prove my sincerity in my religion.”
“Will you go with me you know them all and
I should even be glad to see Oney once more
and leave a message with him for Harold
should he ever return, tho’ my heart tells me
he never will!” “Yes, Hepsie I’ll go and tell
the folks at Uncle Joe’s that we’ll go,and mind
you must be ready early tomorrow morning its
a long drive.”
	Hepsie had many reflections that night and
such strange dreams, she had not told any one
where she was going except her mother, and
she had objected saying, “Hepsie my dear, you
over-estimate your strength, you will break
down, and your nerves are already shattered,
O, that dreadful woman, why did I ever
trust you with her. “Mother I am going,”
said Hepsie to show Mrs. Harvey, that I am
converted to a faith that more than compen-
sates me for Harold’s absence, and perhaps
my dear mother, his lack of manhood, has
been my salvation; for I could never have
been modified, subdued, changed as I am nor
have seen the frivolity of worldly things as
I do now, if I had not passed through “a fiery
furnace,” if I had not been left utterly alone
and friendless, as well as destitute, and only
One above to look to, and lean upon. I will
tell this to the Harvey’s and who knows but
it may be a testimony to warn them and save
them from Apostacy.”
	Her mother replied, “Hepsie I shall not
object to the free exercise of your will in the
matter, nor in regard to your going away; I
comprehend now that you have received light
and knowledge beyond most young people of
your age, and I am prepared to consent to
your going away with the main body of the
Church. I shall make no remonstrance
hereafter.” This concession on the part of
Mrs. Hathaway was very consoling to Hepsie.
	On the following morning Hephzibah and
her friend Kate P. left the city for Laharpe; it
was late in the day when they arrived at the
Harvey residence, for sure enough it had been
as Kate said beforehand a long drive; they
were cold and tired, and the reception they
received was also a very cool one.
	Mrs. Harvey detected almost immeadiately
that Hepsie had not come to stay, and she
resented her bringing Kate with her; but
Hepsie was prepared fot the encounter, such
as it was. “O, I can see plainly, that you’re
not a bit humbled by your trouble; your just
as proud as ever, pride and poverty don’t go
well together though.”
	These and similar sayings were the greet-
ings she recieved and the only comfort the
visit afforded her was a word or two with
Harold’s brother. He assured her of his
brotherly affection and also that he still
believed Mormonism was true and hoped
some day his mother would be convinced of
her error in persuading his father to leave
Nauvoo. He told Hepsie he felt sure Harold
was dead from things he had dreamed con-
cerning him; and Hepsie knowing his delicate

[Column 2]
spiritual temperament felt he must be right. It
would be too much to detail items of this
visit, but Hepsie and Kate went back to
Nauvoo fully convinced of the apostacy of Mrs.
Harvey, and she was the ruling spirit in the
household. When they parted, Mrs. Harvey
said to Hepsie, “I suppose if you’re not married
to one of the heads of the Church you’re go-
ing to be, and you’ll never see Harold again,
or have a dollar of our money.” But her
words had no effect upon the young woman ex-
cept to disgust her with her oft-repeated allu-
sions to money. On the way home Hepsie
said to Kate “dont tell mother how we were
treated, it will make her so indignant and un
happy, besides mother and the children will
be left here when we go away, and we don’t
know what may transpire, you know the
Harvey’s spoke highly and kindly of mother
and they might do her a favor; she may need it
for if as they say, the remainder of the Saints
are likely enough to be driven after we are
gone,who can tell what she may need, and it is
better for her not to know, any way it could’nt
do any good and it might do harm.” Kate
however didn’t see fit to promise, and as soon as
she had an opportunity told Mrs. Hathaway
everything except that Mrs. Harvey accused
Hepsie of being married to one of the heads of
the Church. She knew that would be going a
little too far, if she meant to retain Hepsie’s
friendship, and she was anxious to have her
favor, for she knew that Hepsie’s influence
would be a blessing; she herself had questioned
her about the gossip refered to, on the journey
home and became convinced that whatever
step Hepsie intended to take, she was terribly
in earnest; and if she ever married again the
marriage would be solomnized upon a higher
platform, than either Mrs. Harvey the elder,or
Mrs. Hathaway could appreciate at present.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	AN ANSWER TO THE ARTICLE
ENTITLED “WOMAN’S CALLING.”
	When God had finished the earth in all its
glory with all things useful, beautiful. and
pleasing unto man, and gave man dominion
over the same, yet was man alone, and for
Adam there was not found a helpmate and
God said it is not good that the man should be
alone. So Eve was given unto Adam to be a
helpmate. That was Woman’s first Mission.
And it seems that she was given the first
power to tempt man for good or evil and she
used her influence in persuading him to partake
of that which had been forbidden them, if
Eve had so much influence over her
companion, should we not be careful how we
use our influence over our companions, and
associates by whom we are surrounded daily,
for are we not all daughters of Eve, and just
as apt to close our ears, as it were against the
commands that are sometimes given, but alas!
slippery is the way which we sometimes tread,
and if we do slip we are not alone, but some
associate goes with us.
	Woman’s Mission should be to use that
influence which has been given her for a higher
and better purpose and we are pleased to re-
late circumstances wherein she has used that
influence to some of the highest and noblest
purposes on Earth. It can even be said of
women as of men, “Some are born great, some
achieve greatness, and some have greatness
thrust upon them: ("Shakspere,”) Some have
even laid down their lives for love of their
Country and people. We might trace the
History of the World through and find in all
ages that Woman (though not so popular as
Man,) has bravely fought her fight and now
we live to see the day already dawned, when
she will be raised from her lower platform
and placed on an equal footing with Man to
enjoy “Political equality” which means “Civil

[Column 2]
social and and religious liberty" her abilities
need no longer be crushed for she can even now
lend a helping hand to all mankind.
	But let us reflect back a little upon her
past God knows with what angelic patience
she has borne her rebuke, even when He said
"He would greatly multiply her sorrow and
conception."  But as that sorrow was fore-
ordained we can see how vast, how mighty!
yet how glorious are the works of God in
using His children as instruments in bringing
about redemption.
	Grand design! we are all more or less
acquainted with the short sketches of the
Women of the Bible, with what meekness of
heart they bore their sorrow and lo! what a
day of rejoicing it must have been when the
Savior was promised.  When God should find
a woman holy and pure enough, to be the
means of bringing a Savior into the world to
redeem mankind from the effects of the first
fall. And when He was born she followed
Him through bis wauderings, anointing and
bathing His feet by the wayside, and being
last at the cross, and first at the sepulchre,
and do we not find many women doing the
same to-day, even in the world; and amongst
our own people they are erecting many noble
Institutions for the poor and distressed,clothing
the naked, feeding the hungry, teaching the
unlearned and trying to check the downward
course of intemperance among mankind.
Verily they have their reward, for Jesus said
“he that giveth unto one of these a cup of
water in my name, doeth the same unto me,”
then we have the beautiful example of our
Sainted Mothers, how eagerly they
accepted the same Christ; how willingly
they laid their all upon the altar of sacrifice,
and embraced His Holy Truths struggling on
through all manner of trials, but happy in
the thought of knowing that “Whom God 
loveth He chasteneth.”
	Ah! my sisters, how do we hold these sacred
things, do we remember how dearly they are
paid for, and that our spirits have been re-
served and born heirs to all the  blessings we
now enjoy even the Spirit and light of God,
then how great must be our mission.  Should
we not stretch forth a hand to stay the fallen
one, and to watch ourselves closely, lest we be
drawn into the slippery snare.  Yes for we
have all we can do, though our lives be of the
humblest nature, to guard ourselves day by
day to use our influence for only pure and en-
nobling purposes, that we might be able to
retain our guardain angel,and gain the respect
and love of all good people. for God our Father
in heaven is Love," that our light might not
be put under a bushel but set upon a hill where
all nations can see and partake of the same
light we enjoy,and men shall say, “Come, let
us go up to the Mountain of the Lord for He
will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in
His paths, and righteousness will cover the
Earth as the waters cover the sea.
					MARY ANDERSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Constance Fenimore Woolson, the
novelist, is the idol of novel publishers. All
the productions of her pen are eagerly bought
by them and easily disposed of. She is now
living in Italy. She is a dainty little woman
and very peculiar in her dress.
	Mrs. Amelia E. Barr, the well known 
novelist, lives a hermit sort of life on the
summit of the Storm King Mountain on the
Hudson. She goes to Europe soon to gather
material for a new novel which will deal with
the subject of Calvinism. Mrs. Barr writes all
her novels with a typewriter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEW EVERY MORNING.
Every day is a fresh beginning,
    Every morn is the world made new,
You who are weary of sorrow and sinning,
    Here is a beautiful hope for you;
A hope for me and a hope for you.

All the past things are past and over.
    The tasks are done and the tears are shed.
Yesterday's errors let yesterday cover;
    Yesterday's wounds, which smarted and bled,
Are healed with the healing which night has shed.

Yesterday now is a part of forever,
    Bound up in a sheaf which God holds tight,
With glad days, and sad days, and bad days which never
    Shall visit us more with their bloom and their blight,
Their fulness of sunshine or sorrowful night.

Let them go, since we cannot re-live them,
    Cannot undo and cannot atone;
God in his mercy receive, forgive them;
    Only the new days are our own.
To-day is ours and to-day alone. 

Here are the skies all burnished brightly,
    Here is the spent earth all re-born,
Here are the tired limbs springing lightly
    To face the sun and to share with the morn
In the chrism of dew and the cool of dawn.

Every day is a fresh beginning;
    Listen, my soul, to the glad refrain,
In spite of sorrow and older sinning,
    And puzzles forcasted and possible pain,
Take heart with the day, and begin again.
Ex.                                 SUSAN COOLIDGE.


A LONELY HOME.
[On the death of Clare Watson accidentally killed Sept.
12, 1889.]
Our home is so strangely lonely,
    A void seems to be every where,
The rooms are so large and so empty,
    For the Angel of Death has been there.
When we kneel at the sacred altar
    To offer morning, or evening prayer
We all feel the break in the circle 
    The absent one, is our boy, Clare!

Then after our morning devotion
    As we all to the table repair,
We still note the place that is vacant
    We think for a moment, where’s Clare!
And there is his bed as he used it
    For there’s none that his place can fill;
And we must submit unto Heaven
    Acknowledge a kind Father’s will.

Turn where we will,or do what we may,
    There is some proof of what he has done;
A prompting of something he'd said,
    Some reminder of that noble one.
Yet who notes the fall of the sparrow,
    And who numbers each separate hair
Knows best why He took our dear one
    Our darling, our boy, our Clare.

The family circle is broken,
    But another above is begun
By our dear Clare and Talula    
    And our turn to join them will come;
Oh, God grant that we each may be doing
    All the good that we can, and prepare,
To join that bright circle in heaven.
    Arid dwell with sweet Lula, and Clare.
				E. A. Crane Watson.
Parowan June 8, ’90.


THE SONG OF THE SEA.
The song of the sea was an ancient song
    In the days when the earth was young;
The waves were gossipping loud and long
    Ere mortals had found a tongue.
The heart of the waves with wrath was wrung,
    Or soothed to a siren strain,


As they tossed the primitive isles among
    Or slept in the ocean main.
Such was the song and its changes free,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea took a human tone
    In the days of the coming of man;
A mournfuler meaning swelled her moan,
    And fiercer her riots ran;
Because that her stately voice began
    To speak of our human woes;
With music mighty to grasp and span
    Life's tale and its passion-throes.
Such was the song as it grew to be,
Such was the song of the sea.

The song of the sea was a hungry sound
    As the human years unrolled,
For the notes were hoarse with the doomed and drowned
    Or choked with a shipwreck's gold:
Till it seemed no dirge above the mold,
    So sorry a story said,
As the midnight cry of the waters old
    Calling above their dead.
Such is the song and its threnody,
Such is the song of the sea.

The song of the sea is a wondrous lay,
    For it mirrors human life;
It is grave and great as the judgment day.
    It is torn with the thought of strife;
Yet under the stars it is smooth and rife,
    With love-lights everywhere,
When the sky has taken the deep to wife
    And their wedding day is fair—
Such is the ocean's mystery.
Such is the song of the sea.
—Richard E. Burton, in the Mail and Express.


[Column 1]
	﻿NATIONAL PENSION FUND FOR
			NURSES.
	An interesting ceremony took place at
Marlborough House on July 4th, when the
Princess of Wales presented certificates of
membership of the National Pension Fund for
Nurses to representatives of the first 1,000
who joined the fund. The number of nurses
present was about 700, and they were ranged
in companies under the trees in the gardens
behind Marlborough House. The variety of
the uniforms worn made the scene a very
picturesque one, the green of the grass and
trees relieving the sombre colours of the
dresses, which were mostly of some shade of
gray.  All the principal hospitals of London,
and very many in other parts of the United
Kingdom, were represented, while here and
there were to be seen the special uniforms
worn on foreign service.
	The allegorical design on the certificates was
from an etching by Miss Lillian Smythe.
Three gracefully-draped figures representing
Labor, Skill and Thrift are shown receiving
the gifts which Rank and Wealth prompted
by Sympathy, hold out to them, while Benevo-
lence, in the background, beckons others to
follow their example. Each certificate had
been signed by the Princess of Wales, and
stated that it was presented in testimony of
the fact that the recipient was one of the first
1,000 nurses who joined the fund, and thus
became one of the founders who secured £25,-
000 as the nucleus of a permanent trust for
the benefit of the nurses of the British Em-
pire.
	As each nurse passed the steps she received
her certificate from the hands of the Princess.
A very large number had brought purses,which
were laid on a table by the side of her Royal
Highness, and the contents of which will form
a fund for the benefit of poorer nurses. This
fund has been specially instituted as a
memorial of the late Mr. J. S. Morgan, one of
thb founders of the pension movement. When
all the certificates had been given the nurses
and the rest of those present formed a circle
round the Royal party.

[Column 2]
	The PRINCE OF WALES then read the fol-
lowing speech:
	NURSES,-It has afforded the Princess and my.
self much pleasure to receive you here to day-
I understand that you come from nearly 150
hospitals, infirmaries, asylums, nursing and
other institutions in the United Kingdom, and
that many of you are working on your own ac-
count as private nurses. One here present has
come all the way from Gibraltar, and letters
and purses have been received from members
of the first 1,000 who are working as nurses in
Australia, Canada, Constantinople, Malta,
Egypt, the United States, France and Italy.
One nurse at the Citadel Hospital in Cairo
has sent an Egyptian purse containing £10,
and another has forwarded a purse from Natal.
All this shows that the pension fund for nurses
is rightly named national. What then is the
National Pension Fund for Nurses, and who
are the first 1,000 nurses? Three years ago
four of the leading merchants of the City of
London deposited £20,000 with the Court of
Chancery to enable the National Pension Fund
to be incorporated under the Insurance Com-
panies Act, with the necessary financial guar-
antees. These gentlemen set the whole nursing
body a lesson in thrift, by attaching to the de-
posit a condition that, unless 1,000 nurses in-
vested their savings in the pension fund be-
fore 1st of January, 1890, the £20,000 was to
be returned and the fund wound up. In less
than twelve months from the date that the
council began to issue policies—August, 1888
—1,000 were applied for, and the condition
was thus fulfilled. The four benefactors there
and then made a gift of £20,000 to the fund,
specially allocating £5,000 of it to be invested
at compound interest for the sole benefit of
the first 1,000 nurses who had by their thrift
and foresight secured so splendid a sum for the
benefit of the whole nursing body for ever.
The National Pension Fund has greatly pros-
pered since. Nurses continue to join it at an
average of ten a week. Other friends have
sent gifts to the Pension Bonus Fund, which
amounts to nearly £40,000, and the invested
funds to £67,000, the difference representing
the investment by nurses of their savings.
But the National Pension Fund has done more
than this. Heretofore, if a nurse fell ill or be-
came disabled through no fault of her own, her
position was often a very painful one, and
many nurses under such circumstances
formerly had no refuge but the workhouse.
The philanthropists who have founded the
pension fund have done much to prevent any
similar catastrophe befalling any nurse in the
future. All who join it will at once insure
safety for themselves and respect for the noble
calling to which they belong. Already several
have been saved from distress through its
agency.
	The Prince then referred to the great in-
terest taken in the fund by the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, and expressed his satisfaction that
several of the large hospitals—notably the
great London Hospital, Guy’s, St. Mary’s, and
King’s College Hospitals—as well as others
both in London and the country, have
become affiliated to the fund, and many pay
one-half of the necessary premiums to secure a
pension to the nurses in their employ.
	Mr. Walter A. Burns, chairman of the
council, and son-in-law to the late Mr. J. S.
Morgan, then thanked his Royal Highness for
the tribute he had paid to the memory of that
gentleman.		Englishwoman's Review.


John O’Reilly, poet, and editor of the
Boston Pilot is dead.
	Another triumph for [the cause of woman's
freedom. The United States Senate Committee
on Woman Suffrage has made a favorable
report. All Republican Senators agreeing.


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
﻿Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday-
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City. Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
Salt Lake City, 	-	 -	 September 1, 1890.


COMMENCEMENT OF SCHOOLS.
	Utah is not behind in the matter of good insti-
tutions of learning. As the time comes round
for the opening of schools, Academies, Colleges
and Universities, one is apt to think more upon
this important subject, the education of the child-
ren.
	We have received, and we acknowledge the
same with thanks, the Annual of the University
of Deseret, for 1890—91: We are sorry that our
limited space prohibits us just now from making
an extended notice of this Territorial institution.
We notice among the Faculty and Board of In-
structors some names we are not familiar with
but presume they will have the interest of the ad-
vancement of the higher education of the youth
of Utah at heart. Young men have gone out
from this University in the past well qualified for
any practical work they might wish to undertake
in the great world of science and skill. With
the superior advantages and facilities the Univer-
sity is now in possession of, there ought to be
great progress corresponding with the rapid
strides now being made in this enlightened nine-
teenth century. The University of Deseret will
open on Monday September 1,1890, Dr. J. R.
Park, Principal.
	The Latter Day Saints College, the Central
Normal College in this city, in which we as a
people are deeply and directly interested will
open its fifth academic year on the first of Septem-
ber 1890. The Board of Education and the
Faculty of the college are the same that have
been published in our columns before, and are
able exponents of the subjects they teach. This
school should surpass any other because of the
advantages it affords for religious cultivation
training and discipline, which is the highest
spiritual and moral excellence when combined
with progressive intelligence and wisdom.
Similar schools or colleges and academies have
been established in almost every Stake and the
Latter-day Saints are supporting them with means
and their patronage; while at the same time pay-
ing regularly towards the maintenance of the
district schools throughout the Territory which
we understand open on the same date. The
Mormon people believe practically in giving their
children superior educational advantages, misrep-
resentation to the contrary notwithstanding.
Those who come here with their eyes open and
not blinded by prejudice know that this is the
case.
	Judge- Carlton’s article will open the under-
standing of fair minded people on some of the
vexed questions about Mormonism. The gentle-
man was a member of the Utah Commission and
lived here for some years, and he knows whereof
he speaks.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Relief Society Quarterly Conference of
Weber Stake will be held in Ogden City on
Thuursday the 11 of September. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the county and all those interested in these be-
nevolent organizations are cordially invited to be
present and participate in the preceedings.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete Stake will be held in Mayfield,Friday
and Saturday Sept. 19 and 20, 1890. Meeting
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is hoped
there will be a good attendance from all parts of
the country. The Presidency of the Stake,
Bishops and brethren are cordially invited to at-
tend.
	We acknowledge wtih many thanks the receipt
of a very polite invitation to attend the dedicatory
services of the Agricultural College just about to
be established and dedicated in Logan. The pro-
gramme of exercises is very impressive and it is
greatly to be hoped that the training of the child-
ren in future years will be as satisfactory as our
most sanguine hopes and desires could antici-
pate.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake will convene in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Thursday Sept. 11. The
Presidency of the Stake Bishops and others are
respectfully invited to attend. Meetings will
commence at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. The Y. L. M.
I. A. conference will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall, Friday Sept. 12, and the Primary
Associations Saturday Sept. 13. A full attend-
ance from all parts of the country is most de-
sirable.
	The Secretary of the Relief Society of each
Stake of Zion is hereby respectfully and earnestly
solicited, to prepare and forward a semi-annual
report at as early a date as possible, in order that
a full and complete annual report may be in readi-
ness to hand over at least ten days before Con-
ference. In order to do this Stake reports should
be in as early as the middle of September. Ad-
dress them to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Cor. Second
North and First West Sts., Salt Lake City, Utah.
	There will be a convention of the Utah Woman
Suffrage Association held in this City, early in
October, and it is expected that each Association
will send a report previous to that time, to the
General President, or Secretary so that there will
be a perfect understanding of what has been done
in the interest of suffrage in this Territory. It is
hoped there will be no delay in forwarding these
reports direct to Mrs. S. M. Kimball, President
W. S. A. of Utah, No. 74 Cor. First South and
First West Sts. or to Miss Rachel Edwards,
Secretary No. 29 N. West Temple Street.


DEDICATORY EXERCISES
					OF THE
		AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH.

	The Agricultural College of Utah will be open
for the reception of Students on Tuesday, Sept.
2d. On Sept. 4th, at 10 a. m., it will be dedicated
to the Higher Education. Industrial Education
will be a prominent feature of its work. The
College has organized five courses of instruction
namely: Science, Agriculture, Domestic Arts,
Mechanical Engineering and Civil Engineering.
	The speakers announced below will represent
the several courses of Study pursued in the Col-
lege.
	Piano Solo, Mrs. R. W. Sloan; Invocation,
Apostle Moses Thatcher; Song, Mr. W. S.
Lamoreaux; Address, Hon. Arthur L. Thomas,
Governor of Utah; “Education in its Relation to


Agriculture," Bishop William B. Preston; Song,
Mrs. R. W. Sloan; Address, "The Higher Edu-
cation of Women," Mrs. S. W. Eddy; "Educa-
tion its Relation to the Mechanical Industries,”
George G. Bywater; Song, Mr. R. C. Easton;
Brief Addresses by the trustees of the College
and by Citizens; Duet, Mr. R. C. Easton and Mr.
W. S. Lamoreaux; Benediction, Rev. E. W.
Greene.


AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH.

	The Agricultural College of Utah, located at
Logan, Utah, will open for students on Septem-
ber 2nd.
	It is a Territorial Institution founded upon a
United States land grant and by Territoral appro-
priations, for the purpose of giving the young
men and women of Utah a liberal and practical
education in the several pursuits and profession
of life. It has courses, in Agriculture, Domestic
Economy, Mechanic Arts and Mechanical engi-
neering, Civil Engineering and other special
courses.
	It has modern equipments and specialists in its
several fields of instruction.
	Its means of instruction include United States 
Experiment Station and its work of research in
Agriculture; a fine farm including horticultural,
grounds equipped with modern appliances. A
cooking, dairy, cutting and sewing department,
workshops in wood and iron, a new library;
museums and other means of illustration.
	Students will be kept in constant contact with 
illustrations of school room teachings throughout
its four years courses.
	For pamphlet containing announcements and
for further particulars,	
			Address,		
						J. W. SANBORN,
								President.

			LETTER FROM LULA.

				Smithfield, Cache Co.,
							Aug. 25th, 1890.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Since the first week in June last, when I came 
to, and in this place for the summer, many things
have occurred here which would be of interest to
you. Had I been at liberty to write, whenever
“the spirit moved” me to do so, you would have
heard from me several times ere this. But it was
generally Monday, (such a busy day,) or Saturday
(the next, perhaps, in importance,) when I would
be impressed to take up my pen—just the time
when I could not.	
	Ah! which day, of all the seven, is not a busy
one for the mother of a young family whose heart
is in the work of rearing them to God’s service?
Even the blessed Sabbath, with all the hallowed,
peaceful, restful influences which belong to it and
make it ever welcome, ever holy, is so taken up
with interesting and instructing the pure young
minds entrusted to the mother's care, and for
whose early impressions she is to be held ac-
countable, that she finds little, or no time for read-
ing, writing or even thinking of anything which
cannot be done with them and for them.
	By the time all are ready for Sabbath School,
it is time to start; and the two meetings which
follow, during afternoon and evening, fill up the
day, outside of the time which must be spent in
caring for the family’s earthly needs.
	Last Sabbath,(yesterday) was one of the best I
ever spent. The Stake Superintendent of S. S.
was here—(excuse me a moment! one boy wants
his whip fastened to the stock, another wants his
hair trimmed in haste, and my girl wants my help
just now “what is to be done next" for the finish-
ing of her new gingham. I’ll come back after
while.)


All the religious services here yesterday,
tended towards that all absorbing, most important
subject, the reformation and proper education of
our children.
	I have already mentioned that our Stake Sun-
day School, Supt., Dr. O. C. Ormsby, paid our
ward a visit yesterday. Since my sojourn here,
we have also been favored with visits from the
Stake Presidency of the Young Ladies’ and Pri-
mary Associations; showing that in this Stake,
the people, some of them at least, are alive and
able to work. Both associations above mentioned
and also the Relief Society in this settlement, are
doing excellently; although their meetings are
not largely attended, yet those members who do
attend, manifest their willingness to assist in,
and their devotion to the cause of truth.
	Before long, I hope to be able to write again,
and to say something of the Woman Suffrage
work in this portion of the great world which is
to be regenerated.
			With kindest love, 
					L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Blair who departed this life
July 8th 1890, was the daughter of E.W. and
Willmirth East and was born Dec. 31st, 1840 in
Washington Co. Texas. She was baptized by
Seth M. Blair, August 1854 in Milam Co. Texas,
and came to Utah with her parents in 1855, was
married to Seth M. Blair in Sept. 1856. She was
the mother of five children two sons and three
daughters two of whom survive her. She was a
woman of moral character and sterling worth.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint in
the hope of a glorious resurrection.

		Angel Sarah do not leave us;
			Though your body’s from us borne,
		Yet in spirit be thou with us
			Whispering loved ones do not mourn.

		Dearest mother do come near us.
			Bless us with that heavenly love,
		Tell us of the joys you've tasted
			In your blissful home above.
						Her	Mother,
								WILLMIRTH EAST.


WOMEN’S MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES.
	Meeting was held at Cedar City at 10 a. m.,
Friday morning August 9, Mrs. Ann Elizabeth
Webster presiding. Opened by singing “Lord
we come before thee now,” an excellent prayer
was offered by Elder Christopher Arthur, singing
again “Praise ye the Lord.” The President
Sister Webster made a few opening remarks, al-
luded to the great work for the dead as well as
for the living, and how much she enjoyed the
spirit of the Gospel and her labors in the Relief
Society.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt prayed that the Lord
would give those assembled hearing ears and un-
derstanding hearts that they might profit by what
they heard from time to time and on this occasion;
rejoiced to have the sisters from the Central
Board of the Relief Society from Salt Lake City
in their midst.
	Sister Sage Jones made a very pretty illustra-
tion in her speaking, said the great proportion of
the surface of the earth is rough, and requires
an effort to subdue and temper it for the habita-
tions and benefit of mankind, and it is so with
our lives there are many trials and rough places
to pass through which give us great experiences
and are beneficial to us.
	Bishop William Corry made brief remarks;
thought the sisters were more alive to their duties
than the brethren were.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, said she had been in

[Column 2]
Cedar City in a very early day 37 years ago, and
remembered her experience at that time. Spoke of
the changes that had taken place since in various
ways, and of the wonderful changes that were
transpiring with the people at the present time;
gave a brief account of her being healed when she
came into the Church, her baptism being the first
in Laporte Indiana. Spoke of obedience, charity
and love for our neighbors; the tendency among
us to become careless because we are pushed
and hurried, it is the spirit of the age, everything
is done in the quickest manner possible, teleg-
raphy and the telephone have made a great
difference in our lives, we can send messages like
lightning long distances, and hear the voices of
our friends a hundred miles away, science is doing
marvelous things and we must move onward with
the improvements that are everywhere being
made. Sister Richards urged the sisters to make
the home a heaven.
	Singing “Sweet is the work my God my King,”
after which Sister E. B. Wells addressed the as-
sembly for a short time upon the current topics of
the times, and especially the political situation of
affairs here in Utah and in the country generally;
gave a sketch of some things that had come
under her observation at Washington and in the
Supreme Court of the United States in 1886—
when the case of Apostle Lorenzo Snow was be-
fore that august body.
	Sister Webster made a few closing remarks,
spoke of the great faith and spiritual power that
was given to those who were humble; singing
“Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.” The bene-
diction was pronounced by Elder U. Jones.

	Conference of Relief Society Parowan Stake,
at Parowan Sunday a. m. August 10. Sister
Ellen W. Lunt presiding, opened by singing
“Awake ye saints of Latter-days,” prayer by
Bishop John Adams, sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Pres. Lunt made a few opening remarks, thank-
ing the Lord for all his blessings, and announced
the sisters from Salt Lake City; said she had
visited all the wards in that Stake, had represent-
atives from all the wards except Kanarra; Paro-
wan, Cedar City Paragoonah and Summit Wards
were reported, Parowan, Sister Benson very good
report spoke well of the sisters and referred to
the saving of grain.—Cedar City Pres. A. E.
Webster spoke of the disposition among the peo-
ple of the world to seek after riches and not give
heed to the still small voice, exhorted the young
mothers to question children daily in regard to
their habits and what they had been doing, teach
them strict honesty, truthfulness and virtue.
	Sister Eliza Barton, Pres. of R. S. Paragoonah
reported the Society there in good condition and
bore her testimony in a humble manner to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Lettie Dalley Pres. Summit R. S. gave a
good report of that place and said she was very
glad to see the sisters from Salt Lake come to
visit them, added her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, felt she would always
rather hear the brethren speak; felt a weakness
in speaking to the public; alluded to the prayer
made at the opening of the meeting. She always
liked to hear the minutes read at the Conferences
of the sisters, it was customary and had always
been done in Weber Stake where Pres. Young had
organized the Relief Society in July the year he
died; she had spoken to Pres. Woodruff since
and he approved of it.
	Thought it was a good thing for us to criticise
ourselves, it helped us to be more careful and
diligent. Confession was always good and hu-
mility in all things,she loved to hear the testimony
of the little children; she spoke eloquently upon
the healing of the sick by prayer and administra-
tion, also obedience to parents and respect to
the aged; referred to her great love for her own

[Column 3]
parents and made some happy illustrations;
talked well of the Primary Associations and
urged the parents to send the children there to be
taught of the things of the kingdom. Touched
upon other subjects calculated to do good and
to make a deep impression upon the minds of the
people assembled there.
	Sister Holyoak and Sister Mandina Dalley each
occupied a short time expressing many good
wishes and desires; they were followed by Sister
E. B. Wells who dwelt upon the great benefits
and advantages of the organizations of women
and children in the Relief Society, Young Ladies’
and Primary Associations; spoke of the Prophet
Joseph and his great love for little children, the
faith he had in the prayers of the little ones, and
urged the children to seek for faith and to be
diligent in attending their prayers and regular at 
their meetings, believed that notwithstanding the
difficulties now in our pathway, that the present
time was a good day for Zion.
	Choir sang the anthem "Praise ye the Lord,”
Benediction by Bishop Wm. Corry.
	Afternoon session: Mrs. Ellen W. Lunt pre-
siding, singing “Awake ye slumbering ministrels,”
prayer by Elder David Mathewson, singing “I
saw an angel from on high.” The sacrament
was administered, and afterwards Sister Mary
Ann Lunt spoke upon the Relief Society work
and the education of mothers, referred to the silk
culture and the lectures upon health in their meet-
ings. Sister Sage Jones alluded to the prophets
who had spoken so beautifully in regard to Zion
in the last days; did not think it was pleasing to
our Heavenly Father that there were so many poor
among us as a people, hoped to see the day when
there would be no poor in Zion; felt the Relief
Society had done much good to those in need,the
sick and the sorrowing; her remarks were tender
and full of love.
	Sister Jane Birkbeck, rejoiced in the Gospel,
she had left all that was near and dear to her to
gather with the saints, and was glad she had re-
ceived the truth and never regretted leaving her
home or her dear native land; felt however in
rising to speak that she would rather cook a din-
ner for all those assembled there than stand up to
speak to them; but wished to be obedient when
called upon.
	Sister Benson spoke a few words bore her testi-
mony to the truth. Sister E. B. Wells, spoke
upon general matters more especially the educa-
tion and advancement of women, and their politi-
cal status the nesessity of a thorough understand-
ing of the practical duties of life, and the religion
they had embraced, also the constitution and gov-
ernment of the country; as mothers and wives,
women need information on all subjects, and to
impart it to their children.
	Pres. Webster of Parowan Stake spoke of the
good work of the Relief Society and bore testi-
tomy to the diligence and faithfulness of the
sisters in that Stake and the help they were to
the Bishops.
	Sister Jane S. Richards made some remarks
upon the labors of the sisters, felt most of them
worked too hard; said the Relief Society was not
any old lady’s getting up not even Sister Eliza
R. Snow—we had not taken this upon ourselves
it had been established through the priesthood,
by Joseph Smith the Prophet—she thought the
sisters had done enough in making quilts and
carpets and she hoped they would meet often and
get spiritual strength and only do such work as
was really necessary. Sister Eliza had said the
coals would not die out if we put the fire together
often; she was a wonderful woman and did a
great work, Mother in Israel would not half ex-
press it. “Sisters comfort each other, remember
our children and the children of our neighbors
let us lend a helping hand wherever we can
think how we can help to save one who is weak
or erring, the Scriptures speak of the lost sheep,


there was more rejoicing over his return than
over the ninety and nine who went not astray.”
Sister Richards spoke of the temptations to our
young people especially the boys in the cities of
Salt Lake and Ogden and thought we needed
great strength and constant prayer to keep their
feet from straying.
	Pres. Jones made excellent remarks upon wo-
man suffrage, endorsed what had been said and
spoke of the Church school that was about to be
established in Parowan.
	Pres. Morgan Richards bore testimony also,
and said he enjoyed hearing the mothers and
sisters talk.
	Sister Ellen W. Lunt felt thankful for the good
teaching that had been given in this Conference,
exhorted all to give heed to the same and to put
it into practice in their lives. Exhorted the
young to be careful in keeping the commandments
of God, said the glory of a woman is chastity, and
and urged the necessity of perserving a purity of
life and conduct. Was glad the sisters from Salt
Lake City had visited them, had enjoyed the time
very much, loved the sisters and the brethren,
said this is the 42d quarterly conference of the
Relief Society and believed it was the best, the
last is always the best. We want to be on our
guard all the time and prepare for whatever may
come. Heber C. Kimball used to say death was
like going from the kitchen to the parlor and
therefore we must needs make preparation, may
the Lord help us all, and bless us that we may
prove faithful.
	Choir sang the anthem “Nearer home.” Bene-
diction by President Jones.
			[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


UNJUST DECISION.
	The decision recently rendered in regard to the
rights of children born in Polygamy to any in-
heritance in the father’s estate was to say the
least very surprising. “Polygamous children can-
not inherit,” so says Judge Henderson and Judge
Zane concurs.
	Now we ask why? Because you are such a
just monogomist and say they cannot, must it be
so? Have you or has any one a right to make
laws to reach back half a century, and power to
make a law where there was none to bear on all
cases not under your jurisdiction? I have been
reading a decision rendered by this high tribunal
on the same case.
	“That the law of 1862 debarred all children, born
after this law was passed, from inheriting their
father’s estate.” How about the children born be-
fore there was any law made against their inher-
iting, or before there was any law against polyg-
amy. The decision of this Judge is wonderful in-
deed, to extend away back to the time when
there was no law at all upon the subject.
	Children born out of wedlock not in,has not the
least shadow of bearing on those who are born in
the order of plural marriage; plurality of wives
was permitted by the government to continue
many years, and you say there was a law that
such children should inherit their father’s estate;
this was a righteous law and as it should be not-
withstanding the decision of these Judges. The
father should support his own offspring and not
leave it to the mother. But these Judges like
men of the world want to throw all the blame,
and the trouble upon the women and children
and let the men go free. Before God men in the
world who commit unrighteous acts will be
punished and have to bear the shame. Man was
created to be woman’s protector and not her be-
trayer and destroyer. The Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints does not countenance
the stale of things that exists in the world, but
disfellowships adultery,and its members raise tbeir
voices against sin and evil doing, if it were not so

[COLUMN 2]
this Church wou'd not and could not be the true
Church of Christ.
	I am the wife of the late Hon. Orson Pratt. I
was married to him many years ago and have
four living children all born in lawful wedlock and
before the law of 1862 was passed, or so much
harped upon by woman-haters who would rather
see woman polluted and kept out of honorable
marriage than answer the end of her creation, by
being the wife of a just, upright, and virtuou
good man. Unprincipled men would rather have
women out of wedlock, to debase and defame,and
they with high head and unblushing face, stalk
abroad without a blot of law to tarnish their good
name, or character; but unfortunate, down-trod-
den, law-helpless women, are subject to the lords
of creation,who make the laws to suit themselves,
to serve their whims, and caprices and allow wo-
men no voice in making the laws. The women
of this Territory enjoyed the right of franchise, it
was given them by large-hearted Mormon men,
they are the woman’s friend and place her on an
equality with themselves, and she has a right to
vote on all Church questions. But monogomists
took the ballot from women.
	Such a state of things will exist as long as
men and their man-made laws oppose honorable
plural marriages. There is an inherent principle
in man to increase his species, in other words to
obey that first commandment to multiply and re-
plenish the earth; woman to be his helpmeet and
glory in lawful wedlock to increase his dominions 
in the upward road to progression. Few men are
worthy though of these great blessings. The
patriarchal man has broad views, his love for wo-
mankind expands, he accepts marriage upon a
broader platform, the wife is to be his equal, he
grants her every right that he enjoys, she is the
parent of his children, their mother, their youth-
ful instructor, their guide. The parents believe
that God sanctions their union; they kneel at
the family altar and ask God’s blessing daily to
rest upon their household; they pray that all their
acts may be in righteousness in all things; they
have true knowledge and the still small voice
whispers they are right.
	Congress and the lawmakers must go back to the
ancients judges if they set up these standards, for
away in the ages of the past these marriages
were countenanced, and God approved them and
the children received of the father’s inheritance.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 6, 1890.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

			PAROWAN P. A.
	Minutes of Primary Conference held at
Parowan Aug. 9, 1890. Singing from Primary
Hymn books “Gladly meeting,” opening prayer
David Mathewson, singing “I think when I
read that sweet story of old,” minutes of last
conference read and accepted, followed by a
lengthy programme from the children, consist-
ing of songs, dialogues, readings, essays and
recitations, many of the parts deserving of
great praise.
	Sister Ellen Lunt told the people assembled
she was pleased to meet them, she had been
detained therefore did not hear all the parts
rendered, enjoyed the little she had heard,
prayed God’s blessing upon all.
	Sister Holyoak was gratified to have the
visiting sisters, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. J.
S. Richards, with us, asked the parents to en-
courage their boys to come to the meetings, as
they seemed to be more backward than the
girls.
	Sister Morris,Pres. P. A. Parowan Stake re-
marked we had a lengthy meeting, hoped what
had been done would be beneficial, could readily
perceive an improvement in the children;

[Column 2]
﻿thanked each one who had assisted in making
up the programme of exercises.
	Closed by singing “We thank Thee O God
for a prophet.” Benediction by Pearl Wat-
son.
	E. A. CRANE WATSON, Stake Sec. P. A.

			MALAD STAKE.
	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The ninth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of the Malad Stake of Zion met
at Portage according to appointment Pres.
Lucinda Hoskins presiding. On the stand of
the Stake Officers were Pres. Oliver C. Hoskins
and Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs, Patriarch John D.
Gibbs, Bishop E. Harris and several leading
brethren of the Stake.
	After the usual exercises the minutes of the
last Conference were read and approved.
Stake Report read and and accepted, after
which Pres L. Hoskins called for reports from
the different branches. The Portage was re-
ported by Pres Jane A Harris; Muddy Creek
Pres. Rosanah Howell; Cherry Creek, Pres.
Eliza H. Chivers: Washakie, Pres. Elizabeth
J. Zundel; Malad City, Secretary Elizabeth
Jenkins; Samaria,Pres. Mary D. Davis; each
showing that the Society under her care was
in a prosperous condition.
	Coun. Elizabeth Zundel spoke in an interest-
ing and instructive manner concerning our
every day duties; she was followed by Coun.
Mary Stewart who spoke on the subjects of
obedience and prayer; the Choir sang an
anthem. Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.

	Afternoon Session; Meeting opened by
singing and prayer, the sacrament was
administered by High Counselors, Wm.
Sinclair Sen., and Miles Hall. The roll was
then called showing a fair attendance of
officers.
	Lucinda Hoskins was then sustained as
Pres. of the Relief Society of the Malad Stake
of Zion, with Sister Elizabeth J. Zundel first
and Sister Mary Stewart second Coun. Eliza
A. Hall Sec.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins spoke of the necessity
of the sisters storing grain, and looking after
the poor and the sick and all those that need a
kind word to always be on hand to give it, and
improve every opportunity of doing good; said
we should always set a good example and
practice the Golden rule gave good advice and
instruction on several different subjects.
	Pres; O. C. Hoskins said that the sisters had 
been blessed with the spirit of the Lord during
the Conference. Spoke of the great work the
Relief Society was performing wherever they
had been organized in all its many hundred
branches, exhorted us to put away vanity aud
pride and live pure and humble before the
the Lord and we would continue to be blessed.
	The Choir sang “Though in the outward
Church.” Benediction by Wm. Sinclair Sen;
				ELIZA A. HALL. Sec.


WYOMING’S DAY.

	Judge Melville C. Brown made an eloquent
address in presenting the constitution of
Wyoming to Mrs. Post, the president of the
Wyoming Woman Suffrage Association. His
closing remarks were as follows:
	“Look again. Far out across the Great
American desert, and beneath the shades of
the grand old Rockies, there springs into ex-
istence a new state, and the watchwords of its
people are, “Justice, Equality” to this new
state. Under the guidance of the Great
Jehovah it is permitted to achieve the highest
excellence in government yet attained by man.
Here, unmoved by selfishness, the dangers of
war or the appeals of non-resident reformers,
but moved alone by the spirit of divine justice,
it was ordained by the people of Wyoming


[Column 1]
﻿that each citizen of the state should enjoy the
same right guaranteed to every other citizen,
whether high or low, black or white, male or
female. 
	And now, Mrs. Post, I have the distinguished
honor to place in your hands, and you, as a
representative woman of Wyoming, the grand
privilege of receiving, this broadest guarantee
of civil liberty ever established by the genius
of man—the Magna Charta of our liberties—
the constitution of the state of Wyoming.
	From this Nebo of history we look forward
with the milk and honey of prosperity and
happiness for woman depends solely upon her-
self.
	With these new privileges come new duties
and responsibilities. “Act well your part,
there all the honor lies.” Your past furnishes
the highest guarantee for the future. If you
live up to the full measure of your high privi-
leges, you will not only bring happiness to the
new state, but joy to the hearts of the noble
women of other states who are struggling for
the repeal of unequal and unjust laws. Not
only this, but your example aud success will
bring emancipation to the women of the
world.”
MRS. AMELIA B. POST RESPONDED:
	Mr. President, and gentlemen of the Wyo-
ming Constitutional Convention: In the name
of the women of Wyoming I thank you for
this copy of our state constitution, and in their
name also do I especially thank you for that
clause in this constitution which guarantees
their enfranchisement. In the history of the
world it has seldom been the good fortune of
a body of lawmakers to be able to inaugurate
at one stroke a movement in the interest of
human rights and human liberties as important,
as far reaching, as grand as this. And in the
name of the women of the civilized world I am
here to congratulate you upon the able, fear-
less and disinterested manner in which you
have discharged your duties as a constitutional
convention.
	This grand result of your labors—woman’s
magna charta—has now been before the civi-
lized world about eight months. It has at-
tracted wide attention and has been subjected
to the keenest possible criticism. By narrow-
minded people, cranks and bigots it has been
universally condemned. By intelligent, broad-
minded people, by the friends of human pro-
gress, by the advocates of universal liberty, it
has been universally commended. As a means
of assisting Wyoming to become one of the
stars in the grand galaxy of liberty it has been
a most helpful document.
	On some of the important questions of policy
that came before your honorable body during
the progress of your deliberations, there were
honest differences of opinion among you, but
when it came to the most important question
of all—the enfranchisement of women, there
were no differences of opinion, there was no
dissenting voice. You have shown the world
that as representative men of Wyoming you
have the courage of your convictions, and that
you are neither afraid nor ashamed to allow
women all the rights and privileges unre-
stricted of American citizens.
	An ancient philosopher of the orient has
said: “The veiled slaves of the harem can
never become the mothers of a great race of
men, but if you would produce a race of great
men you must first have a race of great wo-
men, both as to body and mind.”
	This is the true doctrine.  The history of the
world has demonstrated its truthfulness in
scores of instances. Elevate the standard of
womanhood! For there is no surer way by
which to elevate the standard of manhood.
This is to-day the most important question in-
volved in the future attainment of the highest
plan of human civilization.
[Column 2]
	In framing this constitution, gentlemen of
the convention, you have taken a most im-
portant step, lookiug to the elevation of the
human race. And may each and all of you
live long to enjoy the honorable distinction this
shall surely bring you.
	And now, Mr. President and gentlemen of
the convention, allow me in the name of the
women of Wyoming—in the name of the wo-
men of the civilized world—in the name of
human progress—in the name of Christian
civilization—in name of that grand advanc-
ing column, the cohorts of universal liberty,
again to thank you for this most precious
memorial.
	The great event of the day was the presenta-
tion of the State flag by the ladies of Wyoming
which followed Mrs. Jenkins address. It was
presented by Mrs. Esther Morris the “mother”
of the woman suffrage movement in the state.
Gathering the folds of the flag about her she
said:
	“On behalf of the women of Wyoming, and
in grateful recognition of the high privilege of
citizenship that has been conferred upon us, I
have the honor to present to the state of Wyo-
ming this beautiful flag. May it always re-
main the emblem of our liberties, ‘and the
flag of the union forever.’ ”
	Governor Warren on receiving the flag from
Mrs. Morris, grasping its staff, responded as fol-
lows.
	“It is with feelings of profound gratitude that
I receive for the state of Wyoming this beauti-
ful flag.
	It is seldom permitted man to stand a repre-
sentative for his commonwealth at the time of
its organization and during the period of its
transition from a condition of territorial de-
pendence to one of state independence. And
it has never before, I believe, been vouchsafed,
man to represent a state as its executive officer
on so auspicious an occasion as this.
	Here, in the open air, near the crest of the
continent, Wyoming, forming the keystone of
the arch of states extending from ocean to
ocean, celebrates an event significant in the ex-
treme, new in the history of our country, and
without precedent in the world; that is to say,
a state, in adopting its constitution, extends
free and equal suffrage to its citizens regard-
less of sex.
	Wyoming, in her progress, has not forgotten
the hands and hearts that have helped advance
her to her high position; and, in the adoption
of her constitution, equal suffrage is en-
trenched so securely that, it is believed, it will
stand forever.
	In this regard Wyoming is not less elevated
in her high and proud geographical position,
than in her example to her surrounding sister
states.
	The figures—44—representing the number
of our star on the dear old flag, the handsomest
and best beloved national emblem in the civi-
lized world—will always stand with us for
justice and equal right.
	Women of Wyoming, you have builded well
in your past efforts and conduct; and the men
of Wyoming extend heartiest greetings at this
time. They congratulate you upon your
achievments, and ask you to join them in the
future, as in the past, in securing good govern-
ment for our commonwealth. Your influence
has always tended toward higher development
and culture. And now in the near future,
when called upon to exercise your rights and
your privileges in the election of your officers,
who must be both your rulers and your ser-
vants, we have confidence that you will sub-
scribe to everything that is elevating and en-
terprising—a pure ballot—the highest moral
standing and the strictest personal responsibil-
ity in public officers—liberal educational
[Column 3]
facilities, and with all an economical and wise
financial policy and management.
	Ladies, for and on the part of the great
state of Wyoming, I thank you most sincerely
for this beautiful stand of colors. And I beg
to assure you it shall be cherished and pro-
tected as a souvenir of priceless value.”
					Thk Woman’s Tribune.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JOHN HOWARD PAYNE.

Life of the Author of "Home, Sweet Home."
	The music of the future may be enriched
by the products of men of more genius, learn-
ing, and wisdom than those of to-day, but it is
safe to say that so long as the world stands
there will never again be produced a song that
will so universally touch the human heart as
"Home, Sweet Home." While the ballad has
ever been one of which the most critical audi-
ence never weary, and its simple but touching
sentiments have endeared the author of all
home lovers throughout the world, probably
many are unaware that it is a song from an
opera entitled "Carl" composed by John
Howard Payne. The most notable rendition
of "Home, Sweet Home," of which there is any
account, was probably at the Jenny Lind con-
cert in Washington, on the night of December
17, 1850. John Howard Payne was present,
and the quarter of an hour during which he
listened to Jenny Lind's singing of this ballad
—which has since been heard in all lands—
was without doubt the most thrilling fifteen
minutes of his life. The theater was thronged
by an assembly which was perhaps the most
distinguished ever gathered in any concert hall
in this country. President Fillmore, Daniel
Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and 
Payne were among the celebrities present. The
"Swedish Nightingale" was in perfect voice,
and her rendition of each part of the programme
elicited most enthusiastic applause from the 
vast audience. When, however, in answer to
the encore, Jenny Lind turned toward John
Howard Payne and gave "Home, Sweet Home"
with all the tenderness and purity of feeling
embodied in the words and air perfectly in-
terpreted through the medium of her wonder-
ful voice, there were few present who could
fail to see the difference between the plaudits
called out by a mere display of fine vocali-
zation and those accorded to a power which
thrilled their very hearts. They were enthusi-
astic before the first line of the song was
finished, and to such an extent that they could
scarcely wait for a pause in which to give vent
to their feelings. Then it seemed as if the up-
roar would never cease. Persons known to be
of most undemonstrative character shouted,
clapped, and stamped as if their senses had de-
parted. During this ovation the eyes of the
entire audience were upon Payne—an under-
sized, gray-haired man, of gentlemanly bear-
ing, who was covered with confusiou at find-
ing himself the center of attraction in that
vast assembly.
	Payne’s early history is still involved in
obscurity, but it is certain that his childhood
was passed at East Hampton, the most easterly
town of Long island. His father was principal
of the Clinton academy, one of the first insti-
tutions of its kind established on Long Island.
The village consists of only one wide street,
where the residences are chiefly farmers'
houses, with farms stretching to the ocean
shore on one side and to pine plains on the
other.
	When Payne was seventeen years of age he
established in New York city a weekly paper
called the Thespian Mirror. His first appearance
on the stage was at Park theater, New York, 
in the character of Young Norval.
	After professional visits to Boston and other
cities lie went to London and made a success.


ful debut in the same character at Drury Lane.
He is described at this time as being as beauti-
ful in person as he was remarkable in intellect.
After leaving London he visited Paris, where
he passed his time in writing the following
dramas; “Brutus,” “Therese; or, the Orphan
of Genoa,” and “Clare; or, the Maid of Milan,”
in which he included the song upon which the
author’s fame is founded.
	In a number of the Home Journal, published
many years since, were two verses of "Home, 
Sweet Home" that do not accompany the usual
version, and they are here reproduced:

Tell us, in despite of the absence of years,
How sweet the remembrance of home still appears;
Form allurements abroad, which but flatter the eye,
The unsatisfied heart turns and says with a sigh,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There’s no place like home!
		There’s no place like home!

Your exile is blessed with all fate can bestow,
But mine has been checkered with many a woe!
Yet, though different our fortunes, our thoughts are the
	same,
And both, as we think of Columbia, exclaim,
		Home, home, sweet, sweet home!
		There's no place like home!
		There's no place like home!

	In regard to the above verses the corres-
pondent who sent them to the Journal says:
"In winter of 1833 or 1834 I was dining
with an American lady, the wife of an eminent
banker. During my visit Mr. Payne called
and presented her with a copy of 'Home,
Sweet Home,' set to music, with two additional
verses addressed to her, and these she allowed
me to copy, and I enclose them to you to print."
	The irony of fate is aptly evidenced in the
sad death and burial in a strange land across
the ocean of a man whose love for home and
his native land gave to the world the touching
ballad that will immortalize his name for ages 
to come.
	The poet of home was buried in a foreign
land, and the body rested there for thirty
years, until it was brought to America. The
remains arrived in New York, March 23, 1863,
and lay in state in the governor's room in the
city hall until the following day. The body
was then taken to Washington and given in
charge of the authorities of Oak Hill cemetery,
The final interment took place June 9th, the
ninety-first anniversary of the poet's birth.
The burial place was chosen by W. W. Cor-
coran, and is on the crest of a hill which
slopes down into the valley of Rock creek
Mr. Corcoran selected R. S. Chilton who wrote
the inscription for the monument at Tunis, as
the poet for the memorial service, and since
that time the remains of John Howard Payne
have peacefully reposed in his native land. 
	After the removal of Payne's body from the
tomb at Tunis the vacant grave was covered
with marble slabs, upon which were inscribed:
	Sure, when thy gentle spirit fled
		To realms above the azure dome,
	With outstretched hands God's angel said,
		"Welcome to heaven's 'Home, Sweet Home.'"
								Hearth and Hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BENEFITS OF PRIMARY ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Solomon says “as the twig is bent the tree
inclines" for this reason, the Primary Associa-
tion is among the most important organizations
connected with the Latter Day work, for ’tis
here the very young children learn of the
teachings of our Savior when upon the earth,
proclaiming the same gospel that has in our
day been restored to man through Joseph
Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century;
'tis here the little children are taught to love


and revere the Father and His only son Jesus
Christ, who loved good children so well that
He said “suffer little children to come unto
me for of such is the kingdom of Heaven.” ’Tis
here that all the offspring of all our fathers
and mothers are,or may be taught to lift their
voices in prayer to Him who gave them their
very being, and it is at these meetings even the
lisping babe learns to sing praises to His Holy
name.
	What a labor it must be for those who are
set apart by the servants of the living God to
thus instruct us, that the youngest may be able
to understand the true way to gain everlasting
life.  These are some of the benefits and bless-
ings to be obtained by becoming an earnest
worker in the Primary Association; then let us
each one strive to fully appreciate these Heaven
given blessings.
						IDA MAY SMITH.
	Parowan.

	The Millenial Star. Liverpool: George Teas
dale, 42, Islington, pp. 824.—This weekly
which is the organ of the Latter-day saints in
this country, has wonderfully preserved its
fulness, go, and vigor for the last fifty-one years
and never was it so ably conducted as it is
to-day.  Under the guidance of Mr. Teasdale,
the head quarters of the Latter-day Saints is a
centre of untiring energy, unflagging zeal, in-
domitable pluck, and of most varied resource.
From it streams the best literature of the
movement, and all is issued at the lowest pos-
sible price.  The “Millenial Star” is always
solid yet bright, fresh yet never frivolous,
weighty yet never heavy, and instructive yet
always attractive.  Many of the articles deal
exhaustively with misunderstandings, misrep-
resentations, and mistreatment.  These articles
are scholarly, manly, fair, and while they are
courteous, they never mince matters.  The
editor courts inquiry and discussion.  He
maintains the divine origin and authority of
the book of Mormon, and states calmly and dis-
passionately the grounds of his faith and he
seeks that those grounds be as calmly and dis-
passionately examined.  The other articles
consist of reports of meetings held both in
Salt  Lake  City and in these three king-
doms; also notes on news, excerpts from the
Mormon periodical literature.  The magazine
is one of singular power and freshness, and is
well worthy of any religious denomination.
In its annual form it makes a handsome and
interesting volume.—The Hymn book of the
Latter-day Saints has now reached its twentieth
edition.  It consists of three hundred and
fifty-six hymns, selected from various sources.
The book may be had in every style of binding,
and at the lowest possible prices.  It is a very
fine collection of sacred songs, and no wonder
that the demand for them is so great.
			Brighouse and Rastrick Gazette.
	England.


The superior man wishes to be slow in his
words and earnest in his conduct.— Confucious.


A PIONEER WOMAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking the readers of the EXPONENT would be in-
terested in learning of the death of one of the early settlers
of Salt Lake Valley we send you the notice of the death of
Rebecca Hangum Adair, aged 76 years one of the pioneer
women that arrived in Salt Lake City, July 1847 shortly
after the entrance of the first pioneers.  She was the wife
of Brother Adair since deceased; she afterwards married
Brother Wesley Adair a cousin of her first husband  She
was a resident of Washington, Utah Ter., she was among
the first settlers of St. John's,Arizona in the year 1878; her
home recently was in Luna Valley, New Mexico,  She was
at the time of her death on a visit, (accompanied by her
husband) to her daughter Mrs. Stayner, at Bisbee, Arizona.


Her body was brought here (St. David) for burial July 18,
1890, as this was the nearest Mormon settlement, and it
was her greatest desire to be buried among the Saints.
The above information was received from her husband and
daughter.
				MARIA MC'RAE, Pres. R. S.
				CYRENA MERILL, Stake Coun. R. S.
	St. David, Arizona.


Tickets 
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER.
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortmenf of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1890.		NO. 7.


CONTENTS.
	Another Woman’s Thoughts—E. T. Hephzi-
bah. Extracts, Letter from Teton — Emily
Clara Barton—Woman's Journal. How We
Spend Our Time—L. Freeze. R. S. Reports,
Sixth Ward, Logan—E. Townsend. Hunter
Ward. Mrs. Leavitt in Denmark. Extract from
a Letter—L. B. T. Book Notice. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL. The Times in which we are Liv-
ing. Women’s Meetings and Conferences. In-
teresting Items—S. G. R. Agricultural College.
Letter to the Sisters—Zina D. H. Young. To
Publishers. Whittier’s Letter to a Friend. Wo-
man’s Suffrage in Logan.
	POETRY. Love’s Calling—By Lu. Our Coun-
try—J. G. Whittier. The Lady Pioneers—Ellen
Jakeman.


LOVE’S CALLING.
	   		  BY LU.

Long have I called with earnest entreaty,
	Still am kept waiting from morning 'till noon,
Then all the evening, no word receiving,
	All these long days of our beautiful June.
Have you closed the doors of your dwelling,
	Sailed off afar to some strange, unknown sea,
Whose billowy waves, ever repelling,
	Love’s olive branches extended to thee?
Have all the white doves sent thee, gone astray?
	Shall I never hear an echo or tune,
From one poor rover, joyous or sober,
	While bidding farewell to beautiful June?
Perchance you walk the valley of silence,
	Where voices are sealed and language is dumb,
In some far away Utopian island,
	Where never the light of other days come!
Nor e’en shadows of love’s fostering care,
	That surrounded your infant years tender
E’er fall o'er your way like incense of prayer,
	To be treasured in memory ever!
Dear one’s at home that made all things so bright,
	Childhood rambles, o’er hillside and meadow,
Varied sports of each season's delight,
	With the glad Christmas days of December.
Time’s chisel is carving, his hand none can stay,
	Sturdy workman, he tarrieth never!
There's no delay for the grave or the gay,
	With the whole wofld he moves on forever.
The glory of morning blends into noon
	While the shadows of evening soon follow,
Some hopes fondly cherished, perished with June,
	Still we look for a coming "tomorrow."

Atchison, Kan.


OUR COUNTRY.

	[The following poem was contributed by J. G. Whittier
to be read at the reception given to Mrs. Mary C. Logan
by Mrs. D. Lothrop at Hawthorne's old home in Concord,
Mass., Aug. 14, 1890:]

	Our thought of thee is glad with hope, 
		Dear country of our love and prayers;
	Thy way is down no fatal slope,
		But up to freer sun and airs.

	Tried as by furnace fires, and yet
		By God’s grace only stronger made,
	In future tasks before thee set
		Thou shalt not lack the old-time aid.

	The fathers sleep, but men remain
		As true and wise and brave as they;
	Why count the loss without the gain.
		The best is that we have to-day.


No lack was in thy primal stock,
	No weakling founders builded here;
Thine were the men of Plymouth Rock,
	The Puritan and Cavalier;

And they whose firm endurance gained
	The freedom of the souls of men,
Whose hands unstained in peace maintained
	The swordless commonwealth of Penn.

And thine shall be the power of all
	To do the work that duty bids;
And make the people's Council Hall
	As lasting as the Pyramids.

Thy lesson all the world shall learn,
	The nations at thy feet shall sit;
Earth's farthest mountain tops shall burn
	With watchfires from thine own uplit.

Great, without seeking to be great
	By fraud or conquest—rich in gold,
	But richer in the large estate
		Of virtue which thy children hold;

With peace that comes of purity,
	And strength to simple justice due;
So runs our loyal dream of thee:
	God of our fathers! make it true.

Oh, land of lands! to thee we give
	Our love, our trust, our service free;
For thee thy sons shall nobly live,
	And at thy need shall die for thee.


ANOTHER WOMAN'S THOUGHTS.

	Ever since I came to years of understand-
ing I have felt to rebel against woman's un-
just subjection to the powers that be, as I
know that an intelligent thinking woman can
not do the work assigned her and be in 
bondage.  How can a woman bring forth 
obedient children when her heart is seething
with bitterness at her own condition? How can
she teach her own sons and daughters
to revere laws that do not alleviate her
wrongs?  If mankind is to enjoy true freedom
the mothers must be free, but, as E. T. Crane
Watson says, "I do not see that we shall be
greatly benefited by being conspicious in a
political primary meeting, or at the polls." for
I think the root of the trouble lies a great deal
deeper.  Men must have a true love for right 
and justice ere they will accord with woman in
all her rights, and women must be truly worthy
of love and respect, ere good men can accede
them, so I can see no solution of the problem
only through the light that a true religion
can give.  A religion that will purify all from
selfishness, a religion that will desire the
exaltation of all human beings above sin,
sorrow, and suffering, In truth the religion
that comes only from Him who gave His life
to save humanity.
	As we are expecting Christ to come and
reign on earth we have no doubt but that 
woman's cause, with all other just causes, will
ultimately triumph, but the question of to day
is, what is the best method to bring about the
desired result?
	I fear our emancipation is distant, the sub-
ject may be agitated, woman be taught to 
think, may be preparing for the day of deliver-
ance, but not until the Gospel is understood
and has sanctified the human family will
woman obtain her true position.
								E. T.
	Aug. 4th 1890.


HEPHZIBAH.
XXVIII.

	Our lives are full of mystery so deep;
		We cannot fathom all the years may bring,
	The angels have some secrets which they keep,
		We hear the music, not the words they sing.

	Hepsie returned to Nauvoo with a heavy
heart concerning the future of Harold’s rela-
tives.  She felt however that she had dis-
charged her duty, and given them the benefit
of her testimony; and a strong one it was, and
her conscience was clear what ever might trans-
pire in the future, even were Harold to return,
she had left a message with his brother, that
would touch his heart, if he had a spark of
true affection left therein, for he knew how
great a sacrifice she had made in leaving her
home, knew all her aspirations, all her ex-
pectations, and how willing she had been to
endure toil and hardship with him for the
sake of the Gospel, all this Oney would re-
peat to Harold should he ever return.
	The few days that were left Hepsie, after her
return to make final preparations for the
journey into the wilderness (as it was termed)
were very busy  ones; and in fact she did not
give a decided answer to those with whom she
was going, until the night before leaving the
City.  A great mental struggle was going on
in Hepsie’s mind, notwithstanding her outward
composure. Her farewell to her mother was
a terrible ordeal, and yet she went through it
with apparent calmness.  No one ever knew
but herself, what the effort cost her.  Her
mother must not know, she said over and over
to herself.	
	Even after Hephzibah had left Nauvoo, and
had as she supposed, met all the opposition
that could be brought to bear against the
course she was taking, there was still one more
effort made to induce her to remain within the
borders of civilization.
	It is well understood by those acquainted
with Mormon history, that at the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo, the company took away
with them, what was known as the famous
Nauvoo brass band under the direction of
Capt.  Wm.  Pitt. The music of the band
helped to cheer the saints upon their journey,
and while encamped on Sugar Creek dispelled
the first dark hours of gloom that hung over
the saints, who had just left their homes,
orchards, gardens and worldly possessions to
go into a new and uncivilized region, not
knowing what was to befall them, only to trust
in One, whose power is above all earthly power;
and with unswerving faith the leaders of the
Church took upon themselves the task of
searching for a resting place for their people.
	While in Iowa the citizens of Farmington
who knew of their journeyings, (and many of
them had been Mormons and apostatized) sent
for the brass band to come over and give them
some music; it was well known that Pitts’ was
the best band anywhere in the vicinity; and
the Farmington folks were very glad of this
opportunity to have a concert. Accordingly
the band and some of the young people who
were singers consented to this arrangement.
The occasion was quite a jovial one consider-
ing all the peculiarities of the circumstances.
	Hephzibah was one of the invited guests,
and as she realized it was perhaps the last time
she would have an opportunity of participat-
ng in an entertainment of the kind for a long


[column 1]
time to come, she consented to make one of the
party.  She was not prepared however for what
followed. She had forgotten all about the
Sw—y's and their going over  to Farmington
to settle, and was utterly surprised when during
the afternoon one of them came up to her un-
awares, and in a voice that seemed familiar
accosted her with, “Say, Mrs. Harvey how
came you here with these wandering Pilgrims?
We had never heard a word of you since we
left Nauvoo just before that Christmas, and we
all thought you had gone back East to your
own folks by this time, say, where have you
been and why didn’t you write? We’ve talked
a heap about you, Charlie has never got over
leaving you there, nor none of us for that
matter.”
	Hepsie was so astonished and overwhelmed
that she could scarcely reply at all, but she
managed to tell him she was on her way to the
great Western wilderness with the company of
the Saints, and that she had perfect faith in
the enterprise, and should not falter whatever
might come.
	The young man who was no other than one
of Harold’s former partners in business, urged
and entreated Hepsie with all the persuasive
eloquence he possessed to stay there, “You’ll
die of the perils and hardships by the way-
side, and it will be your own fault, you could
teach here and get a splendid salary, stay
with us, mother would be so pleased to have
you once more, she never tires of praising you,
talks of your wonderful memory, your patience
and forbearance, and your utter helplessness,
though so young, yet so enthusiastic in religion,
that you would not listen to those who were
older and wiser.  Why mother says your read-
ing was like poetry, and your songs so full of
sympathy that tears were the only expression
of her appreciation. O, Mrs. Harvey do stay
with us I offer you everything, my home, my
heart, I shall never love any body as I love
you, never, tho' I never dared to say so even 
to myself, because you were the wife of my
friend, but believe me I love you as I never can
love again.”
	With all Hepsie's experience and her theories
on the subject of love, this was too much for
her, she was so embarrassed that she could not
reply, her cheeks seemed all aflame, her lips
were dry and tongue parched, she felt as if she
was going to faint, but tears came to her re-
lief, and were more potent than any mere
words could have been. “O, I see  said
Hezekiah you cannot forget Harold, he was good
and noble and your ideal, but I feel sure he is
dead, we never hear from him; why do you go
away with this great sorrow in your heart?"
	By this time Hepsie had regained her
voice and thanking the young man for his
kindness of heart and telling him to marry
some one, who could give him her whole heart
and undivided affection, she tried to break off
the conversation, but he persistently refused to go
and added, “Mrs. Harvey if you ever want a
friend, if you should grow tired of a wanderer’s
life, let me know, there are three of us and we
would each one of us be willing to leave all
else for you.” This was Hepsie's moment and
she improved it,—"would you give up all else
and come back to the faith and travel with the
Saints into the wilderness for my sake?” Well,
no, not that Mrs Harvey that could not be,
we have renounced Mormonism you know, we
could not go back to that."
	"Well that proves that your love is selfish 
shallow and not genuine.  Love does not stop
for sacrifices, it suromunts every obstacle, it is
self-denying.  We must part, I shall go back
to the Camp tonight, and tomorrow we shall
pursue our journey Westward, what awaits me
I know not, but my faith in the future of my
people is unshaken, heaven help those, who
doubt and faint by the wayside.”
	And now dear patient reader we must bring
[column 2]
this story to a close, it is a true one, and there-
fore you cannot expect it to end with the same
sort of glowing highly colored denouement as 
a sensational novel, but if you have followed
the principal character in the story, and taken
in all the details and episodes, you will have
startling facts enough with a vivid imagina-
tion to conjecture a sequel equal to that of many
of the romances of modern times, and this the
writer will leave each of you to follow out,
his or her own inclinations in the matter, and
settle Hephzibah's future as you may think
proper to decide from the testimony given.
	There are one or two main points that
should be stated in the closing chapter, as they
really relate to the moral of the story itself.
After Hepsie parted with her mother to come
across the Mississippi—she never did see her
again she died of the hardships when the
Saints were driven out of Nauvoo in the sum-
mer of 1846, and was laid in an unknown grave
by the wayside, which fulfilled Mrs. Hathaway’s
words and affirmed the presentiment. Harold
never returned but died at sea and was buried in
the ocean, according to his brother's presenti-
ment, and the fore-shadowing of Hephzibah
when a child.  His parents never returned to
the Church and his brother died very young,
no doubt Hepsie thought, because it was im-
possible with his disposition to rise above the
opposition he had to contend with; he sank into
a sort of melancholy and went into a decline.
He was a beautiful character but lacked the
strong elements necessary to battle with un-
pleasant surroundings.
	The school-mates of Hepsie for whom she
had such a strong attachment early in life did
not all marry Ministers, or Doctors, or Lawyers
or men with high sounding titles, as they had
declared they would, in fact two or three of
them still live in single blessedness to this
day, and visit among their cousins and rela-
tives, and are very sedate and proper.  Jane
the Esquire’s daughter, plain and unpreten-
tious as she was married a rich man, “away
down in Maine,” who afterwards figured con-
spicuously in politics at home and finally went
as Senator from his State to Congress.  Miss
Fay whose Christian name was Mehitable as
Hepsie once explained to her sister Hannah,
and who dubbed Hepsie as “the girl in panta-
lettes,” failed to secure the one she loved
and married in haste to repent at leisure, and
instead of wealth and position, she was obliged
to earn her own living and adopted the stage
as a profession.  Lucy (Reynold’s) Mrs. Adams
and her husband kept the faith, and though
they did not leave Nauvoo with the first
company they were among the first to locate
in the valley of the Great Salt Lake and lived
and died true to the principles they had em-
braced in their youth.
	The young college graduates in whom
Hepsie and Lucy took such an interest, both
apostatized before the Saints left Nauvoo, and
went back East one to practise law and the
other medicine.
	Many of the incidents written here proved
prophetic, and there are those living who
could testify to the same, but as we are not
dealing specially with this matter we leave it
to the intuition of the reader.  That there is
a Providence that over-rules and controls our
destinies is an undeniable fact, and yet we are
left our free-agency paradoxical as it may
seem.  It is not predestination, but it is the
guiding power of Him who holds the destinies
of men and of nations, that we can rely upon,
if we put ourselves in the position to obtain
His favor and support.  He leaves us free to
choose the good and refuse the evil,if we will;
add He knows how to bring us nearer to Him
by chastening and through fiery trials, and
yet He will not forsake us but will be our
ever-present help in time of need. The most
beautiful characters are those that have been
[column 3]
purified through suffering and have borne it
patiently.
		"For gold must be tried by fire
		And a heart must be tried by pain."
	The lessons that Hephzibah learned out of
the schools were very difficult, but they were a
much higher grade than those taught in the
halls of learning.  She had talked largely of
love while very young, and she had sipped
a little at the spring she had thought over-
flowing with the precious draught, just enough
to taste its sweetness, but behold it had turned
to bitterness afterwards, and even the cup from
which she drank was tarnished, and so she
cast it aside that her lips might not be
cankered, and it is not strange if after such
bitter experiences in her search for a pure and
enduring love, she was wise enough to know
the true metal from the glittering and showy
enameled tinsel, and to be able to choose wisely
in her riper years, and to teach some vital
truths to those who had not the same oppor-
tunities of gaining wisdom, or of knowing how
near the false can imitate the true by having
had so striking a contrast.  Having known
the bitter Hepsie ought certainly to have drank
freely of life's sweetness, but alas, how often are
the bitter and the sweet strangely commingled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS.
LETTER FROM TETON.
	This is a beautiful country. The Teton
Basin is 15 by 35 miles in area; the close sur-
rounding mountains are covered with the pine
and quaking-asp; the flowers here are too
numerous to mention, but the very sweetest
wild blooms I ever beheld.
	The Teton Peaks are 13,335 ft. in height, 
and when lit up by the deep gorgeous hues of
the sunsets here, they make the most beauti-
fully imposing sight I ever saw in my life.
I just love this ranch-life, and I often think
how thoroughly you would enjoy the wild, free
independent mode of living. Just imagine
great stretches of pasture-land with the large
bands of horses, the fierce herds of cattle, 
(some of the latter are so very wild that one
is not safe a half mile from the house.)
	The cozy log cabins are miles and miles
apart; to visit, we go horse back or in the 
cart.
	Game is very abundant. Elk, deer, moose,
bear, goose, duck, chicken, etc; and the finest
of trout abound in the lovely Teton river and
many canyon streams. All kinds of berries
are here, too.
	 I am enjoying plenty of horse-back riding, 
the shortest ride I have had yet was 16 miles;
last time I rode 25, and next time I expect
to start on a four day's horse back trip into
the mountains, there is a crowd going to Jack-
son's Hole, on the other side of the peaks, 150
miles from the Yellowstone Park.
	*		*		*		*
			Ever your friend,
							EMILY.
Aug. 28, 1890.


Do good by stealth, and blush to find it
fame.—Pope.

	Those who propagate evil reports frequently
invent them; and it is no breach of charity to
suppose this to be always the case, because no
man who spreads detraction would have
scrupled to produce it; as he who would diffuse
poison in a brook would scarcely be acquitted
of a malicious design, though he should allege
that he received it of another who is doing
the same elsewhere.—Adventurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE LADY PIONEERS.

	[Written for the celebration of Pioneer Day at Ephraim
Sanpete Co., July 24, 1890.]

	This day is ours.  'Twill ever live in story
		That first thy founders, Utah, saw thy face.
	Happy the man whose name is clearly written, 
		On thy fair scroll and in an honored place.
	They sowed the seed whose harvest we shall reap,
		They laid our sure foundations broad and deep.

	But man come not alone—a conquering hero
		To pioneer this land, our Deseret,
	But true and brave, and his own strength completeness
		Woman shared the toil and each privation met.
	"Dwell not alone Oh man" for Heaven decreed it
		Earth has not changed much though it’s older grown,
	And it is true—reluctant sound to own it
		Man never did accomplish much alone.

	And have you ever heard in song or story
		The names of those our Lady Pioneers
	Who left their homes to share in unknown sorrows.
		Of hunger, weariness, and trembling fears?
	Each shared the toil; drank the same cup of sorrow,
		Lifted like burdens as the man whose name,
	Wreathed with her sweetness, grace and holy fervor
		Is written in the book of lasting fame.

	And Harriet Wheeler Young, born in New Hampshire
		First on the list as lady pioneer,
	And Clara Decker Young her fair, pure daughter,
		Bride of a prophet in her sixteenth year.
	And Ellen Sanders Kimball from far Norway,
		Called by the voice of God her part to fill,
	Children of destiny these three fair women,
		Who gave their lives up to His holy will.

	Now don’t infer from what I’ve said of sweetness
		These women sat down and let men do the work.
	Things wouldn’t have been done with such completenes
		If they had been the kind to faint and shirk.
	Beside his plane and chisel stood her scissors
		His ax, her broom; his scythe, her buzzing reel;
	She matched against his harrow, plow and saddle,
		The labors of her loom and spinning-wheel.

	Their hands were white, but not too white to toil,
		Their garments coarse, but made them seem more fair,
	Their voices clear, lifted in songs of praise,
		Thrilled into rapture all the desert air.
	And their reward was love's untarnished flame,
		And in their souls the peace of those who’ve trod
	With all Christ’s armor on day after day,
		Unshodden through the Holy House of God.

	They wisdom learned close to the fountain-head,
		Drank righteousness as from a flowing cup;
	Grew in a holy faith so strong and firm,
		They loved not sin; Death called no terrors up.
	They gave to earth a race of human souls
		So pure from taint, so free from earthly dust,
	The angels sang for rapture in the skies,
		And God placed in their hands a holy trust.

	While we accord to man all of his own,
		And with the laurel crown his kingly brow;
	Do not forget the mothers of the men
		Who are the hope and pride of Zion now,
	Those fair, fine vessels whom love and sacrifice
		Prompted to drink privations bitter cup,
	"If man is King, then woman is his Queen."
		And to his side let fame now lift her up.
							ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[column 1]
			﻿CLARA BARTON.
	In military circles throughout the world, Clara
Barton is the best known of American women.
A daughter of Massachusetts, a noble repre-
sentative of the so-called "superfluous women"
of the commonwealth, her life record is one of
patriotic service.
	To Miss Barton belongs the credit of having
assisted in organizing the public school system 
of New Jersey.  She organized a public school
at Bordentown, N.  J.  She began with six
 cholars in a dilapidated old house with capacity
sor twenty, and at the year's end had 600

[column 2]
pupils in a fine brick building, newly erected
for her at a cost of $4,000.
	Her health failing, she went to Washington
City to recuperate, the climate there being 
favorable for her recovery.  About 1854
Judge Mason, Commissioner of Patents, offered
her a clerkship in his office, because she could
be trusted to keep the secrets of the office, and
not sell them, to the injury of applicants for
patents, as some of his men clerks had done.
She was the first woman to be regularly
employed as a clerk in any of the departments
at Washington, and great was the consterna-
tion among the government employees when
her name went on the pay roll.
	Miss Barton was the only woman who
served through the Civil War with neither
pay nor commission, first going back and forth
on the Potomac boats, taking the men as they 
come from the battle-field with blood and mud
dried upon their persons, and getting them
ready for the hospitals, and afterwards doing
a similar service in the camps.  On Morris
Island, during the siege of Fort Wagner,  she
was the only woman, and she stayed at her
post until bad water and exposure made her
dangerously ill.  Military records and the
memories of veterans are full of her acts of
kindness, in caring in woman fashion for the
sick and wounded- She was Gen.  Butler's
famous "Lady in charge of the hospitals at the
front," in 1864.  The next year she went to
Andersonville to identify and mark the graves
of Union soldiers.  In all these offices she
showed unusual executive ability and undaunt-
ed courage, tempered by the gentleness of a
loving, compassionate and refined woman.
	In 1870 she engaged in her splendid work
in the Franco-German War, and all the nations
of Europe rang with her praises and did her
honor.  The Grand Duchess of Baden, herself
a great philanthropist,  made her chief assist-
ant in the preparation of the military hospitals.
Here she first became acquainted with the
work of the Red Cross Society, and at once
united in it.
	Miss Barton came back to her native land 
and organized the Red Cross Society of
America, and was, very deservedly, made its
president. By a treaty of nations, her society
as well as the European original, is recognized,
and its agents are exempted from the restric-
tions placed upon travel, and in time of war
from most of the regulations concerning
communication between hostile camps.
	In 1883 Gov. B. F. Butler appointed Miss
Barton Superintendent of the Reformatory 
Prison at Sherborn Mass., giving her full
control and accepting her as her own bonds-
woman.  Miss Barton accepted this position
reluctantly, and in response to the entreaty of
Gov.  Butler and of many philanthropists that
she should aid that noble work in a time of
emergency and trial.  So satisfactory was
her administration that the Legislature re-
commended that the offices of treasurer and
steward, which had always been filled by men,
should be merged into that of the superintendent,
and that Miss Barton be appointed to fill the
triple office;
	In 1884 Clara Barton and her society were
given charge of relieving the sufferers by the
Ohio and Mississippi floods;  She was sent as a
delegate to the International Peace Congress
held at Geneva in the same year.  The United
States paid her the distinguished honor of
requesting her to write the "History of the
Red Cross Society," with which she complied,
and it was printed by order of Congress.  After
the great fires in Michigan, the cyclones in
Texas, the Charleston earthquake, and the
awful calamity at Johnstown, Clara Barton
and the sisterhood of the Red Cross were
earliest at the scenes of distress, and unhesitat-
ingly the people put themselves under their
administrative generalship.

[column 3]
	Wherever flame or flood or pestilence bring
death and disaster to American homes, Clara
Barton plants the banner of the Red
Cross.
	The life of this plain, simple unpretentious
and self-sacrificing woman is one of the
grandest monuments to charity and merciful
kindness the world has witnessed. She will
pass away, but the work and example of such
a life will never depart from among the races of 
men.
	Sumner once wrote of Clara Barton: “She
has the talent of a statesman, the command of
a general, and the heart and hand of a 
woman.
					Woman's Journal.
	Boston.


LYDIA E. BECKER. 
	The friends were shocked by the telegraphic
announcement, Saturday July 19, of the death
of Lydia E. Becker, of diptheria, at Geneva,
Switzerland.
	Miss Becker was one of the leaders of the
woman's suffrage movement in England, and
well known on that side as an able persistent
advocate of equal rights for women. She was
the editor of the Woman's Suffrage Journal at
Manchester. This she conducted with a
single eye to secure parliamentry suffrage for
women. She watched the acts of parliament,
often going up to London during the sessions
and sending immense petitions for her favorite
measure. She regularly published the par- 
liamentary debates in her Journal, thus pre-
serving the history of this important move-
ment as it has gone on in England.
	She will be greatly missed from the suffrage
ranks and from suffrage work in England.
Her co-workers there will receive the warm
sympathy of the friends of the cause every-
where in the sudden and untimely death of
Mrs. Becker.						L.S.

	I have a very distinct remembrance of Miss
Becker as I saw her in the summer of 1872,
and from this may be allowed to make a brief
personal mention of her.
	At the time of which I speak she was very
prominent in the woman suffrage movement
and as its advocate was one of the most consider-
ed and respected. I heard her speak in public
once or twice. The first time was, I think,
at a crowded meeting in St. George's Hall,
London, at which Prof. Playfair, now Sir
Lionel, of that name,presided. 	
	She spoke with weight of thought and
assurance, and impressed me as a person who
had given much study to social problems. Her
voice had the pleasant English ring, the imita-
tion of which causes come of our elegantes to
gurgle and almost to choke, American throats
not answering to so deep an intonation. She
was, as I remember, of medium height and
over, stout, with a complexion neither dark
nor light, but indicating vigor of temperament;
her dress was careful and in good taste; her
greeting of the American suffragists frank and
friendly.
						JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman’s Journal.


Mrs. Hannah Sullivan, who has just died at 
Newcastle, Wy., at the age of 111 years, is 
said to be the only woman centenarian who
ever voted.
	"Why is it," asks Col. Higginson, "that the
American magazines have marched in solid
column into England, and displaced the English
magazines?" It is because the American
magazine is a magazine. It brings people 
together- It is a place of comprehension.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1,00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			  PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]
	THE TIMES IN WHICH WE ARE
				LIVING.
	There are many notable events now transpir-
ing with this people that cause the Latter-day
Saints to reflect seriously upon their situation and
to look unto the Lord for His special guidance in
passing through what has been very appropriately
termed “the narrows.”
	The attempts made by the government of this
great and free Republic to dispossess the Church
of the means appropriated by the people for
special and legitimate purposes, pertaining to the
the interests of its spiritual growth (which always
embraces more or less the temporal) and to con-
strue everything that is done of a public nature
into an effort on the part of this people to support
polygamy, or encourage disloyalty to the Union
seems so utterly inconsistent when considered in
the light of reason and common sense, that one
would naturally think people of ordinary intelli-
gence would see at once that there was a mystery
underlying the whole transaction and would wish
to honestly arrive at some conclusion of the real
causes that had led to this religious crusade for
such indeed it is.
	In this enlightened age of the world’s civiliza-
tion and in America the cradle of religious liberty,
it is more than passing strange, if persecution
can be tolerated by a people of advanced
thoughts and ideas. As a sweeping assertion the
saints are familiar with the actual cause. It is the
Church of God. Its influence is being felt, and
great changes are being wrought and “everything
that can be shaken will be shaken,—so said the
prophet.”
	The evil one seeks by all the means in his
power to overthrow the true Church with its
holy priesthood and thwart the purposes of
Jehovah. Taken in its large sense this embodies
the whole matter in a nut-shell. The world of
mankind cannot see and comprehend this, be-
cause they are blinded by prejudice, therefore
they do not understand that the power of the
priesthood excites the envy, malice, jealousy and
hatred of Satan and his emissaries; and that he
walks up and down the earth figuratively speak-
ing provoking bitterness and emnity against
those who have enlisted under the banner of the
King of heaven in this last dispensation, to pre-
pare a place and a people for the coming of the
Messiah and the Millennial reign.
	If the people who consent silently even to the
persecution of the L. D. Saints would contrast the
condition of things now, with that of the true
Church in the days of Jesus, or with that of the
children of Israel in olden times; and examine
the Scriptures, (in which all believers think they
have eternal life) they would at least see a simi-
larity to the course now being pursued; and that
as it was in the days of the Savior, so it is now,
[Column 2]
unpopularity of those who have accepted divine
revelation through prophets and inspired men;
evil reports and misrepresentations are taken as
genuine truths, and what follows? why this people
are deprived of the rights and privileges to which
they are entitled under a free government, they
are robbed of property rightfully acquired through
industry, thrift, perseverance and the blessing of
God upon their fields, their flocks and their
labors.
	Nevertheless they still trust in Him whose out-
stretched arm is over all the earth, and they know
their cause is just and though men and nations
may oppress, yet in His own due time will the
Lord, whose laws they have tried to keep, effect
their deliverance, and ultimate triumph.
	Meantime should they sit idly down and wait?
O, no, there is work for all, and it will require the
best thoughts, the most earnest efforts and the
utmost diligence to move onward and upward and
keep pace with the times in this progressive age
of the world’s history. Trials are but preparatory
to the great things about to transpire in which
this people will be called to take an active part,
and it behooves all to be diligent and faithful,
humble and obedient, that they may not falter or
fall by the wayside because of hardship or perse-
cution through lack of faith, but hold on to the
iron rod for the race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong but to him that endureth unto
the end.


WOMEN’S MEETINGS AND
CONFERENCES.

	Meeting of the Relief Society at Paragoonah,
Sunday evening August 1890 at half past 7 p. m.
Sister Eliza A. Barton presiding; singing, "Lo
the mighty God appearing," prayer by Bishop
Jones, singing "Great God attend while Zion
sings," minutes of former meeting read. Sister
Jane S. Richards was introduced by Pres. Barton
and addressed the meeting in a most interesting
manner touching upon many subjects calculated
to inspire faith and perseverance in spiritual
duties, especially in prayer and in attending meet-
ings. Spoke upon the necessity of union and re-
ferred to the many temptations to wrong doing
that beset and were in the pathway of this people.
Referred to the advancement of science and the
many inventions of the present time. Spoke
beautifully upon charity and forgiveness of one
another. Exhorted the sisters to meet often, sing
good hymns, read good books and study to im-
prove in all good things.
	Sister E. B. Wells dwelt upon similar subjects
urged the sisters to put into practice the good
teachings they had heard, and to embrace every
opportunity for improvement in the things that
would make them truly wise. Referred to the
advantages of the Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' and Primary Associations, and advised
the sisters to use their utmost endeavors to teach
the young people the principles of the Gospel.
She also gave some of her ideas upon woman's
work and progress.
	Bishop Jones spoke upon woman's position
and pursuits in life, made some excellent remarks
and illustrations upon the subject, also upon
charity and forgiveness, humility and forbearance
one towards another.
	Brother Barton expressed himself delighted to
hear the sisters from Salt Lake City and hoped all
who were present would be benefited by the good
instructions that had been given, rejoiced in the
principles of the Gospel and felt that the Relief
Society was a great blessing. Sister Sarah
Horsley Counselor to Sister Barton and also
Sister Benson of Parowan made some interesting
remarks and gave good instruction.
	Pres. Eliza Barton was greatly pleased with the
visit of the sisters from Salt Lake and the good
[Column 2]
things that had been spoken to encourage and
help them forward, felt they needed instruction in
their duties as a Relief Society but desired to do
all in her power in a humble way and spirit,
singing "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Brother Horsley.

	At half past seven on Monday evening Aug.
11, the Relief Society met as per appointment in
the meeting house at Beaver, Sister Lucinda
Houd Pres. of the R. S. of that Stake presiding.
Pres. Murdock and many other leading local
brethren were present and a very large and atten-
tive audience of men and women. After singing
"O, God our help in ages past," prayer was
offered by Pres. Murdock, continued by singing
"All hail the glorious day." The first speaker
was Sister E. J. Bennett Counselor to Pres. Houd
and also President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver
Stake. Her remarks were excellent and practi-
cal. Pres. Houd followed her with a few remarks
expressing her pleasure that the sisters from Salt
Lake had visited them etc. Sister Houd then
called upon Sister R. W. Tyler who made a very
interesting speech and was followed by Sister
Bickley; each of these sisters spoke of their
work in the Relief Society and the various duties
and obligations it brought with it.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon political and
social matters especially upon marriage, giving
good advice to the young people. She also spoke
of the duties devolving upon the sisters in their
organizations and alluded to the saving of graind
which they had been counseled to do by President
Young.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of the spiritual
work of the sisters, advised holding meetings
often, and keeping up the Quarterly Conferences;
also spoke of the need of saving grain and re-
ferred to the counsel given not only by Pres.
Young but Pres. Taylor and the living President
Wilford Woodruff. The sisters had never been
released from this mission given to them, and in
view of all the calamities transpiring in the world
it would seem necessary to have bread stuff on
hand. Referred to the scarcity of provision the
Saints had passed through and hoped we would
never see such times again. Sister Richards
said many comforting things to the people, Pres.
Murdock spoke a short time endorsed what had
been said, and testified to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters in Beaver Stake. Pres.
Houd made a few closing remarks, and the meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer.

	At one o'clock Tuesday Aug. 12, there was a
meeting held at Minersville under the auspices of
the Relief Society Mrs. Rebecca Eyre presiding
Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley were present
having accompanied Sisters Richards and Wells,
thus far on their journey homeward. Meeting
opened with singing "I saw a mighty angel fly.'
Prayer by Counselor Geo. Eyre, singing, "Hark
ye mortals peace be still." Sister Eyre made a
few opening remarks welcoming the sisters and
invited her Counselor Sister Mary E. Lightner
to address the meeting. Sister Lightner spoke
upon the goodness and mercy of our Creator to
his children, and gave some interesting items of
the church in early days.
	Counselor Lydia McKnight, prayed for the
spirit of the Lord to be with us and gave some
idea of the labors that were performed by the
sisters in that place.
	Pres. Houd expressed her gratification in hav-
ing the opportunity to visit Minersville with the
traveling sisters and exhorted the sisters to love
one another, said we are all working bees in the
hive of Deseret, we must not be cast down, urged
the sisters to take the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
gave much good motherly advice.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were then
ead by the Secretary which gave a very good


idea of the spirit of their meetings.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of our having all
our faculties continued even to old age.
	Referred to Mother Gilbert who had been sixty
years in the Church, and was still living at the
ripe age of ninety years; dwelt eloquently upon
the coming of the Savior and the need of spiritual
development; also upon the bountiful harvest, the
influx of strangers in our midst, the need of sav-
ing grain and also fortifying our children againts
evil influences especially saloons and drinking
places. Sister Richards made a strong appeal to
the sisters to sustain their own publication the
Woman’s Exponent. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon several subjects
of interest particularly the blessing and privilege
of the work for the dead. Sisters R. W. Tyler
L. Houd, and the President Sister Eyre each said
a few words bearing testimony to the truth of the
principles of the everlasting Gospel and express-
ing their desires to be faithful and endure all
things. Choir sang “Joseph Smith's first prayer.”
Benediction by Wm. Wood.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INTERESTING ITEMS.
	It was some time before we went on our journey
to England. Our cottage was near the office where
the President had business attended to; (the
date I cannot now remember) but I think it can
be found if necessary.—Brother Brigham was
said to be sick, after a day or two he was better,
and around.—Then a paper was sent to me to
read, and copy what I felt might interest me.
The slight indispostion of the President was the
effect of a Vision. I only copied a little piece
that might be with me all the time—and this was
the case the more than five years I was away.
	This same little memento, old but still whole, I
now copy for the help of others. It reads as fol-
lows:
	“Joseph stepped towards me and looked very
earnestly yet pleasantly. But before this, I asked
him what I should say to the people from him,
this was the answer:” “Tell the people to be
humble and faithful, and be sure to keep the
spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them right.
Be careful and not turn away the still small voice;
it will teach you how to do, where to go, it will
yield the fruits of the Kingdom—Tell the brethren
to keep their hearts open to conviction, so
that when the Holy Ghost comes to them, their
hearts will be ready to receive it. They can tell
the spirit of the Lord from all other spirits, it will
whisper peace and joy to their hearts and souls;
it will take malice, hatred, strife, and all evil from
their hearts and their whole desire will be to do
good, bring forth righteousness, and build up the
Kingdom of God. Tell the brethren if they will
do this, follow the spirit of the Lord, they will
go right. Be sure to tell the people to keep the
spirit of the Lord; and if they will, they will find
themselves just as they were organized by our
Father in Heaven before they came into the
world. Our Father in Heaven organized the
human family but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion.” “Joseph then showed me the
pattern how they were in the beginning this I
cannot describe, but I saw it and saw where the
Priesthood had been taken from the earth; and
how it must be joined so there will be a perfect
chain from Father Adam to his latest posterity.
Tell the people to be sure to keep the spirit of the
Lord and follow it and it will lead them just right."
	The whole was very interesting, but this was all
I cared to take from the manuscript.
								S. G. R.


[Column 1]
	    AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
	The opening of the Agricultural College
situated at Logan, Cache Co., was a great event
[Column 2]
in Utah, and a gala day for Logan and Cache Co.
Many distinguished visitors were present from
other counties, and telegrams of congratulation
were received from those specially interested liv-
ing at a distance who could not be present.
	The hour for commencing the exercises was
10 a. m. The lecture hall was well filled and
there were present of the Board of Trustees, W.
S. McCormick, President; Gov. A. L. Thomas;
W. H. Brown and Mr. Hills, of Utah county;
M. B. Sowles, of Salt Lake; R. W. Cross of
Weber county; J. T. Hammond and C. F. Olsen,
of Cache county; also Moses Thatcher, G. W.
Thatcher, Bishop Wm. B. Preston, Mrs. Eddy,
G. G. Bywater,, of Salt Lake; Orson Smith, S.
M. Molen, Isaac Smith, Rev. E. W. Greene,
Judge William Goodwin, Commissioner C. C.
Goodwin, Treasurer Bolivar Robers, of Salt
Lake; Mayor I. D. Haines, R. S. Watson, Seth
A. Langton, James A. Langton, W. H. Apperley,
Dr. J. M. Tanner, A. G. Barber, John Bench, W.
E. Partington, John T. Caine, Jr., S. A. Kenner,
E. R. Nielson and many others. Of course Prof.
Sanborn, president of the faculty, and others of
the faculty were also in attendance.
	Pres. McCormick first addressed the vast as-
sembly and announced that the Agricultural
College of Utah was now open and ready for the
dedicatory services. He made very appropriate
and suggestive introductory remarks.
	The opening exercise was a piano solo by Mrs.
R. W. Sloan.
	Pres. McCormick in a rather humorous manner
introduced Prof. Sanborn of the Experiment
Station of Utah and President of the College, who
after some preliminary remarks said: “By the in-
troduction of these colleges was projected into
the educational designs of this country a new
idea for a new class. The old-classical education
I think might be termed a dress parade education.
By the institution of agricultural educational
colleges a broader and a deeper idea was in-
troduced—an idea which recognized the great
value of the productive classes, and the necessity
of giving to them the benefit of scientific re-
searches, of encouraging a new form of education
with the wisdom of giving them the benefit of a
higher culture than they had previously enjoyed.
He dwelt at some length upon the future de-
velopment of the race through the medium of the
new education, and this he believed fully because
of what this education had done for man in the
past. It had procured his physical, mental and
religious freedom.”
	Here Mr. Lamoreaux sang a song which was
warmly received.
	Professor Sanborn then read the following tele-
gram, just then received from Hon. John T. Caine,
Washington, D. C.
	PRESIDENT J. W. SANBORN:—I congratulate
the people of the Territory upon the opening of
the Agricultural College of Utah under such
favorable auspices. An act of Congress, recently
approved, appropriates to Agricultural Colleges
fifteen thousand dollars for each year, increasing
the amount one thousand dollars a year for ten
years thereafter. At the end of that time the ap-
propriation to be $25,000 annually. This, in ad-
dition to the appropriation of $15,000 for the ex-
periment stations. Success to the Agricultural
College of Utah.
							JOHN T. CAINE.
	(Applause.)
	Pres. McCormick then introduced the Governor
of Utah Ter. Arthur L. Thomas. In the course
of his remarks the Governor said:“As a Territory
Utah has done well for education. Reading in
the statutes we find that very soon after the
founding of this Territory, an act was passed
establishing the University of Deseret. It was
an evidence of great courage to do so great a
thing at so early a day. Reading in the law will
[Column 3]
disclose how broad was the basis on which it
was founded. The Deseret University can not
be so great an institution as it may become until
the Territory has schools sufficiently advanced to
send up to the University a class of students
more highly educated than now. Free schools
will do much to this end if the present law can be
enforced, as I believe it will. The next act was
the founding of an institution for the education of
deaf mutes, by which they can become less re-
moved from us and be made of greater use as
men. Then came the establishment of the reform
school. Then follows the agricultural college.
The passage of this act was the first time that the
great agricultural classes had been recognized in
Utah. It seems to me that the agricultural
classes, like the soil they cultivate, are ever
patient and yielding. All the good, the success
of the world and of the race is directly traceable
to agriculture and to the industries founded upon
it. The agricultural are the best classes of our
citizens, and in their ranks is found in trying
times the greatest patriotism and loyalty in the
world. Troubles never arise from the agri-
cultural classes.”
	Bishop Wm. B. Preston was the next speaker,
he gave a brief sketch of agricultural pursuits, in
detail, and the needs and advantages thereof, and
after summing it all up says:“May I add also that
in the education of the man, the heart should not
be forgotten; and that by the great intelligence
brought to bear upon agriculture—the primal pur-
suit—the labor of the farmer may become a more
popular pursuit; and that the straying mind of
youth may be recalled with delight to the best
and oldest pursuit of the human race.”
	After Bishop Preston had finished, Mrs. R.
W. Sloan sang an operatic selection which was
highly applauded.
	Mrs. S. W. Eddy then delivered an address
upon the higher education of woman which is
said by those present to have been the most
brilliant effort of the day. The Logan Journal
promises to give her speech in full in its columns,
which will be anxiously looked for.
	Geo. G. Bywater Esq., then read a paper on
the relation of mechanics to education. His
paper was an able effort and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Next was a telegram from the father of the bill
which brought the Agricultural College into ex-
istence.
					MANTI, U. T., Sept. 4, 1890.
	PROF. SANBORN, Logan:
	I congratulate the people of Utah on the
auspicious event of the opening of an Agricultural
College and Experiment Station in Logan. May
this institution prove successful in endearing the
noblest of all pursuits to the hearts of our youth,
and in furnishing our farmers with such methods
as may facilitate their labors and bring them the
greatest results.
				Yours truly,
						ANTON H. LUND.
	This dispatch was also received with applause.
	Mr. R. C. Easton then sang “Annie Laurie,”
with such effect that the assemblage would not
rest until they heard another verse.
	Hon. Moses Thatcher followed in the line of
Mrs. Eddy, by showing the power within the reach
of woman. He referred to Miss Carroll who
planned the opening of the Tennessee river
which decided the late civil war in favor of the
Union, and to Bismarck, who, while he made
emperors and nations bow, was himself humbled
by a woman.
	Dr. J. M. Tanner also responded in a brief but
happy effort, contending that while the new idea
of education would become more and more popu-
lar, it would only serve to increase the interest
and strengthen the old. Therefore he rejoiced at
the opening of this college and wished it God-
speed.


Rev. E. W. Greene spoke briefly, and referred
to the absence of skilled mechanics among young
people here, and their great necessity, and was
thankful that such an institution as this was
established and which was calculated to increase
the number of skilled laborers among the young
of Utah.
	Short addresses were also  made by R. W.
Sloan, W. H. Snelling, J. A. Langton, J. F.
Wells and C. C. Goodwin.
	Messrs. Easton and Lamoureaux sang "When
the Swallows Homeward Fly" with very excellent
effect.
	Benediction being pronounced by Rev. E. W. 
Greene, the dedicatory services were over.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER TO THE SISTERS.
Cardston, Lee's Creek, Canada,
				August 20th, 1890.

	I awoke in the morning with these words in
my mind,
		"If you love me feed my sheep."
	God has truly given us Shepherds of His own 
choosing that have fed us the bread of Eternal
life these many years, and through our many trials
God has not forsaken us. Our confidence in Him
should not be shaken.
	Let us search the scriptures, and also words
given direct to cheer the many lonely and weary
ones whose souls need consolation; for by so do-
ing our lives are sweetened with the honey of 
truth; the sun may shine through all gathering
clouds of persecution, to give light to our path,for
Father has made it so simple and plain. The 
world, yes, the saints, oft make mistakes and 
seek to climb rugged paths that do not result in
their best good, we need strength and wisdom
every day and hour to be given us,to keep in sight
the star of peace.
	I am here in the great north west of Canada,
and it is so quiet like primitive Utah. My
thoughts wander over this sea of land covered
with fine grass, and wonder for the future; the 
God given Queen yet lives, the dignity of her ex-
cellent laws has been maintained, we honor their
justice, and may they never be sullied by a policy
that injures the innocent. Any tract of land that
we have ever dwelt upon has been paid for and 
blest by the Ruler of heaven and Maker of the
earth for which we return thanks; we should have
confidence in her Majesty's laws for over fifty 
years no religious persecution has been tolerated
against the saints.
	In this quiet nook my health is improving and
thus I feel to labor and encourage others to walk
in the path given us by the organizations so com-
plete. They enable us to work on a broader
platform and to do more good than any women on
the earth.
	I have confidence in our faithful, tried sisters
that are caring for the flock in our sphere, bless-
ing the sick and afflicted, so self-sacrificing to
bless others and they lay up treasures in heaven.
	Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith are with you at home and are ever de-
sirous to bless and comfort with many other faith-
ful and true sisters; seek their advice and to meet
with the Relief Society for mutual benefit and
much good is done by promoting confidence and
faith, and thus we gain wisdom and knowledge;
one sure key to direct us is this, that which builds up 
is from above, and the reverse is from
beneath.
	I would say to my sisters who are scattered, it 
requires a team (many can be their own team-
sters) seek to assemble with the sisters, all saints
should have their names enrolled in the Relief
Society, we need the faith of each other to ad-
vance in spiritual life, we are commanded to con-
tend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
saints, I trust ere long to be with you, it was righ
[column 2]
that I came. Here in Canada I find the true and
faithful, seeking to do the Father's will. Although
no echo of steam rends the air, no pomp or 
splendor glistens to allure the attention of old or 
young. The love that adorns saints and happi-
fies stimulates to action, there must be a variety
and here are the toils of life and the same kind
that is met with in new countries; there is but
very little sickness 3 deaths in 3 years; there is
one very sick brother now, through an accident
was thrown into a stream of water and took cold.

	To the sisters throughout the world let us be
true to ourselves and our God, remembering we 
are in the fold of Christ, His spirit has sanctioned
our legal entry, and if we will feed the sheep, the
lambs will not go a stray, let us not loose sight of
the truth, the Shepherd careth for the flock, for-
getting not our every day duties,and caring for the 
redemption of the dead that we may lay up 
treasures in heaven.
	I trust the Presidents have looked after their re-
ports. It is with much labor that the Secretaries
prepare their reports, this also will bring a rich 
reward to those that get an experience.
	Isaiah says the daughters of Zion shall be
polished after the similitude of a palace, and this
will be brought about by all doing their duty, and
may all have the gift of wisdom with power to
over come that we may have faith to feed the 
flocks that they faint not.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
					President Relief Society.


TO PUBLISHERS.
	Publishers will confer a favor by giving in their
paper, notice of the following.
	Owing to the severe illness and probable death
of the publisher of Woman's Directory, the
Directory will be discontinued for a while.
					ED. Woman's Directory.


WHITTIER’S LETTER TO A FRIEND.

	Mr. Whittier has written the following letter to
Mrs. A. O. Boyca regarding her pleasant book,—
“Records of a Quaker Family."
		Oak Knoll, Danvers, Mass.,
						7, m. I, 1890.
	My Dear Friend:
	I have received thy beautiful book with great
satisfaction. As a truthful picture of the old
friendly life, it seems to me perfect; and I give
thee my heartfelt thanks for the privilege of read-
ing it. Our dear Society seems changing and be-
coming more like the Calvinistic and other
Dissenting Churches, both in doctrines and testi-
monies, but the good work it has done, and the
simple exteriors of its lives in the past will not be
forgotten by the world it has made better and
sweeter.
		Gratefully thy aged friend,
					JOHN G. WHITTIER.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE AT LOGAN.
	A mass meeting was held in the Tabernacle
Tuesday Sept. 2, for the purpose of re-organizing
the Logan branch of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, President of
the Territorial Association, and Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards were up from Salt Lake and occupied
the stand in company with Mrs. Lettie Thatcher,
Mesdames Molen, Farr, Townsend, Cardon,
Sanders and others. Mrs. Kimball was elected
chairman, and Mrs. Farr secretary. Mrs. Kim-
ball endeavored to explain the necessity of under-
standing the rules of government. Most of the
officers elected at the first meeting resigned and


the new ones elected are as follows: President,
Mrs. Sarah Farr; first vice-president, Mrs. Lettie
Thatcher; second vice-president, Mrs. Mary Farr;
secretary, Miss M. Thaine; corresponding secre-
tary, Miss A. Parry; chairman Ex. Com. Mrs. P.
Hendrickson; members of the Board, Miss B.
Morehead, Mrs. B. Goodwin, Mrs. M. Hurst,
Miss L. Hovey, Miss Cassiday. Speeches were
made by Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Mrs. Adeline Bar-
ber, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball, President O. Smith,
and Councilor S. M. Molen. Selections upon the
franchise were read by Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.


HOW WE SPENT OUR TIME.

	Accepting an invitation from Sister Anna
K. Smoot, Pres. of the Primary Associations of
Utah Stake, Counselor Lillie Freeze accom-
panied by Stake Assist. Mrs. Jane Freeze of
the Y. L. Association of Salt Lake Stake, left
on the early morning train of Aug. 25th and
were met at Pleasant Grove by the combined
Presidency of the R. S., Y. L., and P. A.,
Ass’n, of Utah Stake who had planned a visit
through the northern settlements on a tour of
inspection and encouragement to the sisters
and children laboring in these organizations.
	At Pleasant Grove the Primary met at
10 a. m. with a large attendance of over 130
members, as is usually the case, the girls
largely predominating. The programme was
well rendered throughout. At 2 p. m. a meet-
ing of the R. S. and Y. L. convened at which
appropriate and spirited addresses were given
by Pres. Anna K. Smoot, Pres. Mary John
Pres. Zina Lyon, the two visitors from Salt
Lake and others, many points particularIy in-
teresting to women were dwelt upon and an
excellent spirit prevailed.
	Tuesday, 26th we entered the charming
little retreat of Alpine, never shall we forget
the scene of rural beauty that burst upon our
vision as we rounded the hill leading into the
pretty village nestled at the foot of the mighty
granite hills.
	We met with the Primary at 10 a. m., here
while the girls led in numbers the boys were
very well represented and showed marked in-
terest, everything on the programme was per-
formed to the credit of teachers and children.
	At 2 o’clock, a meeting of the R. S. was
held, at which much encouragement was given
to the ceaseless toilers “our mothers.”
	Part of the company went to Lehi that
night and an evening meeting was held in the
interest of the Y. L. a good attendance of
bright, intelligent, earnest girls showed that
they were still alive to their duties though
laboring under disadvantages. Pres. Lyon
Mrs. Jane and Lillie Freeze addressed the
girls on various topics of interest to themselves.
	And at sunrise on the morning of the 27th,
we reluctantly left the beauty, melody, sun-
shine, the sublime influence of peace which
hangs as a mantle over this little village.
	At American Fork, we waited three hours
and a half for a delayed train which debarred
us from the enjoyment of hearing the exercises
of the children at Lehi, but as we arrived at
the meeting house, just at the close of the
meeting some of the singing was repeated
proving the excellent talent of the children;
we were pleased to learn that a number of
boys took part in the programme. Pres.
Smoot and the other visitors assured us that
the meeting was a success.
	A lively meeting of the sisters held in the
afternoon showed that they were alive to their
duties as saints, progressive in spirit and un-
daunted in their labors for the improvement of
their associations.
	That night we attended an exceedingly in
teresting meeting of the district officers f


[column 1]
American Fork, and at 10 a. m., on Thursday
the general Stake Officers meeting of the P.
A. convened.  This is a grand arrangement
and it was a most enjoyable sight to behold the
Officers from every town and hamlet number-
ing upwards of 150, greeting each other with
such joyful faces, warm hand-clasps and earnest
expressions of mutual love and good fellow-
ship, many of whom no doubt, had not met
since the Conference 6 months previous.  Here
short, concise verbal reports were given from
 the various branches, each telling of the
different methods adopted for enhancing the
interest of the meetings, the most successful
management of the association, etc. All the
business pertaining to the Stake organization
was here transacted and much good counsel
given for future guidance, by Pres. Smoot
whose good generalship, executive ability,
fine tact as organizer and Pres.  is shown to
the best advantage—here is generated the
power which moves so successfully the 
mammoth organization embracing nearly 4,000
children.  Pres. Smoot seems to understand
how to get the best and most work done cheer-
fully by the intelligent corps of officers over
whom she presides.
	At noon, all present were invited to par-
take of an elaborate picnic spread in the Court
house with fruit and flowers in profusion,
where the guests were gracefully waited upon
by a brigade of dainty white capped bright-
eyed girls.  These picnics are an established
feature of each conference given by the As-
sociations of the town where the conference is
held, and as they are always held in Provo
during the winter and changed each summer
to a different town—they are looked forward 
to with mingled anxiety and delight and much
preparatory work is done to make each event
a grand success.  At the one in question held
at 2 p.m., the house was filled with parents and
children, the Bishopric of the ward, and
Superintendent of the Sunday School.  Every
item was pre-arranged, preventing any delay so
tiring to children.  Programmes were written
and distributed among the congregation, every 
part rendered promptly, one noticable and
gratifying feature was the large number of
boys who took part, about 35 in all, doing
themselves great credit; 12 boys recited the
"Articles of faith" in concert in perfect har-
mony, the singing was most delightful by
many, very little girls and showed much care-
ful training.  Time and space will not permit
us to mention half of the many things that
pleased us.
	The children have donated to the nickle
fund over 70 dollars which is used exclusively
for emigration; two persons have been brought
from Europe and the money is again ready
to loan without interest.  The liberation of
one soul from bondage is deemed sufficient
interest on the cash.  The Stake is divided
into seven districts presided over by the
usual Officers who hold regular monthly busi-
ness meetings and keep account of all proceed-
ings.  The Stake Pres. accepts reports from the
presidency of each district semi-anually, thus
the labors are divided among many and
much energetic work is performed.  Every 
Association is visited once a year by Pres.
Smoot and Counselors, who also attend district
Conferences at intervals between each semi-
anual Conference.
	A flying visit to Springville for a peep at
our friends a return to Provo to attend the
Woman's Suffrage Meeting and the Young
Ladies semi annual Conference at which we
trust profitable meetings were held blessed and
encouraged by the wise and motherly counsels
of Pres. Elmina S. Taylor whose labors and
interests among the daughters of Zion are
indefatigable, ended our labors in Utah
Stake where "Welcome" shone in every face
and was felt in the warm grasp of every hand,
[column 2]
and was evident in the very hospitable enter-
tainment accorded us everywhere.  We
brought away many plesant memories and
stopped over on our return at South Cotton-
wood to attend the Mammoth Sunday School
reunion held there Sunday 31st in which 4
wards participated occupying the whole day
with two excellent programmes.  A drive to
Mill Creek, Wed. Sept. 3rd to join the visit-
ing sisters who came out to attend the Young
Ladies annual meeting of that ward where an
enjoyable time was spent in two well attended
well spirited meetings, a delightful picnic at
noon and we wended our way homeward feel-
ing much improved physically and with the
firm conviction that a more enjoyable time
was never experienced.
						L. FREEZE


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		LOGAN 6TH WARD CACHE STAKE.
	The Annual meeting of the 6th Ward Relief
Society was held in the Meeting House on
the 3d, of Sept. President Elizabeth Townsend
presiding. There were present, Stake Pres.
Orson Smith and wife. Relief Society President
Adeline Barber, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
of Salt Lake City; with a good attendance of
the members. The minutes of the former
meeting were read. Roll was called. The
amount of means received and disbursed re-
ported. The amount of wheat and its condi-
tion, and suggestions made in regard to build-
ing a Relief Society House and Granary
which was encouraged by Brother Smith.
Sister Kimball related her experience in re-
gard to a similar undertaking, and said, "you
will be astonished at the ease with which it
will be accomplished if you will but make a
start." A few items were then read by the
Secretary on Relief Society work; of its first
organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
Nauvoo in 1842; of its first move in Logan
and of the duties required, etc.
	President Smith approved of the Society,
was glad to see it had efficient officers and
thought its plans for further advancement
were excellent. It was concluded with a little
picnic provided by the two counselors.
					E. TOWNSEND, Pres.
		HUNTER WARD S. L. STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Hunter Ward S. L.
Stake met as per adjournment in the Ward
House on Thursday, September 4, at one
o'clock p.m. Mrs. Charlotte Neilson presid-
ing. Visitors from the City had been invited
and were present Pres. M. I. Horne her Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
Coun. to Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells,
also the Bishop one of his Counselors and a
goodly number of brethren and sisters for
such a sparsely settled district. Meeting
opened with singing "God moves in a mysteri-
ous way," prayer by Bishop Wm. Miller, sing-
ing, "The Glorious day is rolling on." The
secretary then read the minutes of the previous
meeting, which were very good containing
much food for thought and excellent advice;
the secretary also read the monthly donations
received at the last meeting, which showed a
spirit of benevolence and liberality creditable
to the local sisters.
	Pres. Neilson made a few opening remarks,
and expressed her pleasure in having the
sisters from Salt Lake City. Coun. Elmina
S Taylor was the first speaker, her remarks
were replete with the best instructions, she
dwelt upon the benefits to be derived from at-
tending the meetings of the sisters as well as
other meetings, and enjoined upon the mothers
to not only give good advice and teaching to
the children, watch as well as pray, but to set
worthy examples before them in all things,
[Column 2]
referred to the trials of the present time, and
realized that through these the saints would
prove their faithfulness; alluded to the love of
the world and of pleasure that was growing
in the midst of the saints.
	Pres. Horne spoke of the small things with
which the Relief Society dealt, referred to the
Savior's words concerning the widow's two
mites and his declaration that she had given
more than them all, because it was all she
possessed, made a very happy illustration of
this example, also spoke of the watchful care
of our Father in heaven over each one, which
was verified to us in his saying not even a
sparrow could fall to the ground without his
Maker's notice and that the hairs of our head
were all numbered. "We are now undergoing
the process of purification to prove our
integrity. The duties of the Relief Society are
arduous and especially those of the teachers;
we have both spiritual and temporal duties to
perform; visiting the sick and sorrowing, help-
ing in kindness those who are weak, the tried
and tempted, using our utmost influence against
the wiles and temptations of the world, that be-
set our young people; make our homes happy
and comfortable, teach our children to be
brave and industrious; be wise in looking after
the poor; we don't believe in beggers, it indicates
a bad state of society, though it is not always
the beggar that is the most dangerous element,
it is the smooth tongued and polished hypocrite
that are the most so after all. Beware of the
company of such persons, do not associate
with those who are not of our faith. The
speaker then referred to the importance of the
Relief Society and the words of Joseph at the
time he organized in Nauvoo. She advised the
sisters in regard to their means and spoke
especially upon the subject of saving grain,and
the building of storehouses.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, spoke of being
present at the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and testified that all the principles he taught
were true,and would benefit the human family.
Spoke upon example as being better than pre-
cept, and upon faith, the healing of the sick by
administration of the laying on of hands; told
of the accident that betell her in May last and
gave God the glory, for her being restored to
health, she had not called upon Doctors, but
exercised faith in the ordinances; did not think
of dying after she was injured; blessed all
those present in the name of Jesus.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand
results achieved through the organization of
women, also upon true charity, and the disposi-
tion to look upon the bright side, referred to
the days of famine and of sickness, the trials
of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters
and thought for many reasons we ought to be
grateful notwith standing the persecutions of
the present time, for the Lord had greatly
prospered us in these valleys.
	Pres. C. Nielson made a few remarke ex-
pressing her pleasure in listening to the
remarks of the sisters and called upon the Coun.
to the Bishop A. A. Jones, who spoke briefly
upon charity and fault finding also of obedience
hearkening to counsel and the still small voice
of the spirit that would direct us in the path of
duty.
	Bishop Miller expressed himself in accord
with what had been spoken; he believed the
Relief Society would yet be called upon to
help those who now persecute us; deplored the
condition of the world in the midst of their ca-
lamities because they had not the spirit of
God to sustain them as the saints had, spoke
feelingly upon the duties of mothers.
	The President of the Primary Association
gave notice of the next meeting, and the
hymn "Behold the Savior comes" was sung.
Benediction by Sister Brown.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[column 1]
MRS. LEAVITT IN DENMARK.

	I had the pleasure of attending a woman’s
suffrage meeting yesterday, called by the
Danish Society,at which were present delegaets
from Sweden, Norway, and Finland.
	The speaking was in their languages except
that I said a few words in English, and was
interpreted, though nearly half the persons in
the room raised their hands as able to under-
stand English.
	Mrs. Selmer, who accompanied me,  trans-
lated a few things,  but as I understoood so
little of what was said, I should like to make
a few very brief notes ef what I observed in other ways
	First I was struck with the number of
ladies who wore short hair. Again, I did
not observe one corseted waist among them
all, that is, the leaders and speakers who
were moving about and who came under my
observation.
	One only of the ladies exhibited an oratory
formed after the model taught to men in the
schools. All the others talked in the most
easy and natural way, with smiles and gestures
intermingled,  and one laughed with her
audience.  Only one was at all slow or
hesitating in her speech.
	Objectors were asked to speak, and two or
three gentlemen “improved the opportunity,"
but from the laughter that followed the brief
reply of some lady, I fancy they gained little
from their endeavor.
	I have heard two points criticised by ladies
who believe in suffrage, but who do not act
with this society.  The first is that too many
of the society go out of their way to talk
against Christianity.  To say nothing of the
beliefs of either class, I think it bad policy in
suffragists to attack religious beliefs.  It is
certain that suffrage cannot be carried
without the help of Christian men and
women, and it is also true that many will
not join a movement which seems to them,
because of utterances of some of the leaders,
—which are not, however, a part of any rules
or constitutions,—to be contrary to their own
most cherished beliefs.  The opposite course,so
constantly followed by the Woman's Journal,
and upon the platform which that paper re-
presents, with its results, shows very clearly
that I am right.
	Another hindrance is that several of the
suffragists are said to assume mannish not
manly ways.  I saw nothing of this, but to sit
in a meeting with an arm on the back of a
chair and the hand thrust in the hair, and
one leg thrown over the other, casts a needless
slur upon a grand and fundamental move-
ment.
	We err if we copy after the “ways” of men.
Let us be ourselves, and not weak imitations
of men, and thus sooner will we show those
who are not yet with us that the movement is
not unsexing women, and the sooner shall we
show them that education,  thought-power,
executive ability, courage, truth are as compati-
ble with feminine delicacy and purity, femi-
nine sweetness and grace, as purity,gentleness,
sweet temper and unselfishness are with true
manliness in men.  I hesitated to speak of
another point, as, perhaps, it applies best to
one lady, lest the shadow should fall upon
others; still.  I decide to mention it.  In the
northern continental cities, there are as yet
but few lady physicians.  In one of these cities
that I have recently visited, a lady physician
of much ability and skill, fully in accord with
the movements for the elevation of women,
joins with men in smoking and drinking, and
the use of oaths—no, I would say it squarely
as I would of a man—swearing. These were
not her habits until she began to practise
medicine.  Presently when the movement is
more general here, as it is in America and
[column 2]
England, these unpleasant things will be rated
at their true value, merely as individual eccen-
tricities or mistakes.
	It appears to me we should all be careful
not to depart from what is truly feminine, nor
from any badge of femininity in dress or
manners, unless it is something that really
hampers or weakens us.
	It is sure that “emancipation of women” is
progressing rapidly in these Scandinavian
lands, and that the movement is much farther
advanced than in the more southern countries.
			MARY CLEMENT LEAVITT.
	Kjobenham, Denmark, Aug. 5,1890.


EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.

	MRS. WELLS: DEAR SISTER:
	I am much interested in the story of
Hephzibah, and I think I recognize some of
the characters.  Had I been as courageous
as she was,I might now be with the Church;
don’t know when I will get there again.  My
health is tolerably good, but my eyes and
ears are badly affected; fear sometimes I will
get entirely deaf and blind.  I hope and pray
that I may not.
	*		*		*		*		*
	Accept my best wishes and remember me in
your prayers; give my respects to Elvira.have
been looking for a letter from her; have re-
cieved none of late.
			Yours Affectionately
								L. B. T.
	Osceola, Ill. Aug. 12, 1890.


BOOK NOTICE. 
	We have recently reviewed a new book the
title is "Tokology," "A Book for Every Wo-
man"by Alice B Stockham M. D. The author
has something of a national reputation and her
writings are highly commended by the press. 
The book seems to contain many important 
truths and useful lessons to the wife and
mother.  It has been said by some to be the
best work of its kind, but as to this the writer
is not prepared to decide.  That every woman
should be well informed regarding her physical
powers and conditions we have always main-
tained, therefore the books and lectures which
will give her this knowlege, should be within
her reach, and carefully studied.  There is no
danger of knowing too much about the human
organization, but very great danger in know-
ing too little.  Sister Caroline C. Raleigh is
agent for the work, and as she is well known
to the people where she is likely to canvas, 
we have little doubt of her success in introduc-
ing the work where it will be read with interest
and be likely to do good. There are none
too well posted on the subjects that pertain to 
the health and happiness, and to secure the
greatest good to posterity through the channels
of wisdom and knowledge should be the direct
aim of every mother.  For further particulars
concerning the work apply to C. C.  Raleigh
324 N. First West St. Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Pleasure is the flower that fades; remem-
brance is the lasting perfume.—Bouffiers.
	
	Deference is the instinctive respect which
we pay to the great or good—the unconscious
acknowledgement of the superiority or
excellence of others.

	Death opens the gate of fame, and shuts
the gate of envy after it; it unlooses the chain
of the captive, and puts the bondsman's task in-
another man's hands.
							Sterne.


The detractor may, and often does, pull
down others, but he never, as he seems to
suppose, elevates himself to their position.
The most he can do is maliciously to tear from
them the blessings which he cannot enjoy him-
self.


UNION PACIFIC 
THE OVERLAND ROUTE 
Tickets
ON SALE 
TO ALL 
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of	
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1890.			No. 8.


CONTENTS. 
	A Welcome Messenger,—E. A. Crane Watson. 
Aunt Lu's Story. Women's Suffrage Journal.
Manchester England. If You Want to be 
Loved. Miscellaneous. L. D. S. Women's
Meetings. R. S. Reports, Utah and Salt Lake
Stakes. Unwritten Laws for Officers of Wo-
men's Clubs. Notes and News. Notice,—Dr.
R. B. Pratt. Obstetrics,—Dr. E. R. Shipp.
	EDITORIAL. General Conference. Looking
Ahead. Editorial Notes. Wedding Party.
Presendia L. Kimball. A Remembrance of 
the Prophet Joseph,—M. A. P. H. Brigham 
Young's Old Home. The Murder of the Prophets. 
	POETRY. A Woman's Praise,—Youth Com-
panion. To E. A.,—Lula. Greeting,—to F. M.
Lyman,—E. A. C. W. Exile,—C. L. W. Un-
married,—E. J.


A WOMAN'S PRAISE.

They sat upon the rocks beside the sea:
	He still a youth, while gray had touched her hair;
	She praised him, as a woman may, who, fair,
And strong, and kind, with gentle ministry,
Knows well how great her influence may be.
	"I watched your thoughtfulness and tender care
	Of a young stranger.  In my heart you bear
The name of gentleman, for courtesy." 

Years passed, and years divided, as they will,
	The boy and woman; yet, from that glad hour,
Sweet deeds of goodness came his life to fill.
	Ah, who shall estimate the wondrous power
Of woman's praise—her words for good or ill!
	She sowed the seed—eternal blooms the flower.
							Youth's Companion.


TO E. A.

"Forget not the lone one!" thus thou hast written:
	Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget,
The poor, weary heart which too early was smitten,
	Hath suffered and waited, and suffereth yet?

Firm hast thou been in thy faithful endeavors,
	Though the flow'r of life's fondness was crushed in its
		germ;
Though the weakness of mortals, love's strongest tie
		severs, 
Our God is still merciful; still be thou firm.

Man may deceive, but still trust thou in Jesus,
	Who fails not and swerves not, but saves to the last;
Whose love and forbearance still rescues and frees us,
From every dread chain which the tempter may cast.

Dark days have pass'd o'er thee, since last we met thee;
	But there's a day when we'll know no regret;
Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget thee?
	No, gentle friend, we will never forget.
											LULA.


WELCOME MESSENGER.

	Today brings the EXPONENT, I wonder if
it receives as cordial a greeting by every sub-
scriber as I give it? On its arrival, no differ-
ence what my employment (now don't frown
upon me you model house wives) I stop long
enough to glance at the signatures of the cor-
respondents, to see if there are any names an-
nexed thereto of my girlhood associates, or of
those of my many dear friends and co-workers
from the country that was my ever fondly re-
membered home up to the time I assumed the
sacred duties of wife and mother; it only takes
a minute you know, and 'tis such a satisfac-


tion; then the very first time baby is tired or
fretful, how I enjoy rocking her to sleep while
reading the minutes and reports of the P. A.
and R. S. conferences, or an account of some
social gathering oft times showing to me the
names of those who are endeared to me by the
truest ties of friendship, and giving sometimes
quite an insight into their present situations,
and a knowledge that those friends continue
to possess an assurance of the divinity of our
faith, and are willing to lend their assistance
for its furtherance. Sometimes in perusing
these inspiring sketches my eye comes in con-
tact with names (I would like to pen each one)
of those, who have been compelled to leave the
beautful vales of Utah for climes more peace-
ful, if not otherwise congenial, some of whom
are in different parts of Arizona, Colorado, and
way off in Mexico. Pleasing memories they
revive, aye, and sad ones too, but it all serves
to make me feel nearer those dear never to be
forgotten ones, for this with other things the
EXPONENT is always thrice welcome to me, I,
—like many others who are “floating on life's
ocean" have drifted away, away from all child-
hood’s associations.
	This weeks paper also brings "An Answer"
to my "Woman's Calling," in reading it I can-
not help thinking that Sister Mary Anderson
must have misunderstood me, or I do not
thoroughly understand the idea she wishes to
convey, judging from the tone of her article
we exactly coincide with each other’s views
and could we converse orally I'm positive we
would agree admirably with no sign of contra-
diction.	
	Last night Brother F. M. Lyman held forth
in our meeting house, his noble, cheerful
countenance as he arose in the pulpit brought
forth one general look of gratification from the
well filled house, he earnestly implored all to
arouse from the seeming lethargy that had
fallen upon the Latter-day Saints, have our
lamps filled and burning as the signs of the
times were indicative of the coming of the
Bridegroom. May we benefit ourselves by the
timely warning is the hearty desire of,
				E. A. CRANE WATSON.
	Parowan, Utah.


[Column 1]
		AUNT LU'S STORY.
	Very many little, as well as big people, have
asked me to write a story. Well, there are
very many to write, thousands to read, and a
vastly greater number, who want to hear a
story. And now while I think of it, that I
may never have the privilege of passing this
way again; if you will kindly pay attention I
will tell you one, for if I can do any good, or
make any one happy, it would not be hardly
fair to refuse; besides nobody can complain if
I do my best. I scarcely know how to begin,
but don't think I will say, "now once upon a
time," although everything happens, once upon
a time, that is certain—Now daylight has
nearly gone, and the lamplighter is going his
rounds to light the street, we'll draw the cur-
tain closely and look within. We won't mind
if the snow is falling fast, or the wind blowing
it in all directions, and whisking it into the
faces of people who rush along the sidewalks. 
—We think, it is true, of the homeless and
needy; we cant help it, but now you are all
seated looking anxiously towards me, I will
commence my story, but first, let me caution
[Column 2]
you "little midgets," not to put in any of your
odd queries or quirks, for I must go right
along without interruption when once I get
started.—Now in the long, long ago, out in a
great uncultivated country, on a rolling plain
that seemed to stretch away into the sky, all
alone, with not a human habitation in sight, a
little girl of not more than nine summers once
stood, gazing about and around, looking en-
quiringly for some object which had seemed to
disappear as if the earth had swallowed it
from sight, for it had only been a few minutes
(so it appeared to her) since she had left the
carriage by request, to fill a jug with water
from a running stream shaded by willows—
not but a few rods from the traveled road-
way. She had climbed up the steep bank by
the same route that she had made the way
down, and had not gone very far out of sight
she thought, to find a safe standing place to dip
up clear water.
	What can it mean? had her uncle purposely
left her there alone in this deserted place, she
wondered!—just then a flock of birds flew very
near circling around above her head chatter-
ing, as if saying, "who are you? what is the
matter, where did you come from?" she raised
her tearful eyes, looked up into the clear blue
sky, and wondered why God couldn't have
taken her when her dear mamma died, and
why her papa before his death should have
left them in care of this proud, stern man,
who she was sure never loved them, and who,
since her mamma died, had treated her like a
little beggar.
	She clasped her small hands convulsively to-
gether,shuddering at the thought of being thus
forsaken, while her lips moved in the sublime
prayer of "Our Father who art in heaven,"
then came to mind, the sweet verse she had
so often heard her dear mamma repeat, "Be-
hold we count them happy that endure," then
she murmured softly to herself, "Very pitiful
and of tender mercy." The barking of dogs
in the distance caused her to look around in
the direction from whence the sound came,
and for the first time noticed that beyond the
valley stream, lay a wooded country. Presently
two large hunting dogs came sniffing along,
bounding towards her followed by their master
with gun in hand and game-bag heavily laden.
He called the dogs back from the poor child
and manifested more surprise than he probably
would have done, if a wild bear had suddenly
made its appearance in his path; trembling
with grief and fright she rushed forward to-
wards the man beseeching him to save her.
"Where in the name of all the saints, did you
come from child?" She sobbed the sad story of
being left as already related.
	"Well come with me little girl," he said
kindly, "we'll get to a stopping place before
dark if you can foot it fast enough;" then call-
ing to the dogs to keep down, and away from
the child, they started on, for a time they
walked quite briskly, then more slowly pursued
their way until they arrived at the verge of a
circuitous hill, then, more rapidly descended,
at the foot of the hill lay a beautiful running
brook upon which the last rays of sunset
lingered bathing its waters in a roseate hue or
light. Crossing this brook was a bridge of logs,
over this, through a wooded lane of trees, they
passed on a few rods further to a house built of
logs, I think it deserved a more dignified name
than that of cabin, for it had four large rooms,
and two tall wide stone chimnies, besides the


[column 1]
roof was not thatched but shingled, there were
other buildings on the premises also, and the
whole establishment bore the name of “Alby
Lodge.”
	Standing in the wide open doorway watch-
ing their approach, was a kind benevolent
looking woman in a dress of brown woolen,
and wide checked gingham apron. It was a
long walk for the little child, but the patient
feet bore her bravely along until they had al-
most reached the broad stone steps leading to
the open door, then they failed her, and totter-
ing towards them, she would have fallen, had
it not been for the kind ready hand stretched
out to save her. “Poor little girl, she’s so
young and so tired, I found her a long way
beyond the hill crying as if her heart would
break,” said the hunter in reply to his mother’s
enquiring look. Tenderly Mrs. Alby took the
child in her arms, carried her to her room and
laid her down upon her own soft bed; then
prepared her warm drink and food without de-
lay, afterward removing her cloak, wraps, and
traveling bag she had carried in her hand,
carefully taking note of each article of her ap-
parel as she prepared for bathing. The poor
aby, tired limbs, and feet as well were chafed
tenderly, with the hope that by preparing them
for rest through the long night, the weary child
would be quite well in the morning.
	Yet for more than three days the child was
alarmingly ill, often murmuring of “dear
mamma,” asking where she was going, and
frequently starting as from some frightful
dream, clinging convulsively to the kind
watcher whose assiduous and unwearying care
could not have been'more, had she been her
own offspring. There was no regular Physician
or Dr. practising medicine within fifteen miles
(at that time) to be consulted, but under skill-
ful nursing, ere a week had passed she was
happily convalescent.
	“O I have had such strange dreams,” said
she one morning holding out her little thin
hands to the kind woman who had nursed
her so patiently. "I want to love you! O, I
do love you for being so kind to me a poor
lost child!" then the small hands went up over
the eyes flooded with tears, which she could
not restrain. For a few moments not a word
was spoken. Weeping, will relieve her, thought
Mrs. Alby, then she gently wiped away the
tears, smoothed back the glossy dark, brown
hair from her pure, white forehead, looked for
some moments into her still sad face, while a
more intense feeling of tenderness took possession
of her soul as the image of a beautiful girl
of her own, long since daid away in the sleep
of death came to her mind; she sighed heavily
as the mother-love for the darling gone came
rushing back with renewed force into her heart
and bending down to the little girl kissed her
tenderly.
	The evening following the first day little
Dama came from the sick room, she asked Mrs.
Alby for her cloak, where, in an inner poeket,
she had placed several articles for safety, among
them, a small edition of the Bible, handsomely
bound with gilt clasp sind her name engraved
in letters of gold on the outside cover. This
was a Christmas gift from her mother the last
before she was taken from her by death.
	On a fly leaf she had written the names,and
dates of births and deaths of both her hus-
band’s parents and of her own, also the name
and date of birth of herself, and of her child,
and of her baptism, and also, dates of all their
marriages. Dama had put down the date of
her mother’s death in her childish hand. This
little Bible was to her a treasure-trove, price-
less, and precious, as the gift of her sainted
mother. It is probable. Dama’s cruel uncle
did not know of this book nor the other
valuable gifts her mother had placed in her
hands charging her “never to part with them
while she lived, but to keep them as mementoes
[column 2]
of her departed mother.” As she sat by the
window at sunset, propped up with cushions
her little Bible open before her, a golden
gleam of light encircled her sweet, pale face,
like a halo of glory from heaven, so thought
Mrs. Alby and her son Robert. Now for a
time we must leave little Dama rapidly re-
covering making herself the center of attrac-
tion not only to Mrs. Alby, and Robert, but to
their only neighbors the good Scotchman and
his wife (Mr. and Mrs. Douglas) to the faith-
ful colored servants who had a cabin near, but
also to all the domestic animals on and around
the premises; such patient tireless feet, swift to
perform any act of love or duty, making life
in this far away home sunny with her presence.
	I may as well tell you now, before I pro-
ceed farther, what became of the wicked man
who so cruelly deserted this child of his
brother by the same father, after having by
artful means induced him to place all his pro-
perty in his hands for the benefit and best in-
terest, (as in his weakness he was persuaded to
believe) of both his wife and child, and there-
fore in accordance (with the written request of
the dying father) he was appointed legal
guardian of his niece having in trust until she
became of age, or in case of her death previous,
if after the mother’s this should occur, he was
to possess all, amounting to many thousands of
dollars. The mother,whose health was very deli-
cate, trusted and believed it was in good hands.
She had but a slight acquaintance of this man,
and in her ignorance of his true character,
never doubted his integrity. A bad man is
not long at a loss for ways and means to ac-
complish his evil purposes, naturally corrupt
and covetous at heart, he soon came to look
upon the money in his possession as his own,
and to scheme and plan to have it so in reality.
In the presence of his sister-in-law, Mrs. Hast-
ings, he wore a hypocritical mask, but at times
his true nature would flash out toward the
child when off his guard, for in his heart he
wished her out of the way; as it regarded the,
mother he could wait, for he had been assured
by many learned and scientific physicians he
had consulted in the cities of the West, that
only, under the most favorable circumstance
could life be prolonged but a very few years.
This to his inward joy and satisfaction, (al-
though he pretended otherwise)and to bis well-
feigned anxiety, they had invariably advised
great quiet, removal from scenes of excitement,
or from anything that would have a tendency
to distract or disturb peace of mind. Yet, in
the face of all this, he secretly plotted to
destroy it. No sooner had one shock passed
away then another was planned, and such was
his success in this direction that from the last
shock of a fire started in an unoccupied build-
ing next to her own, (which communicated to
the roof) and from which both herself and
child narrowly escaped with their lives, she
never recovered, but lingered on through the
winter and spring at the house of friends in
the country, whither she went from the city
for quiet, and to die. Peacefully and calmly
she prepared for the change as one about to
take a journey to a distant land, commending
her dearly beloved child to the God of the
fatherless, enjoining, her friends to keep her
daughter and be as father and mother when
she was gone. She knew them to be upright
and in every way worthy of this sacred trust,
and supposed her guardian would not interpose
or make any objection to her dying wish and
request. Her friends gave her the most solemn
assurance of watching over her child and of
fulfilling her wishes with, regard to the same as
far as it was in their power so to do. After
this she seemed at rest in her mind,she did not
repine, that she must die so young, her Savior’s
prayer was hers, “Thy will, O God, not mine
be done.” Kissing her darling a last, ‘good
bye,' she bade all an affectionate farewell, and
[column 3]
closed her beautiful eyes on earthly things
forever.
	At the last moment of the sad burial rites,
this unworthy man who had been so earnestly
charged by a dying brother, to be tender and
faithful to his loved ones, made his appearance
pretending great sorrow, and bitterly bewall-
ing the delay of letters, messages, &c., that
had been sent (long before the last one,) tell-
ing him to hasten as she was fast approaching
the dark valley of death that all must at some-
time, sooner or later pass through. The
hardened sinner, dissembled well, and suc-
ceeded so admiirably with Mrs. Hastings
friends and especially with her most intimate
and confidential ones as lead her to believe
that little Dama's advancement and future
good would be greatly enhanced, by going with
him. "Her love for the child, should not,”
she said, "selfishly hold her from opportunities
of such vast importance to her future.” The
school he proposed to place her in, had a well-
earned reputation, especial care was taken of
the young, and nothing should be left undone
to make her happy, nor to give her every ad-
vantage of a thorough education. He also
pretended great affection for the child when
not alone with her. He would visit her often
she would be near his place of business, etc.,
(though what his business was, none knew but
himself.) He would faithfully discharge and
fulfill, the sacred trust and dying request of
both parents. In one year at summer vaca-
tion he would bring Dama “to spend it with
them.” Alas, without hesitation or question,
so completely had appearances deceived them,
they gave this so recently orphaned child into
his hands as they, in ignorance, believed right.
	It was a sad day, when Dama was forced to
take her farewell leave of her little playmates
and of the kind good friends of her dear
mother gone to take her departure with a
 man from whom she instinctively shrank, and
“who she was sure she could not love,.to go
she knew not whither, or with whom to live.”
	The  summer passed on, whilo he had taken
her from one place, to another and after
various plans to dispose of her without being
detected, he took the course of leaving her in
some remote, out of the way part of the West
to be found or perish, as already described.
	Under a well arranged disguise he had
traveled and now made his way back as
speedily as possible. Took passage for England
from N. Y. where he entered into all sorts of
excesses, gambling, speculations, etc., borrowed
the livery of heaven to serve Satan his
master in,” and succeeded by his graceful ad-
dress, in gaining the affections of a worthy ac-
complished lady with the expectation of getting
a very large portion of her property,failing in
this, after squandering the money defrauded
from the widow and orphan of his brother,he
forged a note upon his father-in-law, obtained
the money and fled to Germany, from which
place he was soon brought back by the officers
of the law tried, convicted, and sentenced to
transportation to do service in a penal Colony
for life. Thus,this artful villian was unmasked,
and his deeds made to witness against him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


As the flower is before the fruit, so is faith
before good works.—R Whately.
	Where necessity ends, desire and curiosity
begin; and no sooner are we supplied with
everything nature can demand than we sit
down to contrive artificial appetites.—Johnson.
	The impertinent question is again up whether
married women will be allowed to teach in
the public schools. This time it is in
Cincinnatti. A movement has been a loug
time on foot there to prohibit married women
from occupying positions as teachers.
								Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GREETING.

	TO F. M. LYMAN, WRITTEN JUNE, 1889.

A heartfelt welcome to you we extend
Wise apostle, dear brother, and true friend, 
Old time has been moving at even pace, 
And years have flown by since we saw your face,
Yet not a day to us has been given,
But your name has been wafted to heaven.
Asking the Giver to give unto thee	
Resignation, in due time liberty.

Thou art but man, yet the God Eternal
Hast endowed thee, with favors supernal,
Cheerfulness, contentment, judgement sound,
Purity of heart, and wisdom profound 		
Understanding of the heavenly plan,
That's for the redemption of fallen man.
Holy intelligence of things divine
Great man of God, these blessings are thine.

What wonder we hail you with such delight
We believe you can make the dark seem light, 
We think you can heal the broken in heart
And to the perplexed you can peace impart.
Solve the problems we do not understand,
Show us the way to the celestial land;
Yes, to thee a hearty welcome we give,
Unmolested with us long may you live.

Yes gladly we welcome you at this time,
Give us freely of thy doctrines divine,	
You may pour oil upon the wounded heart
Gilead's balm to the troubled impart,
Comfort the mourner, dry the falling tear,
Diffuse love, and peace amidst thy fellows here
That you in good works may ever excel,
Is the united prayer for F. M. L.
								E. A. C. W.


EXILE.
Deprived of every sacred Right,
	Upon the shore he stood;
An exile from his country 
	For conscience and for God- 
A wanderer and a Pilgrim,
	To serve a tyrant's ends;
He longing gazed across the waves 
	And sigh'd for home and friends.

But ah—those friends were far away.
	Across the broad blue waves;
His childhood home, that sacred spot,
	Place of his father's graves. 
The sea-bird skim'd the dancing waves 
	And kissed their snowy crest,
It had a home when night shades came 
	But he—no place of rest.

The wild deer bounded o'er the strand 
	And sped toward the glen;
It had a home across the Lea,
	Far from the haunts of men.
And the white gull soar'd mid heaven's blue vault 
	All bathed in golden sheen 
It sang of home, and liberty,
	Fond treasures not for him.

His fathers' nobly fought and bled!
	To gain that sacred Right 
To honor, serve and worship God 
	Best pleasing in His sight.
This noble blood of ancestry 
	Still coursed thro' all his veins,
To worship God, for conscience sake 
	Though bound with tyrants chains.

When twilight cast its sombre shades
	Along the sea-girt shore,
He bent his fetter'd limbs, and pray'd 
	For liberty once more.
That liberty to worship God-
	As conscience shall dictate,
That Right! bequeathed by God to man 
	In every Land and State.

While yet he breathed those words devout, 
	An Angel bright stood near,


Whilst listening to his prayer to God
	That Angel shed a tear,—
He lean'd and whispered in his ear,
	Sweet words, "Thy trust is God"—
That Angel-tear illum'd his path
	While passing " 'neath the Rod."
	C. L.W.


UN-MARRIED.

I dare not breathe my secret to the ears,
	Of nearest, dearest kindred that I know;
But to my pictured shadow, without fear
	I pour in unreserve my withering woe.

They tell me I am fair, my form divine,
	My eyes are clear, my hair of sunny hue.
My mind well cultured, and my chances fine,
	My life all blameless, womanly and true.

Oh senseless jewels, glittering points of light.
	Rich costly drapings on a comely form, 
You have no power to bring my life delight,
	Nor keep my heart's deep currents bright and warm.

I am a woman, and I must have love,
	I feel the need of children on my knee, 
I am as lone as wretched cast away
	On desert island, in an unknown sea.

Oh shadow of the face in yonder glass,
	Why had you not the power to bring me love,
Oh Jeptha’s daughter in thy mountain pass
	Is thy reproach still thine in heaven above?

Why has no human love, near, warm and sweet,
	Held that deep cup of nectar to my lip,
And laid a true heart at my humble feet
	God knows how gladly I the cup would sip.

My heart has thirsted, famished shrunk, grown old
	While tortured by the sight of food and drink.
For woman’s modesty bids us to wait
	Hedged in by social customs link in link.

Oh thou dear one! whom God designed should walk
	Helper, upholder, lover, husband, friend;
Where are you! Come to me. I’ve waited long-
	Come to me love, or I alone must walk.

I fear no poverty, no pain or woe,
	No frown of fortune and no stoop of pride.
My prince of men on winged feet I’d go
	Upheld by love, if but by thy dear side.

I feel myself, upon the tree of life
	A withered bough, a blasted smitten fruit;
An instrument untuned, or tuned to strife,
	A festal song poured through a shattered flute.

What wonder women, seeing such as I
	Will drink of muddy lees, and link their life,
With men who never knew until they died;
	The tender glory in the name of wife.

I am so lonely, that I could not bear, 
	The wasted time, the torn and shattered hopes,
The loneliness, the longing and despair
	But through the darkness my sad spirit gropes-

To that great light and love and endless power
	God the great Father ever kind and true.
But what can pay me for the lone last hour?
	And woman’s birthright,—that is lost to me?

Still will I dress my body with great care,
	Comfort the sick, and make the downcast glad.
I bear my cross; but O, Thou righteous God,
	My woman's heart is withered, sick and sad.

But when I see a mother clasp her child.
	A noble husband honoring his wife,
My heart is filled with sorrow deep and wild.
	For that is Eden, what I live, is life. 
									E. J.


WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE JOURNAL.

MANCHESTER,ENGLAND.

For twenty years and four months this
Journal has received the impress of one hand
and one mind,so that its long row of volumes


form one continuous work, and now when that
careful hand is laid low and the energies of
that far-seeing mind are carried beyond our
mortal ken, it would seem the most fitting
course to close these pages where Miss Becker
left them, that so the Journal shall be wholly
hers, nor suffer any change to any less ex-
perienced hand or any mind less comprehen-
sive.
	This number consists of matter which was
already in preparation when its Editor passed
from this life, together with a Memorial
Number of recollections contributed by a few
who had known Miss Becker long and well in
her public work.


IF YOU WANT TO BE LOVED.

	Don't find fault.
	Don’t contradict people, even if you’re sure
you are right.
	Don’t be inquisitive about the affairs of even
your most intimate friends.
	Don’t underrate anything because you don’t
possess it.
	Don’t believe that everyone else in the world
is happier than you.
	Don’t conclude that you have never had
any opportunities in life.
	Don't believe all the evil you hear.
	Don’t repeat gossip, even if it does interest
a crowd.
	Don’t go untidy on the plea that everybody
knows you.
	Don’t be rude to your inferiors in social
position.
	Don’t over or under dress.
	Don’t express a positive opinion unless you
perfectly understand what you are talking
about.
	Don’t get into the habit of vulgarizing life
by making light of the sentiment of it.
	Don’t jeer at anybody’s religious belief.
	Don't try to be anything but a gentlewoman
—and that means a woman who has considera-
tion for the whole world, and whose life is
governed by the Golden Rule, "Do unto
others as you would be done by.”


MISCELLANEOUS. 

	An industrious and virtuous education of
children is a better inheritance for them than
a great estate.—Addison.
	Yield once and a portion of virtue is gone.
Resist manfully, and the first decision well
give strength for life: repeated, it will become
a habit.—Samuel Smiles
	We are ruined, not by what we really want,
but by what we think we do; therefore never
go abroad in search of your wants, for if they
be real wants they will come home in search of
you. He that buys what he does not want will
soon want what he cannot buy.— Colton.
	The education of our children is never out
of my mind. Train them to virtue, habituate
them to industry, activity and spirit. Make
them consider every vice as shameful and un-
manly. Fire them with ambition to be useful.
Make them disdain to be destitute of any use-
ful knowledge.—John Adams to his wife.
	The most illiterate man who is touched with
devotion, and uses  frequent exercises of it,
contracts a certain greatness of mind,mingled
with a noble simplicity, that raises him above
those of the same condition. It is hardly
possible it should be otherwise; for the fervors
of a pious mind will naturally contract such
earnestness and attention toward a better being
as will make the ordinary passages of life go
off with a becoming indifference. By this a
man in the lowest condition will not appear
mean, or in the most splendid fortune i


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS		-	Editor
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publisher Woman's Exponent, 
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.	
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	October 1,1890.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	The Sixty-first semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will
commence at 10 o'clock a. m. on Saturday, Oct.
4th, 1890, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City.  The
officers and members of the Church are in-
vited to attend all the meetings.
					WILFORD WOODRUFF,
					GEORGE Q. CANNON,
					JOSEPH F. SMITH,
							First Presidency.


LOOKING AHEAD.
	That this people, as well as all the people of
the world are living in a day of great events and
changes is a positive fact almost universally con-
ceded.  Men of advanced thought in their writings
and in public speaking admit knowingly and in-
advertently this truth.  Some speak of it as the
noon-day of science, others as the natural
sequence of knowledge arrived at by men's learn-
ing and wisdom of the world's attainments, and a
few there be who look for some great climax of
events, supernatural in their nature and miracu-
lously bringing in the reign of peace.
	The Latter-day Saints however know what is
the tendency of all that is transpiring around them
and that it is the fulfillment of prophecy, and the
natural accomplishment of the designs of the Al-
mighty in the purpose and being of His children
here upon the earth. And while many may fear
and tremble because of what is taking place, and
while those who fear not God, or obey His laws,
are going on blindly in their unbelief and indiffer-
ence, the true Saint should be awake to the situa-
tion and with might mind and strength seek to do
his part humbly and fearlessly in the great drama
of the world's history; remembering meantime
that this people came in to take up the most im-
portant part in the closing scenes.
	This is the day of which we read that Kings
and Prophets looked forward to as the climax,
the triumph of all that was great and glorious.
	Woman as well as man has much to do in the
great events that are now taking place, her help
is needed, she must look to the future and plant
the seeds of faith,of hope and love in the hearts
of those around her, the rising generation, the
children of the saints are under her special care
and training and here lies her greatest opportuni-
ties for work in the great present and the illimi-
table future. The cultivation of the heart of all
mankind in its gentlest, truest sense, lies within
the province of womanhood.
	To accomplish woman's mission in refining,
purifying, elevating, and polishing it is essential
that the gates be thrown open to her by those who
hold the keys of power; and in this connection it
may safely be said the opportunity is coming.


Woman’s sphere is widening, her star is in the
ascendant, resplendent with light,that is shedding
its effulgence abroad and penetrating the darkest
corners with its glorious rays.  Sublime courage
and divine faith are the inspiration she needs to
continue onward and upward, and never grow
weary in helping, blessing and laboring for Zion
wih the firm assurance of victory.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The minutes of the Relief Society Conferences
now on hand will be given space in the next
issue, or as soon afterwards as practicable.
	The Territorial Fair will be opened at the Fair
Building and grounds on the 6, 7, and 8, of Oct.
and with the many other public meetings and at-
tractions during the early days of October will
make things lively in Salt Lake City.
	A Peoples’ Convention for Salt Lake County
will be held in the Social Hall in this City on
Thursday Oct. 2, 1890 at 2. p.m. for the purpose
of electing fifteen delegates to the People’s Ter-
ritorial Convention.  The County Convention
will consist of 130 delegates, from the several
wards in this County, with credentials properly
authenticated by the Chairman and secretary of
the Primary meeting which appointed them.
	A General Conference of the Relief Society
will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
Tuesday October 7, at which it is expected there
will be representatives from each Stake of Zion:
the President of the Relief Society Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, who has been absent on a visit to
Canada is expected home in time to preside at
the meetings and give instruction to the officers
who preside in the several Stakes.  The meetings
will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. as usual.
	There will be a Convention of the Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Ter. held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, in this City on Friday
October 3, commencing at 2 p. m. at which it
expected there will be delegates from the several
county organizations, and an interesting pro-
gramme rendered, also that there will be an elec-
tion of officers for the ensuing year.  Addresses
will be given by prominent speakers both men and
women.  There will also be an Executive session
for business in the morning of the same day at 10,
o’clock.
	There will be a Territorial Convention of the
People’s Party held in this city on Tuesday the
7th day of October 1890, at the Social Hall at 12,
o’clock noon, for the purpose of nominating a
candidate for Delegate to the Fifty-second Con-
gress and to elect a Territorial Central Com-
mittee.  The basis of representation is fixed as
follows: One delegate for each 250 votes cast by
the, People’s Party at the last August election and
one delegate for each county irrespective of the
number of votes cast.  The number of delegates,
have been duly apportioned to the several
Counties.  Salt Lake County 15 and Utah 8.
Weber 7, Sanpete 5, Cache 4, Box Elder 3; other
counties two and one. 
	The Editor had the pleasure of attending by in-
vitation the quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations
of Sanpete Stake held at Mayfield on Friday and
Saturday, September 19 and 20, and is pleased to
state that there was a very good attendance an
excellent feeling manifest and a good spirit per-
vaded the meetings.  The young. Bishop recently
appointed at that place attended all the meetings,
and took the greatest interest in the report of the
sisters labors.  Everything in that beautiful little
settlement indicated space and prosperity,and the
abundant harvest was noticable in the numerous
large stacks of hay and grain not only in Mayfield
but throughout the County.


WEDDING PARTY.
	A wedding reception was given on Wednesday
evening September 10th, at 8. p. m., at the resi-
dence of Drs. M. B. and Ellis R. Shipp in this City.
The happy occasion was the marriage of their
eldest son M. B. Shipp Jr. to Miss Eda Deblin,
which event took place at Manti, the ceremony
being performed by Apostle Anton H. Lund.
Over a hundred guests participated in the festivi-
ties of the evening. Congratulations were in
order, and many were the good wishes and fervent
blessings showered upon them.  The bride was
beautiful in her shining white wedding apparel,
and the bridegroom the picture of radiant happi-
ness.
	There were many useful and beautiful presents,
and the rooms were fragrant with the perfume of
lovely Autumn flowers.  The bride wore beautiful
roses instead of orange blossoms, and they suited
well her rich and creamy complexion. There
were troops of fair young maidens and noble look-
ing young men to enliven the scene, and music
and singing and conversation In such goodly com-
pany made the hours fly swiftly.
	A sumptuous repast was served at which all
the guests were seated and did ample justice to
the bill of fare which included fruits, ice cream,
and wedding cake; a very elaborate pyramid
cake occupied the centre of the table and was
profusely ornamented.  At the top underneath
an arch of silvery flowers a bell swung to and
fro; a very pretty design.
	It was a late hour ere the guests began to say
their adieux.  The newly wedded Mr. and Mrs.
Shipp left for the East on Saturday the 13th inst.
Mr. Shipp goes to Philadelphia to finish his
medical course and his wife will accompany him
with the expectation of remaining until he gradu-
ates.  The writer offers congratulations and
wishes for them every blessing, that will tend to
their best welfare and happiness and enlarge the
sphere of their usefulness.


PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL.
EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY.
	Sister Presendia was eighty years old on the
7th of September 1890—but the anniversary was 
celebrated on the following day Monday the 8th.
About fifty of her friends, most of whom have
been in the habit of assembling there annually,
came with baskets of delicacies and luxuries to
tempt the appetite, and with joyful faces and glad
hearts to comfort, cheer and bless this reverened
mother in Israel who had blessed them and thou-
sands of others in times past, and now when
time has furrowed her brow and whitened her
locks, the daughters of Zion are ready to praise
and honor her.
	The gathering naturally assumed the form of a
meeting as all were anxious for a spiritual feast as
well as a temporal one.
	The meeting opened with the inspirational
hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
An eloquent prayer was offered by Sister Agatha
Pratt, and then all joined again in singing, "Come
let us anew &c."
	Sister Presendia then addressed the sisters in
her motherly manner, expressed her gratitude
that she was permitted to meet them once more
this side the vail.  Brother Gibbons an old friend
of Sister Kimball's spoke a few words, said it was
the first time he had been in a meeting of that
kind but felt the spirit of the Lord was there.
Sisters Milom, Farrow, Cook, Aimed, Culmer
Nebeker, Coon, Pratt, Phelps, Higbee, Mary
Ellen Kimball, Stepheson, Riges, Delia Ann
Pratt, Marry Ann Pratt, Margaret M. Caine,
Maggie Sharp, and others said many good things,
blessed Sister Kimball prayed for her complete


restoration from the accident which befell her in
May and which had debared her from the privi-
lege of attending meetings since, blessed her habi-
tation and surroundings.
	Sister Kimball expressed her happiness in the
midst of so many kind sisters and friends was
grateful for their kind wishes and presence; said
how much she had enjoyed working for the liv-
ing and the dead; advised all to be humble and
work righteousness, blessed all that were as-
sembled there with a mother’s and sister’s bless-
ing. During the afternoon Sister Coon spoke in
tongues and Sister Paul gave the interpretation.
At the close they all joined in singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow.” Benediction
by Sister Elizabeth Stephenson.
	Sister Presendia received several beautiful and
useful gifts from her friends; but the best of all
was the kind feeling and good spirit that brooded
over the party while they were joining in prayer
and praise.
	Sister Presendia’s life has been full and rich in
the experiences calculated to develop the higher
and better nature, and for the last forty years a
great proportion of her time has been occupied in
ministering to the sick and afflicted, the sorrowing
and downcast. She has been specially gifted in
faith and in other precious gifts of the Gospel.
Her name is known and honored throughout all
Israel. The writer adds her congratulations and
good wishes to those of the many friends who
unite in praising her good works, and wishing
her continued health and prosperity.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A REMEMBRANCE OF JOSEPH THE
			PROPHET.
DEAR EDITOR:
	The subject of Woman Suffrage in the items
you publish occasionally are very interesting,
especially the cause being so gracefully espoused
in Wyoming which is an honor to the state in
establishing such a precedent.
	How little do the world know of the great
Prophet who came among us and turned the “key
in behalf of woman” nearly half a century ago.
	I am thankful that I had the privilege of being
somewhat acquainted with that noble man, the
Prophet Joseph, and hearing sublime truths from
his lips, which at the time, probably, I did not so
fully appreciate.
	I have lived to see many of his predictions ful-
filled, and still greater events are at hand. Some
are painful to contemplate.
	The last time he left his home in Nauvoo he
said: "I go as a lamb to the slaughter.” I saw
him pass with his brother Hyrum whom he could
not persuade to leave him. They were on horse-
back and looked very solemn. Joseph knew he
would never return alive. It appeared that he
might have escaped the unjust decree if he would,
but he said: “He would die for his friends,” and
his innocent blood was shed by mob violence
under the promised protection of United States
officials.
	It was a terrible blow to the Saints; but they
soon learned to acknowledge the hand of the
Lord and that their beloved leader still labors in
a higher sphere for the good of Zion. The work
which he was the honored instrument in the hands
of God of establishing to usher in the last dis-
pensation has progressed far and wide, and will
continue, and no power on earth can prevent it
notwithstanding the gigantic efforts made to crush
this people.
								M. A. P. H.
	Sept. 10, 1890.


[column 1]

﻿BRIGHAM YOUNG’S OLD HOME.

	SOME INTERESTING REMINISCENCES.

It not generally known that Brigham Young,
the erstwhile leader and defender of the Mormon
faith, married his first wife in a small village in
Central New York know as Port Byron, where
he lived for several years. He was married in
1824,and the woman’s name was Works. Brigham
was engaged in the manufacture of wooden pails
there, and worked in a factory which afterward
was changed and became quite extensively known
throughout the state as Hayden’s woolen mills.
Though that was many years ago the factory is
still in possession of the Hayden family, one of
the best known in the vicinity.
	The part in which Brigham operated still stands
though expensive additions have been joined on
by the Haydens, and the manufacture of “no
shoddy” goods is still continued at intervals, by
one of them.
	The location was visited by a representative of
the Times a short time ago, and the old factory
and its surroundings presented many interesting
features. There are a few houses surrounding it,
lining the road above and below, promoted years
ago by the very considerable business which was
carried on at the factory, some of which were
occupied by the owners of the factory and others
by those engaged in manipulating the shuttle.
The most of them showed evidence of being well
cared for and are in good state of preservation,
with spacious grounds, almost farms, In nearly all
instances.	
	It is a charming spot, and an actress from New
York city grew so enthusiastic upon, first visiting
the locality that she bought one of the places and
uses it as a summer seat. It is not to be wondered
at that Brigham, with his taste for the artistic and
beautiful, became infatuated by the rural mellow-
ness pervading the atmosphere made more en-
chanting by the soft rippling of the stream flow-
ing between the meadowed base of the sloping
woodland upon either side. The location is about
one-half of a mile from the village, on Owasco
outlet, a handsome little stream, with banks well
defined, richly covered with verdure, upon which
tall trees, with wide-spreading, drooping branches
stand, shutting out the sunlight from the water.
About the residences are neatly-trimmed lawns,
rising from the roadside, and aged maples, Cast-
ing over all the delightful shade of summer, and
comfort pictured upon either-hand.
	Such the writer found Hayden's woolen
mills to be as he stepped from the dusty stage,
which has daily been for years the convenience
of travel between the village and Auburn. One
warm afternoon in July last, the factory was silent
and no living thing was in sight except across the
stream near a house some 500 yards dis[---] 
man was seen slowly following [-] [--]amy old
white horse, plowing in a potato "patch" in the
corner of the yard near the roadway. The house
was of the farmhouse style, with a long veranda
across the front, and neatly trimmed vines were
clinging about the supports and around the win-
dows also.
	In front were shade trees and the familiar
cherry tree, into which a neat, middle-aged lady
was reaching for the fruit from a step-ladder. She
started a little with surprise, but pointed to the
potato “patch,” indicating the man of the house
was there. Leaning against the plow handles and
pushing his hat back from his well-bronzed face,
a merry twinkle, of merriment crept into his eyes
as in mock solemnity he replied:
	“Yes; I suppose this is sacred ground. Right
where you now stand Brigham Young’s house
stood until a short time ago, when it was torn
down. I knew him well as he lived about here
many years, and I have always lived here. He
used to work in that factory over there, which be-
longed to my father. It was a pail factory then,
and sixty-three years ago the 14th of last month
(June) Brigham began painting pails there. 
	"The house in which he lived stood here, but
the fingers of time made a wreck of it, and it be-

[column 3]
came tenable only for fats and mice, and I tore it
down. Since I have been cultivating the ground
I have turned up with the plow several spoons,
knives and other articles which I suppose were
once in use by him. There is a house in the
village which he built still occupied and in good
condition.
	“He married his first wife there in 1824, and her
name was Works. He was married by a justice
of the peace, whose name was Pine. Esquire
Pine. Pine died several years ago, old and very
poor.
	“He was somewhat dependent upon the village
for support, and a short time before he died we
got up a golden wedding for him; a sort of bene-
fit. When Brigham left here he owed Pine a
small amount, so I sent him an invitation to the
wedding as a reminder of the same. Well, the
old fellow sent Pine a draft for $100 and it did
the old man good.  I remember when Brigham
went West. Wonderful reports came back here
of the empire he had built up at Salt Lake.
Several large families were broken up by it, and
a large number wanted to follow him while others
did not.
	“At all events we have always taken a keen in-
terest in matters with which he has been asso-
ciated. I think his own family was divided, a
part of his wife’s folks going and others remain-
ing. Some of them are still living in this (Cayuga)
county. Brigham was quite a hustler and pos-
sessed considerable magnetism, which he used to
advantage to himself after leaving here. He
never came back. A few years ago one of his
sons stopped off at the village for an hour or 
two, but told no one what his business was,
though he made himself known. Now this is all
I know,” said the man, who was ascertained to
be Charles Hayden, as he took hold of the plow
handles, and clucking to the old Horse continued
plowing the potatoes.—Denver Times.


THE MURDER OF THE PROPHETS.
THE ORIGINAL CORNER'S VERDICT ON THE
MASSACRE IN CARTHAGE JAIL

	[Ogden Standard Special,--S. F. Chronicle Service]
	CARTHAGE, Ill., Sept. 11.--An interesting re-
covery was made by Thomas B. C[---], a pioneer
citizen, while hunting [---] pile of rubbish in
one of the courthouse jail rooms. It is the origi-
nal co[---]'s verdict on the killing of Joseph and
Hyrum Smith at the old Carthage jail, on June,
27, 1844. The verdict reads as follows:

	"We the jury, having been duly sworn by 
George W. Stigall, coroner of Hancock county,
diligently to inquire and a true presentment make
in what manner and by whom Joseph Smith and 
Hyrum Smith, whose dead bodies were found in 
and at the Jail of Hancock county on the 27th day
of June, 1844, came to their deaths, after having 
heard the evidence and upon full inquiry concern-
ing the facts and a careful examination of the said
bodies do find that the deceased came to their
deaths by violence, and that the body of the said
Joseph Smith has upon it the following marks,
to-wit: A wound of a bullet near the right breast
and another in the right shoulder near the neck; 
and that the said Hyrum Smith has the following
marks, to-wit: A wound in the throat by a bullet
and a wound in the abdomen; inflicted by some 
person or persons to the jury unknown and which
the jury find to be the cause of their deaths."
	The document is signed by Wesley Williams, 
Franklin J. Bartlett, Aaron Griffiths, Anthony 
Barklan, George C. Waggoner, Peter Biean,
George Bachman, Thomas Barnett, Elam S.
Freeman, John Maherman, Simon Pennock, 
Samuel Gilpin.
	The endorsement reads: "Verdict of jury on


inquest upon the bodies of Joseph Smith and
Hyrum Smith, filed October 25, 1844.
		J. B. BACKENSTOS, Clerk."
	The document does not appear to have been
filed until four months after the killing and the
inquest. There can be on doubt at to its genuine-
ness. If is written on an excellent quality of old
style line foolscap, faintly ruled, and is discolored
by time.  So far as known, the only person now
living who was on that jury is Mr. George C.
Waggoner, of Pilot Grove township.  Mr.
Griffiths, who found the paper; saw the Smith 
killing.  He was a member of the Carthage
Grays that guarded the jail.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN'S MEETINGS.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting of the 
sisters was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms July 19, 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Meeting opened with singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. E. Stevenson, singing 
"When the voice of friendship's heard," Pres.
Horne made opening remarks which were very
suggestive of the signs of the times and the in-
difference that existed among the people de-
plored the lack of zeal and earnestness in 
spiritual things and urged the sisters to attend 
to every duty devolving upon them.  Was
thankful for all the trials she had endured and 
through which she had been enabled to stand.
	Mrs. Sarah Phelps who had been absent
from the Saints for some time, rejoiced to be 
again in the midst of the sisters, realized many
of us were growing old but our children
would come forward and carry on the work 
we had begun.
	Pres. E. S. Taylor gave an account of her 
recent visit through Oneida Stake, where the 
sisters had held 28 meetings during their trip.
Remarked what a large number of children 
there were in Chesterfield, counted 30 little
boys on one row of seats; commended very
highly the diligence of the sisters there in at-
tending their meetings though many had to go 
such long distances.
	Sisters Seabeck, E. Stevenson, J. C. Howe,
M. Player, F. Smith, Dyer and Dr. E. S.
Barney each made brief remarks. Dr. Barney
gave some of her experience in conversing with 
strangers, thought the time not far distant 
when many would come here and receive the 
Gospel.  Pres. Horne said she could bear the 
same testimony of the people in Sanpete Stake
that Sister Taylor had of those in Oneida, re-
joiced in the sisters' meetings, and wished there
were more sisters who realized the importance
of meeting together for mutual benefit. Her
love for the Gospel had grown stronger in her 
fifty years experience; said it was twenty-five
years since these meetings were organized if 
her memory was correct on the subject.  Ad-
journed for two weeks, singing "When shall
we all meet again," benediction by Mrs. Julia 
Pack.

	Saturday August 2nd, Coun. B. W. Smith
presided at the meeting, singing was followed 
with prayer by Mrs. Julia Pack, singing "For
the strength of the hills we bless Thee," minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Mrs. Rachel Grant was the first speaker, she
had been absent a long time and had visited
some of the settlements of our people in
Colorado, they are very desirous that others
should visit them they need encouragement,
they need assistance, the speaker gave a 
graphic account of the condition of the settle-
ments and spoke eloquently upon the times in 
which we are living and the great events 
transpiring around us.
	Coun. Minerva W. Snow, said "we are lay-
ing up treasures in heaven, as I grow older I 
can see that the trials I have passed through
have been good for me and brought me nearer
[column 2]
to my Father in heaven, He will carry us
safely through and we will come off victorious
if we are obedient and faithful.  In my labors 
in the Temple I feel I am as near my Father
as I can get, at times I feel that our dear ones
who have passed away are very near us, as 
Brother Wells says, the veil is getting very 
thin between the living and the dead, the 
more work we do for the dead, the greater
our desire to do for them.  When I leave 
the Temple and come to this City I feel as 
though I was in another world; but we must 
not be discouraged, the day of our redemption
is nigh and may we never falter."
	Mrs. E. Stevenson loved to meet with those
who had been associated with the Prophets 
and Apostles, and had borne the heat and 
burden of the day, she would rather abide in 
the House of the Lord on half-rations than
not be there; thought it was more difficult
now than ever to raise our children right, had
once heard Brother Taylor say that the 
Prophet Joseph gave him a key whereby he 
would never apostatize, it was that he should 
attend to his prayers night and morning. 
	A prayer was then offered for a sick boy by
Mrs. Mary Silver, and a hymn was sung by the 
congregation.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball said she was struck
with the request of Sister Silver in her prayer
that the Lord send an angel to touch the child
with a healing finger, she thought the Lord
had done that on many occasions.  In con-
versing with Brother Wells once he made the 
remark that we had come out of Babylon, but
had brought Babylon with us, we would not 
have believed ten years ago that we would be in 
the condition we are today.  I rejoice that the 
time is not far distant when Christ will reign,
I hope the Lord will help us to dispense peace
comfort and joy, it is the mission of us all, we
are full of errors but if we are humble the 
Lord will be merciful. 
	"Dr. Barney, "We are all different in our 
feelings until we are touched with the spirit 
of the Holy Ghost, then we are one, the events 
we have been looking for in years past are
right at our doors. Our enemies have stolen 
from the storehouse of the Lord; and we know
if we serve the Lord we must suffer persecu-
tion.  We must not waste our time but edu-
cate our children to fill our places."
	Mrs. M. Silver spoke upon voting, "if we 
cannot vote ourselves now as we did formerly
we can help and influence our fathers, hus-
bands and sons, I think it is an important
duty."
	Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough gave some good 
advice to mothers.
	Coun. B. W. Smith made a few closing re-
marks.  Meeting adjourned for two weeks, 
singing "Great God to Thee,"
	Saturday August 16th, Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding.  Meeting opened by singing "Oh
my Father" prayer by Mrs. J. Pack, singing
"Guide us, O, thou great Jehovah." Minutes
read and approved.  In Pres. Horne's opening
remarks she referred to a meeting she had at-
tended in Granite where Pres. Woodruff and
Brother Penrose had been the speakers, and 
they had spoken very strong of faith, without
which very little could be accomplished, that
is pleasing in the sight of the Lord.  Read a
chapter in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants
upon Faith, and spoke earnestly upon the sub-
ject, also read a revelation upon baptism for 
the dead, and advised the sisters to read often
from this book, and gave excellent instruction
upon diligence, cautioned the sisters to beware
of slothfulness; she gave a strong testimony
concerning Joseph the Prophet, referred to the 
great blessings he received from the Lord and 
the vast amount of work he accomplished in 
the fourteen years be presided over the Church 
and then he sealed his testimony with his 
blood.
[column 3]
	Mrs. Susan S. Young thought it would be 
well for us all to read more from good books,
she could always find something new, testi-
fied to the truth of work in which we are en-
gaged, and said "I stand as a living witness of 
its truth, in the great trial I was called to pass
through last fall, I felt I had not the strength
to endure it, but I kept the word of wisdom
and prayed to my heavenly Father in great
faith and I have gained in health ever since,
I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in it all."
	Mrs. Norman bore a faithful testimony and 
spoke of the goodness of God to us as a peo-
ple.
	Mrs. Julia C. Howe spoke upon faith and 
also of the wisdom the young ladies manifested
in their meetings, thought they were making 
great progress in gaining true knowledge.
Related a dream in which the Lord had said,
"I will preserve my people."
	A number of sisters bore testimony and 
many excellent things were said to bless and 
encourage the sisters in their labors.
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke concerning our trials
and advised all to be humble and go to the 
Lord with their troubles and He would help 
them in every time of need, if we have faith
enough we can always get comfort.
	Pres. Horne added a few words of encourage-
ment and the meeting was adjourned for two 
weeks, sung Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Brown.

	Saturday Aug. 30th, Pres. Horne presiding
meeting opened with singing "O, say what is 
truth" prayer by Mrs. M. Silver, singing "O,
my Father," minutes read and approved.
	Pres. Horne spoke upon the "Golden Rule,
and what happiness its observance would bring
about, spoke of the need of seeking to correct
our own weaknesses, and of the humility neces-
sary for those who stand up to teach the prin-
ciples of truth.  Mrs. Waterfall made a few
remarks and expressed her great desire to do 
good and live faithful.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze spoke upon the effects of 
prayer, and the need of acknowledging the 
hand of the Lord in all things even in death
and how hard it was for us to do so except
we had the spirit of the Lord with us.  It is
hardest when our children go astray, yet we
know the Lord suffers nothing to come to his 
people except what will eventually be for the 
best good of his children.
	Mrs. Watmough and Pres. M. McMaster
and several other sisters spoke of the tempta-
tions now before the young and upon other
interesting subjects, and related some circum-
stances of marvelous healing of the sick.
	Mrs. Harriet Young said: "It is a great sat-
isfaction to me to speak to my sisters, I have 
been in the Church a long time and have had 
much experience.  All who know me know 
that I am naturally sceptical;" gave her idea of 
baptism, and the necessity of explaining it to 
our children.
	Pres. Horne announced the R. S. Confer-
ence on the 11th of September and hoped those 
present would urge the sisters to come to the 
Conference. Meeting adjourned for four weeks. 
Sung "The time is far spent." Benediction
by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson. 
				VILATE R. YOUNG, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of Relief Society held
Aug 29th 1890 in the Meeting House of Provo
City.  President Mary John presiding, with
her Counselor Marilla M. Daniels. Sister Lucy
B. Young also present, Conference opened by
singing and prayer, reading of minutes of
former Conference, written reports from the
different branches throughout the county were
also read.


[column 1]
	Pres. John made a few opening remarks.
Spoke of the pleasure it was to her to meet
with the Sisters in Conference, and to hear
the reports read and to mark the progression
of the Society.  Spoke encouragingly to the
sisters and exhorted them to continue faithful
to the end.  Said she would now give way for
the Presidents to report the branches over
which they presided.  Fourteen branches were
reported as being faithful to their duties, united
and energetic in their labors.  The gifts of
the Gospel were often made manifest in their
meetings and a general good feeling was among
the sisters; there were a great many strong
testimonies horne to the truth of the Gospel
and a great deal of good instruction given, the
Spirit of the Lord was in our midst to a
great degree, one sister spoke in tongues, and
another gave the interpretation which was of 
a nature to comfort and encouraage the Saints
in well doing.
	Many sisters spoke whose remarks would
be well worth reading if time and space would
permit.  The forenoon services were concluded
by singing "May the grace of Christ our
Savior."  Benediction by Marilla M. Daniels.
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session, Convened at 2 p. m.
opened with the usual exercises.  Prayer by
Father-Graves, Sister Rebecca — Standring of
Lehi was the first speaker in the afternoon,
after reporting her society she bore  her testi-
mony to the truth of this work.  Said it was
forty years since she had embraced the Gospel,
and felt thankful every day that she had
embraced it, there was nothing on this earth 
that could compare with it, or that she would
exchange for it, had many testimonies of its
truth.  We came here for a purpose, our
mission was given us, and we need the Holy 
Spirit of God to enable us to accomplish it.
We need his Spirit to guide us that we may
detect  the true spirits from the false.  Let us
set examples worthy of imitation.  I gave up
everything near and dear for the Gospel but
His arm of love has been around me and
sustained me, and I pray that I may hold out
faithful to the end.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt that we had all
come here to day for a blessing and we had
been blessed for the Lord is with us; it is all
the kingdom of God. Let us use every bless-
ing for good, the Lord will suddenly come to
His temple and let us be ready  with oil in
our lamps, and our garments ready for his
coming.  Sister Young gave a great deal of
good instruction to the sisters on various
subjects.
	Sister Marilla M. Daniels knew that Joseph 
Smith was a prophet of God, and if we would
live up to his teachings we would be saved 
She gave an account of the visit of Pres. John
and herself to the branches of the R. S. in the
different wards in the county, found a good
spirit wherever they went ect. Pres. John felt
the time was well spent in receiving good in-
structions and hoped we would treasure up
and remember them.  Conference adjourned
for three months.  Singing Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing," Benediction by Anna K.
Smoot.
						C. DANIELS Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE
	Minutes of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society
Conference held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall Sept. 11th 1890, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding.  On the stand were the following ladies
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Con-
ference opened by singing "Praise ye the
Lord," prayer by Mrs. Diana Reid, singing
"O happy souls who pray."  Roll called 16 
presidents, 10 counselors, 2 teachers, 2 secre-
taries responded. Minutes of last conference
read and accepted, reports read.

[column 2]
	Mrs. Grant: “I have implicit confidence in
our Heavenly Father that He will override
all things for the good of His people.  I hope
we appreciate our blessings, we can enjoy
peace of mind and the spirit of the Gospel, let
us have charity for each other, I wish we could
live so pure as that the wicked could be
bound, but the Lord knows best.  There is a
great work for us all to do, when I think of
the work for the dead I think we have a great 
deal to do, I fear we let our minds dwell too 
much on the things of the world.  How dif-
ferent things are now to what they were when
we came to these valleys, then we were thank-
ful for great blessings, now we are blessed with
all the luxuries, are we as thankful as we were
then?  Well let us be patient and trust in the
Lord and let us acknowledge His hand in all
things."
	Mrs. Kimball gave good counsel on the Re-
port question, though there is an improvement,
still there is room for more, let us improve in
all that is educational.
	Mrs. Horne said: "I am pleased and proud
of the work done by the R. S. of this stake;"
instructed the Secretaries to send in their re-
ports before the 20th of Feb. and 20th of Aug.
"We are ambitious that we get credit for the
work we do, years ago when we were poorer
than we are now, we were given more to re-
ligious duties and spiritual affairs, it looks as
if we had now too many worldly things to take
care of and we neglect that, that is for our 
eternal welfare.
	There are those in our country who have
a desire to destroy the youth of the Latter-
day Saints let us put our children on their
guard to be able to overcome such temptations,
we do need to watch the morals of our youth,
let us be honest, let us pay back what we
borrow, so that we may have full confidence in
each other, where there is confidence there is
union, let us be united, we are being tried now,
but if we stand the test the Lord will deliver
us in His own due time.  Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m., singing “Our God we raise to
Thee," benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.

	2 p. m., Conference continued by singing
"For the strength of the hills," prayer by Mrs.
Emily Stevenson.  Singing "O, say what is
truth."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said: "The Relief Society
is a help to the work of the Gospel we expect
to always have the poor to help, and every
other labor that pertains to the work of God
on the earth.  Let our works correspond with
our teachings and set a good example before
the growing generation; let us pass over our
trials and keep hold of the iron rod, let us be
humble and faithful to the end."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: “I know you have
come to be fed to give you new thoughts with
regard to our labors.  The Latter-day Saints 
have a strength, a spiritual strength more
than any other people on the earth.  Therefore
when we have the inspiration of this spirit we
help and bless each other.
	Mrs. E. Howard, desired the inspiration of
the spirit of God, “we get careless in attending
meetings and it becomes hard to live as Lat-
ter-day Saints, do not patronise outside attrac-
tions; now we do not seem to be different from
other people, we are on the verge of some im-
portant change, let us be prepared for what
may come.  There should be honesty that there
may be unity.
	Honesty should prevail in our midst, purity
must prevail if we would enjoy the spirit of
the Gospel, let the Young Ladies co-operate
with the Relief Society they are needed and
the association will do them good, we should
watch and pray that we fail not in our callings,
let us each make a little heaven at home.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said: "I hope we all have
a testimony of the Gospel, and not let a spirit

[column 3]
of indifference creep over us so that we will be
asleep. We should be a peculiar people in
faith, in healing the sick, in the blessings of
the Gospel. Many are cultivating the knowl-
edge of the Gospel, but many are getting care-
less, let us teach our children the faith that
can heal our sick.  We are living in perilous
times and we are getting to love pleasure more
than right, spending money in many ways
that are not right, true pleasure is not enjoyed
in such things, it is only by the presence of
the spirit of God we enjoy true pleasure, let
us set an example that is worthy of imitation
in all things, let us look after those who are get-
ting lukewarm, or careless in the ways of the
Gospel, may God help us to magnify our call-
ing."
	Mrs. Horne said: "Guard well your children
you can't be too watchful over them, it is the
plan of the Devil to lead away the children
of Zion from the truth.  Let prayer be our
safe-guard and pray with our children that
they may have a knowledge for themselves of
the truth of this work, let us wake up to seek 
the kingdom of God first, let us take time
to go to all meetings.  Remember that the
Lord rules and will turn all things to our
good, we must be firm and steadfast to the
principles of the Gospel, let us be prepared for
all the trials that may come even to the
giving up of our property or even our lives,
still I don't think there will be any bloodshed
in our day, in our most trying times the Lord
has been with us, we are not cast down we
have plenty around us, the Lord requires us to
make a good use of the blessings He has given
us.  Let us be up and doing and watch as well
as pray and do good to all we can.
	Mrs. Susan S. Young said: "I am thankful
for what I have heard here today, the organi-
zation of the Priesthood is perfect, and the R.
S. is patterned after the Pristhood, therefore
should be kept in perfect organization.  If we are
in possession of the spirit of God we are filled
with peace.  Let us say all the time O, Lord
help me to do right, we want Him to help us
always, if we do right the Lord will help us,
and bless us and give us power to overcome.
	Mrs. Ann Griffiths said: "We have seen a
great deal worse times than we are living in
now, but the Lord rescued us, and He will
again.  I rejoice in the knowledge of the
Gospel, I had the privilege of shaking hands
with the Prophet in Nauvoo, and the precious
feeling of friendship has never left my hand
yet; the Priesthood is here the same as it was
when the Prophet Joseph was on the earth, and
let us honor it by being obedient to the
commandments given from God.
	Mrs. Horne spoke on the education of our
children, not to have them taught by those not
knowing the Gospel,  "we have had warning
enough on this subject, let us keep our children
at home before we send them to schools that
will lead them away from us; let us stay stead-
fast to all the principles of our holy relig-
ion.' "
	Conference adjourned for three months.  The
Presidency of the Relief Society were voted
for unanimously, then the Presidency of the
Relief Society of this Stake were sustained.
Singing "Lord dismiss us with thy blessing."
Benediction by Mrs. Mary S. Clark.
					E. HOWARD, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UN WRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS-

BY AMELIA K. WING.

	The whole duty of officers is not recorded in
Cushing's Manual, or in any book devoted
simply to parliamentary usage.
	It is absolutely essential that an officer be 
conversant with these laws and abide by them.


[column 1]
﻿but club members must feel that the success
and popularity of an officer depend quite as
much upon her compliance witn certain un-
written laws as upon her knowledge of those
well defined, fixed rules which all expect her
to recognize.
	From a somewhat extended experience of
official life in various capacities, as well as
observation of both failures and successes, I
venture to define more clearly some of those
vague, unexpressed laws which make the
difference between one officer and another, but
which not all quite understand, premising
always that my remarks refer to officers of
women’s club, and are not necessarily
applicable to other organizations.
THE PRESIDENT.
	Of course it is a great advantage if a presi-
dent has received the mental discipline of a
college education, and is familiar with all the
modern methods of thought and training; if she
understands several languages, is able to quote
with ease,and is authority for correct pronuncia-
tion and style. But college bred women are
not as yet, numerous, and are generally young
and a woman may be able to fill all these re-
quirements and still be an unsuitable president.
	She must have had sufficient education to
render her familiar with all general subjects,
to give her clear ideas and ability to express
them correctly, and if, as has been declared,
"education is nine parts mental friction," the
other tenth should be sheer native ability.
	But the first requirement is earnestness of
purpose and enthusiasm in her work, so that
she may be natural in her actions, and able
to rise above any timidity and discouragement,
at times almost forgetting her own existence.
	If she have this zeal her associates will
forgive many failures in other respects, and if
she have it not, in some degree, she will be
self-conscious and hesitating, and no amount of
knowlege or skill will atone for it or make her
a popular officer.
	A president should in a measure, have a
judicial mind, enabling her to see all sides of
the question, especially the truth that is on
the side of the minority. She should be
strictly impartial and impersonal in her rulings
being guided only by what seems to her right
and according to the best usage. Her own
[---] she must ignore, as she is there to
carry out the [-]ishes of the club and to be 
the medium of its op[---]ions.  Her views may 
be expressed in meetings [--] the Board of 
Directors, and her personality can[---] but be
impressed upon the club through her influen[--]
upon the offices and various committees.
	In the chair she should have sufficient con-
centration to be able to follow carefully the
line of thought of each speaker, and enough
acquaintance with the subject to occasionally
ask a suggestive question or advance an idea
when the discussion lags; at the same time
she should be on the alert to see every one
who enters the room, and observe and en-
courage any one who may wish to speak; she
should have dignity without severity, to
which a sense of humor always adds a grace;
she should have a kind heart that can
recognize an honest effort, and be quick to
cover a failure or a mistake; and she should
encourage and draw out the timid, never
allowing the meeting to be monopolized by
a few.
	If possible she should know each member
by name, as well as something of her charac-
teristics; and she should be conversant with
the workings of every committee, as she will
thus avoid mistakes and be better able to
ward off or to harmonize differences.
	She should never interfere in the work of
the committees, or decide for them, but be
ever ready with suggestion or helpful thought
when she sees they are needed or welcome.
And let her not be afraid to express approba-

[column 2]
tion in an appreciative aud not in a patroniz-
ing manner.	
	While the position demands au oversight of
all, it does not justify an assumption of
superiority, which is always offensive.
	True appreciation of the responsib[-]lity and
value of an office, and a self confidence,
without which it could never be rightly filled
are entirely consistent with a proper estimate
of one's self,and with the humility and modesty
which are ever born of high ideals.
THE VICE PRESIDENT.
	The qualities necessary for the president ap-
ply equally to the vice-president, as circum-
stnces may transfer the duties of the offiice to
her a large share of the time.
[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A Presbyterian order of deaconesses is under
consideration.
	Hereafter, girls will be admitted to the
State Agricultural School of Rhode Island.
	Julia Brink, a medical writer of some
note, has received from the British Medical
Association of London $I00 to defray the
expense of publishing a physiological treatise
on the nutrition of the muscles. Dr. Brink is
the first woman to be thus honored. 
	Ex.
The South Dakota Equal Suffrage Song
Book, is a collection of spirited suffrage songs.
Unlike most suffrage song books hitherto
published, the music is given as well as
the words. Price ten cents. Address W. F,
Bailey secretary South Dakota E. J. A. Room
9, Hills block, Huron, South Dakota.
	The good gospel of equal human rights for
women is spreading everywhere. At this
moment, the Hampton Guardain, published
at Hampton Court House, South Carolina,
gives the use of its columns to publish extracts
from the excellent speech of George Wm.
Curtis on "Fair Play for Women.”Mrs. Virginia
D. Young edits a column in this paper.
	Wyoming had its first State election on
Thursday Sep. 11th to choose State officers
and a Legislature. For twenty one years the
women of Wyoming have had full political
rights, and have voted at every territorial
election, during that time. The men of
Wyoming, in the most loyal way, have stood
by the rights of the women, and now having
come, into Statehood together they will unite
in the choice of [---] United States Senators.


[Column 1]﻿
NOTICE.
	On October 14, Dr. Romania B. Pratt will be-
gin another class in obstetrics. A limited num-
ber of students will be given positions in the
Deseret Hospital, where further particulars may
be obtained from the Doctor. Those who take
advantage of this opportunity to advance in this
important branch of study cannot do better than
identify themselves with the class, Dr. Pratt be-
ing a thoroughly competent teacher.

[Column 2]
[image of Union Pacific shield]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT- 
UNION TICKET OFFICE, 
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail.
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,  
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


OBSTETRICS.

	For the past ten years Dr. Ellis R. Shipp has
taught large classes in Obstetrics, and through
the earnest solicitation of those specially in-
terested still continues her labor of love in that
direction, for the great advantage and indeed
necessity of this knowledge cannot be overesti-
mated. How soul-sickening is the oft told tale of
suffering and death of the mother while passing,
through the greatest ordeal of her life–the bear-
ing of the souls of men!


Who can but realize the importance of skilled
help that suffering may be reduced to a minimum
and death at this sacred period remain for ages
unheard off.
	The introductory lecture of Dr. E. R. Shipp’s
Winter class will be given on Friday Oct. 10th,
at 4 p. m. All interested are cordially invited to
attend at her residence No. 34 South 7 East St.
Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 19.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1890. NO. 9


CONTENTS. 
	Some of the Beauties of Nature,—Ida Hoag.
Aunt Lu’s Story. The Woman’s Congress.
Rural Letters,—Lula. The Fulfillment of Proph-
ecy,—Mary Ann M. Pratt. R. S. Reports,—St.
John’s—San Luis. Primary Associations of Utah
Stake. The Higher Education of Women,—
Mrs. Eddy. Notes and News. Obituaries. 
	Editorial:—Semi-Annual Conference. Offic-
ial Declaration. Editorial Notes. The Relief
Society Report. Letter From a Friend,—Mary S.
Burnham. A family Gathering,—A. C. W. Utah
Ter. W. S. A. Convention. Woman’s Rights,—
S.W. Richards.
Poetry:—Back to Other Days,— Lucy.
Autumnal Musings,—E. B. W.


For the Exponent:
BACK TO OTHER DAYS.

My thoughts go back to other days,	
	When thou wast but a child; 
A thing of sudden smiles and tears,
	Fair as a wood-flower and as wild
I see thy raven locks of hair.
	Thine eyes of the same midnight hue;.
Thy forehead like the lily fair,
	Thy lips like rose-buds bathed in dew.
It seemed that sorrow could not fling.
	One shadow o'er a heart like thine,
So like the early flowers of Spring,
	Born but for love and Summer time.
Thy girlhood came, oh what a dream!
	A fairy dream life seemed to thee,
As gazing down life's silvery stream,
	No rocks or quicksands could'st thou see.
Earth, seemed an Eden, and thine eye,
	Saw not the thorns, amid the flowers,
No cloud obscured the clear blue sky.
	No sorrow clogged the light-winged hours.
But now thy girlhood days have flown, 
	With noiseless footsteps they depart,
And years with many cares have thrown,
	Some shadows o’er thy trusting heart.
Life is not all the sunny vision, 
	That fancy in thy childhood drew,
Of fadeless flowers, of scenes Elysian,
	Of friends the faithful and the true.
The fairest rose has sharpest thorn,
	And thou hast learned the sadden’d story
That sorrow is of pleasure born,
	That clouds oft dim the sun’s bright glory,
Tho’ thy sunniest days are o’er, 
	The happiest, are thine I ween.
Far off on life's dim sounding shore,
	Bright forms of love and life are seen;
I would not mar one bright emotion,
	Of such a trusting heart as thine,
For well I know that heart's devotion,
	Is laid upon a worthy shrine.
Light glide thy barque adown life's sea,
	With earth's and heaven's rich treasures laden,
May every danger flee from thee,
	Till thou hast gained the eternal haven.
						LUCY.
Atchison Kan.


[Column 1]
SOME OF NATURE’S BEAUTIES

DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	A few weeks ago returning from a trip up
one of our beautiful canyons the thought
occured to me, that a description of it even in
my weak way might prove interesting to 
you. 
[Column 2]
	While sitting by the camp-fire or taking
lonely strolls farther up the mountain road,
my thoughts would most invariably turn to
you, and a sigh of regret would come from
the heart that you were not with me to enjoy
all the beautiful grandeur, spread out before
me.  Words would be inadequate to describe
the splendor on which my eyes feasted turn
which way they would, but the attempt at
description is a pleasure as one in a measure
lives over and enjoys again the scenes that so
truly fascinated them.
	I would sit at camp musing and dreaming
or perhaps taking lonely strolls around the
winding canyon road, now and then a new
place of beauty would burst upon my view, at
such times the words of the poet were recalled
to mind.
	"Ever changing ever new
	  When will the landscape tire the view"
	During one of these strolls, I was suddenly
confronted with a scene so glorious and grand
that I do not think it will be easily blotted out
of my memory. In where there seemed to be
an opening between mountains was a large
dense grove of pine trees tall and stately, not
one dwarf pine could be seen. Underneath
there was a beautiful carpet of grass, not a
bush or stick to mar its rich smoothness. The
last rays of the setting sun cast just enough of
its radiance to lighten the border making the
depth within look all the more grand and
solemn. I stood for sometime entranced every-
thing seemed too grand and gloriously beauti-
ful to be real, I felt like pinching myself to
discover if all were a reality or was it only a
dream. However I retraced my steps to camp
with feelings of the most solemn and mysterious
nature.
	After sitting and chatting in the midst of a
merry group in front of which the camp-fire
shed its bright rays, a brisk canyon breeze
began to make itself felt, and my mind wan-
dered back to the old pine forest and a strong
desire took possession of me to return, which as
soon as practicable was acted upon and I again
found myself upon the spot that had so
strangely interested me
	If the scene was beautiful at sunset it was
doubly so by moonlight. Oh, dear sister that
one might always have language to express the
pure holy sentiments of the heart an such mo-
ments.
	A wan, pale moon was shedding its spectral
light, which together with the moaning, wailing
aud howling of the wind caused a shudder to
pass over me.
	As I gazed upon this gloomy grand looking
place and listened to the wild weird music,
fascinating, yet awful in its solemn loneliness,
it was with great reluctance that I again re-
traced my steps.
	The walk back proved to be equally fasci-
nating although of another type of beauty.
The pretty sparkling brook running along the
roadside, each bank containing such an in-
numerable variety of sweet wild flowers, the
majestic mountains towering so high above me
formed a scene long to be remembered and im
pressed me with the spirit of awe and solemnity.
We did not tarry long however as it was grow-
ing late.
	The next day we returned home with many
feelings of regret at leaving the many pleasant
places we had become familiar with. 
	But I must say something of our pretty

[Column 3]
Woodland home which is noted for its sweet-
ness and simplicity of its scenery: our little
valley is indeed beautiful. Dame Nature has
donned her exquisite coloring of rich Autumnal
tints.
	Standing on what is called Kamas bench and
looking ou the valley beneath through which
flows the pretty winding Provo river, which can
be seen now and then through an opening of
some brush or trees,the long sweeping meadows
dotted in clusters of fall flowers,the neat comfort
able homes to be seen here and there,all unite to
form a beautiful landscape pleasing to the eye
and gratifying to the lover of nature.
	The citizens of Woodland are industrious
and I believe happy. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies Association and Primary are
progressing. The officers and members of
each association are seemingly united and
working diligently for one purpose that of the
upbuilding of the Church and kingdom of
God.
	Trusting that I have not wearied you by an 
overflow of sentiment and believing in your
intense love of the beautiful in nature,
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel of peace
and Salvation.
						IDA HOAG.


AUNT LU’S STORY.

	And now I must tell you something of the
Alby’s,—of Robert’s parents, who started their
life soon after their marriage in a log-cabin of
two rooms in the back woods of Maine (New 
England) a small settlement of lumber-men,
woodchoppers, hunters, fishermen etc. In this 
place all their six children were born, and
from it, four of them, who had only walked a
little way in earth-life, were transported into a
higher school in spirit realms, Lois, their re-
maining daughter developed into beautiful
womanhood, married at the age of nineteen,
shortly before her father's death, and removed
with her husband (an excellent worthy man
of high position and wealth, who made all the
gifts bestowed so bountifully upon him a 
blessing  to others,) to Augusta the Capital of
the state. Previous to the event of their
daughter’s marriage Mr. Alby had become a
wealthy prosperous lumber-merchant, had built
a large commodious house with the expecta-
tion of living in easy comfort to a good old
age, but death came (when but a little past
middle life) swift and sudden in a red bolt of
flame from heaven, leaving hearts wounded
and torn with grief, to receive a fresh anoint-
ing for a future blessing.
	Robert the only son, possessed a deep earnest
nature, and a wild love of adventure; he mani-
fested this characteristic in early life by fre-
quent escapades from school, the common rou-
tine of which had few attractions for him al-
though quick to learn, and never dull; his
good humor and qualities of heart made him a
favorite with teachers and comrades. Nothing
delighted him so much when a small lad, as to be
allowed to go with his father on a hunting or
fishing excursion, and listen to wonderful tales 
of hair-breadth escapes from wild beasts,
Indians, &c., and long before he was in his
'teens, he had inwardly resolved to lead a back
wood’s life, and like the little boy who planted
his feet in the earth to grow tall he tried to
harden and accustom himself to such a life,
looking daily forward for the happy time when


[Column 1]
﻿he could go forth armed and equipped as
hunter and trapper. He would often refuse
food when hungry and go an entire day with-
out, sleeping on the hard barn floor, on logs or
rocks and a favorite place was on a mossy rock
back of their cattle shed.—Thus he became a
perfect enigma, a puzzle hard to solve or de-
fine, by either his own family or others, while
to his comrades, he was a perfect Nimrod, and
after an event, by witich he saved the life of
one of them, by shooting a catamount as it
sprang down upon him from a high ledge of
rock, he was by universal consent crowned a
veritable hero! the story oft repeated, with
thrilling variations, won for him quite a local
fame.
	Robert was blest with a sound elastic consti-
tution, patient and cheerful under privation,
indefatigable in research and indomitable in
endurance, overflowing with energy and en-
thusiasm. It was very easy for him to persuade
his mother to sell the homestead and other
property, put it into money and go with him
to the "Far West,” to find his beloved
ideal of a hunting ground.
	Indeed, I do not think it would have been
a hard matter for him to have prevailed upon
her to go with him into the uttermost parts of
the earth; so exceedingly great was her love
and faith in this her only son. But Robert
was too considerate to take his mother into an
entire wilderness of country. It was therefore
arranged after a visit to Augusta through the
winter, to go on together to a town near the
Mississippi River where she could be sur-
rounded by home comforts, and at a convenient
distance for him to come to see her sometimes,
until he had a suitable place of abode prepared
for her. It was three years before Robert felt
justified in removing his much loved mother to
this new home in the wilderness, fifteen miles
to the nearest trading post, and until about
that time, forty miles to U. S. P. O.
	The Scotchman who went from Maine, with
them, took a claim of Government land ad-
joining Robert’s and erected his cabin as near
as possible to be neighbors, as well as for pro-
tection against invaders etc. Mrs. Douglas also re
mained at the same place with Robert’s mother,
these men with their colored servants were all
the inhabitants of the place while preparing for
the dear ones waiting.
	Now it came to pass while they were tarrying
in anticipation of a home in the wildnerness
(in the then "Far West) that they were both
invited to attend a religious meeting to be held
at the house of a relative by whom they re-
ceived the invitation to attend. Mrs. Alby
accepted the invitation joyfully without any
curiosity regarding sect or creed, she was raised
in a Christian home and dedicated to the Lord
in infancy by her parents, and although her
privileges had been few for attending religious
worship, during her early married life, she had
sought to live the life of a true follower of
Christ, the Savior of mankind; not so with
Mrs. Douglas, "she was a staunch Presbyterian
and must be informed of the denominational
name.” She therefore declined the invitation
as the name of the sect was not given.
	The meeting proved to be very inspiring;
new ideas of ancient prophecy and of Latter-
day glory were opened up before the minds of
the hearers, and many hearts were stirred with-
in them to seek and learn more of this new
doctrine, and among them none were more in-
terested than Mrs. Alby. At the close of the
meeting notice was given that on Christmas
day a sermon would be preached (and other
services held) at an appointed place at which
two Elders (mentioned) would be present; on
the evening previous a friend was sent to warn
them that several opposers had plotted to dis
turb the proposed meeting, to injure these
preachers and perhaps take their lives. For
a few moments they knelt in silent prayer, then

[Column 2]
thanking their friend for so kindly warning
them they assured him that they could not,
and dare not withdraw from their engagement
to preach on the morrow. "We are impressed,”
said they, "that our Lord has some wonderful
work to perform by this means, and though
Satan is abroad stirring up the hearts of the
people against it, we will not shrink from
danger, for He, whom we serve will preserve
us, if it is for His honor and glory.” They
then bade their friend, to be of good cheer,
saying, "we will go in the name of the Most
High, expecting His presence and blessing.”
	The sermon was preached at the appointed
time and place, several were filled with the
spirit of prophecy, many spoke in tongues, and
one hymn was sung by a young woman in a
voice of angelic sweetness and purity, when to
the astonishment of all, who knew Mrs. Alby,
she arose, her face radiant and shining with
exceeding brightness, and interpreted both the
language spoken and sung, in such a manner
as to show forth the power of the living God.
Would that I could give from memory all the
words as interpreted,and convey to your minds
the beautiful pictured scene given by one, and
interpreted by Mrs. Alby, of over eighteen
hundred years ago, when a company of
shepherds’ were "keeping the silent watches of
the night on the plains of Palestine.” When
startled by a celestial glory that shone round
and about them, they looked up in wonder and
amazement and saw a bright and glorious
angel poised on golden pinions and heard the
announcement that the Messiah had come.
And suddenly the brightness of the glory was
increased and the heavenly effulgence dazzled
mortal vision, while a multitude of the angelic
host, the choir of the great Church above, with
songs of praise to the Omnipotent Jehovah
accompanied by the melody, swelled, vibrated
and rolled on and on, through the vast cathe-
dral of the boundless Universe.
	Another spoke of "the mystery of heaven”
of its joy and freedom from all evil. All the
services were trebly calculated to strike
profoundest awe into the human mind, and to
teach man his littleness as in the presence of
Jehovah, the great “I Am!” Most joyfully
some, and thoughtfully all dispersed while the
Elders went their lodgings where a sumptous
Christmas dinner was prepared  and where a
young couple were in waiting to have the
marriage ceremony performed. All passed off
quietly and pleasantly, many saying "This is
the happiest Christmas day they ever knew,”
when suddenly they were startled by a knock
at the front door; they thought in their hearts,
“enemies have come;” reluctantly the door was
opened by a man in attendance, there stood
two tall, broad-shouldered, muscular  men
muffled so that only a small portion of their
faces could be seen. They said “we wish to
see the Elders” their voices were recognized by
several of the household. The bride who had
just been united (to the man of her choice was
a niece of one of them, and both were well
aware of his hatred of the “Mormons” and of
his bitter opposition to their union; they
trembled with fear and alarm at the sound of
his voice, but were soon happily assured as
advancing forward they said,“we have not come
to disturb any one,” they then took from under
their coats the missives which they had secreted
upon thpir persons and with which, as they
said to the Elders, “we had intended to have
finished your preaching.” One carried a large
hickory club and heavy stone, the other a large
knife and murderous looking pistol. “Yes
said they, we had planned to destroy you, and
take the consequences when we went to the
meeting, but you talked as if you knew all
about it, and your words were so strange, we
felt as though you were looking through us,
and that an Almighty power was in that place.”
Both held out their hands to the Elders, say-

[Column 3]
ing, "O, sirs! forgive us, and may God in
mercy forgive, for in our blind rage we had
forgotten Him, or that He would hold us ac-
countable, we now believe that you are true
men, servants of God, and not imposters as we
had thought.” They clasped hands with heart-
felt emotion and sincere forgiveness and assur-
ance of God’s forgiving mercy to the penitent.
Then for a few moments (by request of the
Elders,) all present,knelt in prayer, from which
these men arose subdued and humbled, both
acknowledging "that it was the first time that
they had knelt in prayer since they were
children, and taught to say the Lord’s prayer
at their mother’s knee, and repeat little prayers
in verse, nor had they for a score of years at-
tended any religious worship and all this time
had been scoffers and unbelievers in all things
Divine.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS, 
	
	The Association for the Advancment of
Women will hold its eighteenth annual 
congress in Toronto, Canada,on the 15th, 16th
and 17th of October, by invitation of the 
Mayor and City Council. Executive sessions
at 10 a. m. Public sessions at 2.30 and 8 p.m.
At evening sessions an admittance fee of 
twenty-five cents will be charged. A con-
ference of officers only will be held on Oct. 14,
at 7.30 p. m.
	Toronto is preparing a royal welcome for
the Woman's Congress. On the 20th ult:, a
number of ladies and gentlemen met in the
Council Chamber at the City Hall to arrange
for its reception. A large executive committee
was appointed to take charge of the arrange-
ments. Special committees were appointed on 
reception, on hotels and billeting, on rooms 
and decorations, on the press, on finance and
on railroads. The Toronto Mail says:
	"From the deep interest manifested by those present
concerning the object of the meeting, there is no doubt
that the coming of the association and the discussions to
take place will be the leading event of the fall's gather-
ings this year in the city."
	The topics and speakers for this year will be
as follows:

	"Woman in the State,"
					Miss Mary F. Eastman, Mass.
	"Practical Value of Philosophy,"
			Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Rhode Island.
	"Working Girls' Club.
				Mrs. Helen Campbell, New Jersey.
	"More Pedagogy in Universities and Normal Schools,"
					Mrs. Mary E. Bundy, Illinois.
	"The Gain and Loss to America of Protracted Art
Study Abroad,"
				Miss Sarah Wool Moore, Nebraska.
"The Scientific Work and Influence of Dr. Maria
		Mitchell,"
					Prof. Mary W. Whiting N. Y.
"Woman and the Forum,"
				Mrs. Martha Strickland, Michigan.
"Special Legislation or Moral Energy,"
				Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells, Mass.
"Women in Ancient Egypt,"
	Miss Georgia Louise Leonard, Washington D. C.
"Scientific Training for Mothers"
				Mrs. Frances Fisher Wood Mass.
"Study of American History,"
					Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods, Mass.
"The Colored Women of the South"'
		Mrs. Elizabeth H. Botume; South Carolina.
"A Paper on Ibsen's Plays,"
					Mrs. Ellen M. Mitchell, Colorado. 
	This is the first time the A. A. W. has
held its annual meeting outside the limits of
the United States. It promises to be a very
interesting and pleasant occassion.


The Woman’s Club of Leipsic lately held
an elaborate celebration on the twenty-fifth
anniversary of its formation.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AUTUMNAL MUSINGS.

In the soft September gloaming,
All my fancies set to roaming,
	Over hill and dale and mountain;
And	 I felt the mellowed splendor,
Of the twilight faint and tender,
	And I heard the rippling fountain,
With the music of its measure,
As it leaped and sung for pleasure,
	Filling all the air with gladness;
And its songs from tuneful voices,
Songs in which the world rejoices,
	Soothed my soul with tearful sadness.
In my garden full of sweetness;	
At the evening’s rich completeness,
	While the stars their watch were keeping;
Came the muse of which afore time,
I had dreamed throughout the nightime,
	And she found me pale and weeping.
In a dainty, plaintive fashion,
Breathing forth both love and passion,
	Came this fairy-footed maiden,— 
Sweeping 'cross the starlit meadow,
Gray and quiet, as a shadow
	Yet with human hopes o'erladen.
And the Autumn boughs were sighing,
And the scarlet leaves were dying,
	Like lost hopes, which they betoken.
Oh, ye fragrant buds and blossoms,
Gathered closely to our bosoms !
	Here ye lie, all crushed and broken.
And we know not if the morrow
Shall bring promis’d joy or sorrow
	For the love that's past revealing;
That lies quiv’ring, aching, sobbing,
Every nerve and pulse, keen throbbing,
	And its bitterness concealing.
Quoth the muse. Love never faileth,
Though the human heart bewaileth
	Idols broken, fragments scattered!
They were only true in seeming,
And ye worshipped them while dreaming,
	But on waking,find them shattered.
Still the memory of those hours,
That we passed in Eden’s bowers,
	When our hearts and hopes were lightest,—
Are around our pathway clinging, 
And a thousand voices singing
	Of the promises grown brightest.
The delicious days of Autumn,
With the winds, so weird and solemn,
	Bring the fondest recollections;
Of the music which was sweetest, 
Of the happiness completest,
	And the tenderest affections.
The harpstrings may be shattered,
And the rose-leaves may be scatter'd
	But the mem’ry still remaineth;
And the love that we have cheris'd,
And the hope that we have nourish’d
	The immortal soul retaineth.
E. B. W.


RURAL LETTERS
	No. 2.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	The last Exponent has just dropped from
my hand. there are still a few moments left
me, before I must return to my domestic
duties. I seize my pen vigorously determined
to exchange a few words of kindly greeting
with those dear friends who write for and read
our little paper. For. shall I receive good at
their hand and offer nothing in return?
	I had a pleasant call today from "Zimmri,"
of the Logan Journal. He was a friend of my
father's twenty years ago; for this reason and
because of his intellectual, literary and re-


ligious inclinations, he is an occasional and
welcome visitor in our rural home. He is
also, I believe, the best and most extensive
florist in this settlement. That beautiful
blush rose in the window near which I write,
which fills the air with its delicate and de-
licious perfume, was his offering of friendship
to me today.
	Now I must stop writing, and help my six
year old son to count the paper money he has
clipped from an advertising sheet, and is
puzzling over, unable to decide whether this
is meant for a nickle or a five dollar gold
piece, and if that is a silver quarter or a gold
ten.
	Ah! my sisters, you who have cherubs of
your own, know that their wants must be at-
tended to, their questions answered, their minds
directed, now while they are with us for neglect
of our duties to them, when like clinging vines
they twine around us, looking up to us as all
sufficient to supply their every want, means
sorrow and bitterness of heart for us in the
future, when because of such neglect they will
surely drift away, out of our reach.
	Here is Willie. my "farmer boy;" see how
well he has learned to ride this summer. That
pretty bay horse upon which he sits so gal-
lantly, is a great pet with us. He will let all
the children ride at once, if they can all get
on; and stop perfectly still, if, in their scramb-
ling, one drops off. He likes the buggy too,
and therein my great comfort with him is
taken.
	One morning, I felt quite homesick and
lonesome, when my children struck up a lively
cheering song. I joined in their singing, and
in my heart thanked God for the blessed gift
of song and music, which will chase gloom
away if any thing can.
	Presuming that you have received from the
Secretary, an account of the Woman Suffrage
meeting, lately held at Logan, I will not take
up time or space in writing about it here, ex-
cept to state that I had the pleasure of being
present; and considered the occasion a very
interesting one.
	The district school has opened here with a
very competent Principal, two able assistants,
and I should judge, about one hundred and
fifty children. The weather is fine, and every
one seems to be in the full enjoyment of health
and happiness just at present.
	Crops are generally light in this vicinity, so
I am informed, compared with last year’s.
	Mother objects to the name Smithfield, as it
reminds her of the place known by the same
name in England, where so many religious
martyrs were burned. So, to gratify her feel-
ings, I have agreed to call it, as it used some-
times to be called year’s ago,
	Summit, Cache Valley, September, 1890.
									LULA.


[Column 1]

THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHESY.

	II. Peter 1 Ch. 20 vr. "knowing this first
that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any
private interpretation."
	21 vr. "For the prophecy came not in old
time by the will of man; but holy men of God
spake as they were moved upon by the Holy
Ghost."
	I was led to write on this subject, by hear-
ing one express his views as not being a be-
liever in anything that been predicted having
come to pass; said he, there might have been
such a man as Christ and what He said was
not very definite; he also alluded to Bible
prophecy said there were no dates given to lead
one to suppose that things came to pass; but
that they happened promiscuously.
	There is no subject of so much interest to
me as the fulfillment of prophecy. And it
surely must be, to all those, who believe in
Sacred history, that is the word of God, and

[Column 2]
written by revelation. The Savior said when
He answered His disciples concerning those
things which should take place, that He told
them about at jerusalem, His language was
plain and definite, that the City should be
destroyed and the Temple; not one stone should
be left on another, and the Jews should be
scattered among all nations, and they should
see Him no more, until they should say
"blessed is He that cometh in the name of the
Lord." All these things took place as He
said; then He spoke of His coming and gave
them the signs; that nation should rise against
nation, and kingdom against kingdom; men's
hearts should fail them; this would come as a
snare on them that dwell on the earth. This
prediction is yet to take place. "Heaven and
earth shall pass away; but My words shall not
pass away."
	There never was a truer fulfillment of
prophecy than was spoken to the Jewish
nation, and also to the Israelites, every word
spoken to them of the Lord by His prophets
was literally fulfilled. Everything that was
predicted of the Savior before His birth was
fulfilled to the very letter. But of His second
coming which has not taken place, He does
not given the day nor the hour, but the earth
will not stand in its present state only 6,000
years, at the beginning of the 7,000 a great
change will come, there will be a millennial
rest for the people of God, and Christ will
dwell on the earth and it will be like the
garden of Eden; all will be at peace. "The
lamb and the lion will lie down together; and
nothing shall hurt nor destroy in all My holy
mountain saith the Lord." And now con-
cerning the prophecy of a modern prophet
Joseph Smith. Revelation and prophecy given
through Joseph the Seer, on war. Given Dec.
25th, 1832. "Verily, thus saith the Lord con-
cerning the wars that will shortly come to
pass, beginning at the rebellion of South
Carolina, which will eventually terminate in
the death and misery of many souls." 2 vs.
The days will come that war will be poured
out upon all nations beginning at that place."
Section 87. This war actually took place be-
tween the North and South, and as sure as
this took place, the others will among all
nations. The Prophet Joseph said in his
history, "I have asked of the Lord concerning
His coming and while asking the Lord, He
gave me a sign and and said, 'In the days of
Noah I set a bow in the heavens as a sign
and token that in any year that the bow should
be seen the Lord would not come; but there
should be seed time and harvest during that
year, but whenever you see the bow withdrawn
it shall be a token that there shall be famine,
pestilence, and great distress among the
nations, and that the coming of the Messiah is
not far distant. This is one sign of the
heavens given to a modern prophet that we
may note. I know many things he uttered
that have come to pass and many more that
will, because they were the Lord's words and
I bear my testimony that he was a true prophet
of the Lord, and was called by Him to pro-
claim the Gospel of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Sept. 22, Salt Lake City.


Miss Amye Reade's novel, "Ruby," is
already in its tenth thousand. Among those
who have expressed approval and admiration
of the book are Lord Tennyson and Cardinal
Manning.

	Mrs. Willing says, a propos of the discussion
on the admission of women to the Methodist
General Conference: "Miriam was in the
General Conference of God's Church, for it is
said: "He led the people forth by Moses,Aaron,
and Miriam.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy per year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	OCTOBER 15, 1890.


[column 1]
		SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	During the morning exercises of October 6, the
third day of the semi-annual Conference of the
Church, after the Authorities of the Church had
been sustained by unanimous vote, President
Woodruff proposed having the Articles of Faith
read, and Bishop O. F. Whitney was called upon
and read them to the congregation; after the
reading,
		APOSTLE FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS.
	Said: Beloved brethren and sisters. I move
that we, as members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in General Conference
assembled, do accept and adopt these Articles of
Faith which Bishop Whitney has now read as
the rule of our faith and of our conduct during
our mortal lives.
	It may be thought that it is superfluous to
offer it; but it must be borne in mind that we
have a rising generation since this was last pre-
sented to us, that are coming to years of judg-
ment and understanding; and we wish to have
all, old and young, rich and poor, bond and free,
that have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in
these articles to have a chance to express it by
their vote, if they wish.
	The vote to sustain Brother Richard's motion
was unanimous.
		PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CONNON.
Said: President Woodruff, as doubtless the
members of the Conference are aware, has felt
himself called upon to issue a manifesto con-
cerning certain things connected with our affairs
in this Territory, and he is desirous to have this
submitted to this conference; to have their views
or their expressions concerning it, and Bishop
Whitney will read this document now in your
hearing.	
	Following is the manifesto as read:
		OFFICIAL DECLARATION.

To whom it May Concern:
	Press dispatches having been sent for political
purposes, from Salt Lake City, which have been
widely published, to the effect that the Utah
Commission, in their recent report to the Secre-
tary of the Interior, allege that plural marriages
are still being solemnized and that forty or more
such marriages have been contracted since last
June or during the past year; also that in public
discourses the leaders of the Church have taught
encouraged and urged the continuance of the
practice of polygamy;
	I, therefore, as President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, do hereby, in
the most solemn manner, declare that these
charges are false. We are not teaching polygamy
or plural marriage, nor permitting any person to
enter into its practice, and I deny that either forty
[column 2]
or any other number of plural marriages have
during that period been solemnized in our temples
or in any other place in the Territory.
	One case has been reported, in which the
parties alleged that the marriage was performed
in the Endowment House, in Salt Lake City, in
the spring of 1889, but I have not been able to
learn who performed the ceremony; whatever
was done in this matter was without my knowl-
edge. In consequence of this alleged occurrence
the Endowment House was, by my instructions,
taken down without delay.
	Inasmuch as laws have been enacted by Con-
gress forbidding plural marriages, which laws
have been pronounced constitutional by the court
of last resort, I hereby declare my intention to
submit to those laws, and to use my influence with
the members of the Church over which I preside
to have them do likewise.
	There is nothing in my teachings to the Church
or in those of my associates, during the time
specified, which can reasonably be construed to
inculcate or encourage polygamy, and when any
Elder of the Church has used language wh ch
appeared to convey such teaching he has been
promptly reproved. And I now publicly declare
that my advice to the Latter-day Saints is to re-
frain from contracting any marriage forbidden by
the law of the land.
				WILFORD WOODRUFF,
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.
	President Lorenzo Snow offered the follow-
ing:
	I move that, recognizing Wilford Woodruff as
the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints, and the only man on the earth
at the present time who holds the keys of the
sealing ordinances, we consider him fully autho-
rized by virtue of his position to issue the mani-
festo which has been read in our hearing and
which is dated September 24th, 1890, and that as
a Church in General Conference assembled, we
accept his declaration concerning plural mar-
riages as authoritative and binding."
	The vote to sustain the foregoing motion was
unanimous.
		PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON
Spoke in reference to the manifesto, giving the
reasons for its having been issued by President
Woodruff. His discourse will be published in
full in the Deseret News.
		PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.
Who had been deeply affected during the presen-
tation of, and action upon the official declaration,
also expressed himself on the same subject. His
remarks were published in the Deseret News
Saturday Oct. 11.
	This Conference which was one of great sig-
nificance and of vast importance to the Latter-day
Saints, will long be remembered by the as-
sembled multitude,it was adjourned Monday after-
noon until April 1891.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in Salt
Lake City, Oct. 7 1890. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
presiding. There was a forenoon and afternoon
session, and a large congregation almost entirely
women assembled. Reports were heard from the
sisters who preside over the Relief Society in the
several Stakes of Zion, and the meeting was also
addressed by President Zina D. H. Young who
has only recently returned from a visit to Canada
also her Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, the
Secretary Sarah M. Kimball, and Pres. M. Isa-
bella Horne, Minutes of the Conference will be
published in our next issue.


The first Annual Conference of the Primary
Associations was held in the Assembly Hall in
this City Sunday evening Oct. 5, 1890 commenc-
ing at 7.30. Mrs. Louie B. Felt presiding. Her
Counselors Lillie T. Freeze and Clara C. Cannon
were both present. The house was crowded to
overflowing with brethren and sisters. The
teaching was such as would instruct both old and
young. The speakers were Pres. Louie B. Felt,
Coun. Lillie T. Freeze, Pres. Z. D. H. Young,
Sister E. B. Wells. Report from Cache Stake
P. A. by Sister Jane E. Molen and from Utah
Stake P. A. Sister Sarah E. Cluff. Sister Cornelia
H. Clayton offered her resignation as Secretary
which was accepted, and Miss May Anderson
chosen to fill the vacancy. The meeting was an
interesting one throughout, and must be a source
of great satisfaction to those who are laboring so
diligently for the children of Zion to feel that the
work is gaining ground.


THE RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.

	The totals of the 32 Stake organizations of the
Relief Society statistical and financial are as fol-
lows:
	Statistical: members 16,741, meetings held the
last six months, 3,095, average attendance, 5,044,
No. of branches 368.
	Financial: Cash on hand at date of last re-
port, $10,890,05. Property on hand at date of last
report, 18,616,81. Real Estate, 50,834.61. Wheat
bushels 40,172. Cash to purchase wheat, $,1,
478,73.
	Cash received during the last six months, $5,-
980,14. Property, 3,241,63. Wheat bushels, 660.
Cash to purchase wheat, $117,87. Profit on labor
during the last six months, 576,17.
	Disbursements. Cash devoted to Charitable
Purposes, $4,112,20. Property to Charitable pur-
poses, 2,568,67. To Emigration in cash $120,16.
To Temple $215,80. Property to Temple, $30.25.
Deseret Hospital cash, $223,00, Property 3,90.
Home Industries. Cash, $517,54. Property 222,-
47. Books, Cash $102.77. Building, Cash, $987,-
56. Property to building 659,48.
	Cash on hand to date, $11,246,24. Property on
hand, 18,265,23. Real Estate, $50,334,61. Wheat
Bushels, 41,148. Cash to purchase wheat, $1,
596,60.	In addition to the above report there is re-
ported in Salt Lake Stake, 900 lbs flour, Tooele
Stake, sheep, 100 head, Sevier Stake, 53 head.
Weber Stake, beans, 38 lbs, Davis Stake Co-op
Store $25.00.


LETTER FROM A FRIEND.

Olio, New Mexico,
					Sept. 27, 1890.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	I have not forgotten you and the promise to
write now and then, yet I find on reflection that
months have passed since my last effort to collect
a few scattered ideas for “Our Paper.’' I believe
the few sisters of this place are still working in
good faith trying to keep alive to the spirit of the
times, but it is an uphill road where there is so
little material to work with.
	Our Society had a pleasant reunion on the 12 of
July and a few of the leading brethren and sisters
of the Stake came to visit and attend the meet-
ings. The Primary also held their annual meet-
ing, and I understand all had a time of enjoyment-
I was very sick at the time but had the privilege
of seeing the brethren and sisters at my home
which was a great blessing to me. While being
administered to the second day of my illness I
was caused very peculiar feelings by the strange
prayer that was offered, the burden of it seemed
that I must exercise great patience as well a
aith if I wished to recover. At the time I could


not understand, yet there was a feeling of dread
came over me but how fully I learned its mean-
ing in the weeks of suffering that followed, and I
learned in that time of trial to plead for patience
more than in all my life before. The  "other
shore" seemed right within my reach, and oh, how
sweet to go, but the sad cries of my children
would ring in my ears and my duty to them made
me cling to life and beg of my Father to spare
mine, if it could be His will and I can testify to
God's great goodness and mercy and it is only
through this that my little ones have a mother.
I am still weak and with a terrible disease prey-
ing upon my system, the future on earth looks
shadowy and I can only pray that I may be
worthy to enjoy the home prepared for the faithful
and true when the end shall come. My heart is
lonely indeed since the death of my frail baby
Tillie. She died of heart disease the 1st of Sept.
aged 11 months and 6 days and though I bow to
God's will and feel to thank Him that my
darling no longer suffers, her place will be
vacant in heart and home until she is laid within
my arms again. God bless you dear sister and
all our noble women in Zion, is the prayer of,
					MARY S. BURNHAM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FAMILY GATHERING.
	
	Our worthy postmaster Brother John Pym was
honored Sunday 14th with a family gathering at
his residence in St. George, in honor of his 75th
birthday.
	Brother Pym was one of the first settlers of St.
George; his kindness of heart is well known to
every one in the community, and willingness to
oblige any one in need; his uprightness and integ-
rity cannot be excelled, he is especially kind to the
aged and widows.
	Sister Donnell his wife’s mother, who is well
and favorably known to the Elders who have been
in Scotland, for her kindness and generosity, and
who we do not doubt would likely be pleased to
hear that she is remarkably well; and her mind
clear and bright in regard to the Gospel.
	She was also surprised on her 90th birthday
by her children and grandchildren with a very
nice supper and many tokens of love and esteem.
	Brother Pym has been a faithful worker in the
St. George Temple from its commencement. May
his life be long spared is the wish of his friends
who are legion.
								A. C. W.
Sept. 19, 1890.


UTAH TER. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	An Executive Session was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Oct. 3, at 10 a. m. The Hall was
very beautifully decorated for the occasion with
flowers and vines, and the stands were artistically
draped with the National stars and stripes by Dr.
E. S. Barney.
	Pres. S. M. Kimball expressed her pleasure at
seeing so many representative woman present,
and desired the co-operation of all the auxiliary
branches in the selection of officers and in the
transaction of business.
	The expediency of changing the time of hold-
ing the Territorial Annual Convention was dis-
cussed, Emily Richards moved that the time be
changed from January to October the motion was
unanimously carried.
	Utah Co. W. S. A. was reported by Johanna
Patten; Millard Co. by M. A. Y. Greenhalch;
Davis Co. by Lucy A. Clark; Wasatch Co. was
represented by letter, Mrs. S. S. Boyer repre-
sented the Springville branch.
	The officers of the territorial board were re-
elected, Sarah M. Kimball Pres. Emily S.
Richards, 1st. Vice Pres. Ann D. Groesbeck 2nd
Vice Pres. Caroline E. Dye, 3rd Vice Pres. Ada
[Column 2]
Croxall Sec., Julia Taylor Cor. Sec.; Treasurer
Margie Dwyer, Chairman Executive Committee,
Phebe Y. Beatie, members Ex. Com. Nellie Little
and Margaret Mitchell. Pres. Kimball explained
that each auxiliary branch President was by virtue
of her office a member of the Ter. Executive
board and were expected to share in the labors
deliberations and responsibilities of said board.
	The following Publishing Com. were elected
for the ensuing year, Emmeline B. Wells, Lula
Greene Richards, Romania B. Pratt. Nominations
were made for Delegates, other subjects discussed
and the Convention adjourned.

	In the afternoon of Friday Oct. 3, 1890, the W.
S. A. of Utah met in a Ter. Convention. Pres.
S. M. Kimball presiding. Prayer by Mrs. M. I.
Horne. Minutes read and accepted. Treasurer's
report read. The names of the Territorial officers
for the ensuing year as chosen in Executive ses-
sion were presented and voted upon. Pres. S.
M. Kimball gave an address of welcome and
made some suggestive remarks.
	Mrs. E. J. Mc'Farlane addressed the assembly
upon the "Political Rights of Woman."
ADVANTAGES OF POLITICAL EDUCATION FOR
WOMEN.
SUSA Y. GATES.
	Few if any of the ladies here present would
deny that it will be a great advantage to any wo-
man to understand the laws of her own and of
other countries. There are many forms of national
government, but certain broad principles under-
lie them all. This little paper will not deal with
government and its modifications, but treat in an
informal way upon the advantages which will
accrue to the woman who sets herself to master
the study of political economy.
	It is a generally accepted fact that all the knowl-
edge and intelligence we can acquire in this life
will be so much capital to us in our next stage of
existence. If our chief knowledge is embraced
in the fit of a polonaise or the last crochet pattern
we will certainly not expect to take our place be-
side our husband as his equal and his assistant in
the formation and control of kingdoms and
worlds. No, we shall find ourselves obliged to
go down to the foot of some other life class and
re-learn the lessons we might so easily have ob-
tained while in this stage of existence. This is
a serious thought, a grave reflection. No paltry
excuses of expediency, or of too much time being
spent in the daily cares of life will soften, for us,
the unalterable fact that we have neglected the
better part of life, our souls have been absorbed
in the meaner and lesser duties of every day.
Just what can be neglected, just where we may
cut off a few spare moments from the absorbing
worldly tasks is not in the province of this paper
to discuss. Assuming that every woman under
the sound of my voice resolves now, today, that
she will set aside a few moments of each day, an
hour or two each week, to improve her mind, to
enlarge her understanding, and to deepen the
capabilities within her, the question at once
arises, to what study shall those few precious
moments be devoted? Religion? The spare
hours of the peaceful Sabbath day should be all
devoted to sacred and religious studies instead of
to letter writing, or visiting and gossiping. To
science? or to Art? to Music, or to Literature?
All of these have their place, and each woman
should weekly devote a portion of her time to
some one beloved object and study. But every
woman should make an unalterable decision to
gain all the knwledge possible on the grand prin-
ciples of political economy. I am bold to say
that even in this life, two thirds of the govern-
ment of the human race, rests in the hands of the
mothers. How foolish would be the man who
aspired to the Presidental chair and was as yet
ignorant of the form of a Republican nation as
distinguished from a monarchy. Yet few, so very
[Column 3]
few women know aught of government except
old and useless sayings of long ago. One of the
greatest writers of modern times, Herbert Spencer,
wrote at length on the home and the education
of the children therein. One great man when
asked how he controlled so large and so varied
a people as was under his care, replied that he
taught correct principles and they governed them-
selves. What are correct principles? In what way
are they most effectively taught? How much may
the individual do? How far may self-indulgence
go before reaching the boundary line of unbridled
license? Which would be best and most effective
applied to home life, the imperial, the monarchial or
the republican form of government? All these
are questions which come within the province of
political economy, and all of which vitally con-
cern women.
	It is easier, pleasanter, and far more effective to
study in company with others than to toil and
struggle on alone. How fortunate, we will not
here say, inspirationally fortunate for us has been
the organizing of these W. S. A. They are
the right thing in the right time at the right place,
If the many are not prepared for them, have no
time for them, then as ever, the few will come in
and accept the light thus held out for us.
	In this beautiful Territory, it is solely the fault
of woman herself that she is ignorant of the laws
of political economy, is careless of her rights,
heedless of her opportunities. The legislature of
1870 made us equal with our brother, and that
body was subsequently specially careful to include
competent women in committees and on boards
where woman's wisdom would be appreciated.
No man with the spirit of enlightenment in him
will object to his wife uniting herself with this
movement. Indeed those noble men who have
so well earned our esteem and gratitude, the
leaders of this people, have given unqualified
approval to this movement. It remains then with
us as women to resolve that we will identify our-
selves with the W. S. A. and to make all neces-
sary sacrifice of time and means to become faith-
ful suffragists.

	Hon. F. S. Richards addressed the meeting.
The attendance here today reminded him of some
of the audiences in Washington. Was a be-
liever in Woman's Rights, in Woman Suffrage.
Women who have sought to gain suffrage have
been derided; his idea of woman's rights was
that she should be the equal of man in every way,
not only socially but in every department of life.
The wife and mother's first duty is her home, but
if she can put those duties in other hands her
woman's intuition, will help her to judge how far.
Who first saw Christopher Columbus plans? was
it the wise men of whom he solicited aid? No
Isabella of Spain!—Woman’s assistance is needed
in all places and times. Believed that many of
the bright schemes yet to be brought forth would
be from woman. The cause is not popular but
it will become so; referred to Galileo and many
other reformers. It is as much our duty to put
our hands forth to break down this false idea of
woman's sphere, as for other evils. All the bar-
baric conditions which have been in the past
should be done away. Long had the woman
been held as an inferior in everything, but these
things will be done away with. Mrs. Lockwood
wanted to study law but was denied. She did
study law, but was for years refused the privilege
of practicing until after long perseverance she
carried the day and was admitted. Doctors op-
posed women studying medicine but the time
came when their opinions were over-ruled and we
know the result.
	These things have been overcome; so will
other things be overcome. We may feel discour-
aged at times, but it does not do to be discour-
aged. Some men may be fearful of the results of
these movements, he was not. Had seen Susan


children: let us teach them from their infancy
to obey the requirements of the Gospel, and it
will be a great benefit to them.
	Sister Constena Poulsen gave a report of the
Primary Association of Sanford, said there
was a fair attendance and she knew great
benefits were being derived by those who
attended.
	Counselor Mary Jensen expressed her
satisfaction at hearing the reports of the sisters,
spoke of the privileges we had in going to
meeting and to do good, making our duties a
labor of love, and exhorted the sisters to come
to meeting and cultivate a sisterly and loving
feeling toward each other.
	Counselor Mary A. Berthelsen spoke a
short time and bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, felt her weakness in addressing
her sisters, but desired to do all the good she
could.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant. “I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in the Relief and Primary stake conferences.
I am pleased to see the great work the Relief
Society and Primary Associations do. Many
do not realize the great work the sisters are
doing, and those who find the most fault with
those works and the tithing are those who do
not do any thing themselves. It is very
necessary to have combined faith with works.
The sisters are generally more faithful than
the men, and there would be much benefit de-
rived by letting the sisters vote, and help in all
the great works for they generally carry out
what they undertake well. “He spoke of the
endurance and joy and hope of a true L. D.
Saint saying they could not be discouraged, on
acconnt of their faith and testimony
for they knew they would be amply
paid for all they did. Spoke of the necessity
of parents practising what they taught their
children if they would succeed. Stake and
Ward officers were presented and unanimously
sustained in their respective places.
	Statistical and financial reports of the Relief
Society in all its branches in the Stake were
read by the secretary.
	Pres. S. S. Smith expressed his satisfaction
in meeting with the sisters on this occasion.
	Canference adjourned for six months.
	Singing “From Greenland’s icy mountains,”
Benediction by Bro. A. Fuller.
	MARTHA E. SMITH Pres.
	MARY F. CROWTHER Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.
	The question of woman’s rights is extensively
and seriously before the public and should be
candidly, and considerately answered. To my
mind it is one that should be answered from a
higher stand-point than that of mere political con-
siderations involved in that of woman suffrage.
	To all of life and to the conditions of life there
is attached a purpose which can only be realized
in the future. That purpose must be kept in view
or we necessarily become lost.—are in the dark
as to the rights or wrongs of life.
	There is a “divinity that shapes our way,” and
to my mind, woman’s rights are all of human
rights that can possibly aid in acquiring divine
rights.
	All of man’s interests are to that end; to live,
think and act in view of divine attainments, and
as there is no man in the divine economy without
the woman, it ought not to be a very difficult mat-
ter to determine what are woman’s rights as well
as woman’s duties. In all that belongs to the
welfare of the race, she has both rights and
duties.
	There are bounds to the exercise of reason upon
all questions subject to discussion; also, as re-
lates to all principles which can only be compre-
hended by thoughtful and philosophical investi-
gation. To reason correctly, the standpoint or
premises from which we would deduce ultimate
facts must be strictly correct; and the chain of
reasoning must be strictly followed link by link
to find ultimate truth.
	Man’s finite powers of reason are only correct
when they harmonize with the infinite to which
his whole life and being tend.
	The fact that the earthly is in likeness of the
heavenly—the temporal in likeness of the spiritual,
is a standard to which all reasoning must con-
form to abide the test of truth; the key that un-
locks the mystery that lies beyond, and makes it
simple truth to the understanding of man.
	It is in view of this heavenly or spiritual econ-
omy as revealed to man, that I would consider
what are woman’s rights. After the heavenly order
the spiritual and temporal united constituted the
soul of man. It was by virtue of that union that
there ever was a soul of man to be saved or lost
The two separate had nothing of interest in this
[Column 2]
probation. They must work together and share
together all the consequences of that work whether
for good or for ill.
	As there can no soul of man without the union
of two, so there was no man without the union of
two, and man was created, “male and female,”
and only in the union of male and female as one,
is man found to be in the likeness of his Maker—
A union perfectly in keeping with and in likeness
of that union that constitutes the soul of man.
Hence it is declared that neither can be in the
Lord without the other. The union of the two is
a necessity, and only by virtue of that union is the
divine attainable.
	It may well be asked what are the rights of
man without the woman, and what rights has
man that woman is not entitled to share, as a
part of his being. Through her alone his creative
power is developed, without which he has no
legitimate ruling sphere, only over his own pas-
sions and desires.
	The earth today is filled with families and
nations all under obligations to woman as the
bearer of the souls of men, and there is no in-
terest of any worth; social, religious, or political
that she has not sympathy with, and is as dearly
allied to as man. Who shall say that her rights
are not as dear, that her part is not as well per-
formed, or that her reward is not as sure as man’s
to the sharing glory and honor eternally with
him in the heavens, if he be worthy. She has
shared with him in the toil and responsibilities of
human life where she has earned all that heaven
can bestow, or souls immortal desire.
	Is not woman as deeply interested in life and
its results as any man? Is not her power to dis-
cern more keenly developed, and she as suscepti-
ble of happiness or misery; and shall she be
deprived of any position or condition that can
possibly aid in the highest development of that
happiness and intellectual supremacy that should
be transmitted to the generations to come, and be
ripened for the eternities beyond.
	Woman’s lesson and study is the development of
man from childhood to mature age. She learns that
lesson well. The mother, more than any other,
comprehends all that relates to his nature and his
wants. Who, then more competent, better
qualified to take part in all those grand councils
that involve the national welfare, which is but an
aggregation of the individual welfare.
	Let woman know what are her rights and be
permitted to freely exercise them and she would
reform the world from the devotee of every species
of vice and debauchery whom she would never
marry, to the political trickster and judicial petti-
fogger whom she would banish to oblivion with
suffrage and the ballot at her command. If wo-
man had her political rights in this free land she
would breathe the breath of life into the nostrils
of that once glorious, but now dying form of re-
publican government, which was once a govern-
ment of the people, for and by the people, but
is now only a political machine, run by politicians
for political purposes, and threatening the con-
summation of a nation’s ruin.
						S. W. RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
		﻿R. S. REPORTS.
		ST. JOHN'S STAKE-
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few items from this part 
might be interesting to readers of the
EXPONENT, I send a brief account of the Relief
Society conference which was held at St.
John’s Sept. 6th 1890.
	On the stand were the Presidency of the
Stake, the Pres. of the R. S. of the Stake and
one counselor and a number of leading 
sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the re-
[Column 2]
ports were read, officers of the Central Board
and Stake presented and unanimously sus-
tained. 
	Pres. E, L. S. Udall spoke in a very interest-
ing manner of her visit, in company with others,
to the branches throughout the stake, express-
ing joy in her labors among the sisters and 
the goodly condition of the Society. She re-
quested secretaries to forward reports by the 
20th of Feb. and Aug. While being pleased 
with the reports in general, regretted that
there was a slackness, with some, in attending 
meeting, showing the advantages of taking an 
interest in these organizations which all the 
sisters should be engaged in. Her objections 
to raffling articles produced in the society were
timely and good, also her instructions to the 
sisters regarding slander.
	The remainder of the time was occupied by 
the following speakers.
	Coun. Frances White, E. B. Coleman, Pres.
of the Primary Association, Mary E. B. 
Farr, Counselors E. A. Freeman and Wm.
Gibbons and Pres. David K. Udall who spoke 
in an impressive manner on union, the 
practical work of the Gospel, training of
children, bearing testimonies to the truth 
and care of the poor, the sorrowing and down-
trodden that the blessings of God may follow 
us through life.
	The meeting was a very interesting one, the 
speakers being filled with the Holy Spirit and 
spoke in a way that must carry conviction to 
the hearers.
	After singing by the congregation and 
benediction by Coun. Wm. Gibbons conference 
adjourned for six months.
	On Sunday evening following the R. S. 
conference, a meeting for the sisters was held 
in the R. S. Hall where we received much 
good instruction and the power of God was
felt.  One of our sisters had the gift of tongues 
and interpretation and we had a time of re-
joicing together, which made us feel, though
deprived of the society and encouragement of 
our leading sisters in Utah, that God is able 
and willing to speak through the sisters here 
inasmuch as they prove themselves worthy.
					MARY E. FARR Sec.
			SAN LUIS STAKE
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief 
Society of the stake was held at Manassa,
Colorado, Sep. 7th, 1890, Counselor Mary
Jensen presiding, Choir sang, “The Gospel
standard high is raised”. Prayer by Bro. 
Silas Smith Jun. Singing “How great the 
wisdom and the love, That filled the courts on
high.” Sacrament was administered by the 
Manassa Bishopric. 
	Counselor Mary Jensen made a few opening 
remarks and said she was sorry that our Pres.
could not be present on account of sickness 
in her family. 
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen “Pres. of Sanford
ward” gave a report of the Society of that 
ward. Said a good and united feeling pre-
vailed, meetings were held regularly, and the
sisters tried to attend as promptly as possible.
She spoke of the responsibility of mothers in 
instiling in the minds of their children the 
Spirit of God and the plan of Salvation. 
Counselor E. Barton of Manassa ward, gave a 
favorable report of the sisters of Manassa. 
Said the sisters that attended the Relief Society 
were trying to do all the good they could.
She bore her testimony to the truth of the 
Gospel. Sister Clara Lyman gave a report
of the Primary Association of Manassa. She 
said the children were trying to do their best,
she exhorted the mothers to help the children
to get their parts and have them attend the 
meetings regularly. We as mothers try to do
too much, work too hard, and neglect the most 
important things, that is our duties to our


tion; so that when the end shall have been
reached, she will leave these walls the sym-
metrically developed woman of which we
spoke in the beginning. One not only fitted
for the parlor, the drawing room, and the pub-
lic assembly, but for the kitchen, the dining
room, the sewing room and the nursery.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS OF UTAH
			STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of Utah Stake are
progressing nicely, their numbers being in-
creased continually. Great interest seems to
be taken by the parents in regard to the
meetings of their children and this gives en-
couragement to those who have the responsi-
bility of carrying on this organization.
	During the summer just passed, President
Annie K. Smoot and others visited the various
associations throughout the county holding
meetings and instructing the officers. The
spirit of God prevailed in each meeting and
at some the gifts of the Gospel were made
manifest. In instances where all public in-
terest, with reference to meetings of the people.
had died out the Primary children were still
holding meetings, anxious to progress.
	The Stake Conference was held in Ameri-
can Fork. There an excellent programme was
rendered and instructions given by Coun.
Lillie Freeze and President Annie K. Smoot.
			ANNIE K. SMOOT, Stake Pres.
			MABEL PRATT, Stake Sec’y.


Four American girls have started on a
voyage of discovery on the Seine from Paris to
Rouen, a route seldom traversed.


[column 1]

THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF 
		WOMEN.
	AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
	[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]

	In the good old days of mince pies and plum
puddings, our great grandmothers lived, round,
plump, rosy cheeked girls, very models of neat-
ness and masters of domestic economy. But
it is safe to say that not more than one in ten
ever received an education higher than the
commonest of common schools afforded. Hence
it was but natural that to them the most im-
portant accomplishments necessary for their
daughters to enter the matrimonial state were
a knowledge of bread making, a pillow case
full of stockings, and a stack of quilts as high
as their heads. Happy, indeed, were they if
their sons could enjoy the advantage of a
liberal education; but aside from the reader,
the speller and the arithmetic, about the only
text books for the daughters were the knead-
ing board, the wash tub, the churn and the
needle. Mothers of that day could most
heartily join with Lucile in saying:

"We may live without music, poetry and art, 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart;
We may live without friends, we may live without books, 
But civilized men cannot live without cooks."

	But one extreme is likely to follow another.
Slowly women began to awaken to the fact,
and men were forced to admit, that they are
the possessors of minds capable of the highest
culture, and that without such culture, when
it is possible, they cannot fully meet the high
purposes of God in their existence. Strange
that it should have taken the world five thou-
sand and eight hundred years to come to such
a conclusion, nevertheless it is true.
	In the early part of this century, as early as
1804, an academy for young ladies was opened
in Salem, N. C., and from that time institu-
tions of like grade multiplied quite rapidly. It
was not however, until about 1857 that there
was a college proper for them, and then, as it
seems, more in name than in reality. Strictly
speaking, the work of higher education for wo-
men, and co-education of the sexes, did not be-
gin until about twenty-five years ago. Before
that but few of the colleges for men would
admit them; but so rapidly did these new ideas
take root and grow in this free American soil,
that in these few years, a goodly number of
colleges expressly for women have sprung up
while according to the statistics of '87 and '88,
out of the 357 colleges of our land, 237 now
admit women, among which is Harvard, the
oldest center of intellectual life in our country,
while Yale and Columbia follow on. Further-
more, they are admitted to not a few of the
schools of medicine and law.
	The all-absorbing ambition of the enlight-
ened mother now is to have her daughter well
educated, able to converse learnedly and 
fluently on any subject, and, perchance, able to
advocate the various reforms of the day with
voice and pen. Her lily-white fingers must
run with utmost grace and elasticity up and
down the key board, and both time and means
are given her that she may acquire the art of
bringing forth things beautiful with paint and
varnish, silk and worsted. To accomplish all
this, however, it too often happens that the
fond mother forgets that she is the possessor
of a physical organism which for her highest
well-being must be kept in equipoise with mind
and soul. Forgets that the highest calling of
God to her may be to direct the affairs of a
home, and so she is spared what seems to her
the drudgery of the kitchen and the hum-drum
routine of the housekeeper. With such a one-
sided training as this, we must not wonder if

[column 2]

the exclamation falls from grandma's lips as
she sits down in her grand-daughter's unkept
kitchen. "La me! what will become of the
next generation!" But this mistake has by no
means always been made, nor is it likely to be
made, but seldom, with the advanced steps that
are being taken by educators in the introduc-
tion of manual and industrial training, not
only into our higher institutions, but into many
of our public schools, which is sure to develop
in a well-grounded education. We may now 
hope for the symmetrically developed woman,
a woman not only of cultivated mind, broader
views, and refined tastes, but one whose fingers
are skillful in the preparation of wholesome
food and proper clothing, and whose con-
science is deepened concerning the highest
well-being of the physical as the necessary con-
comitant of the highest well-being of the mental
and the spiritual.
	To-day we gather to witness the dedication
of these wisely planned and generously
equipped buildings and grounds to Utah's sons
and daughters. Thank God that the religion
which our fore-fathers brought with them
across the stormy Atlantic, was one which did
then and does still, thrive best under that
clear light of education; and that we have a 
government, the child of such noble sentiments
which will with generous hand plant these in-
stitutions up and down the length and breadth
of these United States. A government that
recognizes that its strength is not in ignorance
however well sheltered with costly and beauti-
ful cathedrals, mosques, and temples; but in
the highest education possible of its masses.
	I rejoice to say that here no hair-breadth
distinctions will be made between the sexes.
Here the young lady may enter side by side
with her brother,and if sufficient mental power
be hers, she may keep by his side, or go ahead
if she can. Here with him she may unravel
the mysteries of nature in her varied sciences,
which shall be of untold worth in the wise care
of body and home. Here she may search the
unchanging truths of mathematics and logic
which shall give her accurateness, clearness,
and force of thought and expression. Here
she may acquire both the living and the dead
languages, and by reading their varied litera-
tures enrich and beautify her mother tongue.
Here she may travel with the historian in all
ages and and climes, be introduced to the
world of today and yesterday, and gather facts
from its successes and failures that shall make
her wise in shunning the evil, and in choosing
the good. Here she may acquire that knowl-
edge of music and art, that shall cultivate her
ear for harmony, and her taste for the beauti-
ful—an ear and a taste with which God has so
richly endowed us all. And here, too, she
may come to know the various powers and
faculties of her immortal nature, her soul, and
read clearly her duty to God and man in the
studies of psychology and moral philosophy.
To her no door is shut that is opened to her
brother, unless it be that door that leads him
into the practical application of his learning in
the many trades and professions which woman
by nature, is not fitted to enter. On the other
hand, however, a door is opened to her that is
not to him; one that leads to the practical ap-
plication of her learning in those occupations
best suited to women. In one corner of this
spacious building is a room which is to be set
apart expressly for young ladies to learn the
art of cooking. Let us hope that in the years
to come, as such departments in our colleges
and universities increase, we shall have less
call for patent nostrums to allay the horrors
of dyspepsia. There will also be another room
devoted to learning how to cut and sew so that
our educated young lady shall not be depend-
ent on the seamstress. In short house-keep-
ing in all its details will be ably taught by
one who has given these things special atten-


B. Anthony when it seemed as though she must
give up but she did not.
	Pres.S.M.Kimball referred to the great World’s
Fair. Queen Isabella is to have a monument,
Susan B. Anthony to have a bust, at the Inter-
national Convention. We ought to have a voice
in that Convention, ought to have some-
thing worth saying, and will have if we give it
proper attention.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards read a poem by E. H.
Woodmansee, “Simple Justice Woman’s Right.”
	Mrs. Boyer from  Springville, made a speech,
referred to Wyoming’s having lately entered the
Union with woman suffrage. Also to Queen
Victoria’s successful reign.
	“That all woman do not wish to vote is nothing
against their having the privilege, neither do all
men vote. The suffrage work is doing well in
Springville.”	
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh spoke on human
rights. For forty-six years she had advocated
woman’s rights; had traveled much; found some
men who want slaves, not wives, not companions,
not helpmates. In some men there are broader
and more noble feelings. We must educate our
young men and bring them up to a higher
standard of manhood and womanhood.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clarke Pres. W. S. A. of Davis
Co., reported that they had but recently organized
and the movement there was yet in its incipiency.
	Meeting adjourned till April next 1891, date to
be published hereafter.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Julia K. Olmstead, of Aberdeen, S. D.
won a $100 prize offered by the Chicago
Tribune for the closest guess at Chicago’s
population.

	A complete set of woman suffrage tracts
(forty-two different kinds) sent post-paid for
ten cents. Address C. Wilde. Woman’s
Journal Office, Boston Mass.

	Mary Elizabeth Cooley, wife of Judge T. M.
Cooley, of the Inter-State Commerce Commis-
sion, died in Ann Arbor recently. Mrs. Cooley
was sixty years of age, and had lived in Ann
Arbor for more than thirty years. She was a
noted philanthropist, and was president of the
board of managers of the State Iudustrial
School for girls, at Adrian, Mich., which posi-
tion she was appointed to by ex-Gov. Jerome,
and has held since.

	The friends of the late Julia Thomas have
expressed the desire for her writings so
frequently that steps have been taken to issue
them in a convenient and reliable style. Her
articles entitled: “Needs of the Girl,” Am I
My Brother’s Keeper?” “Elocution,” “Mormon
Letters” and others, have been issued in
pamphlet form at twenty five cents each, the
six bound in cloth, gilt, $1.00, to be obtained
by addressing the publishers direct, John W.
Lovell Company, or Miss Anne Thomas, 32
West Twenty-sixth street.

	Among the other recent academical triumphs
of English women must be included that of
Miss Ann Frances Piercy, of the London
School of medicine for women. At the inter- 
mediate examination in medicine in the
Uuiversity of London she gained triple first-
class honors, taking first place, with exhibi-
tion and a gold medal in materia medica, and
second place with a gold medal in anatomy.
Miss Piercyalso excelled in physiology, histol-
ogy and was bracketed equal with two male
candidates, for the first class.

	Miss Lydia Emmet, a sister of Mrs Arthur
Sherwood, formerly Miss Rosina Emmet, has
shown much talent in stained-glass work. She
has just finished a memorial window for the
late Dr. Mercer, for many years rector of
Trinity Church, Newark N. J., which is to be
placed in that church. The design is very
simple—a large cross against a somewhat lurid
sky, with the rays of the hidden sun darting
from behind a cloud and irradiating the cross,
the idea being to represent allegorically the
mystery and hope of the resurrection. The
coloring is exceedingly soft and harmonious,
and the management of the glass shows re-
markable skill. Miss Emmet is still a young
girl, and this work is one of much promise.


OBITUARIES
	Died at Payson, Utah Co., April 6th 1890, o. consump-
tion, Elizabeth Powell aged 68 years and 6 months. Sister
Powell was born in South Wales, and was baptized by
Elder Jas. W. Huish into the Church in 1850, and emi-
grated to Utah in the first company of handcarts in 1856.
She leaves 5 daughters and 2 sons, 54 grand children and
5 great grand children.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Powell adopted by the
Relief Society of the 1st District of Payson Ward.


Whereas in the providence of God she has been called
from this stage of existence to a higher sphere we bow in 
reverence to the wiil of Him who doeth all things well; she
died in full faith of the Gospel and was a useful member of
the Relief Society.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society Record, and a copy be presented to the bereaved
family pnd printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						SARAH A. REECE.
						HANNAH WRIDE,
						FANNY SARGENT,
									Committe.
	Died at Union Salt Lake Co. U. T., Sister Kerstie Per-
son Swenson, on Aug. 31, 1890, of inflammation of the
bowels. Born May, 31, 1830, at Malmo, Skeine County
Sweden, emigrated to Utah in 1881. She leaves a kind
husband and two devoted children to mourn her loss and a
host of friends; all that kind hands and loving hearts could
do was done. She was an active teacher and a faithful
member of the Relief Society of this ward. A very large
audience assembled at her funeral and many of the speakers
were those who had shared the hospitality of her home in
Sweden.
	Whereas it being the will of our Heavenly Father to call
onr beloved sister home we feel that our loss is her gain,
and be it
	Resolved,that we the officers and members of this Society
condole with the bereaved husband and children and may
we emulate her many noble traits of character. And be it
	Resolved that we have a copy of these minutes on our
record book, also present them to the bereaved husband
and children and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Swedish Herald and Bikuben please copy.
						MARY ANDERSON,
						SARAH BUXTON,
						SARAH A. FORBUSH,
						MARY A. SMART,
									Committee.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]
FOURTH ANNUAL
Premium Distribution
OF THE
—SALT LAKE—
Semi-Weekly Herald
1,500 PRIZES!
VALUED AT $5,000,
Will be Given Away in the usual manner early in
1891. All you have to do is to pay $3.00, which
will secure you the SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD
DISTRIBUTION. It is already the Biggest,
Brightest and Best of Utah papers, as the sworn
circulation of 10,700 copies per week fully at-
tests, and new improvements will be added to it in 
the near future.
	THE PRIZES
will be headed by a magnificent Upright Everett
Piano, valued at $500 cash, to be seen at the
piano warerooms of the F. E. Warren Mercantile
Co., 10 E. Second South, Salt Lake.  They will
also include Purses of Gold Coin ranging from 
One Hundred Dollars down to Five Dollars,
Valuable Horned Stock, Sewing Machines, Agri-
cultural Implements, Fruit and Shade Trees,
Steel Engravings, Pictures, Gold and Silver 
Watches, Trunks, Dishes, Town Lots, Toilet Sets,
Oil Paintings, and over One Thousand Beautiful
and Useful Books of History, Poetry and Standard
Fiction.
Premium Receipts now Ready.
	Subscribe through any local or traveling agent,
or send money by P. O. order, postal note, bank
check or draft, or postage stamps. at our risk
Address
			THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.
Read what some of the Lucky Ones in last 
	year's Distribution have to say:
		Fairview, Sanpete Co., Utah, August 30, 1890.
	The Herald Co., Salt Lake City, Utah.—This is to 
certify that I received One Hundred Dollars cash as a 
premium from the Herald Company.  Accept my sin-
cere thanks for the same.  Yours, with kindest regards,
						MARY V. PRITCHETT.
					Springville, August 29, 1890.
	To the Herald Company, Salt Lake City.—I received
the premium (a $10 easy rocker) all right, and was
satisfied.  Yours respectfully,			EMMA DALEY.

[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		J. V. PARKER.
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1890.		NO. 10.


CONTENTS.
	Rural Letters,—Lula.	Aunt Lu’s Story.	The
Higher Education of Women,—Mrs,	Eddy.
Notes and News. R. S. and P. A. Reports,—
Wasatch—Maricopa—Uintah. Dry Creek Dis-
trict. Relief Society Organized. Woodland Y.
L. M. I. A. Unwritten Laws for Officers of Wo-
men’s Clubs,—Amelia K. Wing. Why Jewesses
are Beautiful. To Presidents of Stake Suffrage
Associations. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference. The
Women in the Orient,—J. M. S.  In Memoriam
—Ida.
	POETRY:— Autumn,—L. M. H. Morning
Glories,—Littell’s Age. Tears Will Come,—L.
M. H. Lines in Memory,—Emma B. Coleman.


AUTUMN.
The chill winds of autumn are sighing around,
The leaves dry and wither'd fall fast on the ground,
The field-flowers blighted no longer may bloom,
O loveliest preachers, ye tell us our doom!
Thy brightness and beauty, where is it, oh where?
Thy fragrance is wasted away on the air,
Thy fresh beaming beauty, pure lovely and fair,
Where is it? oh tell me! echo answers "Aye where?"
Bright dewdrops that nourished thy buds into bloom,
That drew such gay colors from out earth's dark womb,
Exhaled with thy fragrance borne far on the air,—
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me "where?"
Thy splendid regalia of red, green and gold,
Have vanished away like a tale that is told,
Now all deadened and storm-tossed, once passing fair,—
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me "where?"
Our world seemed an Eden, most marvelous fair,
And lightened stern duty of one half its care,
Yet Autumn winds sighing repeat but my prayer,
Thy beauty where is it? echo answers me  "where?"
									L. M. H.


MORNING GLORIES.

Oh. dainty daughters of the dawn, most delicate of flowers,
How fitly do ye come to deck day's most delicious hours!
Evoked by morning's earliest breath, your fragile cups
	unfold
Before the light has cleft the sky, or edged the world with
	gold.
Before luxurious butterflies and moths are yet astir,
Before the careless breeze has snapped the leaf-hung
	gossamer,
While speared dewdrops yet unquaffed by thirsty insect-
	theives,
'Broider with rows of diamonds the edges of the leaves,
Ye drink from day's o'erflowing brim, nor ever dream of
	noon,
With bashful nod ye greet the sun, whose flattery scorches
	soon,
Your trumpets trembling to the touch of humming-bird
	or bee,
In tender trepidation sweet, and fair timidity.
No flower in all the garden hath so wide a choice of hue,—
The deepest purple dyes are yours, the tenderest tints of
	blue;
While some were colorless as light, some flushed incarna-
	dine,
And some are clouded crimson, like a goblet stained with
	wine.
Ye hold not in your calm, cool hearts the passion of the
	rose,
Ye do not own the haughty pride the regal lily knows;
But ah, what blossom has the charm, the purity of his.
Which shrinks before the dearest love,and dies beneath
	a kiss?
In this wide garden of the world, where he is wise who
	knows


The bramble from the sweet-briar, the nettle from the rose
Some lives there are which seem like these, as sensitive
	and fair,
As far from thought of sin or shame, as free from stain or
	care.
The fairest are most fragile still, the world of being through
The finest spirits faint before they lose life’s morning dew,
The trials and the toils of time touch not their tender truth,
For, ere earth’s stain can cloud them, they achieve im-
	mortal youth,
—Littell's Living Age.


RURAL LETTERS.
			No. 3.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	We have as fine autumn weather in Cache
Valley this month as I ever knew of anywhere.
The evenings and early mornings are frosty
but the mid-time of day is warm and bright
with sunshine.
	The laboring men highly appreciate this
pleasant weather, as it affords them the oppor-
tunity of getting their winter supplies of fire-
wood from the canyons with so much more
ease and comfort than the same work could
be done in storms of snow and cold winds.
	The spirit of the Sixty-first semi-annual
conference of the church is being richly dif-
fused among the inhabitants here, whose
hearts are open to receive it, and who would
have been in those favored assemblies to hear
the pleasing words of God from the lips of his
Prophets, but for circumstances over which
they have had no control.  The leaven works
well.
	A Cache Valley Stake Conference of the
Relief Society was held in Logan on Monday
the 20th inst ; and the same spirit of exhorta-
tion and blessings for all, that characterized
the General R. S. Conference held at S. L.
City on the 7th inst.. rested upon the speakers
both morning and afternoon, and permeated
the hearts of the congregations.
	Taking this as a sample of the different
Stakes of Zion, have we not great reason to
rejoice that the women of the Latter-
day Saints are not all sleeping so
soundly as to let their lamps go out ? If
"five" will be counted foolish, when the com-
ing of the Bridegroom is heralded, let us be
thankful indeed that there will also be "five"
who will be wise.
	A conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake, was advertised in the R.S. Conference;
the Stake Primary Association was also
represented, showing that these organizations
are well looked after by the Sisters in charge
of them.
	Nothing new has reached me yet, in rela-
tion to the Woman’s Suffrage work in this
valley; but I am hoping for news of it soon.
	So many dear old friends and familiar
scenes of my girlhood are still to be found in
Cache Valley, that I sometimes almost for-
get the lapse of years dividing the present
from the past, when with father and mother,
brothers and sisters, I spent so many happy
days in our quiet, peaceful home.  The sur-
roundings are changed, to be sure, but not so
greatly as one might suppose in twenty years.
	 The same bright stream of water, "Summit
Creek," along whose banks I, with my sisters
gathered the sweet wild roses, wiih which to
brighten the room of some sick friend, or
make our own home more cheery, still flows


through the town.  And the "Old School
House is altered some," but still stands as a
relic of by gone days.
							LULA.
"Summit," Cache Valley.


AUNT LU'S STORY.

	Why need we pursue this subject farther?
What was this strange power, that turned these
men from the wrath of cruel murder?  The
power of love and sympathy, the power of God
unto salvation!
	These men were afterwards baptized, with
many new converts, among them our dear Mrs.
Alby, and the "staunch Presbyterian Scotch-
woman" who could not withstand the power of
conviction.
	In the conversion of these men, that Scripture
was verified which says, "I will make the
wrath of man to praise me," etc.  They have
both been on foreign missions, and spent many
"happy eventful days" since then but date
all their true happiness to the one event that
of their miraculous conversion from the power
of the "Prince of darkness," to the truth of the
"Everlasting Gospel."
	But now the tire burns brightly and its
genial warmth seems to act as a sort of sym-
pathetic magnetism upon my brain and heart
and I feel like having a little social chat with
you, who have listened so attentively to me
thus far, and if you don't mind the fatigue of
straying over meadow, field and river up hill
and down dell, we will go back to Alby 
Lodge." where in a very short time quite a
settlement has been formed by people from the
Eastern states mostly, who have taken up
claims, built log cabins nearly all of them with
thatched roofs, so that at a distance, they have
the appearance of toad-stools, scattered pro-
miscuously over the country.  They have
erected also a logcabin for a school house the
logs have the bark upon them in which they
grew; the floor is of ‘puncheons’—split logs,
the door is immense, as well as the chimney,
there are two windows one at each end of the
house, tall walnut trees spread their branches
over it as if in protection of this laborious
structure, that all the settlers have turned out
to build; and then the next thing in order was
to find a teacher; there was no one in all the
settlement who was considered competent if
they cared to teach: little Dama who is now
twelve years of age, is the nearest approach to
an educated young woman (thanks to good
mother Alby) but she has yet much to learn;
and the task of finding a teacher was assigned
to Robert.
	It must be a woman of course, on account
of cheapness, and she must be willing to
walk two miles and take her chances of an oc-
casional conveyance to and from by teams; at
this period of the world's existence, woman's
labor, in what ever vocation, was not considered
worth more than a third at least as much as a
man's, although she might perform the same
amount or more; and do her task equally as
well, or even better; that did not matter, but
the world moves, and times have changed, and
you little girls and young women may be
thankful and consider yourselves fortunate
that you came into existence to take up your
march in the battles of life, along steep paths,
and over lofty heights, made smooth by the
noble pioneers of reform!


[Column 1]
	﻿Robert wrote to his sister Lois, to find a
teacher for him, giving her to understand that
none need come expecting Citified prices or
fare; nor must ‘their teacher’ be over fastidious
or put on airs of superiority, etc.
	Miss Blanche Howard who had already 
taught two school years’ and had partly prom-
ised for another, was present when the letter
was received.  She made the acquaintance of
Mrs. Alby and Robert when visiting at Augusta
the winter previous to their departure for the
West.  She was quite a favorite of Mr. and
Mrs. Sloan, and frequently in Robert’s com-
pany; indeed she was, to use a common ex-
pression, completely captivated with Robert,
who in addition to his handsome face and
form, she had endowed with every conceivable
virtue and perfection, she was then just enter-
ing upon her fifteenth year, gifted with warm
imagination, she often found herself with bowed
head lost in deep reverie long after his de-
parture.
	But the Spring and Summer glided away,
and Autumn deeped into Winter, while she
was dreaming all sorts of fancies regarding her
heart’s idol in the far, far away wilderness
while he was entirely ignorant of the admira-
tion and love he had inspired in the heart of
Miss Blanche (as she was called). His mother
was as yet his first and dearest love, and
to her he was, notwithstanding his wild love of 
 adventure and chosen calling, a devoted and 
affectionate son.
	Two years after Robert left, Blanche was
called to mourn the sudden and untimely death 
of an only brother, for whom she grieved sin-
cerely,   for   a   time forgetting   her
habit of dreaming, or of indulging in delicious
reveries of fanciful things, in which the dull
present was completely swallowed up by the
bright future; she began to be more studious
and thoughtful of making herself useful, yet as
wealth and ease had always surrounded her,
she was not yet thoroughly aroused to any
sense of real action.  Of her mother she had
an indistinct recollection, the only instance of
which she retained vivid memory was after
her mother was prepared for burial, when she
was lifted in the arms of her father,to look her
last upon the stilled,pale face,and closed eyes of
beautiful clay, and of the grief she felt in not
being taken with the mourners to the  grave.
	A widowed aunt of her father gave to her
the only mother-love and care she could re-
member.
	Following the death of her brother (grown
to manhood) in less than two years after was
that of her only parent—then, the knowledge 
that with all his supposed wealth there would
be only a few hundred dollars remaining after
the estate was settled.
	At first she appeared to be overwhelmed 
with grief, and when her kind Pastor came to
visit her, under her great bereavement, she ex-
claimed in the bitterness of her sorrow “I have
nothing to live for! would that I could die?”
Her faithful Christian friend strove to comfort 
and divert her mind from earth to heaven, 
and when he left, a sweeter peace stole into
her heart thau had rested there since that
dreariest of all earthly sounds the fresh dug
clods upon a new made coffin covering the dust
of an idolized parent.
	Now life, with its objects and duties ap-
peared in a new view and soon resolutions of
usefulness and good filled her soul as never
before. Time’s soothing balm healed her
heart’s wounds, and new hopes sprang up to
cheer and gladden her way; notwithstanding 
the stern decree, which bade her labor for 
daily bread, and so it was, with a most cheer-
ing smile that she returned the letter placed 
in her hand to read exclaiming, “This is just 
the place for me!  Write and say that I will
come in time to make myself acquainted with
parents and children.”
[Column 2]
“Please let me have my way?" she said, as
both Mr. and Mrs. Sloan began to place
obstacles before her, pointing out difficulties 
that would be hard for her to meet, without
great strength to endure and overcome them.
Long they talked while the shadows of even-
ing gathered around, and the Summer wind
bore their words onward while it whispered to
the warm, loving heart of Blanche, of a hope
she could not form into words.
	It was in vain inducements were held out
to her by these friends, of a home with them,
or that others tried to dissuade her, her de-
termination was fixed. “There may be,” she
said, “lions in the way, and giants to fight, I
may shake with the ague, and lie on a hard
bed, as you all say everybody does who goes
West, (unless they take along a bed of feathers)
but I shall put on my armor and muster all
the martial courage needed to  ensure
triumph.”
	But just let me whisper, “Love, love, mys-
terious and wonderful;” was the secret magnet
that caused her determination to remain un-
shaken against the pleadings of friends, and
drew her forth without fear or regret into new
and untried fields, many a “God bless you,”
and “Godspeed thee!” went with her at part-
ing, while Mrs. Sloan said, “Dear Blanche, I
cannot think but that there is much happiness
in store for you; you try to make others happy,
and doing good to others is the surest way to 
bring joy into our own lives, and though trials
greater than you have yet known come upon
you, by patiently bearing them, and living for
others you will conquer them and bring that
contentment into your own heart, which is a
stranger to those whose pulsations are re-
stricted to their own narrow sphere."
	Many messages and tokens of love and
esteem were sent to distant friends some of
whom she was enjoined to visit on her journey
to “Alby Lodge.” It was not a small matter
either for a young person to take such a
journey alone ‘over the hills and far away,’
for you must bear in mind, this was before the
waters of the Mississippi had been spanned by
man’s energy and science, or the way prepared
for the iron horse that now tramps proudly 
across its majestic waters, rushes over broad
prairies, scales the mighty Alps of America,
descends mountainous declines into valleys of
marvelous cultivated beauty, snuffs the breezy
waters of the Pacific,impatiently champing as it
courses along by the restless billows of the
ocean, through orange groves, orchards of
fruit and flowers, and gardens of Eden-like
splendor that at that time were undreamed off.
	Nothing worthy of particular mention oc-
cured until she paused on her way at a beau-
tiful city, with letters of introduction to some
of the dwellers therein, from their Eastern
friends.
	Here she was received most cordially, and
was treated with great kindness and hospitality 
she made many pleasing acquaintances and
formed many friendships with a people whom
she had heard spoken of, as the "offscouring
of the earth."  To her mind they had spoken
without knowledge, for she found unmistake-
able evidence to the contrary.
	As a whole, the inhabitants appeared to be
industrious, enterprising, educated and refined.
It was indeed a beautiful city, (greatly in con-
trast with other places in the surrounding
country,) with its bright homes, neat dwellings
cultivated gardens. while its costly, noble and
magnificent marble Temple crowned the whole.
But the spirit of persecution had not ceased
with the slaying of their Prophets who had been
lured on to destruction by perfidy and premedi-
tated perjury, as was the “Morning Star of the
Reformation.” John Huss, in the fifteenth
Century and I grieve to say it, the dark cata-
logue of scenes already protrayed upon historic
pages, have not yet ceased in our own fair
[Column 3]
land.  The same spirit of intolerance,audacious-
ness, and of feverish malignance is brooding
and cowering in secret places keeping a vigi-
lant watch and envious eye upon the glorious 
upbuilding of the kingdom which it would
vainly seek to destroy.
	Blanche parted from her new-made friends,
grateful for their kindness and with a pleased
satisfaction that it was in her power to give
some bright pen-pictures, to the unenlightened
left behind, that would she thought, dissolve 
the dark ones from their sight forever.
	But the stage station is reached at last
where Miss Blanche is cordially greeted by her
escort in waiting, a tall full-bearded fine look-
ing man, who it was barely possible to recog-
nize as the Robert of her youthful dreams.
	Little Dama was there also, and to her; her 
heart went out at once as to a younger sister.
As for our little blue-eyed maiden, she felt her
heart overflowing with joyful emotion and
blissful delight at the first glimpse of her new,
and much talked of teacher.
	There could not have been a more beautiful
day than the one of Miss Blanche Howard’s
arrival. The whole air seemed palpable with
richness.  Dame Natnre had thrown over the
forests “a coat of many colors,” and the mel-
low October sunshine wrapped everything
around in a mantle of ethereal glory.
	Mrs. Alby was at the door to receive her
and her escort with loving welcome; while the
word went forth from mouth to mouth, like
wild-fire through tall prairie grass; and if
thsre had been any facilities for a grand dis-
play there would have been one most assuredly;
as it was the entire settlement was jubilant
and they all turned out enmasse to greet the
new school ma’am from '‘way down East.”
Nothing else was talked of for two weeks, the
prevailing subject was regarding the merits of
the new teacher and of the first day of school.
That first day at school! Ah what an event
to look back upon indeed; and what memories
it awakens?  Teacher and scholars on hand, 
especially the scholars,long before time to take
up the school and what a pleasing sight it is
to see the children gather round their teacher,
sometimes a little shy, but there are sunny
smiles playing ‘hide and seek’ in the merry
dimples, bright eyes, blue, black, brown, and
gray; such skipping, running, chattering etc.,
and here at the little log school house the very
birds on the tall trees above them paused to
listen. But I shall make my story too long if
I stop to tell you all that was done throughout
that happy first day, or in the days that fol-
lowed.  The games played, the stories told at
recess and in the long noon-time, suffice it to
say, all the scholars (there were but ten to
commence with) agreed that their “teacher was
just as nice and sweet as she could be.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Lillian L. Huston, bookkeeper in a
Lynn, Mass., shoe factory, received the watch
recently offered by the Weakly Bee' of that
city, in voting contest for the most popular
woman wage earner in Lynn. Miss Houston
received 19,450 votes.

	Miss Alice Longfellow, daughter of the
poet, is a fine amateur photographer, and has
made a specialty of storm pictures taken
along the Massachusetts coast. They will
illustrate a new book of sea songs which will
soon be issued.

	Massachusetts women who pay a tax on
property can still be registered to vote for
members of the school committee. A receipted
tax-bill, paid within two years, shown at the
office of the registrar in the cities, or to the
Board of Selectmen in the towns, will secure
your name on the register. 
						Woman's Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEARS WILL COME.
When the heart feels its stay is gone
	And confidence is rudely torn,
Where we had trusted much and long,
	Tears will come !

When no tender word is spoken,
	Lips keep the truth no more unbroken,
Give no smile of peace the token,
	Tears will come:

When love's flower pales and withers,
	'Til the soul with anguish quivers,
None to comfort or deliver,
	Tears will come.
							L. M. H.


LINES IN MEMORY.
OF
IDA HEYWOOD
[Who died while her father was on a mission to New
Zealand.]

In mercy our father has taken
	Our dear little Ida away,
And to sorrow or pain she'll ne'er waken,
	She'll rest till the beautiful day.

As I sit by her little white casket,
	And gaze on her sweet face so white,
Oh forgive if I sin when I ask it,
But why did her spirit take flight?

Did her aunties and grandmothers beckon
	Her spirit to leave this sad shore?
Did a thrill in their bosoms awaken
When her frail little bark started o'er

The River of Death dark and dreary!
	Upon the white shore did they stand
To welcome the lone one so weary,
	To the shores of that heavenly land?

Though the dear little bosom was heaving,
	And the frail little form writhed in pain;
We could not consent to her leaving,
	Till her father could see her again.

And we prayed to our Father in heaven,
	If only His will it might be
To spare the pure life He had given
	Till her father returned o'er the sea.

Oh sincerely we plead for this favor,
	And we clung to the beautiful child
Against hope—yet we still hoped to save her,
	But soon she looked peaceful and smiled.

And she called for her brothers and sisters,
	Then she sang in a voice, oh so sweet.
Just at midnight our goodbye we kissed her,
	Till in heaven again we shall meet.

We feel it was His will to take her
From a world where so much is impure.
	If we could, we'd be loth to awake her,
For in life there is much to endure.

Now she's safe from sin and from sorrow,
	And her absence will be oh so short,
E'en before we're prepared for the morrow,
	We'll be summoned into the port.

Oh the joy of that final blest greeting
	With all the loved ones gone before,
Hearts thrill at the thought of the meeting
	Where parting and tears are no more.
					EMMA B. COLEMAN
Alpine Ariz.


[Column 1]
THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF
		WOMEN.
AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]
	The doctrine of gifts and corresponding
accountability, is as old as the human family.
It is no more true of man than of woman.
To her, as to him God has given these mental
and moral capabilities, and to her own self
[Column 2]
first does she owe the best education that
circumstances and means will permit in order
that she may fill up her capacity for true en-
joyment. Then on the other hand, she owes it
to the world in order that she may fill up her
measure of usefulness. Woman's sphere is a
broad one. Into her hands is committed work
which even angels might enjoy, for to her is
left largely the pre-natal moulding of the next
generation, and for work so stupendous as this,
so far reaching in its results, so important to
the weal or woe of civilization, say nothing of
its eternal consequences, she should have the
constant aid of a well disciplined and well
stored mind.
	We believe no calling was ever more grand
or noble than that upon which a woman enters
when she assumes the duties of a wife and
mother, and hence needs the most careful
training, for its faithful following. The old,
yet ever true adage: "The hand that rocks
the cradle, rules the world," has been most
beautifully exemplified in the onward march
of this nation in civilization and eminence
among the nations of the earth; for who will
say that this progress has not been due more
to elevated and educated motherhood than to
any one other cause. Or, think you, had the
religion of our Lord Jesus Christ placed and
kept woman where the religions of Confucius,
Buddha and Mohammet did, and do still, that
we should be the nation we are to-day? Or, if
down through the ages. India's and China's
mothers had been partakers of even a limited
education, think you that those countries would
today be sitting in such darkness and delusion?
No wonder that the wheels of their civiliza-
tion are blocked. No wonder that in the glory
of the onward march of nations these be-
nighted countries still sit bound in chains of
ignorance and superstition, performing in-
iquitous and obscene rites to gods and god-
desses, when over 250,000,000 of their mothers
are by a lordly hand, and in the name of re-
ligion, compelled to spend the long months
and years of a lifetime within the unadorned
and dirty walls of Moslem harems and Hindoo
zenanas. And when, until recently, their girls
were not considered worth educating, and
when in India alone, 75,000 of them under
nine years of age are branded as widows, for-
bidden again the sacred rite of marriage, and
doomed to drag out the most pitiable existence
as the most menial of servants, unloved and
despised. When in these dark corners of
earth, the religion that educates and elevates
motherhood, has had sway, then, and only then
may we expect these nations to arise and take
their proper places among the nations of the
globe.
	While we believe that in the house is wo-
man's highest calling, yet it is by no means the
only one. Education has proven that she is
thoroughly competent, and often even more so
than are the men for our numerous public
school departments; and often is she deemed
more worthy as a specialist in the various de-
partments of our colleges and universities.
Then, too aside from the more common voca-
tions, telegraphy, stenography, type-writing,
book-keeping, &c., are beckoning her with
lucrative hand to enter these domains, so that
the day of woman's dependency is fast coming
to a close. She can select some employment
from the many vocations open to her, that will
not only be lucrative, but congenial. But
fifty years ago such independency would have
been impossible, unless perhaps as a house, a
mill or a shop girl with their meagre com-
pensations.
	Aside from all these, there is another class
of work for which every woman, whether
married or single, should fit herself. I refer
to the work of advocating the various re-
forms of the day which must be met and settled
before the wheels of our civilization can move
[Column 3]
on much farther. The giants of intemperance
and social impurity that are stalking so de-
fiantly over this fair land, and working such
ruin and devastation to home life, must be
met and driven to their abodes of darkness,
and principally too by the hand of woman,
for she it is who must feel most keenly the
robbing of those over whom she has spent long
years of patient toil and suffering. It is her;
sacred right to defend her home, her boys,
and her girls, and in the struggle against such
mighty foes, she needs all the help which an
enlightened and educated mind can give her
together with a heart saved and kept by a 
higher power than hers. Formerly, against
such mighty enemies, woman's tears and
prayers were considered her only weapons; but
education has given to her a voice whereby
she can formulate her prayers and tears, and
send them out in burning words, that shall
never cease to burn until, as a nation we are
purged from these evils.
	Woman's sanctified and enlightened en-
deavors, however, must not be confined to
America alone. Awaiting the efforts, both at
home and abroad of the educated women of
Christian America and England are the 250,-
000,000 of heathen women, of whom we have
already spoken, shut up from the sound of
every voice but woman's. On and on the
dark stream must go, and for the most part
into eternal night, until stopped by the in-
troduction of education linked with the
leaven of the gospel, and these can be carried
only by woman's hand. This is truly wo-
man's work for woman. Millions of doors
are not open, but where are the consecrated and
and prepared workers to enter them? And
such workers need the best equipment possi-
ble, to enable them to meet and overturn the
most subtle of sophistries that have hidden
themselves behind the ever accumlating
superstitions of the centuries.
	Thus we see that when woman's capabili-
ties are led out by a broad and thorough
training, her field of usefulness lengthens and
broadens until it is no longer bounded by
oceans, and continents, but with the immortal
Wesley, she must say, "The world is my par-
ish." And for this world of work Utah must,
and will furnish her quota of workers.
	Be it the happy privilege of this institu-
tion to give them the necessary equipment;
and on it will fall the blessings of the re-
cipients that shall come up from these fertile
valleys and mountain fastnesses and sit them
down beneath this vine of learning.
	Logan Journal, Sat. Sept 13, 1890.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mable Moore; of Worcester, Mass., has been
rewarded the $200 prize for passing the best
entrance examination to Smith College.

	The General German Woman’s Association 
has been able to give $2,250 during the last
four years to women who are studying, mostly
to medical students.

	Miss Chandler, of Lexington, has presented
the Massachusetts Historical Society with an
interesting relic, a mourning ring given at
the funeral of George Burnett in 1729.

	Prof. Austin Phelps, for many years con-
nected with Andover Theological Seminary,
and father of Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, died at
Bar Harbor, ou the 13th of Oct.

	R. G. Young, of Helena, Mont., writes to
the Journal of Education: “In 1889, of the
sixteen county superintendents in Montana,
twelve were women. If there is any state in
America that can show a larger per cent. of
women county superintendents let it speak,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Terms:
 one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in this
city October 7, 1890, commencing at 10 a. m.,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the stand
with the President were Mrs. B. W. Smith her
second Counselor, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Secretary Mrs. E.
B. Wells Cor. Sec’y. and Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and several of the Presidents of the Relief Society
of the different Stake organizations. Meeting
opened with that beautiful hymn,
		“O, my Father, thou that dwellest.”
	An eloquent prayer was offered by Bishop
Madsen of Gunnison. Continued by singing
		"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord.”
	Minutes of the morning session of the April
Conference were read by the Cor. Sec’y. and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Zina Young welcomed the congregation
in her kindliest manner and spoke of the interest-
ing General Conference of the Saints which had
just closed the day before. “Truth is sweeter
than honey in the honeycomb, and we have re-
ceived so much of it from the servants of the
Lord during the last few days. I appreciate the
efforts of the sisters who have exerted themselves
to come long distances to attend this Confer-
ence.
	Pres. M. I. Horne reported the R. S. in Salt
Lake Stake, said we have 44 branches all wide
awake; no difficulties in any of them. We have
demonstrated that our associations are elevating
in their tendency, many hundreds have been
blest through the R. S. Spoke of the Savior’s
words and exhortations to well-doing and urged
all to keep the commandments of our Heavenly
Father.
	Mrs. Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake, “I feel
very proud to be here this morning. We have 22
branches in our Stake, it reaches from Woodruff,
Rich Co. to Soda Springs including Star Valley.
We hold our Conferences twice a year. We visit
as often as we can possibly do so—it is hard on
account of the distances we have to travel, but
the Lord blesses our efforts, ours is a cold cli-
mate, long winters, I see many here whom I
knew in Nauvoo and it gives me great joy.
	Panguitch Stake reported by Mrs. --------
it has 9 branches, the distance to travel
in order to visit all is very great.
	Mrs. Eliza Hall reported the Relief Society of
Malad, there were 10 branches, and all in good
condition.
	Mrs. Mary Pitchforth Pres, of R. S. Juab Stake,
5 branches all in good working order,Nephi which
had formerly been in one ward had recently been
divided into two wards and their Relief Society
Hall had been sold for sufficient means to build

[Column 2]
one for each ward with a very little added. “We
have to help the poor none need be in want;
spiritually and financially we are in good condi-
tion,” gave excellent advice upon principle and
and urged the sisters to hold fast to every prin-
ciple revealed and trust in the Lord for the out-
come.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. R. S. Cache Stake,
“as the daughters of our Father in heaven we
have a mission to cultivate ourselves spiritually,
and to comfort each other and bless the sick and
the poor. We have also the saving of grain
given us to do, the brethren have not encouraged
us much in this work. I try to visit all the 20
branches in our Stake once a year, but I am
working in the Temple and have less time to visit
than some others, but I know it is good to visit
the sisters and I feel to say to my sisters, look up
and be comforted, and try and do all the work
you can for the dead,prayed we might be a band of
sisters working together in unity and we would
be blessed, we are prospered this season with
rich harvests let us not forget to be grateful.
	Mrs. Emma Jane Bennett Counselor in R. S.
Beaver Stake, they had 5 wards all in good order,
the sisters all express themselves satisfied and
happy, we try to visit our Stake twice a year,
there are quite a number of sisters who do not
join us in our work, perhaps they feel a little too
young and too old for the Young Ladies Asso-
ciations. We have a Committee to attend to the
saving of grain; these sisters go out with a team
when it is harvest time and solicit donations.
We hold our Conferences quarterly and have
weekly prayer meetings from which we realize a
blessing. If we do our duty from day to day the
Lord will make it plain for us. May He bless us
in all our endeavors to do good.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Pomeroy Pres. Maricopa Stake,
we are trying to do our duty, we hold quarterly
Conferences, and there are a few sisters who are
always faithful. We have had a great deal of
sickness in Mesa Ward. The Relief Society have
built a brick house, it was six months from the
time the first brick was laid until it was com-
pleted. The Y. L. and P. A. are doing a good
work. I attended their Conferences. It was re-
marked when Sister Mc’Donald left our place
that it would be difficult to get any one to fill her
place, and I remember saying whoever the pre-
siding priesthood select we must sustain, little
thinking it would be myself; and I feel it a great
responsibility. I feel well repaid for the long
journey I have taken to come here and attend the
Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg Pres. R. S. Box Elder
Stake, realized fully that she was standing before
many true and noble women, who had passed
through much sorrow and had performed a labor
of love. She desired to give a little report of the
good earnest sisters among whom she visited and
to tell how much the visits from place to place
had taught her. There are fifteen branches and
it takes two weeks to go and come. Our Presi-
dent of the Stake always fixes up two carriages
and invites the President of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions and we travel together among the people.
Some of them are poor in circumstances do not
have means at their command but they have
homes and comforts and are living their religion
and keeping the commandments given to the
Saints. Sister Harriet Snow left a good example
and we all desire to imitate her. Our Relief
Society is in a good condition. We have our
Scandinavian Society for the sake of the older
sisters who cannot speak the language, they
have an emigration fund and have emigrated 37
or 39 sisters, who all have remained faithful since
their coming.
	Mrs. Susan Grant Pres. R S. Davis Stake
stated that they had 9 branches in that Stake and

[Column 3]
that there were many faithful, energetic sisters in
the organization; Kaysville R. S. had recently
been divided, and she and her Counselors had
been invited to attend the meeting  when the
Society was divided; a wife of George D. Watts
had been appointed to preside, she was the
daughter of the late Brother Golightly of this
City, in her husband’s lifetime she had not the
privilege of attending meetings; the Society in
that Stake were taking care of the needy and the
sick and laying up grain and doing their duty as
far as they had an understanding.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Fox Pres. R. S. Oneida Stake
said there were 18 branches in that Stake and it
was necessary to go over a great deal of ground
when they visited the whole, but tried to visit all
once a year. This year Sister E. S. Taylor Pres.
of Y. L. and Sister Louie Felt Pres. P. A. had
made the tour with them and had a very good
time. Afterwards the Presidency of the Stake
went round and wherever they went the people
would say “Didn’t we have a good time when the
sisters were here?” One Bishop who had just or-
ganized a R. S. in his ward was glad for the sake
of his own wife, she thought that pretty good tes-
timony; they held Conference once a year in
Franklin, the others were really district confer-
ences for the sake of those who could not come so
far to attend.
	Counselor B. W. Smith wanted the sisters to
be sure and comfort the poor and the sick, the
cast down and distressed. When Brother Joseph
used to come and talk to us, when Sister Emma
was President, Sister Whitney and Sister Cleve-
land were her Counselors, committees were ap-
pointed to visit, but we had poverty then and
were unacquainted with the duties that we have
learned since, but my advice is ‘never let any one
suffer that we could look after and help. We
have had so much good counsel and encourage-
ment we should never have our faith weakened,
this is a good time, the Lord is prospering his
work.” Singing, Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session, opened by singing,
		"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
	Prayer by Coun. B. W. Smith, singing,
		"Hail to the brightness of Zions’s glad morning."
	The Cor. Sec’y. then read the minutes of the
afternoon of the previous Conference which were
approved, also a letter containing a written report
of the condition of St. Joseph Stake from the
President of the Relief Society of that Stake Mrs.
Willmirth East.
	The President of the Conference Mrs. Zina
Young made a few remarks and called for a rep-
resentative from Utah Stake. Mrs. Emily Cluff
Counselor gave a good report, said the sisters
were energetic in attending meetings and in all
good works, the President and her Counselors
made a point of visiting through the county once
in 6 months; spoke very nicely of the Kanaka
sisters out in Josepha where she had been presid-
ing of late, said those sisters could teach us some
lessons in promptness and diligence.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake
stated there were 18 branches where she presided
and she had visited most of them recently, they
held quarterly Conferences in the different towns
alternately; this year the harvest had been boun-
tiful and they were taking care of the wheat, she
spoke upon other interesting subjects and bore a
strong testimony.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the excellent re-
port that had been prepared, and the labor it was
to compile it perfectly, and asked that a vote be
taken whether the whole report be read or only
the totals; it was decided to have the totals read.
Dr. R. B. Pratt the Ass’t. Sec’y. read the totals
of the R. S. Report and it was approved.
	Mrs. Temperance Hinckley Pres. R. S. Ban


[Column 1]
﻿nock Stake, said they labored under great dis-
advantages in visiting through their Stake, as
they had to cross the Snake River, and sometimes
in boats as it could not always be forded, she had
visited all round this year in July, the sisters there
tried to live up to their privileges.
	Mrs. Clara Beecher reported Cassia Stake as
in very good condition, said “we have a noble
President in Sister Louisa Haight.”
	Coun. Martha Hammond of R. S. San Juan
Stake said we hold our Conferences twice a
year and change them here and there to permit
all to have an apportunity of attending the con-
ferences. We have long distances to travel and
not so many privileges as those who live nearer,
but we have many good sisters and they are de-
sirous of doing a good work.
	Mrs. Mary E. Farr Sec. R. S. St. John’s Stake
said the sisters there were energetic in doing all
they could to aid the human family, “our sisters
have not the privilege of the presence of the lead-
ing sisters not even once in a while, it would be
good if we could have them, the Stake has been
visited just recently, our conferences are held
semi-annually, we are not as rich as some but we
are trying to live our religion.”
	Mrs. Louisiana Heppler reported R. S. Sevier
Stake, and gave a good account of the condition
of the Society there, said the sisters love spiritual
food, we are very  near something, some crisis!
exhorted the mothers to prepare themselves to
answer all the questions the children ask, she
had traveled in company with the Pres. of Y. L.
through the Stake just before coming to Confer-
ence, and had heard the young women speak of
their great desire to become honorable mothers;
many of our people have music in their homes
which is very inspiring, and the associations
have manuscript papers; our girls will work hard
during the summer season to get means to go to
the Richfield Academy, spoke of her own large
family; and her ardent desire to see them all do-
ing right.
	Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster Pres. of R. S.
Cedar City reported the R. S. of Parowan Stake,
there are 5 branches, we change our Conferences
from place to place alternately, we comfort the
sorrowing, spoke of the storing of grain, said she
felt proud to be associated with such good sisters
gave some of her experiences in crossing the
plains in the handcart company; exhorted
mothers to diligence and firmness for the right in
dealing, with their children, spoke particularly
upon the necessity of honesty and truthfulness.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Yates Pres. R. S. Millard Stake
“we have a good band of sisters united and trying
to do their duty, visiting the sick, the poor and the
sorrowing, our settlements are very far apart
but we instruct our officers and teachers in their
duties in separate meetings. Apostles F.M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant have recently visited us and
given us just the instructions we needed; there
has been a great improvement in the sisters the
last two years.”
	Pres. Zina Young presented some items of
business, said each President should report the
times of holding the Conferences in her Stake to
the Cor. Sec’y. Mrs. E. B. Wells, so that we
can arrange for visiting and be prepared to do so.
Spoke to the sisters in regard to sustaining their
paper the EXPONENT, “through its columns we
can speak to each other, and to the world, can
know how each Society is prospering and make
our work more uniform. Every President of the
Relief Society should take it and use her influ-
ence to have it sustained by others. It is our
Father’s love for us that has caused his priest-
hood to organize us and we should honor our
position and seek to improve. The President
earnestly entreated the mothers to take more
pains to teach and encourage their children in 
the principles of their religion. “This is the time
of times among the nations, never has there been
[Column 2]
such a time since the days of our Savior. How
many mothers realize the responsibility of their
family; sometimes when I think of it I feel al-
most as if I should dissolve! mothers take care
of your sons, make them strong to resist temp-
tation, and your daughters that they may be pure'
and wise and prudent—and become better
mothers through your training and example
Sisters in the Society go on and build your houses
and hold your meetings and you will be blest;
when I hear the sisters say they go out hundreds of
miles to visit, I feel they are blessed of the Lord,
it is a work of love, let us be patient and joyful
and tender, be willing to sacrifice; well might
Joseph the Prophet say “elect ladies" if he could
look upon these noble women that are here as-
sembled. Sisters strengthen the Primary Asso-
ciations and the Young Ladies’ how many times
I think of the saying, “If ye love me feed my
sheep,” it is the spirit that is resting upon me by
day and by night. Sister Zina then spoke very
impressivly in the gift of tongues. Dr. Barney
gave the interpretation.
	Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury Counselor R. S. in St.
George Stake represented the organizations, said
that in visiting with President Ivins they found
some who were remiss, and needed encourage-
ment and they promised to do better in attending
to their duties, the blessing of the Lord was with
them when they traveled in the interest of the
Society; spoke of the discouragements they had
in trying to raise silk, said they had every natural
facility, the climate, the mulberry trees, and the
boys and girls to work in it, but lacked the money
necessary to make it a success.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec’y of Tooele R. S.
represented that Stake, said Tooele and Grants-
ville organizations were in good condition but
the smaller ones were behind and needed build-
ing up.
	Mrs. Emma Brown Pres. Wasatch R. S. spoke
of the blessings they had received in that Stake
and their good conferences, all was prosperous.
	Mrs. Emeretta Randall was asked to represent
Weber Stake but excused herself, and said she
felt well in the Gospel and spoke eloquently in
the gift of tongues, Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	The secretary Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spoke of
some mistakes, changes had been made and the
matter not referred to the General Presidency of
the Relief Society, branches should refer to the
Stake Presidency and she hoped the sisters would
come to a better understanding of these things.
One of the advantages of the organization is that
we may become disciplined and discipliniarians
and we cannot do this unless we observe order,
and in this we learn to do things correctly.
	The President then made some closing re-
marks, said comfort the weak and strengthen their
hands, we have had an excellent Conference the
last few days, it is the testimony of all I’ve heard
speak that it was the best Conference we ever
had, and the united support and confidence in
the “Official Declaration” of the President was
indicative of its strength.
	There never was a time when the Presidency
and the Twelve were so united as they are to-
day and we shall go on and increase until the vic-
tory is ours.		
	Conference adjourned until April 1890; sing-
ing,
			"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
	Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.

	It seems to be common to all nations over
whom the principles of Christianity have either
no influence at all or only a partial influence, to
assign to the women a place of unwarranted in-
feriority both in the family and in the society at
large. This is readily seen in the Orient both
among the Jews, Mohammedans and nominal
Christians, but particularly among the Moham-
medans. And this needs to be seen before any-
one can appreciate the wonderful changes that the
principles of Christianity have wrought in this respect.
	The advent of a boy in an Oriental family is
always the occasion of rejoicings and congratula-
tions. Friends from far and near on this occasion
give expression to their feelings of pleasure. But
when a girl is born, there are no outward tokens
of joy in the family and no congratulations from
friends. All are silent. "Only a Girl!" The
event is not worth while mentioning. Women
and men in those strange Eastern countries feel
alike upon this subject.
	I never came across a family the head of which
thought they had too many boys, but on more
than one occasion I met people who gave me to
understand that they thought Providence had not
been entirely kind to them, seeing that they had
more girls than boys among the children. And
one mother–she had five daughters–offered me
as a present a dark, bright looking little girl with 
jet black hair and brown eyes, which offer, I re-
gret to say, I had to respectfully decline.
	There is a natural cause for this peculiar feel-
ing towards the girls. These are entirely con-
fined to the duties of the house or to the less re-
munerative work, while to the boys the oppor-
tunities of mingling with life in all its features are
open. They are thereby enabled to earn a living
for themselves and for the parents, which they
very frequently do. For it can not be denied
that children as a rule are affectionate to their
parents. And not seldom the boys make all the 
living for the family. The girls on the other hand
have no chance except to attend to attend to the
domestic duties and fetch a price on the matri-
monial market.
	It is well known that in the Orient the boys
have to give for their brides an equivalent in
money or other valuables. The price of a girl
varies very much according to circumstances.
Has the girl a fair complextion and gracefully de-
veloped form she will be held in high price. But
if she is dark and not very well developed, she is 
as likely to be left as not, or the parents will have
to give her away. $200, I was told was the
regular price for a goodlooking girl in a little
village situated one day's journey north of Jeru-
salem. The price was considered high at that
place. It must be remembered, however, that
the parents of the girl who is to be married are
supposed to to endow their daughter with prop-
erty in value equal to the sum the bridegroom
has paid for her. The bargain amounts therefore
really to a trade and nothing more. It must also
be added that the parents usually keep one third
of the property that was to have been conveyed
over to the bridegroom with the bride, in case
he should prove faithless and abandon his wife.
This reserve fund, if I so may call it, is then for-
feited.
	The intellectual training of the girls is generally
neglected. They are very seldom taught to read
and write. Among the lower classes of the Mo-
hammedans can probably not be found a woman
who has mastered the intricacies of the Arabian
alphabet. It is somewhat better in this respect
among the Jews and the various 'Christian' sects.
Among these I frequently met with ladies who
could read their respective languages.
	Even on the religious domain the women seem 
to take a back seat. The holy book of the Mo-
hammedans has very few provisions for women.
I never saw a Mohammedan woman pray, all
though men are frequently seen praying both in 
the mosques and in their homes. The duty of
worshipping God appeared to be one incumbent
only on the men.
	It is not easy to understand how this deplorable


state of things has come to exist. That it is an
anomaly I think all will admit. I put it in con-
nection with the state of serfdom in which the
whole population is held. The causes that led to
the political enslaving of those millions naturally
would lead to a lowering of the estimation of the
women. Could the people be educated up to a
point where they could appreciate political liberty,
they would soon expel from their homes,and their
families, all that binds some of the members in
thraldom. For no one who really loves liberty
for himself can feel happy in seeing the slavery
of another, that is to say, if he is a morally good
being. Political and religious liberty is needed
for the vast millions of the Orient, and before this
has been gained, I am afraid there will be little
hope for the women of those vast regions.
								J. M. S.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Martha Bowker Young wife of the late Presi-
dent Brigham Young and daughter of Samuel and
Hannah Bowker, died Sept. 26, 1890. Deceased
was born near Mount Holley, Burlington Co..
New Jersey, and was 68 years old when she died.
	She lived the life of a true Latter-day Saint
ever patient and willing to honor God's priest
hood in every sense of the word.
	One thing that was remarkable about her was
that she was never known to wear any trimmed
dresses, or do anything that was against retrench-
ment which her husband Brigham Young had
preached so many years and tried to carry out
through his life.
	Many sacrifices were made by Sister Martha
and she has certainly gone to reap an abundant
harvest for the good seed she has sown which
thousands of the Latter-day Saints might be
proud of. Though she had no children of her
own, she showed the most tender and loving
motherly care to a little girl whom she adopted
when only three months old. A true and loving
mother she was in very deed and great will be
her reward.

	'Tis ha.d to break the tender chord,
		When love has bound the heart;
	'Tis hard, so hard, to speak the words,
		Must we in sorrow part?

	Dearest loved one we have laid thee
		In the peaceful grave's embrace;
	But thy memory will be cherished,
		Till we see thy heavenly face..

										IDA.


[Column 1]
		R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
			WASATCH STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of Wasatch Stake
held a conference in Heber City, Thursday
morning 10, a. m. Sept. 18th 1890. Sister
Louie B. Felt General Pres., and Miss May
Anderson of Salt Lake City were present.
Most of the branch associations were represented
and a programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions and class exercises, was creditably rend-
ered by the children.

	In the afternoon at 2 p. m. the Y. L. As-
sociations of the stake met in conference and
had a very nice meeting. Miss Murdock was
chosen and unanimously voted in as Stake
Sec'y.
	Brother Hatch Pres. of the Stake and quite
a few other brethren attended both meetings
and expressed themselves well pleased with
the conference.
	Sister Felt addressed both meetings.
	The Stake house in which the meetings were
held is a handsome stone building of which the
saints of Wasatch are justly proud.
			MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec.
[Column 2]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of R. S. Conference at Mesa, Mari-
copa Co., A. T. Sep. 18th 1890. Coun. Sarah
E. Russel presiding. Opened by the usual ex-
ercises.
	Pres M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
they had been quite energetic in many things,
but of late not quite so punctual in attending
meetings as they should have been.
	Pres. Lizzie Mc'Donald said the Lehi Ward
were doing a good work and faithfully trying
to do their duty.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman gave a good report of
the Alma Ward, also some wise counsel.
	Coun. Sarah Tiffany reported the Papago
Ward, had held their meetings regularly and
were moving along as well as they could.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw gave encouraging re-
ports of the Nephi Ward and bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the great Latter-day
work.
	Pres. C. I. Robson then gave some timely
advice and instruction; after which Coun.
Sarah A. Robson, Sarah M. Johnson, Sarah
Phelps, Eleanor Morris, Sister Hunsaker and
Henrietta Standage each bore their testimony
and a good spirit generally prevailed.
	Brother Noah Brimhall addressed the meet-
ing for a short time when the conference was
adjourned for three months.
				F. E. ROBSON, Sec.		
UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifth conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion convened
in the Ashley Ward meeting house, Sep. 1st
1890.
	Pres Sarah Pope presiding, singing "Praise
ye the Lord," prayer by Sister A. K. Bartlett,
singing "Once more my soul the rising day."
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Pres. Sarah Pope, supposed it was on ac-
count of the brethren being so busy with their
teams that there were so few present. Hoped
all had the spirit of the Lord with them, and
if they had we would be able to have a good
meeting if there were but few. Thought all
ought to serve God the few years they were
permitted to live on this earth, for it was but
a moment compared with the ages of eternity
Said we should lay up grain and take care of
it for time of need, asked the Lord to bless us
that those who spoke might do so with His
spirit that we might have a good conference.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchell felt as though we
could have a good time any way, felt to press
forward although she felt very weak, but
would respond to every call that was made
upon her, endorsed the remarks of Pres. Sarah
Pope.
	Bishop Geo. Freestone said it was rather
unexpected to him to be called upon. Thought
the sisters were more energetic in their duties
than the brethren. Thought all ought to press
forward and not tire when the journey was
about through, for the day is not far distant
when the Saints will come off triumphant;
the darkest hour is always just before day, gave
many good instructions to all which were very
appropriate.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett reported the Relief
Society of Ashley Ward as being in a fair con-
dition.
	Sister Olmy spoke about being at the Temple
said she had had a good time; spoke of the
necessity of taking care of our wheat for Heber
C. Kimball had said that the time would come
when a barrel of flour would be worth a
barrel of gold, and the Relief Society was
called upon by Pres. Young to lay up what
grain they could for that time, thought Utah
was blessed with good crops and the sisters
should take care of it, not run in debt at the
stores so that, every bushel of grain would
[Column 3]
have to go to pay the bills. Prayed the Lord
to bless all.
	Sister Wimmer gave in the report of the
Mountain Dell Relief Society. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Lift up your
heads ye scattered saints." Benediction by
Pres. Sarah Pope.

	Afternoon session: Singing "Away with
our fears," prayer by Sister Oaks, singing "May
we who know the joyful sound." Reports of
Merill, Riverdale, Glines and Mill Ward Relief
Society by the different presidents.
	Bro. R. S. Collett said those who preside
need all the encouragement possible by good
attendance. I was thinking how perfect the
different organizations were, if the world knew
this they would not wonder at our strength
today. We should look after the poor, we
should not stop and question whether they are
members of the Church or not; it matters not
if they are in need they should be helped.
And gave some very good instructions to all
on the duties of husbands and wives which
were very interesting.
	Sister Oaks made some remarks upon prayer
and faith and said Brother Collett has said a
man's work was from sun till sun but a wo-
man's work is never done; this is a true saying
for mother's mind is never at rest she is always
trying to instil something good into the minds
of her children; we want to try to have peace
and quietude in our homes so the spirit of God
will dwell therein; asked the blessings of God
to rest upon all.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett could not say like
some that she could talk better when there
were a few; for the greater the flow of the
spirit the more we should be able to say;
let us take care of our wheat how
would we as mothers feel to have our child-
ren crying for bread, and we had none to give
them; some of us know what this is. There
is a great deal of work to do in these organiza-
tions; looking after the sick and poor among
us, there are very few of us who are independ-
ent of this Society. There is not a mother
under the sound of my voice that does not
shudder when she thinks of the temptations
that surround our children; we as mothers,
must be humble and prayerful in order to
have any control over our children gave many
good instructions to all.
	Pres. Sarah Pope gave the sisters some good
instructions in regard to their duties, exhort-
ing them to faithfulness; and closed by ask-
ing the blessings of God to rest upon all.
Conference adjourned until the first Monday
in March. Singing "Beautiful land of rest."
Benediction by Bishop Nathan Hunting.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


DRY CREEK DISTRICT.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
The sisters of Dry Creek were organized as
a branch of Draper Relief Society Mar. 22,
1888: by Sister Catherine Smith, President of
Draper R. S. and her counselors; through the
counsel of Bishop I. M. Stewart.
	Phebe Taylor was appointed to preside
over meetings, Fidelia E. Nelson secretary,
Harriet Eddins treasurer, Rose M. Cunliffe
was afterwards chosen as assistant secretary.
	There being no needy in the district, the
sisters have lent their energies principally to
the benefit of the sabbath school and the
building of the schoolhouse: the house being
one built by donation and belonging to a
Draper Ecclesiastical Assosiation.
	The training and leading of the minds of
our children in the proper direction are
matters of great importance to the mothers
here, and as there are over forty children
between three and fourteen; a Primary Asocia-
tion would be invaluable. Applications for


one have been made, but perhaps not to
proper authority, so hoping that the presi-
dency of the Primary of this Stake will notice
this small article and favor our children
with an organization within the near future,
we subscribe ourselves your co-workers,
PHEBE TAYLOR
FIDELIA E. NELSON.
Dry Creek Oct. 6, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
	Minutes of Organization of Relief Society
for the second ward of Kaysville. Meeting
held Sept. 11th 1890. Sister Elizabeth G.
Watt was unaminously sustained as President
with Sister Amanda Pilling as Secretary.
	Minutes of meeting for completing the
organization of the Relief Society held Sept.
25th 1890.
	President Sister Elizabeth G. Watt having
reported the names of Sisters Mary A. Adams,
and Sarah Watt as her choice for Counselors
their names were presented and they were
unanimously sustained as such. Sister Alice
A. Whitesides was unanimously sustained as
Treasurer of this Society.
	Number of Members whose names are
already enrolled:—23.
			AMANDA A. PILLING. Sec.


WOODLAND Y. L. M. I. A. H.
				———
	Minutes of Annual meeting of the Y. L. A.
held in Woodland Ward, Sept. 28th. There
being present on the stand Bishop Moon and
Counselors, Pres. Hatch and Duke, Sister
Duke President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of Wasatch Stake and Counselor
Alexander, also Sister Ruth Hatch and Sister
Nicholson.
	Meeting opened by singing "Now let us re-
joice." Prayer by Brother Nephi Thayne,
continued, singing "Do what is right." The
roll was called showing an attendance of 18
members. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	The programme was then proceeded with
as follows:
	Bible reading by Amanda Moon, Hattie
Neiber then read "A glass railroad," in a
very commendable manner; a correspondence
between Pres. Hanson and Ida Hoag, subject
"Goodwill and charity to one another."
	"People will talk," was then read in a very
pleasing manner by Lydia Moon. Pres. Han-
son and Lois Benson sang "Oh! how lovely
was the morning." The regular programme
then being finished.
	Pres. Duke then spoke a few moments say-
ing she was well pleased with the programme,
hoped we would continue in well doing, ad-
vised the young girls to select a partner in
life who was of the same faith as themselves,
and to always make a confident of their
mother; she thought it would be well for two
or three members to get together and visit
those that did not attend, some little good
might come of it.
	Sister Nicholson gave some good advice and
counsel, said she was pleased to see the ad-
vancement in the young ladies as they once
belonged to the Primary.
	Sister Alexander then called upon the Lord to
bless us.
	Sister Ruth Hatch said it was pleasant to
be with the young ladies in the capacity of a
meeting and to note their well doing. Felt it
was a noble work.
	Brother Duke said he felt pleased to be
numbered with the Saints, was pleased to see
each one take their part so well; advised all to
study that which was elevating to the human
mind; each one taking their part when called
upon all could be mutually benefited.


Pres. Hatch said the development of the
past will be no comparison to the develop-
ment of the future.  That it would do no good
to talk on honor, virtue and other good sub-
jects unless we let them sink down into our
hearts.  He liked good intellectual feasts, ad-
vised all that could to go to school; and all to
strive to gain intelligence. Felt pleased with
the proceedings of the day.
	Bishop Moon said he felt pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks from the visitors, hoped
each one would try to put the good counsel 
into practice.  That all ought to do their best
to attend the meetings as there we could gain
knowledge if it was sought after with a pure
humble spirit.
	Meeting then adjourned by singing “Praise
to the man.” Prayer by Coun. Ephraim Lam-
bert.
				Murzie Hanson, Pres.
				Ida Hoag, Sec. Pro tem.


[column 1]
UNWRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
BY AMELIA K. WING.
THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
	The requisites for a recording secretary not
set forth in the books are a clear, distinct
voice and manner of reading, and an orderly
and impartial habit of thought. Very simple
minutes can be made interesting by effective
utterances, and elaborate reports are often
sadly marred by a hurried manner, or a voice
that is pitched too low.
	Money decisions, elections and every
subject decided by vote, should always be re-
corded, but matters that are simply discussed
without, may often be omitted, unless the
subject is tabled for future consideration.
	In reporting papers that are read, a secretary
should avoid prolixity, entering only the
general line of thought.
	Club members are usually impatient during
the reading of a lengthy review of the
previous meeting, considering it a waste of
time.
	A secretary’s duty is simply to record, not
to express her own opinion; an annual report
however admits of more latitude. Her books
should be neatly kept, without crowding, with
full date, year, month and day preceding each
meeting, and with marginal notes to facilitate
references.
	THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
	It is understood that the corresponding
secretary should write a legible, business-like
hand, absolutely correct in style. Notices of
meetings and all notifications may be as brief
as possible and give the required information;
but let not the secretary be tempted by the
accumulation of notes to a discourteous brevity
in other correspondence.
	A personal note written with evident pains
to suit the individual case, is often a source of
great satisfaction. and reflects credit on the
club.
	THE TREASURER.
	A prompt, correct and efficient treasurer is
difficult to find, owing to the lack of training
women usually receive in this direction.
	Accuracy is, of course, the first requisite.
The bills for annual dues should be sent
promptly,in accordance with the requirements
of the by-laws,and the receipted bills returned
at once on receiving the money, the date be-
ing affixed to everything. Strictly business
methods seem to give the best results in money
matters.
	If a member is delinquent, simply sending
a second bill when the time has expired will
usually give the least offense.  Any attempt
[column 2]
at a courteous request might say too much or
too little. Whereas the purely business
method is absolutely impersonal, and carries
the idea of a like treatment for all.
	Should the second notice fail to secure a re-
sponse, the matter may then be refered to the
board of directors, to be treated according to
the constitution.
	The treasurer should not consider it an in-
terference on the part of any officer or member
to be asked the condition of the finances, and
in her annual report the expenditure should be
given in detail.
	THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	All the business of the club should be
decided by the board of directors, except such
subjects as require the co-operation of all the
members. The chairman should come to the
meetings with a full knowledge of the business
to be transacted, but she should never decide
any matter without first submitting it to the
full board, and she should report the proceed-
ings to the club meetings.
	The stationery and postage of the above
officers should be supplied by the club, as it is
manifestly unjust to require this expense in
addition to the time and labor given.
	CUSTODIANS
	If the club has well attended meetings,
custodians are most desirable, to have charge
of the arrangement of the seats, ventilation,
seating, etc. If possible they should be
familiar with the faces of the members, they
should welcome guests, and should always be
present half an hour before the opening of the
meetings.
	CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES.

	The chairmen should call their committee
together in ample time for the duties required
and should carry the same spirit of impartiality
into their work that is recommended for the
guidance of the president always taking pains
to call out and develop any latent ability.
Upon the chairman depends much of the real
life of the club.
	Each officer should avoid assuming the
work of the other officers, and should never
accept an office unless she has sufficient time
for its duties. All should make themselves
thoroughly acquainted with these duties as
required in the club constitutions.
	If officers enter upon their work with a
real interest and enthusiasm, coupled with
knowledge, they will invest their club with
that indefinable something which we call in-
fluence and character, and will find it a mental
discipline and development seldom equalled, as
well as a source of genuine pleasure.
				The Woman's Cycle.


WHY JEWESSES ARE BEAUTIFUL.
Chateaubriand gives a fanciful but agreeable
reason for the fact that the Jewish women are
so much handsomer than the men of their
nation. He says Jewesses have escaped the
curse which alighted upon their fathers, hus-
bands and sons. Not a Jewess was to be seen
among the crowd of priests and rabble who
insulted the Son of God, scourged him,
crowned him with thorns, and subjected him to
infamy and the agony of the cross. The women
of Judea believed in the Savior, and assisted
in soothing him under affliction. A woman of
Bethany poured on his head precious ointment
which she kept in a vessel of alabaster The
sinner anointed his feet with perfumed oil, and 
wiped them with her hair. Christ on his part
extended mercy to the Jewess. He raised from
the dead the son of the widow of Nain, and
Martha's brother Lazarus. He cured Simon's
mother-in-law, and the woman who touched the


hem of his garment. To the Samaritan wo-
man he was a spring of living waters, and a
compassionate judge of the woman in adultery.
The daughters of Jerusalem wept over him;
the holy women accompanied him to Calvary,
brought him balm and spices, and weeping,
sought him in the sepulchre. "Woman, why
weepest thou? His first appearance after the
resurrection was to Mary Magdalene. He said
to her, "Mary!" At the sound of his voice,
Mary Magdalene's eyes were opened, and she
answered "Master." The reflection of some 
ray must have rested upon the brow of the
Jewess.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TO PRESIDENTS OF STATE SUFF-
RAGE ASSOCIATION.

	The presidents of all the State Women
Suffrage Associations auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. are reminded that it will
be their duty to prepare a report of the year's
work in their States, and have it ready to
send to the corresponding secretary of the
National-American W. S. A. by Jan. 1, 1891;
and also to see that a list of names and
addresses of members of each State W. S. A.
is prepared and sent to the treasurer of the
National-American W. S. A. Jan. 1, 1891, as
required by the constitution.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL.
Cor. Sec'y. N. A. W. S. A.


A Roumanian princess has given to
benevolent institutions the whole income of
the fortune left by her husband, and has be-
come a waiter in a children's hospital at Jassy,
which she helps to support.

	Rev. Olympia Brown and Susan B. Anthony
addressed the Edmunds County S. D., Equal
Suffrage Convention, at Ipswich, on Thursday.
Eight of the townships were represented, and
six committees were appointed to make a 
thorough house to house canvass of the
country. It was the largest audience assembled
in Ipswich for a long time, and nearly every
man present donned the yellow ribbon.

	East Tpwas is no place for a womanhater,
as here is a town which the ladies run. One
is a postmaster; another has the telegraph
office and has female messenger boys, another
runs the best hotel; lady printers get out the
weekly newspaper, a lone woman manages a
big tea house and two others have general
stores; the schoolteachers are women, and so
are the store clerks. This is a good town to
tie to.—Detroit (Mich.) News. 

	Miss Minerva Parker, whose plans for the
Queen Isabella pavilion, at the Chicago
World's Fair, were preferred to all others by
the committee on the building, is a native of
Chicago, but is settled in Philadelphia. She 
studied at the Pryne Art School, took a
two years' course and graduated at the 
Franklin Institute, and finished her art educa-
tion at the School of Design. She gives
domestic architecture her special attention 
having designed houses at Johnstown, Radnor,
Elm Stations, Overbrook, Lansdowne, and 
Berwyn, among other places in Pennsylvania.
Miss Parker is the only woman architect in 
Philadelphia.


MISCELLANEOUS.
Energy, invicible determination, with a
right motive, are the levers that move the
world.–Noah Porter.
	The man who has so little knowledge of 
human nature as to seek happinsss by chang-
ing anything but his own dispositions will


waste his life in fruitless efforts and multiply
the griefs which he purposes to remove. –
	The best dowry to advance the marriage of
your child with one who will render her
happy is that she have in her countenance
sweetness and gentleness, in her speech wisdom,
in her behavior modesty; and in her life
virtue.
	Dissumulation is but a faint kind of policy
or wisdom, for it asketh a strong wit and a
strong heart to know when to tell the truth
and to do it; therefore it is the weaker sort
of politicians that are the greatest dissemblers.


OBITUARIES

	Died at Kanosh City Sept. 12th 1890 of dropsy and
heart trouble. Agnes Rogers, daughter of Alexander and
Agnes McConnell. born at Glascow, Scotland, December
25, 1831. Deceased was a member of the Relief Society
and much respected by all who knew her, having resided
in Kanosh for many years. 
		A. Kimball pres
		A Paxt On Sec.

	Died in St. George, Sept, 20th 1890, of dropsy, Maria
Marks Harmon, Daughter of Giles Marks and Hannah
Higgins Marks, and wife of Joseph Harmon. She was
born in Wiltshire, England, June 10th 1822, joined the
Church in her native land, March 1845, and came after-
wards to Utah. Removed from Centerville, Davis Co., to
St. George in 1869, where she labored diligently as a
teacher in the First Ward Relief Society; and also as ren-
ovater in the Temple; and with her husband had done a
good work for their dead. She was a very patient sufferer,
and died in full faith of the Gospel
		H. E. CROSBY.
	St. George, Oct. 5, 1890.


R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES &  CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY

[Column 2]

FOURTH ANNUAL
Premium Distribution
OF THE 
SALT LAKE
Semi-Weekly Herald
1500 PRIZES!
VALUED AT $5,000,
Will be Given Away in the usual manner early in
1891. All you have to do is to pay $3.00, which
will secure you the SEMI-WEEKLY HERALD 
for one year and a chance in the PREMIUM
DISTRIBUTION. It is already the Biggest,
Brightest and Best of Utah papers, as the sworn
circulation of 10,700 copies per week fully at-
tests, and new improvements will be added to it in 
the near future.
THE PRIZES
will be headed by a magnificent Upright Everett
Piano, valued at $500 cash, to be seen at the 
piano warerooms of the F. E. Warren Mercantile 
Co., 10 E. Second South, Salt Lake. They will
also include Purses of Gold Coin ranging from 
One Hundred Dollars down to Five Dollars,
Valuable Horned Stock, Sewing Machines, Agri-
cultural Implements, Fruit and Shade Trees, 
Steel Engravings, Pictures, Gold and Silver
Watches, Trunks, Dishes, Town Lots, Toilet Sets,
Oil Paintings, and over One Thousand Beautiful 
and Useful Books of History, Poetry and Standard 
Fiction.
Premium Receipts now Ready.

	Subscribe through any local or traveling agent, 
or send money by P. O. order, postal note, bank
check or draft, or postage stamps. at our risk
Address
		THE HERALD CO., Salt Lake.
Read what some of the Lucky Ones in last
	year’s Distribution have to say:
		Fairview, Sanpete Co., Utah, August 30,1890.
	The Herald Co., Salt Lake City, Utah.—This is to 
certify that I received One Hundred Dollars cash as a
premium from the Herald Company. Accept my sin-
cere thanks for the same. Yours, with kindest regards,
						MARY V. PRITCHETT.

					Springville, August 29, 1890.
	To the Herald Company, Salt Lake City.—I received
the premium (a $10 easy rocker) all right, and was
satisfied. Yours respectfully,			EMMA DALEY.

[Union Pacific Logo]
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST, 
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
		J. V. PARKER,
			Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1890.			No. 11.


CONTENTS.

	The Opinion of an American Woman Whose
Forefathers Fought for the Liberty that we are
Denied To-day,—Helen M. Whitney. Notes and
News. Review of Primary Associations with In-
structions. Aunt Lu's Story,—Minerva. R. S
Report—Emery Stake.
	EDITORIAL:—The Industrial Home an Experi-
ment. Editorial Notes, Mabel Clare Richards.
Items of History,—S. G. Richards.
	POETRY—Thanksgivin Hymn, Carleton. Voices
from Loved Ones,—Lucy. In the Twilight,—M.
A.Y.G. "There Remaineth a Rest." L.M.
Hewlings. I Shall Know Her Again,—B. F. Tay-
lor. To a Departing Missionary,—M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh.


THANKSGIVING HYMN.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is bright—
The gleam of the day and the stars of the night;
The flowers of our youth and the fruits of our prime,
And blessings that march down the pathway of time.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is drear—
The sob of the tempest, the flow of the tear;
For never in blindness, and never in vain,
Thy mercy permitted a sorrow or pain.

We thank Thee, O Father, for song and for feast—
The harvest that glowed, and the wealth that increased;
For never a blessing encompassed earth's child
But Thou in Thy mercy looked downward and smiled.

We thank Thee, O Father of all, for the power
Of aiding each other in life's darkest hour;
The generous heart, and the bountiful hand,
And all the soul-help that sad souls understand.

We thank Thee, O Father, for days yet to be—
For hopes that our future will call us to Thee;
That all our eternity form, through Thy love,
One Thanksgiving day in the mansions above.
		WILL CARLETON.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
		VOICES FROM LOVED ONES.

They come to me on the wand'ring winds
	Afar over the mountains high and steep,
Broad rivers, prairies, vast forests grim,
	And o'er mighty oceans, wide and deep.
I hear loved voices echoing far,
	Floating along with each passing breeze,
Many glad greetings to me have come,
	Thro' the soft whisperings of the trees.
Yea, oftimes their loving thoughts have come,
	In the fresh sweet songs of wild-wood birds,
And in the gladsome and cheerful tones,
	Of happy children's musical words.
And the fragrance of each faithful heart,
	I breathe in, from the beauteous rose,
Tears of grief or joy that dim their eyes,
	Are the dew its blossomed leaves enclose.
In each sweet flower and shrub and tree,
	Some dearly beloved image I trace,
Of the departed, kind true-hearted,
	Of some fondly familiar dear face.
There are many precious,priceless links,
	Entwined within true affections chain,
To charm, to gladden, and to impart—
	A balm of healing, for oft-tried pain.
Spirits of my loved ones come to me,
	In the solemn stillness of the night.
We greet each other in pleasant dreams,
	Live over the past with glad delight,
Thanks for this subtle magic power!


Tho' our earthly forms apart remain,
Thus to meet and to greet each other,
	In freedom naught earthly can restrain
Loved voices come back like the echoes
	Of sweet songs, and chimes of silvery bell,
And throughout the vast realm of nature,
	Wherever I may roam, they will dwell.
		LUCY.
Atchison Kan.


IN THE TWILIGHT

A REVERIE.

On a calm, bright Summer evening, 
	When the day had almost sped,
And the sun was near his setting.
	And Spring, and youth had fled.

I heard the voice of waters,
	I heard them rippling flow,
Like the wailing notes of sorrow,
	Or the murmurings of woe.

For my soul was sad and weary
	With its load of earthly care,
And the "still small voice” was smothered,
	By the moaning of despair.

But while I thus stood musing
	The sky above grew bright,
For the moon in all her splendor
	Drove away the clouds of night.

And her track like silver gleaming,
	O’er the brooklet’s dancing crest,
Seemed like an angel speeding,
	To tell of peace and rest.

For my life was overshadowed, 
	And its future hid from sight,
As I stood upon the brookside,
	In the shade of coming night.

But the twinkling home light whispered,
	There is work still to be done,
You must wait, and labor bravely,
	For awhile the hard race run.

And the quiet graveyard stretching,
	To the flowing brooklets shore,
Seemed the entrance to an haven,
	Where the weary work no more.

While the moonlight seemed to promise,
	As it chased the gloom away,
Of a brighter life hereafter,
	In "realms of endless day."

It brought a gleam of gladness,
	That bore my thoughts away,
From the sadness that oppressed me,
	In the twilight cold and gray.

Then my soul seemed cheered within me,
	For I thought I saw a hand,
Waving slow and genily o’er me,
	In the moonbeams on the strand.

And I heard the sound of voices,
	As the waters murmured low,
Singing hymns of joy and gladness,
	That made my spirit glow.

With a gleam of life eternal,
	Spent near my Father's throne,
From which I once had wandered,
	To seek an earthly home.
					M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods of Salem, Mass.,
has been elected a member of the Society of
Authors of London.


THE OPINION OF AN AMERICAN
WOMAN WHOSE FOREFATHERS
FOUGHT FOR THE LIBERTY
THAT WE ARE DENIED
TODAY.

	I am glad to be once more able to express
my thoughts through our friend the EXPONENT.
It has been a long time since I felt able to
write or to mingle with those whose interests
are mine, and are engaged in the same great
work of redemption of the human race,looking
forward to the grand and glorious victory of
the righteous. But it has been my prayer that
our faith might be equal to the trials that are
necessary to the proving,and separating the gold
from the dross. That we might overcome, all
instead of being overcome especially the young
and inexperienced who may not see God in the
sudden and unlooked for turn that things
have taken. I refer to the late Declaration of
President Woodruff which was sustained by
the Conference without an opposing vote.
When I perused the minutes I did so with a
prayerful heart and desire for the right spirit
and understanding to judge of its true source.
And the testimony, and spirit that came to me
was strong enough to convince me that this
step was right, and I was more strongly im-
pressed that Joseph Smith was inspired in all
that he uttered as the word of the Lord. I was
satisfied that the Spirit of God burned in the
bosoms of those who spoke, and rested upon the
congregation which was visible upon all with
whom I conversed- and more especially after
the Sunday morning session. I readily dis-
cerned this to be a most glorious era, one that
had been long looked forward to by the saints.
So mysteriously had the Lord worked and
brought about His plans,bringing to pass His
own purposes independent of man's all of
which fall in such utter insignificance before
Him that one is brought to realize one's own
nothingness as it were, and sink in humble
submission to His will or pleasure as it seemeth
Him good. I know that these trials will bring
to us their precious fruits and that all that
the wicked have done, or will do against this
work can never hurt nor hinder its onward
course. Through the late action of Congress
against this Church they have unwittingly
pushed it forward into a higher and more
favorable position before the world than it
ever previously held. While the government
that has consented to and favored the unjust,
unconstitutional measures that have been en-
acted for the purpose of robbing and breaking
up a peacable people who are hated for their
virtues that were once the pridə of this nation,
has sounded its own death-knell, instead of
that of "Mormonism." Many doubt their
sincerity in ceasing the practice of Polygamy,
some think they may be honest now, but are
likely to change in a future time and might
become a terror to this nation. We will ad-
mit that were the principles of the Gospel
lived up to by this or any other community,
as it was taught by Christ, and His disciples,
and accepted as the "Mormon's" standard, they
would become a terror to the ungodly. Many
Gentiles who have settled in Utah, and others
who have come here and taken the time to
study the main characteristics of this "peculiar
people" have paid them the highest compli-
ments. A late writer upon the "Mormon"
problem says "they are noted for their dignity
cleanliness and observance of the Sunday


[Column 1]

"That they are intelligent and industrious
and model citizens in every respect". Many
more equally flattering compliments have
been paid them but which of course is agoniz-
ing to their political and religious foes to hear
the "Mormons" paaised for virtues that are so
necessary to make up a temperate and thriv-
ing community but of which they have proven
themselves so little deserving.
	Here is a paragraph frrm the Milwaukee
Wisconsin" commenting upon the "Mormons,"
etc. taken from the Deseret News of Oct. 15.
"The great body of the American people will
have no fault to find with Mormondom when
Mormondom obeys the laws of the land, and
conforms its marriage system to the require-
ments of morality and modern civilization.
The clashing of Gentile and Mormon interests
in the past will soon be forgotten. Mormon
thrift and sobriety will be recognized as the
virtues which they are, and Utah, the teeming
Territory which has so long by her own social
perverseness stood outside the pale will be joy-
fully welcomed into the "sisterhood of states."
	The "Mormons" have little cause at present
to believe that "That the great American
people" would welcome them "into the sister-
hood of states" no matter how much they did
to prove their loyalty to the laws of this
government. Their worst accusers and would
be usurpers, and conscience-binders and public
advocaters of immortality, dishonesty und
crime, and the lowest of vices, claim to be
"Americnn citizens". Such are the kind that
have been appointed and sustained in this
wholesale thieving scheme in Utah and in
which they are encouraged, and assisted by
preachers of morality and "modern civilization."
	Of course the writer of the above article
meant kindly but is unacquainted, like the
world in general, with the lives and early ex-
perience of the Latter-day Saints, that they
were always hated and persecuted from the
hour that they joined the church called "Mor-
monites." There were always a few honorable
exceptions who were willing to credit them with
virtues such as they deserved. but they were not
generally professers of Christianity.
	The most inhuman and barborous cruel-
ties that were ever inflicted upon them were
instigated and lead on by sectarian ministers
in the states of Ohio, Missouri and Illinois,
and this was before they had been accused of
practicing Polygamy. The most serious
accusations brought against them then was
the teaching of perverse and blasphemous
doctrines though they were scriptural, and
the same as were taught by Christ and His
disciples, for which they suffered and laid
down their lives, and the same fate has befallen
so many of the Christian reformers who have
dared to face the hatred and fury of self-
righteous, sectarian dignitaries from that day
to this.
	Another bitter accusation against the Latter-
day Saints was their gathering together and
seeking to be one, etc., after the pattern laid
down by the Redeemer. All those things were
condemned as the most heinous of delusions
and which must be renounced or the people
suffer the penalties that were then and there
pronounced upon them. But, how long was
it before those "heinous delusions" were picked
up and taught as "new lights" by some of the
professed ministers who had rejected the same
and joined in the hue and cry against "old Joe
Smith," and his deluded followers? What has
been laid to them that has not been followed
after in one way or another by their 'Christian'
neighbors I am at a loss to know. For this,
and other reasons we may look for a reaction
upon this polygamous question, and among the
ardent will be found those who have made it
appear such a low and heinous sin in the
"Mormons" and brought upon them the wrath
of this nation, with the hope of their speedy

[Column 2]

extermination or banishment to some other far
off, uninviting waste such as they found Utah
some forty years ago. Although they have
yielded one point to the powers that be, no
true saint will renounce a truth or a doctrine
of this faith for which Joseph Smith and many
more have laid down their lives to establish.
Any man or woman who would stop and think
a little more of the natural laws of nature if
they are not grossly wicked, ignorant or blind
to the present corrupt and rotten condition of
the civilized world, which is standing in the
way of the elevation of human kind, would be
silent upon the degrading and pernicious
effects of Polygamy among the "Mormons."
Instead of boasting of their own superiority
they would see the necessity of a radical change
and would find a broad field for their missionary
labors among some of the more popular
churches whose feathery, luxuriant nests have
become tainted and befouled till virtue and
morality are but by-words from their lips and a
burlesque on true civilization.
	"The tree is known by its fruits," and the
"Mormons" would like to be better known by
"The great body of the American people," and
all other peoples, and to have them judge be-
tween the fruits of "Mormonism" and their
boasted institutions which are held up as ex-
amples for the "Mormons" to follow. No, none
who have honored the principles of "Mor-
monisra" need feel humiliated before them.
	"Mormon" fathers cannot shift their respon-
sibilities as is customary in more highly ad-
vanced civilization, but are required to
acknowledge and provide for their offspring as
honorable heirs to their name, and every
mother who is worthy of the title is honored
as wife, such as those so highly favored
anciently, who received such great promises,
and whom even the Almighty was not above
blessing with His presence.
	And what of the Great Redeemer whom all
Christians profess to worship. Did He not
come through a Polygamous lineage? Have
they any greater source to apply to for the
glory that they are anticipating in the great Be-
yond? What of the predictions of holy men
of old concerning the scenes that were to tran-
spire in the last days? How about the gates
of Zion—(America) that Isaiah said "Shall
lament and mourn," "And in that day seven
women shall take hold of the skirts of one man
saying' we will eat our own bread, and wear
our own apparel; only let us be called by thy
name to take away our reproach. In that day
shall the branch of the Lord be beautiful and
glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be ex-
cellent and comely for them that are escaped
of Israel."
	This can have no reference to "Mormon"
women who have obeyed and honored the
plural wife order, there will be no "reproach"
upon them. They have proven the principle,and
know it to be a promoter of virtue, and a
higher type of purity and true civilization, and
that it would overturn and crush out of ex-
istence the pet institutions that modern society
permits and upholds, and which they know
would be jeopardized by the practice of plural
marriage. There are religious restraints upon
the members of this Church which they must
abide or lose their membership, and the re-
spect, and confidence of the people. They
have higher aims and aspirations, and too
great a reverence for virtue and Godliness and
their marriage vows to accept of anything in-
ferior, and again tread the old and crooked
paths of ignorance and degradation from which
they have made a happy escape.
	The Christian professors, or the unbelieving
are all at liberty to deride and deny, and pass
laws against what the Holy Bible teaches, and
sustains, but they will have to yield the palm
when they see the predictions of the ancient
prophets fulfilled. Could "The great body

[Column 3]

of the American people" be influenced by the
truth as easily as they are by the falsehoods that
are sent broadcast by the traducers of the
"Mormons" they might learn that the relin-
quishing of their "pet-hobby"—Polygamy—
was a more bitter disappointment to the re-
ligious, political clique that have gathered up
their forces to plunder the "Mormons" than it
has been to those whom they are seeking to
victimize. And that this "scare-crow" was
their great stronghold behind which they
could best work upon the feelings of the out-
side public and gain their assistance to carry
out their thieving scheme and other dark tricks
that would not stand the sunlight of truth.
Had this not been their only plausible excuse
to offer the world they would not have clung
to it as with a death grip, but would have
thrown it to the dogs long ago.
	They have sought by every means fair and
foul to lead the young "Mormons" to follow in
their paths of vice and corruption, all of which
they have boasted over, doing after Hades
familiar and most approved patterns. It
would be wonderful indeed to be mingled with
the characters that Utah and other Territories
have been so long cursed with if all came out
unscathed.
	It was predicted by prophets of old that all
nations would unite against Zion and say:
"Let her be defiled." The Prophet Joseph
Smith made similar predictions, and this peo-
ple ought to be prepared to meet these things
and to unite together as one man and let the
wicked rail against it as this is their mission.
They have put it in black and white that
man's first allegiance is to earthly powers. But
they will soon find out who rules the universe.
And that the religion called "Morminism" is
the grand stepping stone to honor, fame, and
all the glory that is to be obtained upon this
globe, and in the great future laying before
them where progression and power will have
no end. Though floods of falsehood and
blasphemy against it and those who have
rendered obedience to its mandates, and storm
of hate have howled and rolled mountains high
threatening to overwhelm the lone Ark, they
have but borne it up while those who assailed
it have been swallowed up, and forever lost in
the dark floods of death and oblivion. The
Pharaohs of to day are performing similar acts
and they will find that the same disastrous
effects will follow them, while the faithful who
hold to the promises of Him who has borne
them onward and upward, and is still standing
at the Helm,will find He will take them safely
into harbor.
		HELEN M. WHITNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Rosa Bonheur has finished a fine picture
of a Scottish shepherd taking shelter under a
tree. It has been engraved by Mr. B. Pratt,
and will be published by Mr. Lefevre.

	There are two ladies in this year’s junior
law class at Michigan University,—Miss
Emma R. Lee, of Salt Lake City, Utah, and 
Miss Julia R. Jenney, of Syracuse, N.Y.
	Pundita Ramabai has lately published a
book in Marathi on her experience in the
United States. The longest chapter is devoted
to the status of women in this country.
Ramabia is about to move her school to Poona,
where she first meant to establish it.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Champney has written her
ninth Vassar girl book. The scene is laid in
Switzerland. Mrs. Champney has just come
home from a summer in the Tyrol, so it is
probable that this volume will take the famous
three through that beautiful region.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"THERE REMAINETH A REST."

What tho, bleak desolations cloud 
	Comes o'er me here,
And being seems a troubled tide
	With sorrow near,
Life's fleeting dream will soon be o'er,
	There's rest beyond,
A home upon a sinless shore,
	Where loved are gone,
What tho' true friends are here denied,
	And none to cheer,
There's one above who is a friend,
	My Savior dear,
Tho' I awhile must walk alone,
	Braving life's storm,
I'll trust in Hum whose voice can still
	Its waves to calm.
What tho' the night-watch seemeth long.
	And grief holds sway,
There will come a glorious morn,
	Of endless day. 
L. M. HEWLINGS.


I SHALL KNOW HER AGAIN.

Oh, have you not seen on some morning in June,
When the flowers were in tears and the forests in tune,
When the billows of dawn broke bright on the air,
On the breast of the brightest, some star clinging there?
Some sentinel star, not yet ready to set–
Forgetting to wane, and watching there yet?
How you gazed on that vision of beauty awhile;
How it waved, till won by the light of God's smile;
How it passed through the portals of pearl like a bride:
How it paled as it passed, and the morning star died? 
The sky was all blushes, the earth was all bliss,
And the prayer of our heart, "Be my ending like this."


So my beautiful May passed away from life's even;
So the blush of her being was blended with heaven;
So the bird of my bosom fluttered up to the dawn–
A window was open–my darling was gone!
A truant from tears, from sorrow, and sin–
For the angel on watch took the wanderer in,
But when I shall hear the new song that she sings
I shall know her again notwithstanding her wings,
By those eyes full of heaven, by the light on her hair,
And the smile she wore here she will surely wear there.
			B. F. TAYLOR.


TO A DEPARTING MISSIONARY.
		M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

Speed thee brother on thy journey, 
	Not to seek for wealth or fame,
But to distant lands benighted,	
	o thou forth in Jesus name.

There has come across the waters,
	Sounds of pleading in the night,
From souls, who are in darkness living
	Asking thee to bring them light.

'Tis not from the untaught heathen,
	Not from them the summons came,
But from Christian lands they call thee,
	To bring the Gospel in His name.

Whether called to other nations,
	Or at home thy work may be,
But to give a cup of water,
	Still, not in vain thy call should be.

It matters not how light the service,
	Or how small the task may be,
If performed in love and kindness,
	A blessing it will prove to thee.

Every little act of kindness,
	Every gentle soothing word,
Given to a suffering brother,
	At His throne will sure be heard,

Count not then thy toil a hardship,
	Precious souls thou may'st reclaim,
If thou goest prayerful, earnest,
	On thy mission, in His name.


Even should thy life be threatened,
	By those that, truth and justice hate;
Let thy faith be still unshaken,
	Calmly meet the martyr's fate.

Or in safety, home returning,
	Friends will meet thee, and proclaim,
How you've nobly, faithful labored,
	This indeed is priceless fame.


REVIEW OF PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS
WITH INSTRUCTIONS.
	In the year 1878, the inspiration of the
Holy Spirit suggested to the mind of Sister
Aurelia S. Rogers of Farmington, Davis Co.
the advisability of organizing associations for
the children of the Latter Day Saints for the
purpose of teaching them the Gospel and pro-
viding opportunities for learning by practical
experience, how to develop the spirituality of
their natures and cultivate the talents so
graciously and abundantly bestowed upon
them by their Creator. That in their early
childhood they may learn faith in God, and a
love for all that is good, pure and noble, and 
be taught to shun evil practices, and be pre-
served from all evil habits that tend to lead
astray and destroy. This idea was suggested
to that great organizer Sister Eliza R. Snow,
the friend of Women and Children, she laid
the matter before President John Taylor
who heartily endorsed the immediate organiza-
tion of the Primary Associations throughout
the Church.
	The first association was organized at Farm-
ington with Aurelia S. Rogers as president.
	Sister Snow with characteristic energy and
executive ability, set to work in earnest
ceasing not until similar organizations were
established in all the settlements.
	In 1879 stake organizations were effected to
superintend the labors of the local branches.
And in June of 1890 the officers of the Central
Board were chosen to preside over the whole,
they were Louie B. Felt President, Matilda
M. Barrett and Clara C. Cannon Counselors.
Lillie T. Freeze Secretary and Minnie Felt
Treasurer.
	Thus the Primaries became an established
feature in the Church. Great zeal and devo-
tion was everywhere displayed among the
officers, and the children were delighted to be
thus favored with little meetings of their own
suited to their limited capacity for receiving
instructions. As a matter of course owing to
a lack of understanding and its attendant lack
of appreciation the work has not received from
all quarters, the support and encouragement
due so worthy a cause. Many through failure
to investigate the object sought have looked
upon the primary organization as the most
insignificant, instead of the most important,
being the foundation upon which our future
society in the Kingdom of God is built. Still
the work despite all difficulties has slowly but
steadily advanced, growing in interest and
magnitude until there is an association in
every town and hamlet in Zion. 
	To meet the growing demands for more
systematic work add effectual help, an annual
Officers conference will be held in Salt Lake
City, where the best methods of enhancing the
interest of the meetings will be discussed,
suitable instructions given, and we trust
mutual benefit received.
	At our last conference held in the Assembly
Hall, Salt Lake City, October 5th 1890, the
following suggestions were laid before the meet-
ing which may if adopted, prove a guide to
others.
	Teach the children to fast and pray for the
sick. Teach them to repeat sentiments at roll
call, and adopt the keeping of some good
resolution for one week. Pray often in concert
it holds the attention, and accustoms them to
the use of correct forms of expressions in prayer.
[column 2]
Teach practical every day life, and train them
in punctuality, and a reverence for the House
of God. Discourage smoking. Also discourage
love songs and giving sensational recitations in
meeting. All exercises should tend to develop
the spiritual and moral character. Teach a rever-
ence for the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sister
Eliza R. Snow and the Holy Priesthood,
	Presidents of local branches should watch
the labors of the secretary, who are often young
and thoughtless, and see that reports are
promptly forwarded to the Stake Secy. And
always include a treasurer as a local or Stake
officer. Establish a small fund for Stake ex-
penses and every Stake is desired to send one
dollar per annum, to defray expenses of
Central Board. In order to present a truth-
ful record of our standing to the General
Conference, it is necessary that complete semi-
yearly reports be forwarded from every stake
in time to reach the Secretary of the Central
Board by the 15th of March and September.
Always send the address of Stake Secretary
and all the names of the Stake Officers.
	The Central Board should be notified when
any changes are desired and all changes made
should be reported.
	The programme committee hold a very
responsible position and should be under the 
immediate supervision of the president, their
term of office should not extend beyond six
weeks, they should possess a record book, and
carefully note every feature of work either of
success or failure, so that the exact status of
every child in the association may be on record
for future reference. At the expiration of every
term of office of this committee, they should
submit their labors to the meeting, so that suc-
ceeding committees may see where improvement
can be made. Attach the word prepared or
failed to the exercise assigned to the name of
each child. This book will greatly aid the
secretary in making out reports. Allow no
lengthy speeches but ask many questions, and
train the children to answer promptly and in
good time in concert. Keep them acquainted
with the names of general Church Authorities,
also local and Stake Officers in the primary
work.
	Much thoughtful preparatory work is neces-
sary to make all meetings and conferences
successful.
	Presidents are to have assistant counselors
or monitors sufficient to render all aid needed.
	Keep a strict report of the number of boys
present at all meetings and conferences.
	Train the children especially boys who are
backward to sing, recite, and answer questions
in concert, until they acquire confidence in
themselves. Introduce marching combined
with singing, physical exercises and various
features pleasing and restful. Suppress every-
thing tedious or wearisome, carfully avoid
monotony, make the meetings as cheerful and
attractive as possible. 
	Hold officers meetings whenever practicable,
pray together for wisdom, devise plans and
transact all business before it is presented to
the children.
	Introduce congregational singing, choirs
should only lead. The Central Board should
be sustained at every stake conference. Use
your influence with the Bishopric, to have
your meetings announced frequently from the 
stand, and labor diligently with parents to
send their children, where they may be taught
in the fear of God, without mony or price.
Your sisters in the Gospel of peace.
			LOUIE B. FELT, Pres.
			LILLIE T. FREEZE,
			CLARA C. CANNON,
						Counselors.
			MAY ANDERSON Sec'y.
			MINNIE S. CUTLER Treas.
	Address May Anderson 108 S. 7th East
Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mall,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	NOVEMBER 15, 1890.


[column 1]
THE INDUSTRIAL HOME AN EXPERI-
			MENT.
	We sincerely hope that all "Mormon" women
have read or will read the report of Mrs. Jeannette
H. Ferry, President of the Industrial Christian
Home Association in this City, published Nov. 7,
in full in the Deseret News. A meeting to elect
officers for the ensuing year was held Nov. 5, at
which time the President's report for the year
past was submitted. The report includes the fol-
lowing preamble and resolution adopted by the
Association in Feburary last.
	Whereas, The Industrial Christian Home
building is nearly completed, thereby affording
opportunity for the opening of industrial depart-
ments in accordance with the original plan of the
association, therefore,
	Resolved, That a committee of four be ap-
pointed of which Mrs. Angie F. Newman shall be
chairman, to co-operate with the Utah Commis-
sion in securing from Congress an appropriation
of $20,000 with which to obtain the necessary in-
structors and equipments for opening the various
industrial departments contemplated by this asso-
ciation and by Congress in the construction of the
Home building."
	So Congress is to be beseeched again for an
appropriation of $20,000 this time to aid in estab-
lishing industries to make "Mormon" women who
have renounced their faith self-supporting.
	Congress seems to have kind of an elephant on
its hands in the Industrial Home. It is so
exercised over the subject of polygamy that it
wants to provide for all those who will deny the
principle, industrial training. "Mormon" women
with very few exceptions have had industrial
training in homes of their own; and it is a fact
that cannot be denied that there are not women
enough in this Territory to fill the positions open
to them if housekeeping be included.
	There is scarcely a day that the writer is not
asked the question over and over, "where can I
get help?" "Do you know of any one wanting a
situation?" As for the home being a factor in
the solution of the problem of polygamy, or its
suppression we fail to see or comprehend it. Mrs.
Ferry in her report says,
	"Able statesmen in Congress considered this
movement an effective and essential factor in the
solution of questions involving the purity of wo-
man, the sacredness of the home and the peace and
safety of the American Republic."
	The consciences of Congressmen have been
terribly wrought upon because a few women from
religious conviction had consented to enter into a
marriage relation such as the ancient patriarchs
practised and become the mothers of children
and enjoy the privileges of a home—their righteous
souls are sorely vexed—while hundreds of women
without homes, protection or shelter, wander
[column 2]
through the streets of their great cities, desolate,
forsaken and abandoned to a fate worse than
death.
	Mormon women voted in the public assembly
in the Tabernacle on the 6th of October last to
obey the law of the land, and that vote from such
women can be relied upon; notwithstanding Mrs.
Ferry's insinuation that polygamy still exists.
But these same "Mormon" women are a very in-
dependent class, and are not at all likely to take
advantage of the situation the Industrial home
proposes.
	The whole concern is a ridiculous farce from
first to last, it is an experiment that has so far
proved a failure; it has been in operation four
years and reports at the present time nine inmates,
rather an expensive experiment indeed. The
Industrial Home might with all propriety be
called "An Experiment Station."


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On the 31st of October Pres. M. I. Horne went
to Morgan to attend the Sisters’ Conferences.
On the afternoon of the same day the Conference
 of the Primary Associations was held, Saturday
the Relief Society and Sunday the Y.L.M.I.A.
Sister Horne addressed each of these Conferences
and her visit and instructions were much appre-
ciated by those who were present. Sister Horne
returned home on Monday Nov. 3rd.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard recently made a tour
through Summit Stake with Pres. Mary Jane At-
wood and others, holding regularly two and some-
times three meetings in a day. Sister Howard
gives a good report of the organizations in that
Stake. Rock Springs, Evanston and Almy in
 Wyoming are included in Summit Stake and 
Sister Howard congratulated the women in these
towns on the privilege of voting.

	On the 30th of October in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young we attended the annual meet-
ing of the Relief Society at Lehi, which con-
vened at 10 in the morning and 2 in the after-
noon, Mrs. Rebecca Standring presiding. The 
annual report was a very favorable one, the meet-
ing was well attended and a good degree of the
HolySpirit was manifest. The next morning ac-
companied by Mrs. Standring we went to Ameri-
can Fork where two meetings were also held that
day by special appointment, and the same good
spirit prevailed. Bishop Geo. Halliday was pres-
ent at both meetings, and in the afternoon Pres.
Paxman of Juab Stake. Both these brethren ad-
dressed the congregation, testifying to the good
teaching and efficient labors of the sisters in the
Relief Society, and encouraging all to press on-
ward in the fulfillment of duty.

	The November election that elicited so much
enthusiasm among the people here is over, and 
the votes have been counted, showing over 9,000
majority for the People's Party, which was to b e
expected in view of the prevailing sentiment and 
desire for honest representation. Hon. John T.
Caine may proudly congratulate himself on the 
success of the ticket; it proves the high esteem
in which he is held as the Territorial Delegate 
and the confidence of the vast majority of the
people in his integrity and uprightness to their
interests. John T. Caine cannot truthfully be
accused of one-sidedness, he is wholly impartial
when the interests of the Territory are con-
sidered.


[Column 1]

MABEL CLARE RICHARDS.

	A beautiful child in face, in form and in that
native grace that gives the tone of, gentle refine-
ment to the manner and temperament was little
Mabel Clare. Lovely too in disposition and re-
ligiously inclined in her feelings and habits; she

[Column 2]

﻿became a member of the Primary Association
when only two years old, and ever loved dearly
to attend, often reciting little verses when so
small she had to stand upon a chair. In character
she was specially loving and lovable, devotedly
fond of her father, mother, little brothers and
sisters, grandparents and all her friends and play-
mates, always anxious to share any delicacy or
pleasure with others. She was one of those rare,
precious spirits too pure and tender to dwell long
upon earth, but who give us a glimpse of the
angelic purity and love of the heavenly world.
Such an one was Mabel Clare. Her gentleness,
patience and resignation, her faith in prayer, all
these beautiful traits in her character are indelibly
impressed upon those who were near to the little
one during her affliction and whose hearts were
wrung with grief for her sufferings.
	Last Christmas Eve she had a kind of nervous
shock, but her case was not considered serious
until sometime afterwards; though she could not
play like other children, and a little playhouse
was built for her in which she could amuse herself
without being over-fatigued. In this pleasant
way she spent many happy hours with her little
sister, cousins and friends, it was fitted up with
everything in the way of child's housekeeping,
dainty and pretty. It is deserted now and its
little owner has gone where there are delightful
places, and no more sorrow nor any pain and all
tears are wiped away. Mabel made her last visit
to the Primary on the 25th of May last, she wanted
to see the children again and they were anxious
to see her, for she was a favorite with them all;
the children always prayed for her and she felt
the benefit and blessing of their prayers.
	On the 22nd of October at 10:30 in the morning
after many weeks of painful suffering to the be-
loved child and agonizing suspense on the part of
parents and relatives, who tended her so care-
fully, and watched every change that took place,
little Mabel Clare passed peacefully away, leav-
ing an aching void in the hearts of those, who
clung to her with the most intense affection. Such
scenes and events baffle all description, but the
Latter-day Saints have an abiding hope that buoys
them up under the most severe trials. Brother
and Sister Richards were overwhelmed with grief
but all that tender and true friends could do, was
extended to them with the deepest sympathy in
their sad bereavement.
	The funeral was held at the family residence
on the 24th of October at 2 p. m., a large number
of friends and relatives assembled among whom
were the Primary children of the Second Ward
of Ogden to which little Mabel belonged.
	The casket containing the beautiful body from
which the spirit had departed was pure white
emblematic of the purity of the little one who lay
there as if asleep; it was literally covered with
beautiful flowers, the gifts of loving and sorrowing
friends. A silver plate on the lid was engraved
with the words:

	MABEL CLARE RICHARDS,
		DAUGHTER OF
	Charles C. Richards and Louisa Letitia Peery
Richards.
		Born at Ogden, May 12, 1884.
		Died at Ogden, Oct. 22, 1890.
	Our precious Mabel; she leads us Heavenward.
	The funeral services were very affecting, the
singing soothing and sympathetic; the opening
prayer was offered by Elder Jos. Hall, and con-
soling and inspiring remarks were made by Elder
Ben E. Rich, Bishop Stratford, Elder F. J.
Cannon and Bishop Mc'Quarrie. The speakers
all alluded to the lovely disposition and gentle
spirit of the little girl. The benediction was pro-
nounced by Pres. Middleton. A long cortege fol-
lowed the hearse to the grave.
	On arriving at the cemetery the casket was


placed in a heavy oak box and tenderly lowered
into a cement vault. The grave was dedicated by
Apostle F. D. Richards, the grandfather of the
child, after which in a short address he thanked
the many friends for their loving aid and respect
shown during the long illness of the little one,
and especially thanked the children of the Pri-
mary of which Mabel was a member, for the
prayers they had offered for her during her af-
fliction, and for attending the funeral in a body to
take the last look on earth of their little playmate
and companion.
	The writer also extends the most sincere sym-
pathy to the bereaved and lonely ones.

	"Oh, may He guide and bless and keep you ever,
		He who is strong to battle with your foes;
	Whoever,fails His love can fail you never,
		And all you need He in His wisdom knows,
				May God be with you.

	Better than earthly presence, e'en the dearest,
		Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
	For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
		And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring
				If God be with us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			ITEMS OF HISTORY.
					Salt Lake City,
						Sept. 21st, 1890.
DEAR SISTER ZINA D. YOUNG:
	You are aware after what I said, that I am not
going to write anything like history that is already
done; but merely to notice a few of the many
incidents so fraught with danger to the servants
of the Church especially; and the whole people
of the Latter-day Saints in and around the City
of Nauvoo.
	I presume you must remember the peaceful
times at Nauvoo when the Legion was parading,
and Joseph in command, his noble bearing and
fine appearance, mounted on his fine horse,
sword in hand giving orders to those around of
his staff.
	I was seldom out from the little place called home
never far alone; but the day I saw this first to me,
and as it proved last show of the Nauvoo Legion
as I have just described.—I was fortunately
placed in a very good position for observation in
front of Mr. Daniel Spencer's residence high
enough to see well around; every available place
was filled with ladies nicely, some elegantly
dressed, looking as happy as the day was fine;
and as if all things would harmonize henceforth
to have peace.
	But this was not to be the case those who can
recall to memory the sad and painful events of
that succeeding time,—The apostates, the sup-
pression of the vile publication the Nauvoo Ex-
positor; the continued evil work of these bands of
traitors seeking by every means to carry on their
purposes to destroy the Church; and scatter the
people, if they could not lead them to destruction;
and continually and by all means, seeking to take
the life of the Prophet. False brethren in the
city; traitors and foes without—thus in every way
distressing the people.
	Dr. Levi Richards and Lorenzo Snow with
many more kept watch and setting guards for the
safety of the people; the mud after the rain up
to their knees, (such mud I never saw the like in
any place or in any country I have been in.)
These brethren had to take their swords at their
sides when going to this duty of setting guard in
the evenings. The Doctor asked me if I had
any thing to serve as sashes to hold their swords;
I had but one thing I thought might answer the
present purpose, a scarlet cashmere scarf—this I
gave as the only article long and strong enough.
	The provisions were getting shorter, this was a
sad look out for the poor and sick; one poor old
lady donated two of her oxen; her all I believe,
or provisions, we also gave the only two oxen we
[Column 2]
had left, for the help of the poor, some not rich
also helped in some way, as did all the faithful
saints; but the brethren who served, and needed
most to keep up their strength of course had least
as is, and has been the order of times in all his-
tory. Traitors and spies on every hand; but
prayers with watching, was not at all abated; this
kept up the spirits and faith of the workers the
good spirit being surely with them.
	*	*	*	*	*
	Soon came the official order for the Prophet
Joseph to go with some of his brethren to the
prison at Carthage. The air seemed stifling and
heavy with expecting we knew not what—a
curious feeling. The opaline atmosphere, and
something like I remember to have seen and ex-
perienced after the eclipse of the sun had passed;
while I was walking in some fields, here I felt
was cause; but very different from what I ex-
pected and hoped for, to divert my thoughts; I
felt it well to put in some safe place a few of the
small articles as might be easily carried with us,
knowing too well that the spoiler was not far off.
		*		*		*		*
	The day previous the 24th, of June was the
day the Prophet Joseph and his brethren left the
city for the prison at Carthage. Dr. Levi Richards
said that Governor Ford had promised to parade
the Prophet Joseph before the Carthage Grays;
which he did, up and down the ranks. Dr. Levi
also said that Governor Ford could not raise his
eyes to look Joseph in the face, nor above the
shoestrings of his, Joseph's shoes, the Governor
kept looking with his head down; was it any
wonder that he felt guilty.
	These good men had influence to persuade
these people to leave their wrongs to a good and
just God, who would in His own time and manner
avenge these acts and deeds.
	The previous evening I was thinking of the
events passing, and walking near the cottage
where the ground being soft from the recent rains,
I did not hear until I found myself in the midst
of a number of men, I thought who are these?
what does it mean? then the thump of a heavy
staff as it were, came near, my poor courage be-
gan to wilt as I stood still some one spoke to me,
it seemed a familiar voice, still the shade of the
evening kept me from seeing things around me,
then I soon found these men were friends; the
thumping came from Brother Orson Spencer's
foot; these men were returning from Carthage
prison released on heavy bonds to keep the peace;
(Heaven save the mark) when these men came
away some of the brethren remained with the
Prophet at Carthage prison, some one called out
there is Doctor Richards, who was just nearing
the door of his home about to enter, he turned
round and said hush; hush; this hush was no
idle word, he went in at the door; he was one of
the doomed ones to be shot. Spies were in every
corner of the City, now under martial law.
	That day when what I have named was going
on, I kept looking out from time to time, a dull
silence as I before said. The atmosphere was to
me under the brightness like what I remember to
have seen and felt some mournful time of my
past life.
	The night came I could not sleep so I walked
back and forth, a strange feeling kept with me I
said to myself, what can this be? The brethren
are returned from prison and for the present
danger is averted. Then some of Milton, and
Milman's poems would come to my memory of
the persecution of the Waldenses. But the lines
of Milton especially came to me again and again,
would not leave me for any other.

"O Lord avenge thy slaughtered Saints,
Whose bones lie scattered on the Alpine Mountains cold."

	About 3 o'clock, some one knocked at the door
I opened it, there stood a man but scarcely able
[Column 3]
to speak. I turned to the Doctor who was then
standing by the couch where he had some time
back thrown himself to rest almost tired to death
from the recent journey, he, the Doctor turned
from the door after speaking to the man and
stood with his hands straight down from his sides
clenched, the fingers together, a habit he had
when strongly moved his eyes fairly blazed I felt
strangely almost stunned. I said unthinking you
look as if you could fight, I could he said, not
another word. The Doctor hastily put on his
coat, I also put on some additional wraps and
walked with him to the house of Dr. Willard
Richards.	*	*	When I said the eyes of
Dr. Levi Richards fairly blazed, his eyes were
not very bright, light blue, and after a fever at
twenty years of age had to use glasses continually
when I saw this, I could not speak except as I
did—it made me feel strange as you may suppose,
especially after the usual and ever composed
manner the Doctor had at all times and circum-
stances in which he might be placed; but was it
any wonder, when we look at the strange events
which caused these feelings?
	Dr. Levi Richards was devoted to Joseph as a
friend, not to speak his Joseph’s, divine mis-
sion, having known him so long and enjoyed his
society with the brethren; Joseph I am told used
to call him his own physician; and used him as
such on some special occasions, having proved
his faithfulness and skill in some critical seasons,
as well as in other capacities. Joseph loved him
well as one of his chosen friends, and a follower
of righteousness.
	Then we all know what followed this eventful
day of all days in this dispensation.
		AFTER THE DEATH OF JOSEPH.
	The time you spent with me some weeks since,
if you remember, we were led to refer to some
of the scenes  now long since past in which we as
well as others, were deeply and sadly interested.
	I was trying to describe how things appeared
to me at the eventful time after the Prophet was
brought back from Carthage and the efforts of
those brethren, who had influence to keep back
the indignant people for a little season and quiet
them, so as to await the return of those absent;
but who had been sent for with haste.
	These few, Dr. Willard Richards being the
principal; and who had just returned from the
scene of the murder unhurt except a bit from the
tip of one ear, Judge Phelps another, and Dr.
Levi Richards, and other brethren who only re-
turned from the prison a short time previous
whither he had accompanied Joseph with some
other brethren; but who were released on heavy
bonds to keep the peace.
	I had just left the place where the meeting was
to be; and went with Dr. Levi Richards to view
the body at the Mansion where it lay then in a
rude Casket covered with black velvet. The Dr.
left me to go quickly and help the others as I have
said quiet, so I stood some moments with a fixed
and painful attention; then turned to follow my
husband, but not until I had given once more a
last lingering look at the sacred contents of the
rude casket, as I turned to leave I saw Emma
Smith as she walked back and forth in the court
of the Mansion. She spoke to me and I answered
her; and then continued my way to where the
meeting was to be convened near by.
	Sometime in the August following this and
after Brigham Young and other Apostles had
returned from their missions a meeting was held
in the grove.
	There the meeting was begun, I do not just
remember how as I was not among the people, I
stood on the left side a little in front of  the stand
close beside the crowd and could plainly see the
the then speaker Sidney Rigdon with some others,
standing in a wagon box with backs to the stand.


Sidney was the one speaking then saying among
other things, you must choose a guardian. I
thought is this the eloquent man Sidney Rigdon
of whom I have heard so much? I never hav-
ing heard him speak before.
	I kept listening and again and again heard the
same words, you must choose, yes you must, yes
you must choose etc.,the same monotonous strain
and while listening, I was surprised at the quiet-
ness of the whole congregation in front of the
stand; no sound that indicated that any marked
attention was paid to the speaker's urgent appeal
to choose a guardian.
	During all this time as I stood by my husband,
I could plainly see the long stretch of plank seats
and their occupants.
	I was much surprised at the questioning man-
ner of people in front of the stand the fixed atten-
tion the monotonous one never once made the
least response.
	At this I quite marveled and looking up to my
husband as we were standing just outside the
crowd, I said what does this mean? He turned
to me and said, "It is all right." I looked up to him
and said, I do hope the people will not say yes!
Then I observed him turn still more from the
crowd look down and smile. It then came quickly
to my mind what Sister H. Mar Whitney has re-
refered to in some of her interesting memory
papers; that there had been meetings called to-
gether by the Prophet Joseph where only those of
his trusted friends were admitted (to learn how to
conduct things according to the mind and will of
the Heavenly Father in His Church after his
death) which from all we have since learned he
foresaw, but even his chosen friends and follow-
ers could or would not see as he wished them to,
at that peculiar time.
	Some of these meetings I remember when they
took place but the troublous times with spies on
every hand made us doubly cautious and I never
even asked questions or sought to learn anything
but what was readily communicated although
knowing many things not necessarily spoken of in
those days.
	I tried to be patient and observing. The Doctor
first looking down still smiling then look up to
the stand as if expecting something which of
course we all did, the return of the Elders, return
of those who had been sent for, when in the midst
of this painful suspense, I saw some one spring
up on the stand; with bated breath I saw the tall
figure rise with great dignity, and begin to address
the people, for a little moment I saw something
like a cloud or mantle slip over the person; but
until some minutes I could not think who the per-
son was like but after a little, and other persons
observing some change, I felt I knew not what;
but I felt also that Brigham was somehow
changed taller more portly his voice also, then
when some friends later on named the Prophet, I
saw what all had signified that surely the mantle
of Joseph had fallen upon the shoulders of the
chosen head of the Church.
	This was a sorrowful time, like the season,when
the Savior was gone,and had left as the disciples
feared forever notwithstanding the continued
teachings they had been blessed with to prepare
them for these eventful times. Dark and gloomy
but these people had no time to weep and mourn
as the disciples at Jerusalem but indeed they
would had they followed their natural instincts.
		S. G. RICHARDS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AUNT LU'S STORY.

	But it was not altogether smooth sailing,
there were many things to contend with which
you, young folks would not fully understand
in these modern times, during the Winter ses-
sion several large boys were added. Capital
fellows too, for work! they could wield an ax
with unerring stroke upon a log or tree, hold

[Column 2]

a breaking up plough all day, but their appre-
ciation of words, often happened to be ludi-
crously imperfect,—Fancy one of these over-
grown boys reading this scripture about the
rich man in his torment, and he looked up
and saw, Catherears, (Lazarus) in Boston; (in
his bosom) blunders of this kind frequently
occured in the first part of their attendance,
then a suppressed titter would run through the
school which brought reproof as well as
chagrin to the reader. There were some new
books introduced that Winter that brought
hard work for many a young learner. But the
teacher was equal to the occasion giving each
such attention and incentive for action—desire
to learn and understand various subjects that
after awhile it became a delight for even the
dullest among them to study and search out
any subject given for explanation. Our little
Dama with the kind assistance of her teacher,
made rapid progress in her studies, she thought
she had studied before; but now found that she
had but made a beginning she was fully
aroused to the deep importance of application,
close and continued to a thorough understand-
ing of her studies and with diligence prosecuted
her researches after knowledge.
	But I must tell you of the "Merry Christ-
mas," time, for old Winter came on with all
his train of frost and snow,while Dame Autumn
had quietly retired with her dresses of green
and gold. The big boys, searched the woods
the week before for trees and evergreens to
decorate the schoolroom. They placed a fine
spruce tree in each of the four corners and a
large pine in front of the teachers desk on
the platform all were elaborately trimmed with
pop-corn balls, colored egg-shells, paper and
feather flowers, nuts, etc. The gift tree was
gorgeously decorated and all (were more or
less) brilliantly lighted with golden colored
(tallow) candles while three large reflector
lamps were placed on the wall back of the gift
tree giving forth a dazzling effect. The long
narrow tables were temptingly laden with good
things enough for all, and to satisfy the
voracious appetites of even growing boys. But
the presentation of gifts by "Santa Claus," was
too funny for anything! I couldn’t begin to de-
scribe it so I must leave it for your imagina-
tion to supply the deficiency. Robert, however
was the master of ceremonies. To commence
with, the teacher had a tame bear presented
her from one of her big boy pupils. There
were trained dogs, tame squirrels, rabbits,
kittens, guinea fowls and guinea-pigs, white
mice, several kinds of birds among the curious
variety of other things. Dama was the re-
cipient of a beautiful white dove the gift of
Master Henry Hinsdale. The teacher was
well supplied with gifts the black bear, how-
ever was given over to the care and keeping of
Master Henry to his extreme joy and satisfac-
tion. I think the gift most prized by Blanche
was the one from Robert (whose esteem had
been daily increasing) for it showed his appre-
ciation of her love of mental culture. Robert
was not forgotten, nor neither his good mother,
all went home satisfied feeling that they had,
had a jolly happy time, many wishing it could
last forever.
	But nothing lasts forever here! School has
closed for the Summer vacation. Miss Blanche
received an unanimous call to teach another
year which she readily accepted, she had a
comfortable pleasant home at "Alby Lodge,"
and was not required to walk to and from
school in bad weather, Robert was ever def-
erential and respectful towards Blanche. Yet
from his easy manner she knew from the first
that he was heart free, Robert however made
the discovery before the "Merry Christmas"
time that therewas certainly much congeniality
between them.
	One evening the latter part of Summer, as
they were returning from a walk Dama sent

[Column 3]

her white dove fluttering from her hand to-
wards them, repeating in a playful manner
"Let the spirit of love descend with the dove,"
it alighted npon the arm of Robert, conveying
an awakening in heart swift and sudden; and
a glance transient as a meteor, and almost as
bright, directed towards Blanche gave expres-
sion to his new-found joy.—And through
the faintly shadowed air,one pure star trembled
into sight.
	One clear morning in the Autumn following,
Robert started out with dogs and gun for a
grand day's hunt, he had not been gone over
an hour when he returned in haste for his
mother to go back with him to visit some sick
people who were encamped some two miles
distant and who on account of sickness were
unable to follow the train that had preceded
them. The necessary preparation was made
as speedily as possible and in a short time
they were administering to the weary travelers;
many were suffering from chills and fever, and
to Mrs. Alby's surprise and grief she found
among these emigrant pilgrims one whom she
had known and loved as a sister in former
years, and now of the same faith embraced by
herself, one also, whom Blanche had visited
on her journey and in whom, and her family
of young people, she had been greatly in-
terested.
	Everything that spmpathizing hearts and
willing hands could do was done for the suf-
ferers. But who can protray the inexpressibly
sorrowful scene of a mother dying in a wagon-
bed by the roadside, surrounded by her weep-
ing grief-stricken children? she who had en-
dured everything for them—these children of
her love and hope, she must now leave; to turn
away from her grave among strangers,orphaned
indeed to go forth into untried scenes of life,
neglected, forlorn, desolate, nevermore to know
a mother's love and tender protecting care. A
tongue of eloquence and the most brilliant
pen would not be able to recount all the deeds
of loving kindness, and of sweet patient
charity this dying mother had performed, and
not from the hingeless doors of old age must
she enter the dark valley but hewn down by
the cruelty of a merciless foe in the early even-
tide of life's journey.
	And now the wailing cry goes out, in ago-
nizing grief from bleeding wounded hearts
that echo's back through the far-away Eastern
hills into other hearts, to mourn and bewail the
sorrowful scene of a dearly beloved mother's
death by the wayside.
	O, the anguish of that terrible bercavment !
verily we need a Baptism from on high to en-
dure the thought of its crucifying agony,
or partake of its bitter asphaltum draught,—
This is a sorrowful part of my story and I fain
would pass it over, but it is necessary that you
should know something of the "Red Sea" of
trial, this people were made to pass through.
This noble loving mother and her children,
with scores of others were turned out from their
houses,by a ruthless mob, in a pitiless storm of
rain exposed for days upon the river banks,
(until teams could be procured or sent back
to take them away) obliged to lie upon beds
soaked through with the rain storms,blankets,
quilts, all their clothing completely saturated.
Many contracted diseases from which they
could never recover, though they might linger
for years in weakness and pain,—and this
sainted mother, who forgot self, in striving to
protect her children from destruction as well
as from exposure to the pitiless rain-storm,
was a victim quickened to death at the hands
of a murderous mob.
	All this in our own fair land, (Free land, as
it is called) in sight of, and under the flag of
American Liberty which must have appeared
like a hollow mockery to the poor fugitives, as
it had hitherto afforded them no protection or
shelter against the invaders of their homes or


rights as citizens of their own State. They
had been robbed, outraged, beaten, imprisoned,
driven from their peaceful habitations, hunted
down, from place to place from one city of re-
fuge to another, manhood, womanhood nor
feeble infancy or declining age, nay, the help-
less and infirm found no mercy at the hands,
of these Simon-pure Border Ruffian Marauders,
for they deserve no better name; their acts tes-
tify for them.
	Thus a God-fearing peaceful people were
exposed to the tender mercies (the Scripture
tells us, that “even the tender mercies of the
wicked are cruel”) of a band of desperadoes,
brandishing bowie knives, and pistols without
protection or redress, forced to flea from their
own state beyond the waters of Western
Missouri—and on, and on, over barren plains,
through desolate wastes, rocky defiles, and
mountain steeps, into a land inhabited only by
wild beasts and savages; until at last, those
whose lives had been spared rest their weary
feet in a valley surrounded by stupendous
mountain walls builded by the hand of the
Almighty Creator—through which He pro-
claimed by the mouth of His prophet (five
years previous) that this people should enter
and possess. Here these men of piety and
patriotism planted the ensign of Liberty on
the highest mountain top and sent its banners
floating to the breeze, and like Joshua’s legions
who crossed the river Jordan and entered the
precincts of the promised land, they awoke the
silent echoes of the wilderness valley, with
jubilant strains of praise and thanksgiving.

	Many years have passed. Time has changed
places, and faces—events multiply—wild lands
have been reclaimed, towns planted—thorough-
fares opened through desert wastes, waters
spanned, fearful chasms o’erleaped and the
footprint of Providence marks the way un-
heard.
	Let us mount our Pegasus and hasten away
over the white capped mountains to the valley
of sage brush, sands and bitter waters, where
we left a band of noble pioneers—Lo! What
transformation is this? A great city has
sprung up as if by magic? broad streets, tall
trees, clear running streamlets, fountains of
everflowing waters and the glow of happy
homes breaks out upon the snow (this winter’s
night) in dazzling brightness. Verily, verily
the strong arm of Providence has fitted them
to do a work of great magnitude, and to
carry out his purposes here? I would like to
keep you a little longer viewing this lovely
valley of peace and plenty, for now the rich,
softened by prosperity, pity and care for the
poor, and the poor respect the rich, while the
lame, blind, aged and infirm, repose in hospitals
or are cared for by tender ministrations and
justice is dispensed to all.
	But I hear the glad voices of children and
busy feet of all ages are hurrying onward let
us follow them to their gathering place, the
Assembly Rooms for it is Christmas night,
and a “merry making,” joyful time is antici-
pated. Let us stand here and watch the faces
as they enter and pass to and fro, perchance
we may find some we knew of old. Here is
the President in the full vigor of life’s man-
hood, a fine looking man too he is indeed,
(Brigham Young.) How happy and full of
gladness all appear! men, women, and children.
It is really heart-cheering to stand apart and
look upon their faces as they glow with en-
thusiasm when greeting each other and in con-
versation.
	But now you who have traveled with me
thus far, mast not be disappointed about the
dear ones we have seen on the way for if we
are on the lookout, we shall surely find most of
them among these group’s of handsome happy
people.—We have passed through some trying
scenes indeed—hard to witness, but life is not
[Column 2]
all sorrowful and this beautiful night’s scene,
will more than repay for the trouble we have
taken in following the fortunes of this now
prosperous people, whose cup of bitterness has
been sweetened and tide of oppression turned
from them, at least for a season,—but we will
not anticipate evil, we see smiling faces all
around and peaceful contented joy reigns
supreme on every side,—many, of that first
noble band of pioneers are among the throngs
here gathered, and many who came after from
distant parts of the earth, we would like to
greet on this “happy occasion,” as brethren
and sisters of one family. But here comes
Bishop Alby, with his accomplished wife
Blanche and the mother with a nice pleasant
looking gentleman. Ah, she is married again
and does not look a day older than when she
stood in the door at “Alby Lodge” to welcome
Blanche on her first arrival. But little Dama
the “blue-eyed maiden,” where is she? Why
there she is, running races with the little ones!
see she has one darling bright-faced boy of
her own, she calls him Henry, for his father,
and there he is stooping to kiss and caress his
precious boy. I suppose you would like me
to tell you some romantic story of how their
union was brought about after she took up
the vocation of teacher. I can only tell you
that her school boy lover, is now her devoted
affectionate husband, that the white dove of
peace broods in their hearts and home, that
Brother Hinsdale, is as liable to be sent dele-
gate to Congress as any other, for he is not
only a scholar, but held in high estimation by
all who have the pleasure to know him.—
Dama through ornaments worn upon her per-
son, gifts from her mother was one evening
recognized by the dear friends from whom she
was so deceitfully and cruelly taken by her
false-hearted uncle; I cannot tell you all the
delightful happiness this discovery mutually
gave them. Long they had mourned her as
dead, for they had written to the school her
uncle said she was to attend, and received in
reply “that she had never been there” then,
hearing of his crime for which he was trans-
ported, they gave up all hope of seeing her
on earth. How strange and mysterious are the
ways of Providence? and what a tangled web
of events time often unravels! Dama has
made the acquaintance and formed a deep
friendship for the once deceived woman who
married her uncle, she is now carrying on an
animated conversation with some of Zion’s
fair daughters, she is tall, elegant and grace-
ful in form and appearance,—much like the
sweet lady at her side who is called, “Sister
Eliza” (a writer and poet of high order,) and
here we may find the children of martyred
parents, grown now with young families, like
olive branches around them. Here too, in this
beautiful valley, this‘Gem’ set in a circle of
granite, the fair daughters of a sainted mother
(whose death by the wayside will ever remain
a sad memory) have married, and are now
rearing families to love and care for, while the
youngest her idolized boy, has gone to try his
fortune in California.
	But I cannot leave until I point out the
Mayor of the City. They are all so engaged
among themselves, having such, glorious times
they wont mind our playing “Paul Pry.”—
There he is, see how eager men, women and
children press round to greet him. And how
kindly and affectionately he meets the people
one and all.
	There are Mary’s and Martha’s and Hannah’s
Elizabeth’s and Louisa’s and Susan’s, and a
host of beautiful women, and children, with
sweet cherub faces, that all must admire, and
for ourselves we cannot resist a feeling of
rapturous delight while gazing upon this lovely
panorama of human beauty—of happy fathers
nud mothers with their boys and girls of
promise and blessing.
[Column 3]
	I must call your particular attention to one
little bevy of girl blossoms, almost in the center
of the picture, clustering round a sparkling
vivacious pleasing little lady, can it be that she
is their mother? It almost makes heart and
brain stand still, as time points backward to
the little child I led by the hand in my rambles
over hill, and dell, through wood, field and
meadow, and called the sweet pet name of
“Rosabel.” She disappeared one day with
another, and I called unto her in vain to re-
turn. And now, can it be! she is here in that
mother?—
	Bright-eyed little folks! kind patient ones,
all, who have traveled with me so long over
the rough and smooth paths of life ’mid mirth
dance and song, I must bid you good bye,
and leave you to enjoy the Merry Holidays.
						MINERVA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPOTR.

			EMERY STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, convened at Orange-
ville, Oct. 17, 1890. Counselor Annie Pulsifer
presiding. Choir sang, prayer by Brother E.
Curtis, singing, Counselor Pulsifer made a
few opening remarks and regreted our beloved
President Anna Larsen could not be with us
her health would not permit, but desired we
would have an interesting time, as she felt
the Spirit of the Lord to be with us; the
Satistical reports were read and accepted, the
Representatives of each ward were called to
report. President Robinson of Orangeville
felt well in her labors with her sisters, attended
Conference in Salt Lake City and felt amply
repaid. The feast of spiritual food she re-
cieved gave her strength to go forward in try-
ing to perform the many duties devolving up-
on her. Counselor Hannah Seeley reported
the Castle Dale ward, said the sisters were
trying to attend to their duties spiritually and
financially the meetings were tolerably well
attended (but of course it could be better).
Sister Jane Woodward of Huntington said the
sisters were on hand and willing to go forward
in helping in this great work. We live in an
eventful period of time and should be united
and help to bear each others burdens, prayed
for the Lord to give us strength to do right.
Ferron, Molen and Emery wards were not rep-
resented. Counselor Pulsifer gave some
interesting instructions exhorting the sisters
to attend to their spiritual duties spoke of the
trials the Saints had gone through and were
now passing through, refered to the Manifesto
that President Woodruff had issued, spoke
very interestingly. Sister Sarah Fullmer also
refered to the Manifesto and found it already
was trying some people, no matter what men
or nations may do, she knew that law was
from God. we should stand firm and hold on
to the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Sister Jane Peterson of Castle Dale felt
pleased to meet with the sisters, had been in
this Church many years; even in Nauvoo with
the saints, quoted many sayings of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, exhorted the mothers to teach
their children the principles of truth and
righteousness, spoke very interestingly on
other subjects. Sisters J. P. Curtis and J.
Johnson each bore their testimony and spoke
well, Counselor Andrew Anderson of Orange-
ville addressed the conference a short time.
Choir sang “Do what is right.” Adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon services. Singing “O God our
help.” Prayer by Bishop Robinson of Orange-
ville. Singing “Hark ye mortals.” Coun-
A Pulsifer spoke very encouragiugly to the
sisters on different subjects. President Cheney
of Y. L. M. I. Association made a few remarks
and Bishop Robinson of Orangeville occupied


a short time speaking interestingly, thought
one great failing we had was ingratitude
Paul may plant and Apollus water, but God
givith the increase. We were in possession
of all truths if we would give them heed, and
those truths would lead us to an exaltation in
the kingdom of God, if we would only follow
the path marked out for us. Sister Reid felt
to encourage the sisters in this great and good
work, had attended Salt Lake City conference
and felt greatly built up in her faith and to
go forward in every duty. Sister E. Guyman
also spoke well and felt encouraged to perform
the work required of her, ask an interest in
the prayers of all and strive to speak evil of
no one. Other sisters spoke and the remainder
of the afternoon was given to the W.S.A. to
transact some business. President S- Fulmer
addressed the meeting in a spirited manner
urging the sisters to read and strive to gain all
imformation necessary for the advancment of
our cause. Several joined and one officer
elected. Meettng appointed for Nov. 10th.
Conference adjourned for six months.
				M. J. SHIPP, Sec. protem.
				ANNIE U. LARSEN, Pres.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Mas. Elizabeth Cady Stanton writes from
abroad that she does not expect to return to
this country before next June.

	The Youth’s Companion will give, during
the coming year, four practical, helpful articles
on what a girl of sixteen years can do when
thrown upon her own resources, by Mrs. Mary
A. Livermore, “Jenny June,” “Marion
Harland,” and Mrs Amelia E. Barr.

	The annual fair and flower sale of the
Beneficent Society of the New England
Conservatory of Music was held Nov. 6, in the
conservatory parlors. In the evening a fine
concert was given in Sleeper Hall. This
society loans to needy but talented pupils funds
with which to pursue their musical education.
Contributions are solicited from friends and
members of the society.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[Adopted by the Officers and members of the Twenty-first
Ward Relief Society.]	
	To the memory of the late Mrs. Rachel Seamen, who
departed this life Sep. 28th 1890.

	Whereas it hath pleased our Heavenly Father to call to
himself our esteemed friend and co-laborer Sister Rachel
Seamen, we the officers and members of this Society feel it
a duty incumbent upon us, to express our appreciation,
and sympathy with the bereaved family, friends and rela-
tives especially the orphan grandchildren of our dear sister,
whose brief illness and sudden death has so shocked us;
Be it therefore
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister Seamen our Society
has lost one of its most reliable and unwearied teachers
whose long term of service has been distinguished by
modesty and earnestness in the interest of the sick and
needy: Be it furthermore
	Resolved,—That we her fellow-laborers will ever strive
to emulate her example, that when our summons comes we
may be able to say with her “I have done my work:”
And also
	Resolved, That these resolutions be entered on the Sec-
retary’s book and a copy of them published in the WO-
MAN’S Exponent.
	Signed in behalf of the Society by
							A. O. Burt, Pres.
							K. Mathews, Sec.


ANOTHER LOVED ONE GONE.

	Onr dearly beloved friend and sister Jane Picton died at
her daughter’s residence in Nephi Sep. 13th 1890, her
disease was dropsy. She was bom June the 9th 1821,
Herefordshire, England, was baptized and confirmed a
member in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


in Sep. 1842, emigrated with her husband to Utah in 1853,
leaving all to east her lot with the people of God. She
was a kind and affectionate wife and mother, she leaves
four daughters and seventeen grandchildren. Her husband
Elder James Picton died the 6th of May last, and thus they
have left us to be united on the other side of the vail.
	When our Relief Society was organized June 23, 1868
she was called and chosen to the office of Second Coun.
to Pres. Amelia Goldsbrough, which position she filled
with great satisfaction to the sisters in the Association.
When Sister Goldsbrough was called to preside over the
Stake organization 1878, Sister Picton was again chosen as
Second Coun. which position she held until the death of
Sister Goldsbrough. She was ever kind and considerate,
a wise, and judicious counselor, a friend to the needy, a
comforter in the hour of trial, and a firm believer in the
Gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She died as she had lived, beloved by all who had the
pleasure of her acquaintance.

	Farewell my dear old faithful friend,
		'Till we shall meet again;
	Where pain and sorrow never come
		And joy shall never end.

	Though loved ones dear remaining here
		Do mourn now thou art gone,
	We’ll check the tear, nor dare to fear,
		We still in Christ are one.
								M. PITCHFORTH.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased God our Heavenly Father to
release by death from her sufferings our beloved Sister Jane
Picton.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we recognize in the death
of our sister, the loss of a wise counselor and co-laborer in
the Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, together with her life’s labors
of love in her family and among her many friends as worthy
of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heart felt sympathy to the
family or the deceased, and with them acknowledge the
band of God in our bereavement, and strive to emulate
her noble example. 		
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the Relief
Society Record and also be forwarded to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication.
						AMY L. BIGLER,
						ASENATH R. GROVER,
						HANNAH JONES,
										Committee.


OBITUARIES

	One year ago on the 18th day of October ult. we were
called to part by the hand of death with one of our dear
friends Sister Cecelia Mortensen, beloved wife of N. W.
Mortensen and daughter of Hans and Mary Schow of this
place, who in the prime of her life was taken from her dear
little family of five children which was very hard for her
especially to leave her dear baby Aaron, one of the
sweetest liltle boys that ever came to earth, noble to look
upon. And now we are called again to mourn for the loss
of our little boy Aaron; who left us the 4th day of Oct.
1890, to join his dear mother after gaining the affections of
all who knew him, at the age of 2 years 3 months and 8
days.
	May our Father comfort the afflicted ones.

		For we know our little one needs no tender care
		For all are safe, and happy there.
		We would not call him back again,
		Our loss is his eternal gain;
		His short bright race on earth is run,
		We weep, but say God’s will be done.

	Scandinavian papers please copy.
										E. B.
	Huntsville, Weber Co, Utah.

	It has pleased God to take from us Sister Fanny Wilde
the beloved wife of Thomas Wilde of Coalville City, Sum-
mit Co. Utah, who departed this life Aug, 18th '90.
	Deceased was born in Middlesex County, England in
1846, and with her parents William and Emma Gunn came
to this country in '57; has resided at Coalville and Hoyts-
ville since '64; was married to Brother Thomas Wild in ’65;
was the mother of fourteen children, and all but the


youngest, a baby girl three weeks old, survive her. Th
little one died about two hours before its mother, and they
were buried together in the Coalville cemetery.
	The funeral was attended by a large concourse of rel
tives and friends. Deceased was for years, a teacher in the
Relief Society and was always a friend to the poor and sick.
Her demise is lamented by her husband, family and friends
she suffered with Bright's disease for about three months
and finally sank to rest.
	She was a faithful Latter-day Saint; died in full faith of
the Gospel, and awaits the Resurrection Morn.
		ISABELLA HODSON.


Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINICIPAL POINTS
	EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			J. V. PARKER,
				Asst. Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of 
		DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
				112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1890.		No. 12.


CONTENTS.

	One Christmas Eve. Autobiography—Of Eliza-
beth M. Pratt. R. S. and P. A. Reports—Mari-
copa—Cassia. Primary Conference and Fair—
May Anderson. Solitude and its Advantages
Notes and News. A Bust for Mrs. Stanton.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Store. Christmas is
Coming. Editorial Notes. An Enjoyable En-
tertainment. Items From Scandinavia. From
the President's Message. Utah Officers in Con-
gress. Utah Co. W. S. A. Foreign Letter,—M;
E. Scoles. Utah W. S. A.,—Ada Croxall
Items From Arizona,—Maria Mc'Rae.
	POETRY:—Give me Music.—L. M. H. Court-
ing Sunshine,—L. L. G. Richards. The Stars,—
Ruby Lamont.


GIVE ME MUSIC.

Oh give me music! tho’ my brow is calm,
	My heart seems bursting in its cell below,
And gloomy thoughts come crowding thickly up,
	From that deep fount of bitterness and woe

O, give me music would I might forget,
	What life was when I first its pathway trod,
Too much its pleasures have my heart beguiled,
	From Him to whom alone 'tis due,—my God.

O, give me music, soft and sad and low,
	'Twill cheer my weary fainting heart, and raise.
My drooping spirits from this dull cold world;
	And turn my mournful thoughts to songs of praise.
										L. M. H.


COURTING SUNSHINE.

		TO N.
Dear and true and patient one,
Well thy task is being done.
Yet continue, be unmoved,
Be thy course af heav'n approved,
As thy life thus far hath been,
Chaste and meek and free from sin.

In thy day of test and trial,
Sacrifice and self-denial,
Trust not human strength or skill,
Look to God for guidence still;
He shall grant thee grace and pow'r
To endure this mortal hour

I have counted secret prayer,
Courting Sunshine,bright and fair,
Better than the shining gold,
Which the eyes alone behold,
Prayer doth graciously impart,
Golden Sunshine to the heart.

Firm in faith,with steadfast mind,
To thy portion still resigned,
What though fortune smile or frown,
So you gain the victor's crown,
Bright and glorious like the sun,
Tried and true and patient one.
				L. L. G. RICHARDS.


WRITTEN FOR THE EXPONENT.

THE STARS.

Gems of beauty, gems of light,
	Sparkling in the deep blue sky.
Tell me of your secrets bright,
	Are ye homes for them that die.
Wondrous depths where human thought.
	Ne'er can follow, ne'er can find,
Wondrous heights where God hath wrought
	Works that make poor mortals blind!


Will ye whisper this to me;
	Are ye homes for spirits free?

When the star of day hath set
	And his gold hath changed to night,
When the somber shades have met
	Softly gleams your gentle light!
Worlds of glory, beams of hope,
	Se[-]n in grief, unseen in joy,
All your lovely vista ope
	All the spirit's gladness buoy!
		Do the precious souls we love
		Find those wondrous heights above?

That same God who rules on high
	Each resplendent golden star,
Says the soul shall never die
	Takes us to some home afar—
Can it be Alcyon, speak,
	Are our heartstrings bound in thee?
Vega, Dubhe, the silence break—
	Do ye hide the mystery?
		By your streams, amid your flow'rs,
		Do our loved ones weave their bow'rs?

Ye are silent and the night
	Will not answer; no reply
Comes from darkness or from light,
	From the earth or from the sky!
Silent, silent all! the tomb
	Gives no answer, makes no moan,
Wrapt in myst'ry, wrapt in gloom,
	Pleading still, I stand alone!
		All alone, no answ'ring voice
		Bids my longing heart rejoice!

Not alone! The voice of One
	Guiding, strength'ning, saving still,
He, the Father's faithful Son,
	Bids me do that Father's will!
He will lead me through the tomb,
	Well He knows for once He died.
Swift shall vanish all the gloom
	And my soul be satisfied,
		Gems of glory, gems of light,
		I shall know your secrets bright!

	RUBY LAMONT.
Richfield, Utah, Dec. 3. 1890.


[Column 1]

ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.

	An old brown farm house standing upon a
hilly slope, near a hemlock grove where one
of those low murmuring pebbly brooks rip-
pled along, its undertone harmonizing
perfectly with the sighing and shivering of the
great pines in the back ground of the pretty
picture. Look there is a crowd of children
coming in from a ramble laden with ever-
greens, hemlock boughs, trailing vines and 
bright red winter berries. How merry they
are, chatting gaily, and their laughter ring-
ing out in the clear frosty air. A light snow
is falling which makes the scene even more
attractive. What a picture for an artist these
little folks would make. The long vines they
have pulled from under the thick carpet of
fallen leaves, that had covered and kept them
fresh until the winter holidays, when there are
no flowers in the gardens outside, are wound
around them giving them the appearance of
wood nymphs.
	These village children are familiar with
woods and fields, and happy in their simple
country life, they have no idea whatever, of
city waysland extravagant tastes, they have
not even had a glimpse of the great busy
world outside, its gaiety or wretchedness.
	It is the day before Christmas and within the
homely dwelling great preparations are being

[Column 2]

made for coming festivities. The children left
to their own fancies had wandered away in the
pine woods, and returned home carrying in
their arms and about them the boughs and
vines and berries; and soon they are busy
hanging them around the walls of the long, low,
living room where the meals are always served
and the family gathered in the winter weather.
There on a winter evening many interesting
stories and anecdotes were told and old-fash-
ioned songs sung, and in the great wide fire
place the pine knots blazed high and the re-
flection on the dark oaken paneled walls
made many a fanciful light and shadow, so
weird and strange that they were ever afterward
remembered by the little ones reared in that
happy home. On that particular Christmas
Eve, the ever greens were festooned and
garlanded so heavily and the dark green hung
with shining red berries, so that the dim
shadowy light when it danced fitfully over
and around made a strange contrast in its
 weirdness to the bright eyed rosy cheeked
merry children who fluttered hither and
thither singing and laughing admiring the
decorations and calling the attention of the
older ones to the quaint and pretty designs.
	So rustic seemed this country home with
its simple but tasteful ornamentation that one
might almost imagine it a woodland scene,
and the smell of the fragrant hemlock and
pine was like a perfume from the forest it-
self.
	How different was this home of nearly half
a century ago, plain and primitive in all its
appointments to even the village homes of to-
day.
	There was no chandelier hanging in the great
wide bare hall, only plain wooden pegs for the
hats and coats, and it had no carpet, but a
painted floor with gay colored, warm, home-
made woolen mats, the only really attractive
feature, except the reflector that hung on the
wall, and was only lighted on special occasions.
	The house was unusally gay this Christmas
eve, though these Puritanical New England
folks didn't make so much ado about Christ-
mas then as they do now; still it was custom-
ary to have a holiday week before New Year's,
and visits were interchanged among relatives
and friends, and elaborate dinners were indul-
ged in. There was much feasting and merry-
making and many queer old games for pastime
besides. Who shall say that those were not
"the good old times," of which we sing and
talk and moralize so much? I may have
been too prosy in describing this country
dwelling etc. and perhaps 'twould please the
present generation better to plunge into the
story without preamble, but all this is so
vivid to the writer, and it will do our
boys and girls no harm to know how their
mothers and grandmothers lived many years
ago. As I sit before the blazing fire late on a
winter's night, I can call up many striking
pictures and incidents and remember well the
people that figured in the dramas that actually
transpired, out of which the threads of many
stories might be woven, and I perhaps indulge
too much in reverie and simplify beforehand
what ought to be brought out in the narrative
itself.
	This Christmas Eve was the last one that the
large family assembled there on that occasion,
not one missing, ever spent within those time-
honored walls; for ere another year had flown
the group was broken, and one "only a girl"


[column 1]﻿
sort of restraint seemed to hinder the freedom
felt in times past. Edward felt he must
break the spell and looking up with his great
fathomless blue eyes inquiringly said, "What
about the homestead mother if you are de-
termined to go West? I was in hopes if was
not true but on coming to the village I find
it is quite understood by the neighbors? We’ve
been so happy here these many years, and its
such a delightful place, might be made a
charming summer resort, everything to make
it attractive in that way, if we chose to do it,
there is not a more picturesque spot in all this
part of New England and it abounds iu
sequestered vales and nooks among the hills,
O, I can’t think of its being sold to strangers;
I like the English idea of ancestral in-
heritance.”
	The tender-hearted mother heard him
through and with characteristic firmness re-
plied, “Edward I have thought all this over
and made up my mind that if you would, you
could keep the old home from  going into the
hands of strangers?" "Why mother what do
you mean?” “I mean simply this, marry and
settle down here, not one of your city belles,
they might only fancy the place, beautiful as
its surroundings are for a summer season, but
one of our own villagers, and after awhile you
may see things as I do, and join us in the
West, then you would be more reconciled to
the parting.”
	“Well mother, I'll think about buying the
the place, but as for the village girls, they are
all pure minded and innocent doubtless and
that should be an inducement, but I shall not
marry yet, awhile.  I'd like this strong attach-
ment for the home and its belongings to wear
off a little,before we part with it,if it ever will;
every foot of the land is endeared to me by
some memory or other; the old well- sweep, I
love to hear it creak, as in my school-boy days
when the wind blew from the hemlock grove
yonder,though its not a thing of beauty by any
means, yet, I have made a sketch of it, which
I intend to keep for the sake of old re-
membrances; there will never be any water
that will seem so sweet and pure in all the
years to come I fear, as I have drank from
that old well with its undignified sweep,that we
can see such a distance away. “The new
fangled pumps don’t compare with it in my
opinion, still in new houses I prefer them but
in this place I like things just as they are."
	“I am glad Edward that you have such a
reverence for the home of your childhood, and
I hope you may be able to take it and secure
to me sufficient ready money for my rights in
the estate, so that I can go to the West, and
take the younger children and yet it grieves
me very much that I must part not only with
old time friends, endeared to me by tender
ties of affection, but that more than half my
children must be left behind.  I know how-
ever that in this matter I am right and my
views upon the subject cannot be changed.
The arrangement of leaving the homestead in
Edward’s hands to be disposed of  afterwards
was partially decided upon and mother and
son sat talking of this and other things into
the wee sma’ hours of morning the rain beat-
ing against the window panes, the fierce wind
howling and shrieking without, the old well-
sweep creaking, while in the lull at intervals
the pine woods sighed in a minor key like a re-
quium as it were, for the parting of that happy
family from each other and the home of their
childhood.
	They had spent the Christmas time together
without any particular event of importance
transpiring, some gloomy presentiments, that
might be caused by the knowledge that the
home was to be sold and the household broken
up, that was all; tomorrow some of them must
return to their own homes, and that alone pro-
duced a sort of sadness, such as we have all of

[column 2]
us felt perhaps, after some specially happy oc-
casion, when the reaction comes, as it is almost
always sure to do.
	No sorrow not the lightest had ever fallen
upon Deborah Curtis, yet she had been pen-
sive and thoughtful during the Christmas fes-
tivities; to her perhaps more than to any one
else, the cloud that hung over the gathering
had seemed dark and threatening.
	That dismal Christmas night when the wind
was shrieking as if in mortal agony, and as
she thought all the household were fast asleep
she lay tossing and moaning on her downy
pillows, sobbing out every now and then, "if
he comes tomorrow what shall I do?  But I
am not to blame I did not say he might come
here, besides what will Fred say, he has always
been my champion, my playmate ever since
we went, to school together, and I have been so
proud of him too, and the other girls so
jealous, and now Frank is coming, and de-
clares in that last letter that he will take no
refusal.”
	“Let me see,” and climbing out of bed she
lit her candle opened her drawer and between
her tears and sobs; began to read this terrible
letter that was causing such a commotion in
in her feelings.
	“Yes here it is,” and she read, “I am coming
the day after Christmas when all your big
brothers and sisters are there, even Edward
whom you think will frighten me out of asking
for you, and I shall storm the old castle for
my lady bird, and for aught I know waft her
away on the wings of the wind, if I should
meet with any resistance, from these stalwart
brothers—I give you timely warning, and I
trust there will be no fainting or hysterics
among the women folks.”
	“Wicked boy,” Deborah muttered to herself
as shivering with cold and excitement she
folded and replaced the letter and hurried back
to bed.  Poor child, she fell asleep and dreamed
that Frank Lockwood came with a carriage
to take her away and that Fred Howard
snatched her up in his arms, and would not
let go his hold, and then she woke, the dream
was so real that she could scarcely believe she
was in bed in her own room and the storm still
beating against the window as when she fell
asleep.
	St. Stephen's day the 26th of December a
dismal morning, no getting out in such a storm,
and Deborah was somewhat calmed when she
saw how unpropitious the weather was for
traveling. She tried to summon courage to
speak to her mother, but it was impossible, her
manner seemed so forbidding.  The truth was
Mrs. Curtis was so absorbed in what had
transpired between Edward and herself the
night before that she was oblivious to all things
of less importance.  It never for one moment
occurred to her nor to any one of them, that
Deborah had a lover coming upon the scene to
interrupt their pleasure.  Nevertheless he
came and very unceremoniously.
	As he had asserted in his letter, he dashed
up the lane where the gates stood open really
the main entrance for carriages driving
a span of fine grey horses, and a handsome turn-
out in every respect for traveling. The bells
rang out so wildly close to the house that the 
ladies and children all rushed to the windows
except Deborah, who was ready to faint before
she knew what the matter was.  At the sound of 
the bells Edward was on hand, and seeing a 
total stranger was about to speak, when the
young man jumped out of the sleigh and in-
troduced himself, with the salutation," I sup-
pose you are young Mr. Curtis, and I am 
Frank Lockwood from Athol, I suppose your
sister has told you about me!  "No I never
heard of your existence, but come in you're
welcome, let me take your horses to the barn
you've driven hard I see, a fine team."
	The horses were taken care of and Edward

[column 3]
Curtis led the way to the house but on enter-
ing, with the expectation of finding Deborah
to explain matters, the room was vacated ex-
cept the children and babies and gentlemen
guests; the eldest brother opened up a conver-
sation with the young stranger, and Edward
stepped out to see what was going on, for
from the stranger's remarks he had gathered
that the young man had come a wooing some-
thing after the fashion of olden times on the
defensive, declaring war beforehand; he found
his mother and sisters were engaged in bring-
ing Deborah out of a dead faint.  which
only seemed to complicate things in his mind,
and made him think seriously of sending the 
young man about his business, but finally
concluded not to percipitate matters but wait to
see the scenes unravel.  Frank was very un-
comfortable every time the door opened he ex-
pected to see Deborah, but she came not, and 
the impatient lover grew weary waiting.  No
explanation was made as in fact no one knew 
what to say.  One after another the married
sisters came into the parlor and were introduced
to Mr. Lockwood, but Deborah's name was
never mentioned.  A child came in and 
spoke to Edward, he excused himself, his 
sister had sent for him, and his mother was
also in waiting.  "What has this young man
to say who has thrust himself upon us at this
unseasonable time?" said the mother, "He has
said nothing as yet except to ask if my sister
told me of his coming."  "Will you inquire
his errand Edward," resumed the mother with
the most perfect composure? "As you please
mother, but what does Deborah say?"  "That 
you must persuade him to go away without
seeing her, that she is not engaged to him?"
	Then she gave him encouragement; has
trifled with his affections.  The fellow is
desperate, a veritable hero of romance."  
	There was no help for it, Edward had never
been in love himself, but somehow he felt a
great sympathy for this daring young fellow
who could face a whole house full of relatives
determined to conquer them all.  He thought 
a great deal of his sister, not exactly his style
she was such a delicate, fragile creature but
beautiful and gentle and so sensitive he could 
scarcely see how any man could want her for
a wife, that name seemed to him to imply too
much for one so young and inexperienced,
however if he must "face the music" better
begin right away.
	Edward sent to invite Mr. Lockwood to 
meet him in an adjoining room, and of course
he did so and they talked over the matter
seriously together.  Edward found his sister
had spoken truly when she said she had given 
him no hope of loving him, but Frank was
 one of those men that by some peculiar fascina-
tion compel women in spite of themselves, to 
listen and often imagine it is true love, when up-
on serious reflection they are convinced it is not
the love that is needed for the daily duties of 
life.  It passes for the real article in the 
matrimonial market very often, but when it
 is put in the crucible and tested there proves
to be very little of the genuine material.  If
the experience of others could be valued at its
proper estimate, girls would be more consider-
ate before hand and when they made a choice
it might perhaps be a wiser one.  It is
customary to call marriage a lottery etc. and 
very erroneous ideas of love prevail among
men as well as women. For instance this
happy Christmas was interupted and the guests
dispersed in anything but gay spirits though
the inopportune arrival upon the scene of this
young stranger who fancied himself madly in 
love.  He succeeded admirably in creating a 
sensation and upsetting the household.  The
family party thus rudely broken in upon could
not regain the same feelings of enjoyment
and those who went away with the good bye.
		[Continued on page 94.]


[Column 1]

﻿had gone far away and everything seemed to
change from that time, one went here and
another there, and by and bye the cruel war of
the rebellion came and sad tragedies followed,
but we forbear to name these things now and
come back to the Christmas Eve and for this
once we'll watch these festive merry makers.
	It was a numerous family and the older
married ones who lived at a distance came one
after another during the day before Christmas
each with their little ones; there were three
daughters married whose husbands came with
them and one son with his wife, and another
unmarried son whose employment took him
away from his native village. Late in the
afternoon all had arrived,and the old home re-
sounded with heartfelt rejoicing. All these
were to dine at the old homestead and spend a
day or two or more after at the dear place
they loved so well, and late that night when
the very little ones were sleeping, the younger
children lingered to hear their older brothers
and sisters talk over the days when they were
at home and try to recall incidents and cir-
cumstances and repeat over old stories, each
one in turn filling in a part that another had
forgotten. After the story telling, songs were
sung and every one was required to add some-
thing to the evening's amusement. The stories
and songs were mostly of a legendary char-
acter, and later on a sort of dullness fell upon
the party that none of them were willing to
acknowledge yet all felt more or less, and at-
tributed it in a measure to the nature of the
pastime with which they had passed the hours
away.
	Finally after a lull in the conversation, and
the fire was beginning to burn low, one of the
company suggested it was almost twelve o'clock
and soon they could wish each other "a merry
Christmas," and retire, for it seemed to be
silently conceded that all were tired; and just
when a sort of quiet reigned, another broke in
upon the spell that was apparent with "I
wonder what will happen before another
Christmas Eve" and quick as answers often
come without thought, two or three voices at
once burst forth with the exclamation Edward
will be married,and we shall have another sister
added to our number instead of missing one.
But no one of all assembled there thought that
ere another year had flown, the half-grown girl
who sat there on that night so pale and
thoughtful like one in a dream, would be gone
forever from their midst into a new and very
different life.
	As is often the case after very lively and
rather gay enjoyments a sort of solemnity fell
upon the party, and the merry Christmas, as
it resounded through the rooms seemed to
leave a hollow echo in the apartments, that
was more like a farewell than the tone of glad
greeting such as it was meant to be.
	The wind was howling outside now, though
the day had been rather a placid one with
only a light fall of snow at intervals.
	The evening had passed quickly and there
had been so much sparkle and brilliancy in-
side that the sounds without had not disturbed
them in the least, but when quiet settled down
and the family separated for the night, the ele-
ments seemed in great commotion; the wind
was fairly shrieking and the great elm trees
in the yard, swayed to and fro and crackled,
and the sighs and moans of the pine woods in
the distance were piteous to listen to. To one
full of sentiment these melancholy dirges,
especially on a wintry night have something
inexpressibly tender and significant in them,
and the voices in the wind are full of the
sweetest pathos, yet appealing to the strongest
emotions, that give expression to the human
soul in its deepest distress. Yea, even in the
agony that is beyond expression. They seem
to cry out for the suffering ones and to moan
piteously in the night time while the glad world

[Column 2]

of humanity is wrapped in sleep. This night
was a dismal one, and the young people grew
nervous from the sadness that brooded over
their Christmas greetings. It was as though a
presentiment came that something was about
to happen; even though all was peace and
quietness within and no kuowledge of any evil
shadow lurking about or around had caused
this melancholy foreboding.
	Life was rich with promise to all the house-
hold, and especially so to the little maiden
who was just bursting into womanhood; her
amiable manner and cheerful disposition were
the very life of the old home, nothing could be
brighter or more hopeful than the future
prospects of this young girl. The world to her
was so full of beauty and sweetness and she
had been a favorite with all the household.
	It sometimes happens that the child bursts
suddenly as by revelation into a knowledge of
the forces that have lain dormant in the mind
through all the tenderer years, while in others
perhaps it only dawns upon them through
slow processes of reasoning or bitter experi-
ences.
	But we were talking of Christmas festivities,
and though the wind howls and the woods take
up the echo, the great logs burn brightly and
happy faces light up the Christmas morn.
Snow had fallen very deep and when the hall
door was opened the great bank of light snow
fell in upon the floor to the delight of the
children who were not permitted to go out in
such weather. The morning sun shining in
dispelled the gloom of the previous night and
in the exercises of prayer and reading of
passages from the Bible, which was customary
in this house, the melancholy died away and
the breakfast was partaken of in the most
cheerful mood by all.
	During the day while visiting with each
other the daughters roamed through the house
from garret to cellar, commenting upon the old
styles and suggesting modern improvements.
The mother objected to new-fangled notions
and affirmed that the old home was dearer to
her from association than any other could ever
be however elegantly fitted up, or modernized.
	"I am loth to leave this dear old place
where I have been so many years a happy wife
and mother, or to part with any portion
of my household furniture for all your derision
and making fun of my antiquated notions.
Furniture is not made of such rich wood nowa-
days, much of it is sham, and on a par with
the rude brusque manners of some of our
young people." "But girls" said the mother
continuing "you may each of you select a
piece of furniture today to take with you to
your own home, and remember whatever
happens you must not part with it, let it be as
a memento of your childhood home and of
this Christmas visit." And so they did, and
long after, when many of those who ate their
Christmas dinner together on that day had
gone to "that better land" those who remained
were reminded of the time; they had spent to-
gether with the darling mother and of the
sweet and gentle words she had spoken.
	But we must not forget the dinner which
was a most elaborate affair, and served in the
room decorated by the children with only
natural evergreens and red berries,but so dark
and curiously  woven together that it was
weird enough for a gipsy's camp. Christmas-
trees were unknown in that primitive place
in those days and the gifts that were bestowed
were generally those of love and good-will.
	But the dinner was delicious, and about
forty persons including children sat down to-
gether around that festive board. Turkeys
with savory dressing young pigs roasted whole,
pnddings, pies, cakes and preserves with a
variety of condiments and side dishes. No
wine or sweet cider even were ever served
to the guests in that house, the mistress

[Column 3]

strongly objected; "My boys she always said
shall never be tempted at home to partake of
strong drink," but rosy cheeked apples piled
high in elegant glass and china dishes, made
the table quite ornamental, oranges too from
Florida added to the beauty of the sumptuous
feast, and tempted the already sharpened
appetites of the children.
	Long they lingered at table this happy
family on that day which seemed forever after to
mark an era in their lives; one joke after
another was told and some of them had a very
practical application, but all was in good
nature and jollity, and the daylight faded into
eventide ere the company had realized its
approach.
	The lamps were lighted, the tables cleared
and put back, the shining hearth clean swept
a fresh supply of cragged pine knots piled
high in the great open fire-place, upon the
heavy dog-irons; and the pastimes of the evening
commenced. Each one was to do something,
tell a story, sing a song, relate an anecdote,
or give some pleasing recitation; the progamme
was an impromptu one,yet mostly they agreed,
no one differing with another as to how or why
they should render due regard to the appoint-
ment.
	The hours sped as on the wings of the wind,
and ere the half was told the midnight bell
pealed out in the frosty air. Mrs. Curtis never
encouraged sitting up after midnight not even
for company. One by one the visitors and the
family departod to their rooms with a formal
goodnight, except the unmarried son, who had
won something of a reputation as a practical
business man, and who during his occasional
visits to the home of his childhood, always took
the opportunity to advise with his mother on
his own account, as well as hers. So far since
his arrival there had really been no good
chance of their speaking apart, and he had be-
gun to feel very uncomfortable. This evening
he felt determined to detain his mother afrer
the rest had retired; there was still a blazing
fire, and it seemed to invite the confidence of
those whose hearts need warmth and sympathy.
Bachelors ever do and Edward had never been
married and his life was a sort of Bohemian
kind,that pleased him well,but that his exem-
plary mother thought was simply dreadful.
	He had been a great favorite with his mother
always such a serious steady boy and now
such a finely proportioned brown-bearded
handsome young man with great blue eyes
that seemed to speak volumes in a glance. The
village girls made no secret of their admira-
tion for him,and wherever he went he attracted
the attention of those about him, and influenced
them much as he wished when he chose to
exert his powers. He was a man of strong
emotions and devotedly attached to his mother,
and her interests. in many respects the mother
and son were very similar They had been
accustomed to confer together on financial
family matters, and Mrs. Curtis had always
found Edward a safe adviser. He was fond of
home in his own way and very fond of his
aristocratic looking mother, as well as of her
excellent economy and management of the
homestead with its fine broad acres of meadow-
land, pastures, hillsides and woods,
	"'My mother he had often said to gentlemen
friends can manage an estate as well as most
men; her executive ability is quite equal to
that of any man in our county, and I am
sure she would make a good Judge she has
that sort of judicial manner of weighing things
and giving her opinion when she has looked
on all sides."
	In fact Edward Curtis had said on one or
two occasions if he could find a young woman
with such a well-balanced head as his mother
had he would ask her to be his wife. On
this Christmas night when mother and son
were left alone for a few moments at first a


date of Nov. 6, 1890 and speaks of the various
Conferences in the mission in Sweden, Norway
and Denmark. Of Christiana he says, "Sunday
the 12th (October) three services were held at
which the principles of the Gospel were explained
to crowded houses. The hall will seat about 400
and it was full of people each time. About half
that number were friends and strangers. Nor-
wegian evergreens, interwoven with flowers taste-
fully displayed, formed the decorations of the
room. On Monday we held a priesthood meeting 
and in the evening the Sunday School children
had a sociable which was well attended. Refresh-
ments were served to the children free. On
Wednesday evening the sisters of the Relief
Society held a Fair at which they realized quite
a sum of money to be used for charitable pur-
poses."	*	*	*	Thursday afternoon Brother
Anderson went to Stockholm there he says the
Saints have a commodious hall in Hornsgaten,
"beautiful decorations graced the building," at
the first meeting the hall was filled with people.
It is the largest Conference in the Mission there
are over 1,400 members now, and during the past
six months 99 have been baptized and many are
investigating the principles of the Gospel."
	During the past six months 312 baptisms have
taken place in the mission."
	This seems to be a very cheering statement and
Brother Anderson thinks more Elders are needed
in that land. By this record it does not appear
that "Mormonism" is dying out as some people
imagine, far from it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00: one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	DECEMBER 1, 1890.


WOMAN'S STORE.

	Preliminary steps have been taken towards the
establishment of a Woman's Store in this City at
an early date. A call was made through some of
the daily papers for a meeting to be held on Fri-
day Nov. 28, at 11 a. m. in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, for the transaction of important
business. The call was signed by Mesdames M.
Isabella Horne and E. B. Wells. The meeting
was held as per appointment, Mrs. M. I. Horne
Chairman and Mrs Emma G. Bull Secretary. The
subject of starting a Woman's Store and its
advantages was plainly stated first by the Chair-
man of the meeting and afterwards by Mrs. Caro-
line C. Raleigh, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Dr. E. S. Barney and others. The
shares were placed at $5.00 each and quite a
number of ladies came forward and took shares
in the enterprise. It is distinctly understood that
this is not a benevolent undertaking, but positively
a business transaction under the direction and
immediate supervision of reliable women, al-
though it will doubtless be a good investment for
means belonging to the Relief Society in its
several branches, and other like Associations,
much better than allowing the money to lie idle.
	Another meeting was held at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT today Dec. 1st at which
further business was transacted and Committees
called for purchasing goods etc., who are actively
engaged in the movement, it is expected the store
will be opened on Saturday 13th or the Monday
following at latest.
	In connection with this commendable enter-
prise it is expected there will soon be dressmak-
ing, millinery and hair-dressing departments in
which young girls may be trained in these active
industrial employments. The management will be
in the hands of women acquainted with business
principles, consequently there is little need of un-
certainty about its success as a safe investment
for capital.
	Those desiring to take shares can pay them at
the store and receive Receipts for their money
until Certificates of shares can be issued. The
name under which this enterprise will be known
is "The Woman's Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Institution," situated opposite the
City Hall at 123 E. First South Street.


CHRISTMAS IS COMING.
	That Christmas is coming is everywhere ap-
parent in the donning of the holiday attire by
merchants and shop-keepers, as well as all other
establishments of a similar character. Every 
body who has anything to sell hopes to do a 
thriving business at this season of the year, Salt
Lake City is very gay and showy in appearance
just now, and judging from the preparations that


are going forward old Santa Claus will have a
most enthusiastic welcome. The Book sellers
expect a good share of patronage at such times,
and books are valuable presents and Santa Claus
generally lays in a choice supply and it is to be 
hoped he will not neglect the home authors at 
such a time.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor just
across the way from our little sanctum is well sup-
plied and Santa Claus should be notified that since
his last visit it has been removed into new and 
more commodious quarters and has increased in
the variety and quantity of suitable books, home
productions and selections carefully made; also
gifts and toys and almost everything Old King
Christmas needs to load up his sleighs etc.
	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery near by, the
genial friend of the widow and the orphan, and
the children and old folks, and every body in 
general, is well supplied with every thing in the
art line, pictures especially of the various varieties
photographs etc., books of all kinds and sta-
tionery and the most wonderful tops and games
for the little people, his windows are always 
dressed in an attractive style at such times and
no pains is spared in catering to the public taste
in the way of art and literature.
	D. M. McAllister half way down on the same
block, has a very unique way of displaying his
goods; his show windows having been greatly 
admired ever since he "took to the business," and
it may be expected that Santa Claus will remember
him bountifully when getting in his supplies for
distribution; McAllister keeps the best magazines
and periodicals of the times.
	At the old stand where James Dwyer Esq. held
forth so many years, and catered to the public 
taste Margetts Bros. have a large and carefully
arranged stock of the same line of goods; they
keep all the popular and latest magazines and
periodicals also, and will certainly come in for a 
liberal share of Santa Claus patronage.
	Last but not least we hope, though perhaps
with a small beginning, we trust the Woman's
Store will be a popular and favorite resort for the
ladies, and gentlemen too, who want to make
purchases for Santa Claus. Mothers should look
in at the Woman's Store before purchasing else-
where, and help sustain by their custom the ad-
vancement of woman's co-operative enterprise in
this direction.
	Above everything else let us all remember on
this day of days the poor, the sick, the lonely and 
bereaved ones, the widow and the fatherless and
carry with us everywhere, and scatter at home
and abroad not only temporal gifts suited to our
means, but the good will and charity that seasons
good cheer. The love that surpasses all other
love and makes us like unto Him whose advent we
celebrate.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"The Children's Book" by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron is now ready. It is a "Mormon" book
for "Mormon" children and contains nearly 300
pages in short articles of poetry and prose all
new and original. The book is just what is
needed at the present time and is suitable for a
holiday gift. Price $1.50. The book can be ob-
tained at this office. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Y. L. M. I. 
A of this Stake will be held on Friday the 19th
day of Dec. in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this City, and it is desirable that there should be
a punctual attendance of officers and members as
it is anticipated there will be an interesting
session. Brethren and sisters who are anxious
for the improvement of the young people of Zion
are respectfully invited to be present at both
meetings at 2 p.m. and at 7:30 p. m. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding.


The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, in this City Thursday, Dec. 18,
1800. Representatives from each branch Society
in the County are expected to be present and re-
port verbally. As this is a very important period
in the history of the Church, it is most essential
that all duties be performed faithfully and it is
ardently hoped by those who preside over the 
Relief Society, that the sisters make a good
showing by their presence at this Conference.
The brethren are cordially invited to attend.
Meetings will commence at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. 
	The Quarterly Conference of the Primary As-
sociation of this Stake will be held in the As-
sembly Hall in this City Saturday Dec. 20, meet-
ing commencing at 10 a. m. It is expected that
those who preside in each Primary in the County
will take an interest in this Conference and help
to make it what it should be a place of instruction.
Every officer who can should make a point of
attending these Conferences for her own benefit
and that she may be more helpful to those with
whom she is associated. Wherever it is practic-
able the children should attend as their help is
necessary to make a Primary Conference bene-
ficial. Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson presides in this
Stake over the Primary Associations.


AN ENJOYABLE ENTERTAINMENT

	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden and her pupils gave
their first Reception last Saturday evening at
Temple of Honor Hall in the Deseret Bank build-
ing. There were about one dozen recitations
given and the parents and friends were surprised
at the improvement shown during the two months
instruction, the articulation and gesture being
particularly noticable, also the deep tones which
some of them gave utterance to showed that the
instruction and drill had proved quite successful
in strengthening weak lungs and chests. Mrs.
Boyden was kindly assisted by Miss Viola Pratt
and Dr. J. P. Wilson who each gave a beautiful
vocal solo which were highly enjoyable to the
audience. Mrs. Boyden finished the programme
with a reading of "The Creeds of the Bells,"
which calls for great voice and perfectly trained
breathing power. The only drawback to the en-
tertainment was the incapacity of the hall to seat
the many guests there present, standing room be-
ing at a premium.
	The writer had the pleasure of meeting Mrs.
Boyden when on a visit to the Eastern States a
few years ago and was at that time interested in
her on account of her having been a friend and
schoolmate of the late Mrs. Frank Cole, whose
sad death occurred in this City some years since,
but whose memory has ever been held dear by
those who knew her intimately. Mrs. Boyden
seems to be an accomplished elocutionist, we have
had the pleasure of hearing her on more than
one occasion; she has come to this City with the
intention of remaining,and we hope she may find
a field of labor in her profession suited to her
talents.


ITEMS FROM SCANDINAVIA.

	Elder Edward H. Anderson of Ogden now pre-
siding over the Scandinavian Mission has written
a very interesting account of the work of the
Gospel in that part of the world to the Millennial
Star from which we quote a few items feeling
that those who have emigrated hither from that
far country will be pleased to hear good news
from their native land,and also that all will rejoice
that so much is being accomplished in bringing
the honest in heart to a knowledge of the truth.
	Elder Anderson writes from Copenhagen under


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM THE PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE.

UTAH.

	The increasing number and influence of the
non-Mormon population in Utah are observed
with satisfaction. The recent letter of Wilford
Woodruff. President of the Mormon Church, in
which he advises his people to refrain from con-
tracting any marriage forbidden by the laws of
the land, has attracted wide attention, and it is
hoped that its influence will be highly bene-
ficial in restraining infractions of the laws of the
United States. But the fact should not be over-
looked that the doctrine or belief of the Church
that polygamous marriages are rightful and sup-
ported by Divine revelation remains unchanged.
President Woodruff does not renounce the
doctrine, but refrains from teaching it, and ad-
vises against the practice of it because the law is
against it. Now it is quite true that the law
should not attempt to deal with the faith or be-
lief of any one, but it is quite another thing; and
the only safe thing is to deal with the Territory of
Utah so that thoso whe believe polygamy to be
rightful shall not have the power to make it law-
ful:


UTAH OFFICERS IN CONGRESS.
	The suggestion of his Excellency, Governor
Thomas, for additional legislation on the subjects
 of granting lands, school lands, irrigation, etc.,
are set forth in detail. The demand for a public
building for Federal officers at Salt Lake City,
is also urged, as a measure of economy, for the
protection of the public records.
	The Secretary presents the governer's recom-
mendations in reference to additional legislation
on the Mormon question, and adds:
	Since the period at which the Governor wrote,
however, great changes have taken place in the
professions of the Mormons and the public decla-
rations of the Mormon Church. There was
handed to the Secretary of the Interior by John
T. Caine, Delegate to Congress from Utah, a
written communication of October 1, 1890, in
which attention was called to the following decla-
ration of Wilford Woodruff, president and highest
authority of that Church.


[The manifesto of President Wilford Woodruff
follows.]
	"Mr. Caine added in his letter that this decla-
ration was entitled to great weight in any con-
sideration that might be given the subject, and
seemed indeed conclusive and "the very result at
which the Government has been aiming so long.'
	"In the conversation which took place when this
letter was delivered, it was objected that Mr. Caine
and the president would have to meet the specifi-
cation of forty cases with more than a general
denial, and that the president was without author-
ity to change the doctrines of the Church; that
this belonged, if to any, to the high council or
general conference.
	"Mr. Young, Mr. Cannon and Mr. Caine have,
with some others, presented the claims of their
Church to confidence and favor.
	"After the conversation with Mr. Caine there
followed (October 6th) a general conference of
the Mormon Church, and the proclamation above
set forth was unanimously ratified. Addresses
were there made to the people on the subject by
the president and leading apostles.
	"What is expected because of these proceed-
ings, is no doubt, a removal of the Utah Com-
mission; the preservation of the elective franchise
to the members of the church in all the States and
territories, where they may be and a test oath
may be required of them; a restoration of the
property of the Church; and possibly the ad-
mission of Utah to Statehood with or without a
test oath against polygamy. The present laws
should not however, be changed on these pro-
fessions alone. These can be unmade by the
same body that has made them. The "revelation"
sanctioning polygamy remains unchanged. The
Mormons,  by their works, must prove their decla-
rations to be made in good faith, abandon poly-
gamy and conform to the practices of our people
in social and home life, acknowledge and prove
their allegiance to the United States Constitution
by obedience to the laws made pursuant thereto
by a loyalty equal in time and strength to their
past disobedience. The present system of laws
against Mormon practices has been constructed
by legislative wisdom, sanctioned by judicial de-
cree, and enforced by the Chief Executive of the
nation. Its object is not attained by securing a
proclamation of obedience from those who have
so long resisted it. Its purposes will be accom-
plished only when the opposing system shall have
lost its power, even if it regains the will, to work
the evils of the past.
	The work of the Utah Commission in super-
vising recent elections is set forth, as presented
in their report previeusly published.


UTAH CO., W. S. A. 
	A meeting for the re-election of officers of the
Utah County Woman Suffrage Association for
the ensuing year was held at Provo in the Meet-
ing house on Saturday Nov. 29, at 2 p. m. Mrs.
Susa Y. Gates the retiring President of the Asso-
ciation in the chair. On the platform were
seated Mrs. E. B. Wells of Salt Lake City and
some of the local officers of the W. S. A, among
them Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs. Joanna
Patten; and the Secretaries Mrs. Rebecca H.
Doolan and Miss Eveline Billings, Mrs. Mary
John, Mrs. Marilla M. Daniels, Mrs. Alice M.
Thurman; and Vice Presidents from branch asso-
ciations in other parts were also present.
	The meeting opened with singing, "God moves
in a mysterious way." Prayer was offered by the
Chaplain of the day Mrs. Annie K. Smoot, sing-
ing "O, God our help in ages past." Minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved, also the
Treasurer's report for the past year.
	Reports were given by Mrs. M. A. Webb, Vice
Pres. of Lehi, Mrs. Hannah Lapish, Vice Pres. of
American Fork also Mrs. Elizabeth Brown who


spoke in behalf of Pleasant Grove. Mrs. Webb
and Mrs. Lapish spoke very spiritedly and made
many good points.
	The President Mrs. Gates then made quite a
pathetic appeal to the sisters, giving some very
good reasons why she had not succeeded in ful-
filling her anticipations. The business of re-elec-
ing was then attended to, Mrs. Joanna Patten was
sustained as President for the coming term of
office (one year) and Mrs. Electa Bullock First
Vice Pres. Mrs. Deborah Billings Second
Vice Pres. Mrs. Maria Horrocks Third Vice Pres.
Mrs. Alice H. Wilkin Chairman Executive Board
Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan Recording Secretary,
Miss Mabel Thurman Cor. Sec. Mrs. Jane Jones
Treasurer. The names of five ladies were pre
sented as members of the Ex. Board whose names
were a guarantee that they were capable of the
work. The business of re-electing having been
completed, the newly elected President Mrs
Patten made some very suitable remarks in an
innocent and unaffected tone and manner.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the audience for
some time setting forth the advantages for the de-
velopment of women through being connected
with these Associations and urging all to work in
the interest of woman's advancement, referred to
the great need of woman's help in many public
places, where women were to be cared for, and
the necessity of preparation to perform one's part
well. Referred to the practical experience the
women of Utah had in the exercise of the elective
franchise and to the way in which it was taken
from them because they voted according to their
own best judgment in the matter. Mrs. Wells
then read the Constitution and By-Laws recently
prepared by the National-American W. S. A. and
explained some of the items to the ladies present
Thought Utah County with a paid up member-
ship of nearly five hundred ought to send a delegate
 rom their Association to the Convention in
Washington. Spoke also of the Woman Suffrage
Song Book about to be issued in Salt Lake City
	After some deliberation the ladies sand "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow," meeting ad-
journed for one month and the Chaplain offered
the closing prayer.


FOREIGN LETTER.
London, W. C,
Nov. 17th, 1890.
Dear Sister Wells:
	I take pleasure in informing you as to the con-
dition of the North London Ladies’ Relief Society
since our last report. We are so few in numbers;
our little band has only six working members,
who attend faithfully, and even some of these are
so busily employed, that they have little or no
time for visiting the Saints. However, we are
doing the best we can, and are grateful for the
blessed opportunities that occur to enable us to
help roll on this mighty work. We have re-
ceived 25£ 6s 7d and have expended 22£ 10s 0d to
the poor, and assisting the missionaries, we hold
our meetings monthly, and enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord very much although so few in number. We
are hopeful that we may be useful in the future in
the Relief Society in Zion so are encouraged to
press on, and do our duty day by day. We are
deeply interested in the EXPONENT it is inval-
able to us, and it is looked for by one and all, we
learn so much by it, what our sisters are doing
thousands of miles away, where the sphere is so
much larger and the Spirit is enjoyed to a greater
extent, and we feel encouraged thereby to go on
preparing ourselves to be worthy recipients
of those blessings which are in store for the
faithful workers in Christ's Kingdom.
	Praying that the blessings of heaven may rest
with us all,
	Your Sister in the Gospel, 
	M. E. SCOLES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UTAH W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Woman Suffrage Association
was held in the 14th Ward Meeting House Satur-
day, Nov. 22, 1890 for the purpose of organizing
the Woman Suffrage Association of Salt Lake
County. The President Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
in the chair. Mrs. B. W. Smith, who was ap-
pointed to act as chaplain, opened the meeting
with prayer. Mrs. Margaret Mitchell made a few
remarks, said that she had always felt that wo-
men ought to be free and equal with men; that
as members of this Territory we ought to look
around us and do whatever we could to help
humanity; that we have to be governed and there-
fore we want to be a power in that government
and want to exercise our ability in judging for
ourselves how we should be governed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on the subject of or-
ganizing the W. S. A. of Salt Lake County; said
that they had to use such material as presented
itself and the very best selections of those who
were willing to work in the cause.
	Nominations for the officers of the Association
for Salt Lake County being next in order, the
following persons were unanimously chosen and
sustained to fill the different offices: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard, President; Mrs. Louisa Spencer,
First Vice-president; Mrs. Helena F. Wells
Second Vice-president; Mrs. Rachel Miller,
Third Vice-president; Mrs. Caroline C. Raleigh,
Secretary, Miss Emma Finch, Cor. Sec'y.; Miss
Nellie Morris, Ass't. Sec'y.; Dr. Elvira S. Barney
Treasurer; Mrs. Elizabeth McFarlane, Chair-
man of the Executive Board and Miss May M.
Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Price, Mrs. Clara Field,
Mrs. Nettie Culmer, Mrs. Della Eardley, and Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp, members of the Executive
Board.
	The By-laws of the W. S. A of Utah and the
Constitution of N. W. S. A. were then read by
the Secretary. Mrs. Richards explained some of
the different points in them but felt that there was
no time to make any further remarks.
	The meeting was then adjourned sine die.
		ADA CROXALL Sec.
	Utah Woman Suffrage Association.


The Corresponding secretaries of the National
Council and the National American Woman
Suffrage Association request that the dates of
meeting be stated as follows: National Council
February 22nd 25th. N. A. W. S. A. February
26th—March 1st. The meetings of both organi-
zations will be held in Albaugh’s opera house,
Washington, D. C.


ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister: Thinking perhaps a few lines
from this far off place would not be amiss, I will
endeavor to write you, knowing that most every
one has a peculiar dread of the name of “Arizona”
I should like to enlighten the readers of this
valuable paper a little concerning this isolated
country—but will just say that we have some good
saints in our settlement, I think as true as any in
Zion. We had a visit from Sister Willmirth East
the president of the Relief Society of the St.
Joseph Stake. She came here in Oct., with 
Patriarch P. C. Merrill and wife who had been on
the Gila to attend quarterly conference; they
arrived home on the fiftieth anniversary of their
wedding and their relatives and friends were
pleased to see them home and wish them "many
happy returns of the day."  Sister East stayed
about a fortnight and spent a very enjoyable time
visiting with the sisters and giving advice when
needed. We all feel better in spirits since her
visit and hope she will soon come again, she does
all in her power to do good and help the needy,


and we all desire that she may live long and still
continue in her labors. We had a visit from
 the stake presidency on the 8th of Nov., they
gave good counsel and we are striving to treasure
it up, and live better lives in the future than we
have in the past.
		MARIA MC'RAE.


ONE CHRISTMAS EVE.

[Concluded.]

upon their lips felt that they had met in the
old home for the last time.
	The irrepressible lover was persistent and
fascinating enough to ingratiate himself into
favor with the mother and big brother and
finally to carry Deborah away captive (not on
the wings of the wind) but after the manner
of men as his bride. Not long after the old
home was disposed of to Edward, who notwith-
standing his regard for ancestral inheritances
sold it to strangers.
	Those who remain of that numerous family
who gathered around the same hearthstone on
that festive occasion are scattered far and wide.
Some who were babes then are sleeping in un-
known graves, having perished on the battle
field, others lie where stately monuments mark
their resting place and tell of their heroic
deeds. But though many have died out of
the number who spent Christmas at the old
home yet nevertheless the tribe has increased
and strange to state the fragile little maiden
Deborah who was the prime cause of the ex-
citement has the largest posterity of them all
unless it be the eldest son. It would be im-
possible to tell you the whole story in one
evening, but the old home long ago went to
ruin tho' the great ugly well sweep is still
there and the pure water as it was then has
never failed, and the weary traveler halts on
his way to take a drink from the old well,
and the neighbors come hither to get water
when their wells fail. The hemlock grove is not
yet all cut away and the pines still sigh and
moan and shiver, and the evergreens twine
themselves under and around the trees and
shrubs,and the beautiful birds (or their posterity)
still sing the sweet songs that thrilled the
hearts of those happy children in the days
gone by.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
OF
ELIZABETH B. PRATT.

	The incidents of my life while in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
50 years of my life I have been a member: I
have been in peril by sea and by land and
among false brethren, who denied the truth
after receiving it. And in affliction often, but
out of them all the Lord has delivered me, I
can truthfully say there has been no principle
advanced by the leaders of this Church that I
have ever doubted for one moment.
	When I was sick and afflicted I have been
raised up by the prayer of faith many times.
	My parents were religious and members of
the Wesleyan Methodist Church, and they en-
deavored to bring up their children in the fear
of the Lord, I was trained in religious habits
and attended their Sabbath school in which I
took great pleasure, I was connected with this 
school 18 years in my childhood as a pupil and
as I became older I was placed over a pri-
mary class as teacher.
	When quite young I often regreted that I
had not lived in the days of our Savior and His
Apostles and as I pondered over these things I
became dissatisfied with that faith and mode
of baptism. This caused my parents much un-
easiness, I often went in private and prayed
to the Lord to direct me aright and I always
felt comforted.

[Column 2]

	I continued to pray and waited for several
years believing that in time I should be
directed aright. In the year 1840 a friend
handed me a Pamphlet published by the
Latter-day Saints which told of a Prophet be-
ing raised up and of angels appearing that the
true gospel was restored in its fulness with all
its gifts and blessings. I investigated those
principles and became convinced of the truth
so I found the "Pearl of Great Price." A
number of the Twelve Apostles were on a mis-
sion to England at the time and many received
the truth through their teaching.
	On the 4th of September 1840 Apostle
Brigham Young, afterwards President, led me
down into the waters of baptism; on the fol-
lowing Saturday I was confirmed. These
ordinances were performed by men called by
divine authority to preach and administer in
"the kingdom,set up in these last days no more
to be thrown down, nor given to another peo-
ple."
	The Apostle Heber C. Kimball pronounced
great blessings upon my head. Said, "I should
be a great dreamer and warned of dangers and
comforted in affliction." I received a powerful
testimony of the truth which was a great bless-
ing to me in the opposition I had to meet with
from my relatives and past friends. Old as-
sociates turned their backs on me, but I re-
joiced continually because I had received the
Gospel of our Savior and had seen the gifts
made manifest that were to follow the believer
and confirm the word. Soon after I joined the
Church I was invited to where Apostle Kimball
was to give a father's blessing, he turned to me
and asked if I did not want a blessing, I was
overjoyed to receive one from an Apostle, as I
had so often thought, Oh, that I could have
lived in the days of the ancient Apostles and
now indeed I am in the presence of one, en-
dowed with the same power and authority.
He laid his hands upon my head after the order
of the ancients, and gave me a father's blessing
he said I should receive the gift of tongues
which I did that night, and by my faithfulness
my father's family should all come into the
Church, one after another came into the
Church in three months my father being the
last to receive it. He disposed of his property
and we took our leave of our native land on
the 21st of September 1841.
	We sailed on the ship "Tyrean," Captain
Jackson went by the way of New Orleans with
two hundred and seven passengers bound for
Nauvoo. As we wound slowly out into the
river we sang "Lovely native land farewell."
	Joseph Fielding was the presiding Elder on
board. I was very sick for five weeks and was
nigh unto death, but was healed by the ad-
ministering of the Elders, and the prayer of
faith. We were seven weeks on the sea, and
did not arrive in Nauvoo until November.
There I became acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, a great and good man, and to
sit under his teachings,—I felt "That the lines
had fallen to me in pleasant places."
	My father only stayed nine weeks in the
Church after we came to Nauvoo, he aposta-
tized and moved away to Warsaw with the
family intending to return to England. They
tried to persuade me to follow them and gave
me one week to change my mind, but I stayed
on the ship Zion which has brought me safely
thus far on my journey. I returned to Nauvoo
I worked around from place to place; and
nursed the sick, waiting on them for my board,
for all were too poor to pay wages. The Saints
passed through much poverty and sickness also
persecution, but through all this they rejoiced
in the truth, chills and fever were prevalent
there. The Prophet would go from house to
house and lay hands on the sick, and say to
them "In the name of Jesus Christ arise and
walk." Many of the sick had faith to be in-
stantly healed. I was taught the law of Celestial


marriage by the Prophet Joseph, I never
doubted its truth and I felt in time to come I
should enter into that holy order. In July
1843 I was sealed to Parley P. Pratt at Pres.
Young's house, Hyrum Smith officiated, he
brought the revelation on that order and read
it. Sisters Mary Ann Young and Mary Ann
P. Pratt were witnesses. Joseph was sick at
this time.
	When I was first introduced to the Prophet
he held my hand and said, "God bless you."
There was such an influence with his words I
wondered how any one could doubt his being a
prophet. We would meet to worship on the
Sabbath day in a large bowery, he sometimes
addressed the assembly for two or three hours,
the Saints were rapt in profound attention by
the words of inspiration that fell from his lips,
I felt that I could listen to his teachings and
not get tired. Oh, what a blessing to mankind
to hear a true prophet's voice, only think what
a thick vail of darkness would cover the minds
of the people, when there was such a famine
of the word of the Lord. For
He says in Sacred writ, "That He will do
nothing except He revealeth Himself to His
servants the prophets." He laid the plan of
salvation on the rock of revelation, he brought
to light the true Gospel of our Savior Jesus
Christ, by His own word, not a confused mass
of creeds, opinions and ideas of men, but one
faith and one Lord and one baptism, which
makes the Latter-day Saints one in mind, spirit
and action. The Savior says "Except ye are
one, ye are not mine." By the oneness of the
people we know they have the true Gospel.
In it there is no schisms, wherever the Saints
are located, they believe the same Gospel, they
practice its tenets and the elders of the Church
among all people set forth the same principles
as Christ and His Apostles did eighteen hund-
years ago.
	After my father and our family apostatized
and went away I felt very sorrowful, one even-
ing when going to bed I was feeling cast down
and my sister who had been dead a number of
years, came to me and called me by name and
said, "be comforted you are all right, you have
a work to do for me." I wished to inquire
what she meant but she was gone. In two
days after this the Prophet preached on the
baptism for the dead.
		[To be continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA P. A.
	Primary Conference of the Maricopa Stake
was held at Mesa, Sept 2," 1890, Pres Hannah
Miller presiding. As all the business could
not be attended to in the morning's session
conference was continued in the afternoon.
The opening and closing hymns were sung by
the Mesa Primary.
	The oral reports given by the presidents—
Mrs. H. Burton of Mesa. Mrs. M. A. Steele
of Lehi, Mrs. Vilate L. Baron of Nephi—to-
gether with the written ones showed the
primaries of the different wards to be in a
thriving condition.
	Several of the brethren as well as the
ladies present addressed the Conference en-
couraging all concerned and giving excellent
advice concerning the duties of Primary
officers and members, interspersed with the
speaking was quite a lengthy programme
rendered by the children, consisting of songs,
recitations, essays, dialogues, organ solos, etc;
the crowning feature  however, was the Stake
paper "The Primary Gem" containing nothing
but pieces written by the children and read by
the little editress, Annie Prothero. Conference
was well attended and thoroughly enjoyed by
all present.
		INA POMEROY Sec'y.

CASSIA STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley on the 17, of
Oct. 1890 at 10 a. m.
	In the stand were Pres. Haight and Coun-
selors; a few local officers of the Society of
the brethren the Stake Presidency, bishops
and others. The sisters assembled were dis-
appointed in not seeing some of the sisters
from Salt Lake City as expected, but who
owing to unavaidable circumstances were un-
able to come. However, matters being ex-
plained the disappointment was overcome and
all enjoyed the meetings.
	During the morning session Pres. Haight and
her Counselors addressed the Conference, urg-
ing the sisters to be prompt in attending their
conferences and meetings and discharging
every duty resting upon them. Three of the
wards were represented as doing favorably
though some carelessness was manifested.
	Bro. D. P. Curtis spoke at some length giv-
ing instances of a recent visit to several places
in Utah and dewlling at some length on the
spirit of the recent General Conference which
he had attended.

	At the afternoon session reports were given
of two other wards. Sister Rosabel A.
Brim and Annie Bird, Brothers Frank Brim
and M. Pickett occupied most of the time.
Following are some of their topics: Society
meeting at general Conference; many think if
they preform a few of their duties it is all
right; should nourish charity; not magnify
wrong spoken of any one; not called to meet
death for religion but to live it every day; as-
sociations of young girls who go from home to
work; teachings at general conference; people
of complaining, fault-finding spirit; any man or
woman buried in baptism, should walk forth in
newness of life; man's degrading himself, often 
below the beast that does nor abuse nature;
must watch in faith that things which tran-
spire may be known to us preaching will not
unite people without practice; the brethren
generally assist the sisters in the performance 
of their duties.
	Brother H. D. Haight made remarks con-
cerning spirit of hurry and work prevalent 
among the people even to the neglect of
spiritual duties.
	Items of business attended to and Conference
adjourned until March next.
			LOUISA PICKETT, Sec.


PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	The Primary Associations of Davis Stake,
met in Farmington, Saturday, Sep. 27th 1890,
to hold their semi-annual conference. Sister
Louie B. Felt General President, Sister Ellen
Clawson Pres. of Salt Lake Stake and Miss
May Anderson were present by invitation.
	There were two meetings held, 10 a. m. and
2 p. m. In the morning the children present
were counted and there were 100 boys and 194
girls.
	In this stake there are thirteen fully
organized associations, all in good working
order.
	There is great credit due to Sister Rogers
and her counselors for the excellent manner in
which they conduct these meetings.
	In one or two things especially that are
worthy of imitation. In opening with prayer,
one of the sisters lead, and the whole congrega-
tion repeat in concert. And in calling the
roll, each ward stands up, and the Pres. or
representative states how many are present
from their association, and then all repeat in
concert a sentiment. 
	There was a nice programme, very creditably
rendered by the children. The ladies from


Salt Lake City addressed the children at both
meetings.
	The Bishop of Farmington and some other
brethren were present, and each spoke a few
words of encouragement and advice.
	After meeting there was a general adjourn-
ment to the Fair, which was held in the old
Court House, and a very nice fair it was.
Such a display of fancy and useful articles.
Four nice rag-carpets decorated the corners of
the room, quilts out of number most of them
sewn by hand, and two of them were particu-
larly handsome. A picture frame made by
Miss Luella King age twelve years was very
handsome and unique, being made of leather,
cut into flowers and leaves and then varnished.
	On one table were some little pieces of
patchwork pinned together just as the liltle
sewer had laid it down, and to which is now
attached a sad story. Edith Hogan a little
4 year old girl was very anxious to do some-
thing for the fair, but she took sick and died
the night before the fair opened; and her
mother sent the pieces of patchwork just as
her little daughter had left them.
	One department was devoted to the boys,
who showed their ingenuity by making rakes,
a cupboard, barrow, hammock, some nice
fencing, and a lot of other things, one boy had
grown an immense sunflower, and there were
also some nice rabbits and pigeons.
	Another room was set apart for fruit, pickles
and vegetables, and a very nice showing was
made. All the bottled fruits and preserves
were donated to the Deseret Hospital.
	And I must not forget the little boy who had
broken his leg, and while in bed made some
splashers, and worked them very neatly with
the etching stitch.
	Between meetings a very nice lunch was
prepared in one of the rooms in the Court
House, where the visitors and workers spent a
little time very pleasantly.
		MAY ANDERSON.


SOLITUDE AND ITS ADVANTAGES.

	"The law of compensation governs earth."
Even one's disadvantages may result in her
favor No condition of life has been more
lamented than loneliness and yet loneliness has
advantages which cannot be gainsayed. Chiefest
among these the opportunity which it gives
for the accumulation of force. All work de-
pends upon the expenditure of energy and
that energy in some occult way grows from
processes of life. It accumulates or is dissipated
according to the peculiarities of our surround-
ings and our habits of occupation. The de-
mands of family life require a constant ex-
penditure of force. The same is true of the
demands of business. To recuperate the victim
of nervous exhaustion, we confine him to a
darkened, quiet room. We prohibit conversa-
tion, letters or even books. In this semi-
dormant condition the nerve cells gather up
and accumulate nourishment, endurance. It
rests one to be for a little alone. An invalid
of our acquaintance went from a noisy city
street to a country place and for a week slept
both day and night, awaking only for meals.
The recuperative value of such sleep is enor-
mous.
	But our title referred to conditions of health.
Enforced solitude has produced many of our
greatest works. I say enforced solitude be-
cause we are social creatures and normally we
do not elect to be alone. Moses was obliged
to flee into the wilderness from which he
emerged as the most remarkable leader and
law giver of that or any other time. Even
Christ was driven by the spirit into the wilder-
ness. John Bunyan was incarcerated and the
Pilgrim's Progress was the result. Happy
lives have no history. The heart thrown


back on itself sings the enduring song. Are
you then bereft? Is the object for which you
have striven removed? Are you desolate?
Still your physical constitution is unaltered.
You will continue to manufacture force,
energy, which must be wasted or applied.
What will you do with it? Your responsibility 
does not cease because the usual channel for
youor thoughts has been deflected. Is your life
necessarily lonely? Apply the fact to your own
advantage and that of the world, and yours
may, even become an enviable position through
the noble use which you have made of it.
		The Nightingale.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first Wyoming State Legislature met in
Cheyenne on Wednesday of last week. They
at once elected two eminent woman suffragists,
Judge Carey and Gov. Warren, as U. S.
Senators.
	It should always be remembered that the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is an incorporated body, the papers hav-
ing been recorded in the District of Columbia,
April 16th, 1890. It is therefore capable of
receiving and holding gifts and bequests.
	Mrs. Olive Washburn, of San Francisco, is
about to devote the bulk of her fortune to
founding a Nationalist Colony in California.
Bellamy's "Looking Backward" theories are
to be followed, and all people of good moral
character will be admitted, irrespective of re-
ligious belief. Over $100,000 will be spent in
buildings and improvements. Ex.
	"We learn with great regret that Miss Julia
T. Foster died at her home in Philadelphia,
November 13th. Miss Foster was an earnest
friend and supporter of the woman suffrage
not only in Pennsylvania but nationally, and
those who knew her thus will miss her sweet
face and gentle manners. The warmest
sympathy is extended to her sister, Mrs.
Rachel Foster-Avery."
	"The examination for the Contemporary
History Scholarship of £100 a year for three
years, offered to women by Mr. Stead, the
London critic, will take place next January.
Names should be sent in to him, at the Review
of Reviews Office, Mowbray House, Norfolk,
Street, W. C., before Dec. 1. The examin-
aiton is open to women of any age and nation-
ality."
	In France, in the post-office and telegraph
service, about 5,000 women are engaged, with
salaries from $160 to $800 a year, and
pensions after thirty years' service. Many
women work in railroad offices, for from $200
to $240 a year. About 35,000 women are
teachers in public schools, and almost as many
more are religious teachers, besides those in
private schools. Ex.
	The Swiss universities are Meccas for
women students. The four schools of Zurich,
Basle, Berne, and Geneva have 183 of these
on their rolls, 72 being in Zurich alone, which
first opened its lecture-rooms to women. Of
these, 132 are in the medical department, 45
in the philosophical, 6 in the law. The
Russians are represented by 107 women
Switzerland by only 15. Ex.
	Mrs. Elizabath A. Reed has written a book
on "Hindu Literature: or The Ancient Books
of India," which will soon be issued by S. C.
Griggs & Co., Chicago. It treats of Hindu
Literature, from the earliest songs, of the
Aryan race to the writings of the mediæval
days. The author reviews the labors of
Sanscrit scholars in this vast field of literature,


and then gives a clear concise survey of the
great Indian epics, whose character and scope
are illustrated by copious extracts. Her work
has elicited the cordial interest of such
authorities as Professor Max Muller and Sir
Monier Williams, professor of Sanscrit in
Oxford University.


A BUST FOR MRS. STANTON.

	The Tribune has reported from time to
time the progress of the fund started by Miss
Willard and in charge of Mrs. Holmes of
Galva, Illinois, for the preparation of a bust
of Miss Anthony for the World's Fair. It
has also from the first protested against fail-
ing to give Mrs. Stanton the like recognition,
to which she is entitled both as the founder of
the organized effort for woman's emancipation
and as the official head of the suffrage forces
of the nation. It is therefore with great pleas-
ure that we announce that in response to many
requests that a fund be started, Mrs. Louisa
Southworth of Cleveland, Ohio, has consented
to be the custodian of such sums as may be
contributed by those who desire thus to com-
memorate in marble one whose work is already
enshrined in the achievements of every woman
of this later day. As soon as sufficient respon-
ses have been made, the contributors will be
asked to appoint a committee to carry out
the work.—Womans Tribune.


OBITUARY
	Sister Sarah Ann Willis Scott, wife of John Scott,
deceased, a resident of Mill Creek Ward, departed this
life Oct 30th 1890, after much suffering and long sickness.
Sister Scott was born in Alleghany Co. Pennsylvania,
Feb. 4th 1825.  She came to Utah in the year 1849.
Passing through all the trials incident to settling a new
country, with patience and fortitude  Through all she
remained true to the covenants she had made.  She has
been a faithful member of the R. S. for many years, she
held the office of a teacher and was always ready in the
performance of her duties.
	Dear friend and co-laborer, we shall miss your Society,
we know you have only gone a little while before, then if
we are faithful, we may be permited to join you in the
mansions of the redeemed.
	We extend our sympathy to the bereaved family.
She leaves four sons, three daughters and twenty grand
children.  Mourn not for those who die in the Lord,  their
reward is sure.
						ELIZABETH HILL, Pres,
						FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF SYMPATHY.

BLUFF WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.

	To Bro. Allan and his wife Jane on the death of their
beloved children John A. and Florence, who died Oct. 20,
and 22, of diphteria.
	Whereas, the Lord in His divine wisdom has taken to
himself your loved ones, and that during the absence of
their father we feel to assure you that you have our heart-
felt sympathy in this your bereavement; and knowing that
the Lord doeth all things well we feel to say; His will be
done.
	Resolved that we tenderly condole with the family of the
deceased in this their hour of affliction and devoutly com-
mend them to the fostering care of him who looks with
pitying eye upon those who suffer.
	Resolved, that in the natural sorrow which we feel for
the loss of our kindred, and knowing it is well with those
who die in the Lord, we find consolation in the belief that
if we are faithful to the cause of Christ we shall meet the
loved ones when time shall be no more, and where sin and
sorrow have no place.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be presented to
the bereaved family also that one be sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication and that it be spread on the
pages of our record.
		MARTHA HAMMOND.
		JOSEPHINE WOOD.
		ELIZA REDD.
			Committee.


Tickets
ON SALE
TO  ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
			S. W. ECCLES,
				Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in 
LACES,  RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str.

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


MINCE MEAT.—Five pounds lean fresh beef chopped
raw, two pounds beef suet chopped fine and cleared from
strings, seven pounds of apples chopped fine five pounds
raisins seeded and chopped, five pounds currants washed
and cleaned, one pound citron cut up fine, five table
spoonsful powdered cinnamon, three tablespoosfull
powdered mace, two tablespoonsful powdered cloves, tw
tablespoonsful powdered alspice, two tablespoonsful salt,
two nutmegs, five pounds brown sugar, one pint best
brandy and enough fresh cider to render nice and juicy.
After mixing all together boil ten or fifteen minutes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1890.	NO. 13.


CONTENTS.

	Lost and Found,—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh.
Autobiography,—Elizabeth B. Pratt. From Far
Away,—E. A. Crane Watson. The Coin of
Polite Society. Girls Behind the Counter.
Queen Isabella Pavilion. Notes and News. The
Woman's Store. National American Woman's
Suffrage Association.
	EDITORIAL:—Christmas—Peace and  Good-
will. Editorial Notes. The Sisters in Canada,—
Zina Y. Card. A Resolution. A Prophecy.
	POETRY:—Victors. Judge Not,—A. A. Proctor.
Christmas Bells. Christmas Eve,—Lu Dalton.
Trust and Duty,—Helen M. Whitney. Martha
Washington,—Mary E. Kail. The Last Eve of
Summer,—John G. Whittier. Friendship's Trib-
ute,—Emily H. Woodmansee.


VICTORS.

Not to the brave upon the battlefield,
	Alone, the palms of victory belong;
	Nor only to the great of earth the song
Of praise and paean should the singer yield.
Greater the souls that, single handed, wield
	The battle-ax against the hosts of wrong,
	Unknown, unnoted in life's reckless throng,
And only in God's day to stand revealed.
How many such, in patient, humble guise,
	Beside us walk their brief appointed way,
	Nobly enduring; worthiest to shine
As fixed stars in Fame's eternal skies!
	For these, for this, I reverently lay
On their dear dust this little leaf of mine.
		Overland Monthly.


JUDGE NOT.

BY A. A. PROCTOR.

Judge not; the workings of his brain
	And of his heart thou canst not see;
What looks to thy dim eyes a stain,
	In God's pure sight may only be
A scar, brought from some well-worn field,
Where thou wouldst only faint and yield.

The look, the air, that frets thy sight
	May be a token that below
The soul has closed in deadly fight
	With some infernal fiery foe,
Whose glance would scorch thy smiling grace,
And cast thee shuddering on thy face !

And judge none lost, but wait and see,
	With hopeful pity, not disdain;
The depth of the abyss may be
	The measure of the height of pain
And love and glory that may raise
This soul to God in after days !


CHRISTMAS BELLS.
Dear are the sounds of the Christmas chimes
	In the land of the ivied towers,
And they welcome the dearest of festival times
	In this Western world of ours !
Bright on the holly and mistletoe bough,
	The English firelight falls,
And bright are the wreathed evergreens now
	That gladden our own home walls.
		And hark! the first sweet note that tells
		The welcome of the Christmas bells.

They are ringing to-night through the Norway firs,
	And across the Swedish fells.		
And the Cuban palm-tree dreamily stirs
	To the sound of those Christmas bells !


They ring where the Indian Ganges rolls
	Its flood through the rice-fields wide;
They swell the far hymns of the Laps and Poles,
	To the praise of the Crucified.
		Sweeter than tones of the ocean’s shells,
		Mingle the chimes of the Christmas bells.

The years come not back that have circled away
	With the past of the Eastern land,
When He plucked the corn on the Sabbath day
	And healed the withered hand;
But the bells shall join in a joyous chime
	For the One who walked the sea,
And ring again for the better time
	Of the Christ that is to be;
		Then ring ! for the earth's best promise dwells
		In ye, O joyous prophet bells.


CHRISTMAS EVE,
'Tis sweet Christmas Eve, O my darling,
	The blessed, the glad Christmas eve,
And under the bloom of the starlight,
	I'm waiting and listening for thee.
Oh canst thou not hear the low calling
	My spirit wafts outward to thine?
A tender wave rising and falling
	Entreating thy soul answer mine?

Oh, gladly I think of the manger
	And Him who so lowly was laid,
The sages who greeted the stranger
	And gifts at his tiny feet laid,
The mother so happy and holy,
	And Joseph so gentle and true,
The shepherds who bowed them so lowly,
	And the star lighting midnight so blue.

The beautiful chorus of angels
	Their happiness pouring in song,
Their greeting to earth and to mortals
	Which echo still carries along,
The love which looked down out of heaven
	Enfolding the children of earth,—
To us its best treasure was given,
	And so our Redeemer had birth.

Oh, love is the light of high heaven,
	The soul of the universe fair;
To win us above it was given,
	And will be our glory when there;
Then proudly I own that I love thee
	And long for thy coming tonight;
May all these bright star-eyes above thee
	Remind thee of me with their light.

A year ago, darling, you sought me
	And patiently waited my feet,
A gift in your hand too you brought me,
	Bestowed with a kiss pure and sweet.
Oh dear were the kiss and the token,
	And clear the light in thine eye,
And precious the words which were spoken
	Beneath the deep starlight sky

Thou comest not, yet I’ll not doubt these,
	Thou best of the image of God;
His blessings and peace be about thee,
	His word be thy staff and thy rod.
Though I nevermore should behold thee
	Nor hear the dear sound of thy voice,
His love ever warmly enfold thee
	And thou in His goodness rejoice.

Oh, hark! as the clear angel voices
	Roll sweetly the firmament through,
Dissolve my glad soul in their chorus
	And ope to my wondering view
The present, the past and the future,—
	Like the shepherds from Judea's sod
Enraptured I look up to heaven,
	For love makes me one with God.
						LU DALTON.


LOST AND FOUND.
	     M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	In the soft, mellow, twilight of a bright
December day a lady past middle age, sat in
a luxuriously furnished boudoir. Her attit-
tude and contour, accorded well with the “dim
religious light,” which rested on her alone
while it left the other portions of the room in
the deepest gloom.
	The last rays of the closing day seemed to
concentrate around her as tho’ unwilling the
darkness should conceal that calm placid brow,
and sweetly curved lips, from which niether
sorrow or time had been able to steal the
amiable expression.
	The house in which that boudoir was
situated was one of London’s stateliest mansions.
It stood at the corner of an old square at the
West end, but was not the less aristocratic be-
cause of its age, for every house in that square
belonged to a family who really had ancestors,
and of those ancesters they had reason to be
proud, and none more so, perhaps, than the
lady above alluded too. She had wealth in
abundance, and the entree into the highest
circles, even royalty welcomed her with more
than courtly politeness when she appeared
among them. She was benevolent almost to
a fault, for few ever sought her aid in vain;
yet, she resided in that princely home alone
surrounded only by dependents, but they were
faithful, and watched over her tenderly, for 
they loved her, and in their love they carefully
tended her. It was no secret that in early life
she had suffered from some great sorrow, but
few knew the true cause. At twenty-five, her
hair had become quite white, it was thus sor-
row left its mark. As a girl she was very
beautiful, and her beauty was peccliar; her
skin was of dazzling whiteness, her eyes blue,
hair, eyebrows, and eyelashes, were nearly
black, so dark that until the sun shone upon
them no color could be perceived in them.
She was my senior by several years and as a
child I almost worshipped her. I had been 
absent from England two years, and on my
return I found her as I have described her,
still bearing her maiden name Marrianne
Lester. When I went away it was publicly
know that she was engaged to a Mr. Holds-
worth and the day fixed for the marriage, but
one week previous to the date announced for
the ceremony, a paragraph in the newspaper
announcing the marriage of Edward Holds-
worth, her affianced husband, to a Miss Elise
Blessi. Miss Blessi was from Switzerland, and
Marrianne had met her in Paris, she had in-
vited her to her father’s house, on a visit,
which was to extend till after Marrianna’s
marriage. There Holdsworth had met her, 
and the result was an elopement, and marriage.
	It was the oft told tale, a fickle minded man
and a false friend. After the marriage the
pair had gone to Switzerland, there to remain
until the scandal should be partially forgotten.
Marrianne uttered no complaint, but quietly
left England for a tour in Italy. On reaching
Florence she was taken ill, the strain had
prostrated her, and for a time she was a wreck
mentally and physically, of her former self.
A good constitution, and careful nursing, re-
stored her to her family with her beauty but
little impaired, her amiability more pronounced
and her hair bleached to a perfect white, by
sorrow and suffering. It was thus I met her


on my return home, and heard from her
parents her sad story. When she was about
twenty-eight she was married to a Mr. Whit-
more; he was an officer of high rank in the
British army, and just the kind of a man to
estimate such a woman aright. Her happiness
however, was of short duration, for nine months
after they were married, her husbaud’s regi-
ment was ordered to the East Indies, that
country was then in a very unsettled state and
ladies were advised by the government not to
accompany their husbands, so Marrianne
parted with her husband and they met no more
on earth. Three months after Mr. Whitmore’s
departure a boy was born to them, the advent
of her son, relieved the monotony of her life,
and gave a new zest to her existence. When
her child was a little more than one year old,
she received the announcement of her hus-
band’s death, through cholera. She was now
a wealthy widow, not yet thirty-one years of
age, with only her boy to claim her attention
and care. After a time she had numerous
offers of marriage, but refused them all, for as
she said, I have been twice widowed, that
surely is enough in one lifetime.
	As the boy grew toward manhood he gave
every promise of being a worthy successor to
his noble father after whom he had been
named, Edgar. He passed through his school
days with credit, and to the university with
every prospect of a brilliant career. He had
been carefully trained by his mother in the
path of duty and rectitude, and she thought
she need have no fear for his future. Alas,
how often our brightest hopes are clouded
over when we least expect it. Edgar got
among a bad set, at Oxford, was led on from
one excess to another became a drunkard, and
gambler,and finally in a drunken brawl,stabbed
a fellow student, as he supposed fatally. To
save himself from arrest, he escaped to Liver-
pool, from there he sent to his mother for
money and after receiving it he disappeared;
from that time he had never been heard of. Is
there any wonder that in her loneliness,
Marrianne Whitmore was sad? Of Edward
Holdsworth she knew nothing,he had gone out
of her life and no one spoke of him in her pres-
ence.
	This is a brief sketch of her life,prior to the
December evening when we first introduced
her to our readers. It was four days before
the one which would usher in the New Year;
she had invited a neice, who had just returned
from school in Paris to make her a long visit
so that she might introduce her into society,
or as it is termed, bring her out, and a more
accomplished and graceful chaperon she could
not have had. As she sat in the twilight she
was listening for the arrival of the carriage;
propared to go down at the first sound of the
house bell to receive, and welcome her visitor.
The carriage arrived while the servant was
lighting the lamps, she quickly descended to
the hall, and to her surprise saw two young
ladies leave the carriage, one sprang lightly up
the marble steps, and into the extended arms
of her aunt; the other came slowly and hesi-
tatingly and in the doorway stopped, waiting
for an invitation to enter.
	“Oh, aunt Marrianne,” said the neice, how
kind it was of you to send for me, it was
dreadfully dull in the country except on
Christmas day; how I shall enjoy being in
London, but, oh dear I had forgotten, I have
a surprise for you. I have brought a dear
friend with me, I knew it would be all right
with you. She had no home to go to for the
holidays, she has been like a sister to me, and
I knew you would love her for that, and after-
wards for herself when you know her.”
	“You mad cap,” said her aunt, “why did
you not bring her in, and not leave her stand-
ing outside, come here, my dear,” and she

[Column 2]
drew the stranger to her, and gave her a wel-
coming kiss.
	“Dear madam,” said the girl, “this is indeed
kind, I never thought to receive such  a wel-
come.” “I told you how it would be with aunt
Marrianne,” said Mathilde, “why aunty mama
tried all she could to keep her, to supply my
place she said, just think of it, when I had
such a dear generous aunt in London; but you
will take cold aunty and I am hungry, let us
go to my room and change our dresses and we
will be down so quickly that you will wonder
how we accomplished such a metamorphis in
so short a time.” The maid, who was waiting
led the way up the stairs and the two girls
want to the room prepared for the niece until
one could be made ready for the unexpected
guest.
	Directly after the girls descended to the draw-
ing room dinner was announced, and as the
three were leaving to go to the dining room,
Mrs. Whitmore smilingly said “Mathilde, has
your friend a name, I should like to know it if
she has?” How stupid of me aunty, why of
course she has, and a very sweet one too, it is
Florence Holdsworth, quite English, is it not
although her parents were Swiss, but, what is
the matter,you are ill, aunty,"for at the mention
of the girl’s name, Mrs. Whitmore had turned
deathly pale, and only by the exercise of her
strong will, had kept herself from fainting.
	She recovered herself quickly, saying, “no,
my dear, I felt a sudden chill,I am better now,
lut us go to dinner.”
	During the meal nothing more was said of
Florence,but in the evening in the drawing room
Mrs. Whitmore questioned the girl, until she
had heard all that she knew of her parentage.
“Her parents,” she said, had lived in Paris,
her mother died when she was two days old,
her father gave her into the care of a nurse,
so she had been told; when she was three years
old the nurse married a soldier, and placed
her in a home for orphans telling the good
sisters who managed it, that her father would
claim her and pay them for their trouble.
	He came once to see her, and finding his
child would be well taken care of, he left a
sum of money, sufficient to provide for all her
wants, until he should return, which he would
in about five years, she would then be old
enough to go to school, and he would relieve
the sisters of their charge. He was going with
an exploring party to south Africa, they would
visit the, then much talked of, diamond fields
and on his return would make a home for him-
self and little daughter. He had never re-
turned to claim her, and at the age of fourteen
the committee of the orphanage had placed
her in the school where Mathilde found her.
She had been kindly treated but had nowhere
to go for a holiday, and had seen but little of
the world outside the school, until Mathilde
brought her to England, and she must return
there when her visit terminated. “Is it not
dreadful, aunty to have no holidays,” said
Mathilde, “and it would have been no holiday
in the country, and I not there, I do not like
to oppose mama, it is wrong to do so, but I
could not help it this time, and you are glad I
brought her, are you not, aunt Marrianne.
	“Very glad indeed my dear, and she shall
have a long holiday, I will write to the school,
and arrange for her stay. Will this arrange-
ment suit you Florence?”
	“Indeed it will, dear madam, I seem to have
had a glimpse of Paradise and only fear I shall
find it but a glorious dream, and that I shall
awake to find myself in the school room, an
orphan, and unknown.
	By the day following Mrs. Whitmore had
learned all Florence could tell of her history
and had come to the conclusion she was the
daughter of her former lover; but, the sin of
the father must not be visited upon the child

[Column 3]
and she would keep her until she could find
her relatives.
	No doubt thought Mrs. Whitmore, Holds-
worth is dead, but his parents may be alive,
or his sister, he was an only son, and at the
death of his parents would inherit consider-
able property He had an independency of
his own left him by an uncle so may be traced
through his lawyers or bankers; thus she rea-
soned. Mrs. Whitmore was childless now, and
this girl would, in a measure, fill the void in
her heart. In the privacy of her chamber
she prayed for strength and guidance to carry
out the project she had formed. She had
invited a large party to a dinner and ball on
New Year’s day, at which her neice was to make
her debut, she would now have two to chape-
rone, and Florence must be provided with a
costume for the occasion, Mathilde was well
suppliod in that particular. During lunch
Mrs. Whitmore invited the girls to go with
her on a shopping expedition,saying as Florence
was not likely to have any more holidays, this
one must be made as pleasant as possible.
“Aunt Mathilde, it is too sad to think of no
more holidays,” and she kissed her friend,
whose eyes had filled with tears. “She will
not need any, for she will not return to the
school, that is, if she will be content to remain
with me, mine is a lonely life, but I will en-
deavor to enlighten hers, if she will accept my
offer.”
	“Accept, dear madam, cried Florence, you
cannot tell how thankfully, and by God’s help
you shall never have cause to regret your kind-
ness.”
	Mrs. Whitmore personally selected the
necessary dress for her protege. She was a
little anxious for the eventful evening,Florence
had not been in society,she might be awkword
and shy, but when the two girls appeared, her
anxiety gave way to surprise, at the perfect
ease, and sang froid of Florence and now that
she was elegantly, and becomingly dressed she
saw how beautiful she was, and at the first
opportunity whispered to her, saying, “I am
more than pleased with your appearance and
manner Florence.”
	“Dear madam how can I ever sufficiently
repay all your generosity and kindness,” re-
plied Florence. “By calling me Aunt Marri-
anne for the future, and being to me all a
niece should be, Mathilde will not be with me
long, and I want a companion,” said the elder
lady.
	The party was a very brilliant one, and the
advent of the two girls into society a success.
	Mrs. Whitmore instructed her lawyer to
ascertain if the parents of Holdsworth were
still living, and if anything was known of his
whereabouts; not that she wanted to part with
Florence, but to know if he was alive and had
deserted his daughter, an act she believed him
capable of, after his conduct towards herself.
	Mrs. Whitmore understood now, why her
brother’s wife endeavored to prevent Mathilde
bringing Florence with her. She had no idea
who the girl was, but thought the name she
bore would call up unpleasant memories, and
did not wish to add one drop to the cup al-
ready filled to overflowing with sorrow, of her
amiable relative The lawyer reported that
the parents of Holdsworth were dead, and his
sister had heard nothing from him for years,she
was holding his portion of the property until
his return, or till the time had expired when
the law would consider him dead. Of this
Florence was not informed; and when in the
Spring Mrs. Whitmore proposed a trip to
Switzerland,the girls were delighted, especially
Florence. She knew it was the home of her
mother, and perhaps she might find her rela-
tives. “Do you know what was your mother’s
maiden name?’ enquired Mrs. Whitmore.
Florence said she had never heard it, and
smiled at her own thoughtlessness, seeing how


[column 1] 
futile was the hope of ever finding her mother's
family; yet she could perhaps find the Holds-
worths, for she did not know but they were 
Swiss also. How little she thought that her
mother was once the schoolmate and trusted
friend of the lady who had adopted her, and
who was taking this journey to find her rela-
tives, and if possible ascertain if there were 
any other children of Holdsworth, especially
if there was a son, if there was, he was entitled
to the property of his father, and she would
put him in the way to claim it. The Blessi's
she knew had lived near the Lake of Zurich,
and to the City of Zurich she first went. With
little trouble she learned that, the grand-
parents of Florence were dead, but a brother of
Mrs. Holdsworth occupied the old home. To 
him she went and learned that his sister had
never been strong after her marriage, she had
four children, all of whom died in their infancy
after the last one died, Holdsworth took his
wife to Paris, for the purpose of consulting a
celebrated physician. She died there, and he
had heard nothing of her husband since, and
he thought there could be no child alive. Mrs.
Whitmore kept all this from Florence, Blessi
was a farmer, and not too well off, and she
destined Florence for a higher position.
	They spent the Summer among the Swiss
Alps, and after visiting Lake Lucerne returned
to London.
	During her absence Mrs. Whitmore's lawyers
had not been idle, but all they could learn
was that, Holdsworth had closed his account
with his bankers, and left the country nearly
twenty years before.
	They urged upon Mrs. Whitmore the 
necessity of Florence claiming her father's
property, but she hesitated, perhaps Holds-
worth may return, at least she would wait un-
til Florence was twenty-one, she was now nine-
teen, and did not need it. Mathilde was two
years older, she was going to marry a gentle-
man whose property adjoined her father's and
reside most of the time in the country. Mrs.
Whitmore and Florence would then be left
alone, in that grand old home, and if the elder
lady was not happy she was resigned, while the
younger one was radiantly happy. As the
months rolled by Florence received many
offers of marriage, but refused them all, either 
her heart was untouched, or she would not
leave the desolate woman whom she so dearly 
loved.
	Abut one week prior to the twenty-first an-
niversary of Florence's birthday the two ladies
were riding in Hyde Park; a gentleman on 
horseback passed them, as he did so Mrs.
Whitmore raised her eyes to his face, their
eyes met and something in him reminded her
of the past, of some one she had known, but 
where, or when, she could not recall to memory.
They were preparing to celebrate Florence's 
birthday with more than usual festivities, and 
the incident was forgotten.
	Mrs. Whitmore had presented Florence with
a splendid set of pearls, as a birthday gift, 
and she herself had selected the dress she
would wear with them, at the ball.
	When Florence appeared in the drawing
room she was the cynosure of all eyes, she had
developed into a splendid woman, with the
fair skin and blue eyes of her Swiss mother,
and the bright auburn tresses of her father
which Mrs. Whitmore so well remembered. Just
before dinner a note was brought to Mrs.
Whitmore, it contained only these words,
"Edward Holdsworth is in London" it came 
from her lawyer, and he left word with the
servant that he would call the next day. The
news gave her a shock, and for a few moments
she felt a sensation, almost like despari. Was
the girl she had learned to love so well to be
taken from her, and must she again be left 
alone with her sorrow? A little reflection how-
[column 2]
ever, convinced her that Florence would not 
desert her even for her father.
	She now knew who the man was she had
seen in the park, and she must nerve herself
to meet him, and talk to  him. On the morrow
her lawyer told her that Holdsworth had
heard of their inquiries respecting him, and 
called to know what they wanted him for.
	He was told that they must see their client
before informing him, and they would write
him in a few days, if he would leave his 
address, he seemed much annoyed at their 
reticence, and now what was to be done.
	"I will see him myself," said Mrs. Whit-
more, "Florence, I have not told anything, not
even of the efforts you have made so find her 
father, and she must be kept in ignorance a
little longer, ask him to call upon me as soon
as possible, but be careful not to give a hint of
who I am, he may not recognize me, at which 
I shall feel pleased, if he does we can not help
it, at any rate I must see him."
	At five o'clock of the next day a card was
handed to Marrianne, bearing the name of
Edward Holdsworth, and a request for an in-
terview accompanied it. She was dressed
ready to accompany Florence to an evening
party, she knew the young lady would be some
time before she was ready and hoped the inter-
view would terminate before she came down,
and she desired the servant to show him into 
the drawing room. As he entered she rose to
receive him saying, "you wished to see me Mr. 
Holdsworth."
	Edward had not recognized her features,
but when she spoke, he knew her voice, and
exclaimed, "Marrianne, Mrs. Whitmore, why
have you sought me. I have wronged you 
deeply, and have suffered for it, be merciful
and spare me now?" "It is to avenge that
wrong that I tried to find you and my Nemesis
will heap coals of fire upon your head;" tell
true," she continued, "have you any children?"
"I fear not," he answered, "I left a little girl
in Paris, when I left Europe, but I can not
trace her, the lady who kept the school where
she was educated is dead, and her successors
know nothing of my little Florence, she would
now be twenty-one, and what would I not give 
to give to find her?" "How long is it since
you deserted her?"
	"I did not mean to desert her, I left money
to support her for five years, intending to re-
turn by that time, circumstances I could not
control prevented me, I wrote to the institution
where I left her and they replied, stating that
she was well and still with them, still hoping 
to return I neglected to write. One year ago
I arrived in Paris, and went to enquire for my
daughter. The books were produced and the
record showed that she had been sent to a cer-
tain school at the age of fourteen and as I
told you at first I can not find her." "Do
you deserve to find her?" was the next question.
"Mrs. Whitmore you are severe, but from you
I can bear much, tell me what you have to 
say, and I will not trouble you longer."
	At that moment Florence entered the
room and was going to ask her aunt if her
dress was satisfactory but seeing a stranger she
stopped and commenced an apology. "Come
here, my darling," said Mrs. Whitmore "I
wish to introduce you to this gentleman, my
adopted neice Mr. Holdsworth."
	"Florence this is your father!"
	Father and daughter looked at each other a
moment in silence, then the father held out
his arms, and was about to embrace her, but
she drew back to the side of her aunt, saying, 
"You must be misinformed, my dear aunt, it
cannot be true, this man is not my father, or
he would have found me before this, and cared 
for me, you are the only being on this earth
for whom I have a filial attachment, do not 
send me from you, to a stranger and she burst
into tears." "I will never do so against your
[column 3]
wish Florence," then to Holdsworth, "This is
how I have avenged the wrong you did me,
your daughter came to my house a friendless
orphan. When I heard her name and
history I knew who she was, you see what she
is. I took her to Switzerland found her uncle,
he did not know of her existence, I did not
enlighten him, for I had determined to keep
her with me, and she does not know what her
mother's name was, nor that she was once my
friend and you my affianced husband. she has
heard it now, let her choose between us, she is
of full age and you cannot claim her." "And
if he did it would be useless," said Florence.
"You I will not leave until you force me to 
do so." "You hear her decision Edward
Holdsworth, I have my revenge, now go, and
be happy if you can."
	"Surely you will permit me to see her alone
and reason with her; you do not know what
it is to be deprived of wife and children, or you
would have compassion on me." "Do I not 
listen, I was the beloved wife of a noble 
husband, I had a son, and when he was but a 
child, his father died, my son grew to man-
hood, and bade fair to make as good a man as
his father, like me, he was betrayed by a false
friend, he left England, and I do not know
where or what he is, or if he is alive or dead.
I did not desert him and would have given
my life to have saved his, and I would sacri-
fice all I posess to day if it would give me
back my son." "Mrs. Whitmore what is your
sons name?" asked Holdsworth excitedly.
"Edgar" she replied. "Then I believe I can 
tell you something of him, I met a Mr. Edgar
Whitmore in Cape Town South Africa, he
told me a little of his past, the reason why he
left England, that he dare not return, some
friend keeps him informed of your movements,
he knew of your adoption of Florence, and it
pleased him, for he thought it would comfort
you. He is wealthy for he was fortunate at the
diamond fields, and would be only too glad to
return if it was safe for him to do so, he knew 
his arrest would kill you, and prefered that
yov should mourn him as dead, it was better
so than disgrace he thought. How little I 
thought that the mother he loved so tenderly
was the woman I had wronged, and the girl
she had adopted my own child. I can give
you the address of his bankers at Cape Town,
and through them you can communicate with
him." "He need never have left England,"
said Mrs. Whitmore "had he written to my
lawyers they would have informed him that the
man he stabbed did not die, and he admitted
to the authorities that he had led Edgar into
excesses which in his sober moments he 
abhorred. He had cheated him at cards, had 
borrowed money from him, and when Edgar
would lend him no more he taunted him, until
the boy was driven to madness, and the sequel
you know."
	Mr. Holdsworth gave her the address. The 
next day her lawyers wrote to the bank en-
closing a letter from Mrs. Whitmore to her 
son.
	In less than a year he reached home, and 
before another had passed he was the husband
of Florence, who admitted after she was
married, that she had been in love with him
from the time she first saw his portrait, and that
was why she had refused all offers of marriage,
soe had always had a presentment that some
day she would meet the original.
	Edgar's friend had given him a discription
os Florance as he had seen her in public, so
that when he received his mother's letter he 
resolved if he could win her affection his
mother should have a daughter she loved,
and could call her own. Mrs. Whitmore re-
ceived Holdsworth as a friend, he had been the
means of her finding her son the past could
not be recalled, and it was best to bury it in 
oblivion, and appreciate present happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


100				WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a. m.
to 5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
									SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	DECEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]﻿
CHRISTMAS—PEACE AND GOOD-WILL.
	Christmas time always brings up old memories
and associations, recalls home and childhood and
those with whom we have mingled in former days.
The tenderest feelings and emotions are
awakened and benevolence, peace and good-will
towards all mankind takes possession of us for
the time being at least; and the higher and better
attributes and qualities of the soul are brought
out in enlarged charity and gentler kindness;
those whom Providence has smiled upon munifi-
cently make grateful acknowledgements of divine
favor by bestowing upon others, their friends and
neighbors, gifts; and temporal blessings upon the
poor and unfortunate. But after all how much of
the charity St. Paul speaks of in the New Testa-
ment do we exercise; the charity that surpasses
all else, that suffereth long and is kind, that is
greater than bestowing all one’s goods to feed
the poor, that must indeed be pure love of one’s
fellow men, devoid of envy, jealousy,or a hope of
reward; the love that our Savior manifested when
He gave Himself a ransom for all mankind, to
redeem the world, not for His own glory but un-
selfishly to do the will of His Father.
	Is there any other day in all the year that calls
to mind such generous impulses, and gives to the
individual believer in the babe of Bethlehem,such
longings to be like unto Him who when He was
reviled, reviled not again, and who bore with
meekness and patience all crosses and sorrows
even suffering an ignominious death with those
sublime words upon his dying lips, that have
reached through the ages down, to our day.
Father forgive them for they know not what they
do?”
While we profess to be His followers shall we not
in some degree attempt to reach this high
standard of greatness and excellence by some act
of forgiveness, or sublime charity more than giv-
ing good gifts to those from whom we receive in
return. Is not this what we try to do to satisfy
our own consciences? Do we go into the high-
ways and byways and seek out the poor and
the suffering, and minister unto them as He did
whose example we should imitate in as much as
the human can emulate the infinite. Humility in
its perfection characterized the life of Christ, and
yet those who have taken upon themselves
His name are full of pride and arrogance despis-
ing those who are not in possession of wealth or
culture, and passing them by on the other side
as the Levite did the poor man who fell among
thieves, but we should be at any rate once in a
year at Christmas time like the good Samaritan;
who bound up the wounds and ministered to the
comfort of the poor man.
	New resolves concerning our acts ot kindness
to others, or even of generosity is not all; it is
not enough that we give our goods to feed the
poor, or even offer up what we consider a great

[Column 2]
sacrifice, nor that we forgive those who have
traspassed against us, if we would be accepted of
our Father in heaven, but cultivate that love to-
wards our fellow men that our Savior had, and
live at all times according to the light and
knowledge we have received, for it was said by
one of old “Obedience is better than sacrifice.”
	We should be joyful at Christmas time for the
sake of the children, if not our own, and even if
burdens oppress us or griefs have overtaken us
lay them aside for the time being and contribute
in some measure to the enjoyment of others. It
is pleasant to see the great gatherings of large
families, and it is an especial delight to watch
the children’s exuberance and gaiety on the ad-
vent of Santa Claus, and the good dinners that
are always an adjunct of the occasion.
	Children enjoy giving and it is a happy manner
of teaching the principle of charity to the little
ones, to allow them to give from their own portion
of toys or luxuries, to those who have less of the
good things of this life.
	Children’s impressions are deep-seated and
strong and often follow them through life, and
perhaps there is not a day that fastens itself
more closely upon the heart and remembrance,
and to which the child when grown to manhood
turns with greater affection than Christmas day
at the old home, whether he goes out into the
world alone, or travels the raging main, on sea
or land wherever he may be, when the blessed
Christmas time comes he invariably recalls the
incidents of home life.
	It is in every sense of the word a red letter
day to all who have ever known the blessing of
a real home and its benign and sanctifying in-
fluence. It throws a halo around the future life
of those who in childhood have partaken of its
joys and pleasures, and participated in the festivi-
ties of these holiday occasions. The middle-aged
and aged all, all classes, all races one might say
share in the general enjoyment and are anxious
to promote the happiness of family and friends
on this day of days. The bells are expressive
of the joy and contentment that floats over the
land and Christmas bells, ring on through hte
coming ages of time the peace and good-will,
that nerve the hosts of men and women to braver
and nobler deeds in the living of their own lives
and serving of their fellowmen.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We have on hand Relief Society reports
from several of the Stakes of Zion, but have
postponed publishing them until after the holi-
days to make room for more interesting matter.
"Lost and Found" a story by Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh will be very much better reading and
more suitable for the holiday time than R. S.
Reports or local matters. Mrs. Greenhalgh is a
very versatile,and entertaining, as well as a gifted
writer.
	The Office of the Juvenile Instructor, is just
over the way and every time we look out,it greets
us pleasantly its windows are full of novelties in
the way of toys and books for the children's
Christmas and Santa Claus must have brought
many a heavy load with his reindeers if he sup-
plied the store with these articles. Dolls and
toys in great variety and dolls housekeeping sets,
bedsteads, cradles, baby carriages for dolls and
tables, cupboards, and sideboards, dishes, and
furnishings complete. Cards and and booklets in
new and pretty designs and cheap too, and books
both at wholesale and retail as well as stationery.
The Juvenile Office makes a business of supply-
ing Sunday School Superintendents with books
etc. There is scarcely anything in this line of
goods that this house does not carry. They order
books from the best Eastern dealers, as well as
publish home literature. It is a good place to
[Column 2]
make selections from not only for Christmas pres-
ents, but books for winter evening's at home or
for libraries public or private.

	C. R. Savage at the Art Gallery on Main St.
makes a specialty of pictures, and he displays ex-
cellent taste in his selections and in the art of
photography he excels particularly in scenery.
He keeps an immense stock of this class of
goods and his windows give one a pretty correct
idea of what can be found inside, and has a
variety from which to choose of every style.
He also advertises games of all kinds and prices,
and these quiet pastimes for chi[-]dren and others
as well who are older, serve to while away a
tedious hour when one is tired of work and needs
recreation as well as rest. This establishment
keeps a large and complete line of art supplies
for painting on china, glass, cardboard, canvas,
bolting cloth, satin, velvet, plush etc. In fact the
proprietor has done a great deal in this way to
encourage art and artists. Books in great variety
are also found in Savage's store and numerous
toys and novelties in this line for the holidays.

	Duncan Mc'Allister and Co. have spared no
pains in arranging their Christmas goods and they
have succeeded admirably. They have what might
be termed Christmas itself in the show windows;
there is the old fashioned fireplace with a fire
burning at night—looks like pine knots though,
instead of yule logs, but the blaze is as blue as
that of a Christmas plum pudding, everything is
like a Christmas eve, the little stockings and the
big ones are hung up and Santa Claus himself is
looking in at the window, as if he were waiting
his opportunity to slip in unnoticed. But
McAllister’s windows are not the only attraction
step inside and see what an immense variety of
toys and fancy goods he has,books and magazines
etc., and up stairs the finest goods are arranged
in the most artistic manner possible for the size of
the apartment, here are the most exquisite ban-
ners and hand painted placques and china illus-
trated books booklets and calendars with a
variety of other things too numerous to mention
but go and see.

	The Children's book by Augusta Joyce
Crocheron mentioned in our last issue has been
carefully reviewed and we feel perfectly justified
in recommending it to the people as just what is
needed for the little folks in Zion. It has been
written with a desire to instruct and edify the
reader, and to entertain at the same time. The
author is a mother herself and knows what
pleases the children and has prepared this work
to meet the demand of the rising generation for
a work suited to the times and to their situation
as the children of the Saints, with a thirst for
knowledge that will benefit them as well as to be
interesting to the youthful mind. The book is
illustrated and contains both prose and poetry
suited to the intelligence and capacity of children.
It is in every sense of the word what its title indi-
cates, "The Children's Book," price $1,50 for sale
here and at the Woman's Co-operative Mercantile
and Manufacturing Institution.
	We have received an elegant Calendar from
"The Woman's Literary Club, Dunkirk N. Y."
printed in Buffalo. It is published on fine heavy
paper with handsome rough cover,on the outside
of which the picture of Sappho is stamped
and a pretty monogram on the back W. L. C. It
contains some tinted photogravures, that are
quite in keeping with the style of the book, and
sentiments, verses and maxims from the most
celebrated women poets and writers. On the fly
leaf is the quotation from Sappho: "Come now
divine shell, become vocal for me," and following
that is the picture of Sappho in her flowing ap-
parel with a veil thrown gracefully over her head,
the sea shell in her hand, as if it were a talisman
or could breathe forth an inspiration. Among


the pictures is one of the house of Maria
Mitchell the astronomer, from the roof of which
she discovered the comet that first brought her
fame. One of the pictures is the parlor in H. H.'s
home. The home of Madame DeStael at Coppet
is another. Each paragraph contains a moral or
maxim that is worth committing to memory. One
or two may give an idea of the value of these
short sentences. People think they know them-
selves because they are untried. Frederika
Bremer. Work; work, this is my unfailing cure
for all troubles. Lydia Maria Child. Duty only
frowns when you flee from it; follow it, and it
smiles upon you. Carmen Sylva. Wars are or-
ganized mobs. Clara Barton. Show me the
mothers of a country and I will tell you of its sons,
Mary Seymour Howell. The ideal of woman
cannot be lowered without that of manhood
suffering also. Ednah D. Cheney. I do not see
how we are to govern others unless we first learn
to govern ourselves. St. Catharine of Siena.
Gossip pretending to have the eyes of an Argus,
has all the blindness of a bat. Ouida. The
Calendar contains 24 pages of reading matter, all
rich with gems of thought.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE SISTERS IN CANADA.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	Our life here seems uneventful compared to
yours in "Dear Utah," months have passed since
our return, and yet much has happened that was
important to us. I am perhaps vain when I fancy
it may be of interest to many dear friends in the
"land of my birth," to relate some of them.
	My dear mother's presence here was the signal
for many pleasant gatherings, for spirited and
spiritual feasts, when the gifts were ours and she
seemed the humble and chosen one to be like a
ministering angel to us, giving new courage and
patience, by her cheerful precepts and example, but
like most of our earthly joys, she has left us, only
I trust for a season. Perhaps she has told you
of our Fair, held jointly by the R. S., Y. L. M. I.
A., and the Primary Association. Like all such
affairs it was a big success, we all opened our
eyes to see how many useful, pretty and necessary
articles were in our possession, how wonderfully
smart our little ones are, and what great big de-
licious, vegetables we have in abundence, a turnip
that weighed 23lbs. Eleven potatoes 27lbs.
Golden butter, white bread, pies, cakes and tarts
all made by the deft little fingers of our dear child
ren. Then the agreeable and genuine surprise
given by the Pres. and members of the Relief
Society to their beloved President, Sister Zina
"Our mother" as they call her.
	We had a charming visit from Prof. Saunders,
Gov. Agent for the Experimental Farms, of which
there are five. He came to see what progress we
were making as agriculturists, expressed himself
as surprised and pleased with our progress, and
predicted a bright and prosperous future for us.
	Mr. Ross, Superentendent and builder of the
great Canadian Pacific R. R. gave us a call, he
came to look at the country with a view to build_
ing a new road from Edmonton some 500 miles
north, down through this section of country
across the line. The new road will be the high-
way for coal, coal oil, minerals, timber and the
products of the ranchers and farmers of this great
land.
	The opening of the Canadian and Great Falls
Railroad is another important feature here,giving
us direct communication by rail within 50 miles,
and gives a new impetus to business generally.
	Now my dear friends if you want to come and
see us, remember it is only 800 miles, will cost
you about the same as a trip to San Francisco,
or less, and you can get here inside of four days.
We do not live in an Eden, nor without hard
work. but we have plenty to eat, plenty to wear,

[column 2]
can guarantee to keep you cool in Summer and
warm in winter.
	John T. Caine is elected, some may say, what's
that to you? Just let me whisper in your ear, I
was born in Utah,and every thing that effects her
finds an echo in my heart, do you think any Utah
boy or girl could read the rousing speeches from
our own faithful sons, fathers and husbands with-
out saying "God bless and help them forever?"
	Often my soul is singing:

"O dear Utah I sigh for thee in vain,
Fain would I die to free thee from the despot's iron chain;
Once thou coulds't boast of freedom in thy mountains
	vales and glens,
O! give me back those good old days, and my dear old
	home again!"

	What Jerusalem is to the Jew,—so is Utah to
the hearts of her mountain boys and girls, yet I
would not, could not live there now. Why? be-
cause the holy priesthood has said my place was
here. So my wings are folded, content in my
nest, I sing, no I mean chirp to my little brood,
try to be content with all the changes that find
me, some unprepared and some otherwise,
amongst the former was the "Manifesto," it took
my breath away, but it gradually narrowed down
from what at first seemed a strange pill to the very
draught that was needed in our present state, re-
ligiously and politically. It has caused some
comment here from various stand points, but we
feel our true position is known and appreciated
now as it could not be before the issuing of the
Manifesto, and the saints here as a whole all feel
our leaders are carrying on Christ's work to victory
and are one with the saints in the land of Zion.
	Hum! I fear you will think me tedious so will
just add, the health of the saints is excellent,
weather delightful. Pres. Card's brief visit filled
all with new courage. Our school will begin next
week with Sterling Williams as teacher. All our
Societies are in excellent running order.
	Love to all the dear ones, and hope if any feel
that they are neglected they will know they live
with truer and more enduring ties in the heart of
their absent sister and friend,
						ZINA Y. CARD.
	Cardston, Alberta Canada, Nov. 20, 1890.


A RESOLUTION.

	At the Annual Convention of the National
Woman's Christian Temperance Union held in
Atlanta, Ga., in November, the resolution follow-
ing was offered by the newly elected Superin-
tendent of the Department of Mercy, Mrs. Mary
F. Lovell of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and adopted:
	Whereas we believe vivisection to be cruel. un-
necessary, and demoralizing, tending to a de-
terioration of the human soul utterly out of pro-
portion to any known benefit to the human body
gained thereby, the practice of it thus reversing
the teachings of Christianity,
	Resolved, That we will do all in our power to
develop sentiment against it, and because we do
not believe in half measures, nor in licensing any
evil, we will do this with a view to securing legis-
lation for its total prohibition.


A PROPHECY.

	Mrs. Harriet M. Van Hoesen lives in what is
left of the old Gibbs mansion in township
Lafayette, ten miles south of Syracuse. It was
once palatial, as country residences go, but is
now occupied by owls and bats and Mrs. Van
Hoesen. She is a disciple of the lost art of
astrology, snd a few years ago laid the founda-
tion for a proposed academy for its study, which,
on account of the lack of funds was never was
never completed. Mrs. Van Hoesen has read the
world’s horoscope, and deduces that from Adam


to the flood was 1800 years; that it was 1800
years from the flood to the destruction of Sodom
and Gomorrah; 1800 years from that time to the
last ten years of the first century, A. D., when
three cities were destroyed, and that the next
period now coming to a close, will witness the
destruction of wicked. In February, 1891, the
Mormons will rise up against the Gentiles, and a
plague will cut of the wicked, except such as may
flee to the house of refuge, which is building for
those who will flee to the hills in the dreadful
times. She says that nearly all ministers and
leaders of labor organizations are Mormons
secretly. She predicts that there will be only
one more presidential election, and that Harrison
will be re-elected. The millennium now about to
begin will be followed by 800 years, during which
the devil will have his innings.
	Syracuse, N. Y., Dec. 14, 1890.


TRUST AND DUTY.
Oh wrestling heart when sick and weary,
	Bowed beneath life's weight of woe;
In meekness thou hast learned thy duty,
	And chose to walk the narrow way.

But yet how prone to shrink from duty.
	E’en when the voice of Father calls,
In His love and tender mercy,
	To prove and purify thy soul.

He chooses those who're true and willing, 
	To keep the strait aud narrow way,
Where gentle dews from heaven are falling,
	Lighting sorrow's cloudiest day.

The back He fits to bear its burden
	The wounds He heals, the heart makes glad,
Unfathomed love is ever shedding,
	Peace on those who trust in God.

Its been decreed that all that’s earthly,
	Must meet with change and pass away;
Through toil and pain that we’re made holy,
	To gain a crown of endless day.

All such are safe whate'er betide them,
	Sheltered in the Savior’s flock,
'Neath that fount whence peace is flowing
	Cleaving close the Smitten Rock.
					HELEN M. WHITNEY.


MARTHA WASHINGTON.

Fair type of womanhood, we see you proudly stand
Back through the century, first lady of the land;
With love and reverence in your tender eyes;
Each thought a joy, each word a glad surprise.
Upon the threshold of the brave and free,—
Priestess and prophetess of the yet to be.

E'en from the hour when by our chieftain’s side
You stood a queen,—because an honored bride—
You guarded destiny with royal sceptre then,
While heaven was moulding future deeds of men.
Peerless and grand, untiring and true,
Each morning brought its task of work to do.
And when the evening came, at set of sun,
Angels recorded work your hands had done.

You brought to Washington, the power of wealth,—
But richer far the gift, when giving him yoursel';
For 'mid the tumult of war’s trying hour,
You gave the baptism of a subtle power
That cleared the darkness from the skies above,
You gave him courage, while you gave him love.

While through the ages we shall sing the name
Of him, who led our country on to fame;
Woman shall claim the noble right divine,
To drape fresh garlands ‘round our hero’s shrine;
Flowers born of tears, and purity and truth,
Crowned with endowment of perpetual youth.
Yet while we march the onward. upward way,
Let no base coward ever dare to say
That Washington in victory ever stood alone,—
The wife he loved, was power behind the throne !
						MRS. MARY E. KAIL.
Washington, D. C., May 7th 1889.
										Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE LAST EVE OF SUMMER.

Summer's last sun, nigh unto setting, shines
Through yon columnar pines,
And, on the deepening shadows of the lawn,
Its golden lines are drawn.

Dreaming of long-gone summer days like this.
Feeling the wind's soft kiss,
Grateful and glad that the failing ear and sight
Have still their old delight.

I sit alone and watch the warm sweet day
Lapse tenderly away;
And, wistful, with a feeling of forecast,
I ask, "Is this the last?"

"Will never more for me the seasons run
Their round, and will the sun
Of ardent summers yet to come foreget
For me to rise and set?

Thou should be here or I should be with thee
Wherever thou mayst be. 
Lips mute, hands clasped, in silences of speech
Each answering unto each.

At this still hour which hints of mystery far
Beyond the evening star
No words outworn suffice from lip or scroll;
The soul would fain with soul

Wait, while these few swift-passing days fulfill
The wise, disposing Will,
And, in the evening as at morning, trust
The All-Merciful and Just.

The solemn joy that soul-communion feel
Immortal life reveals;
And human love, its prophecy and sign,
Interprets love divine.

Come then, in thought, if that alone may be,
O friend ! and bring with thee
Thy calm assurance of transcendent spheres,
And the eternal years.
	JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER. in the N.Y.
		Independent.
Oak Knoll, 1890.


FRIENDSHIP’S TRIBUTE.

TO THE MEMORY OF BROTHER MILLEN ATWOOD, LATE
	VETERAN BISHOP OF THE THIRTEENTH WARD,
				SALT LAKE CITY.

	An honest man as ever drew life's breath—
		A noble, steadfast, unassuming soul—
	Has won the victory o'er pain and death.
		And reached triumphantly the final goal.

	'Tis good to meet amid the human throng
		A man or woman, guileless, brave and true;
	A champion for the right, a for to wrong—
		Fearless of conflict, if impelled thereto.

	The sacred principles of truth and right
		Govern'd our friend, and gladdened him withal;
	And thus his heart was full of peace and light.
		When dangers hovered o'er him like a pall.

	I see him yet, enduring direst woe,
		Wasted by hunger, chilled by piercing blasts,
	Cheering his comrades,all his soul aglow,
	With faith and courage, hopeful to the last.

	No trifle 'tis to pour the soothing balm
		Of resignation into hungry men;
	To rouse poor mortals from the fatal calm,
		Born of despair, is no small task, I ken.

	Frail, famished women, famished children too,
		Met the “grim monster" even face to face;
	Yet, God be praised who sent us friends so true,
		And snatched us, verily, from Death’s embrace.

	How swiftly flows the tide of memory back,
		Like friends they seemed who shared those dreadful
			days;
	Justice forbids such worthy souls should lack
		A poet's tribute, or the meed of praise.

	Brave Brother Atwood, sweetly may you rest;
		Bards should have sung your praises long ago;


Too poor this tribute, yet it is the best
		A grateful friend and comrade can bestow.
							EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 20th, 1890.
	*The writer well remembers Brother Atwood's kindness
to his fellow sufferers in one of the belated handcar
companies who nearly succumbed to hunger and cold in
the terrible season of 1856. Many died, and all would
surely have perished amid the mountain snows had not
the Lord inspired President Brigham Young to send a
timely rescue.
								E. H. W.


[Column 1]
		AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
				OF
		ELIZABETH B. PRATT.
	As soon as the font for baptism was ready I
officiated for my sister as she had requested.
The year Joseph and Hyrum were taken to
jail was the most trying tsmes the Saints ever
expərienced. They had to endure sickness,
poverty and a stream of persection, the
Prophet and brethren in authority had to
hide up from mob violence. On the 27th of
June 1844 the Prophet and Hyrum his brother
were murdered in Carthage Jail. Those who
took him as prisoner pledged their word and
honor that he would be safe from violence.
When word came to Nauvoo of their cruel
deaths it was a day of mourning, weeping, and
and sorrow among all the Saints, for they
loved the man of God who had laid down his
life for the Gospel's sake even the atmosphere
and trees seemed to mourn the fate of the
murdered dead. I saw them when they were
in their coffins and they were just as I saw
them in a dream before I knew they were
dead. This prepared me for the shock as I
could not have believed it, as the Lord had
preserved his life so many times. In 1845 the
Temple was sufficiently built to administer in
the ordinances, many thousands received their
endowments, I was among the happy number.
	The quorum of the Twelve aud others ad
ministered in the Temple night and day until
early in the spring February 14th 1846 we
left our homes in Nauvoo and crossed the
Mississippi river and camped on Sugar Creek.
The first night we camped here we had a
snow storm, I took down with the ague and
chills till I thought I shook the ground, Mr.
Pratt administered to me and I had them no
more. We commenced to travel after the
companies were organized and continued to,
through rain and mud. In crossing the
Mississippi bottoms, when one wagon got
through the cattle were unhitched and hitched
on to the next one, the road became so muddy
that it was up to the hubs and had to take
the strength of several yoke of cattle as they
were weak, and only had the boughs of trees
to subsist upon. We often had our bedding
and clothing wet through. After traveling
one hundred and fifty miles, we camped on
Grand river, here the brethren planted a farm
to supply those who came after and named it
Garden Grove. We left here and traveled
on till we came to a beautiful grove, that
Parley named MtPisgah which was also
planted to vegatation and enclosed with a
fence and hounses built to accomidate our
friends who were left behind, Next we came
to the home of the Pottowatomies this was
called the Indian Village we found them very
sociable, while there we had a dance. Mr.
St. Clair had his home there and traded with
them he had two wives squaws, his daughter
by his first squaw was well educated, her name
was Ellen she was very graceful on horseback.
We traveled many miles from the Village
and correlted our wagons, this place they
called Cutler's Park. In July we arrived at
the Missouri river near Council Bluffs.
	Here the Mormon Battalion was mustered,

[Column 2]
Cal. Kane came to see about our affairs and
finding so many people homeless and wanderer's
not knowing where to find a resting place,
his heart was drawn out in sympathy for our
untold sufferings and he became a true friend
to our people and ever remained so. We
camped on the west side of the river and called
it Winter Quarters. The brethren built log
cabins and dugouts for their families to
screen them from the winter blasts. Here the
people were taken sick with the scurvy for the
want of vegetables and the common comforts
of life, and some died and laid down their
bodies there, till the call comes "awake come
forth!" As soon as we had camped for the
winter Mr. Pratt, Bro. Hyde and Bro. Taylor
were appointed a mission to England and we
were left camping in our wagons and tents and
as our best men were called away to Mexico
that made the labor harder on the men left
in camp. We were fifteen in family, we had
our teamster with us to do all the work.
Parley Jr. was only nine years and four months
old and not very strong. We had a log room
built to cook in and crowd into in the day-
time, we had to sleep in our wagons all
winter.
	We suffered with cold, hunger, and sickness
Our bread was corn meal ground on a hand
mill and not much to go with it. Mr. Pratt re-
turned from his mission in April after bring
gone over seven months. In his absence our
cattle and horses died and some were lost.
When Mr. Pratt returned President Young
and a company were camped on the Elk
Horn River twenty miles west, ready to start
out as Pioneers to the Mountains. After a
little rest Mr. Pratt began to prepare to go
with a company that was going to start in
June. There were five hundred wagons, and
being short of teamsters the women had to
drive. I drove an ox team a good part of
the way and walked a great many miles.
After traveling a long distance we met the
Pioneers returning from the Valley and camped
with them one day. We continued our
journey and after mauy losses, trials and
hindrances we arrived at our place of destina-
tion in September 1847. This then was a
barren, desolate looking place, but we were
thankful to be where we could have a rest
from our enemies, have peace of mind and
worship the true and living God without any
to molest or make afraid. We renewed our
covenants, had a short winter and very miln
one. Early in the Spring we commenced to
plant our gardens and were blessed with early
crops. We appreciated this very much as we
had been on short rations all winter. We had
to work hard to raise it, as then we did not
understand irrigation. The crickets were
troublesome, and many of our people suffered
for the want of food. We had lost nearly all
our cows and the few left were dry.
			[To be continued.]


FROM FAR AWAY.
	For the benefit of my Utah friends who I
know will be gratified to hear from me I will
briefly write of my present location, which is
situated about 230 miles south of my home
at Parowan Utah, over one hundred miles from
the nearest stage coach or telegraph office,and
so far from all civilization that sometimes I
feel that I must be a Robinson Crusoe or very
similarly situated. Overton is a village of
seven families located upon the Muddy river
their homes are very rude and small the roofs
being made of a coarse grass or rush sur-
mounted with a generous coating of dried
mud, ‘tis a very recent convenience to be able
to procure a lumber floor and those having
two rooms have this luxury in one room only.
Provisions such as yon can purchase cheap


are an exorbitant price and the poorest quality
of flour black and peculiar tasting $5. per
100 lbs and the little variety you can get
to go with it in proportion; as yet no fruit
grows here,though ‘tis pronounced an excellent
climate for many kinds. Irish potatoes do not
do well as they decay at an early stage. As
one drives up to Overton the place presents
rather a pretty view after riding so long
through rocks and sand, without passing
through a settlement, the first sign of one be-
ing near a habitable portion of the earth is a
grove of cotton wood trees though they rather
lost their beauty for me when I was informed
each settler was compelled to plant a certain
portion of his land with them, or do without
fuel of any kind; they are topped once in two
years; every thing grows so rapidly: at the
end of that time a new supply of fire wood
may be gotten,I presume the shade they afford
is very grateful in the summer, though I
would think other varieties might be introduced
thereby breaking the monotony of the scene
if nothing more. The weather is very warm
during the day and the flies right now are
worse than I ever saw them at any time in
Utah, at night just as soon as the sun has
gone to rest there is a damp chilliness exists
that is difficult to describe making one ap-
preciate a good fire; this with the alkali on
the water I believe is a great cause of the
people suffering so much from chills and fever.
	The people generally own considerable land
and entertain great hopes of realizing rich re-
turns from their produce etc. when the rail-
road comes through, at that time if I am still
here I shall expect to get butter for something
less than forty cents per. lb. and dried peaches
I trust will be cheaper than twenty cents a
lb. and come from California or Utah, it is
hard to tell which of us will get our desires
granted one thing I am assured of this hard
working community will earn all they may
get at any time.
	Wages for manual labor are very low for
the Indians here like the Chinese in some
other parts work for so little, they are em-
ployed in preference to the white men, an
Indian will work well ten hours for fifty cents
they are quite an intelligent looking tribe
their women are rather good looking, proud
and tasty about their dress, and show great
affection for their offspring. It is not an un-
frequent occurence to see the halfgrown ones
dancing homeward with their arms entwined
lovingly around each other like our good
natured romping school girls.
	I have not seen an “EXPONENT" since my
arriveal here there are no subscribers here and
having to depend on the pony express ‘tis
very doubtful when our mail will reach us.
There are no Mutuals, Primaries or Relief
Society Associations here I'm informed there
are meetings occassionally on the Sabbath, no
social gatherings of any kind as there is not a
musical instrument in the place. I am con-
confident should I ever be privileged to return
to the many dear associations I have left, that
they will be more highly appreciated than
ever. One thing the air we breathe here is
free and has never yet been tainted with the
terms employed by the courts in enforcing the
Edmunds law. Our rest refreshing and never
disturbed with that tiresome sickening sound,
"Unlawful cohabitation." I have conversed
freely with a number of the opposite sex and
not charged with that dreadful crime, so my
fond friends “there is no great loss without
some small gain." Adieu for this time.
	E. A. CRANR WATSON
Overten, Nevada Dec. 8,1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“If we are created in the image of God, we
also must be creators.”—Carmen Sylva


THE COIN OF POLITE SOCIETY.

	Whenever a kindly or considerate act is
shown you, my dear, be always careful to say
that magic index to good breeding—".Thank
you.” Certainly you say it to the man friend
who has given you an evening of amusement
at the theater or the concert, or who has
taken you to and fetches you from a friend’s
home. To whom else should yon say it?
	To the maid servant who hands you your
letters, who makes a special point of keeping
your room in good order, and who. remember-
ing that you liked certain things placed in a
certain way, was careful always to do it.
	To the stranger who holds open the door for
you, to the elevator man who saves you climb-
ing so many stairs, to the mau who gives you
a seat in the car or omnibus, and to any body
in any station of life, who shows you a courtesy
of any kind.
	We are apt to be very stingy with our
thanks; to accept things entirely too much for
granted, and to believe, in having courtesies
shown us, that they are only what we deserve.
Now this is the wrong way of looking at it
and some day it will serve that girl right—
that girl who believes that the good things of
life in the way of politeness are hers lawfully,
and without any effort on her part they can be
retained will discover her mistake. You can
never be too generous with thank-you’s; they
are the current coin of polite society, the circu-
lation of which tends to make everybody more
eeger to do unto others as you would be done
by. No girl makes a mistake who has a thank
you always ready. It is the index to a good
character aud a loving heart. Politeness is
golden, and thank you is the coin which passes
everywhere and is recognized by all.—Ruth
Ashmore in Ladies Home Journal.


GIRLS BEHIND THE COUNTER.

	If I were asked to give a set of rules or
suggestions for girls whose days are spent be-
hind the counter they would read something 
like this:—
	Remember that all the time spent in the
store belongs to your employer.
	That courtesy behind the counter wins even
the most captious customer.
	That gossip about young men, or with them,
is unbusiness-like, and under the circumstances,
rude.
	Never attempt to instruct a customer; while
you may suggest, or politely question, the
desirability of this or that.
	Do not say, “Here, Sade, hand me your
pencil,” to your neighbor.
	Never say “No,we haven’t got it,” in a short,
crisp tone; far better a polite “I am sorry to
say we do not have it in stock.”
	Do not thrust a package at a customer as
you would a pistol in the face of a highway-
man.
	Never throw down goods with an air which
seems to say, “I do not care whether you bny
it or not.
	Remember that the purchaser often sees
more in the seller than she thinks, and refined
young women have made valuable friends for
life by their courtesy to an accomplished
customer.
	Always remember, that duty to your
employer demands your best service, and duty
to yourself also.
	Seek to be a model saleswoman, and some
one will soon recognize your merits.
	Dress modestly and avoid cheap jewelry, the
best ornaments are: promptness, politeness, and
a well modulated voice, and strict atrention
to duty.
	Have your hair neatly combed yonr teeth
well brushed and your finger-nails tidy.


Customers are often repelled by uutidy clerks
of either sex.
	Remember always, that you are superior to
circumstances only when you make yourself
so. The most selfish, exacting employer will
gladly recognize the merits of an efficient
clerk.	
	Frown down with womanly scorn the non-
sensical title of "saleslady." It is a great
thing to be a woman anything; if you are a
true and goud woman, a good clerk is infinitely
more respectable than a so-called "saleslady,"
and the term has a shoddyish ring which is
totally un-American.
	Out of two hundred clerks in a large es-
tablishment, the favorite with nearly all of the
customers is a young women who invariably
dresses in black, and has such charming
manners that it is a positive pleasure to visit
her department.—Kate Tannatt Woods, in
Ladies Home Journal.


STORING GRAIN.

	A new method of storing grain is being in-
troduced, which is as remarkable as the inven-
tion of ensilage pits for storage of fodder.
Steel tanks are filled with the grain, and by a
suction pump the air is partly exhausted, and
a quantity of carbontc acid gas is admitted.
The valves being closed, the grain is expected
to remain for years without decay, and not
liaqle to be injured by weevils, so distructive
in the vast elevators where grain is now stored.
The cost is less, the storage per bushel being
about one twelfth what it is under the present
system- Farmers will be able to keep their
grain till the markets are favorable and the
proceedings of grain speculators will be
checked. With a steel tank at an outlay of
five-hundred dollars, the grower will be able to
store ten thousand bushels of wheat.


QUEEN ISABELLA. PAVILION.

	One of the prinncipal objects of the Queen
Isabella Association is to furnish an inter-
national Club House, with Congress Hall for
the use of women during the World’s Fair.
	One dollar apiece from the women of the
United States and Foreign Countries will
make possible:
	A commodious well-equipped, SOCIAL HEAD-
QUARTERS’ with CONGRESS HALL.
	GRAND CONVENTIONS of women on the
industrial and social problems of the day.
	CONFERENCE of women each in her own de-
partment of Science, Art, Literature, Thought
or Occupation.
	The certificate of membership, fee $1, non-
assessable, reads as follows: “That......is a
member of the Queen Isabella Association
until and during the World’s Fair of 1892, and
is entitled to the privileges of the Association
and the benefits of the Queen Isabella Pavilion
wherever the Exposition is located.”
	Five dollars will entitle the sender to one
share of the Queen Isabella Statue Fund,
limited and non assessable, to one certifieate of
membership in the Association, and to one
year’s subscription of the Queen Isabella
Journal.
	All property and funds of the Association
at the close of the Fair are at the disposal of
the members by ballot.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The first number of the Weiber Zeitung
(the Women’s Journal), in the Polish tongue
and in Hebrew characters, has appeared in
New York. It advocates the right of women
to vote.


Mrs. Senator Blair’ who lives in Manchester
N. H., and is a member of St. Paul’s Church,
read a paper in that church recently in favor
of the admission of Women to the General
Conference. The pastor. Rev. J. M. Durrell 
also preached upon the subject, and the result
was a vote of 209, with only 37 in the
negative.
	Pundita Ramabai and Dr. Emma Ryder,
invited some high-caste Hindu gentlemen of
Bombay to a lunch and lo! the result: “The
priests have brought the offending gentlemen
to trial, and pronounced sentences against
them. For eating a simple meal with ladies
in the open day, these polluted Hindus must
'change their sacred thread,’go through a pur-
gation ‘bathe in some sacred tank or river,’ and
undergo other penalties.”
	Berlin is thronged with cousumtives from
all over the civilized world, Foreign doctors
hurry about its streets, having crossed oceans
to find out whether the reports are true. It
is impossible that Professor Koch himself
should see and instruct all of these; conse-
quently, overflow meetings, as one might call
them, are being held, conducted by the
pupils of the great master. In these clinics
patients are exhibited and demonstration of
the use of the lymph are made. The greatest
hope is entertained in regard to the value of
the remedy and it is even proposed that the
Prussian Government undertake its produc-
tion and distribution so as to ensure its correct
composition. Large sums of money too are
being placed at Koch’s disposal for the
establishment of hospitals for the reception of
patients for the new treatment.
	The Nightingale


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE WOMAN’S STORE.

	The Woman’s Co-operative Mercantile and
Manufacturing Institution opened today
Monday Dec. 15th 1890 for business as also
for dressmaking. Mrs Caroline C. Roleigh
one of the Board of Directors is in the store
as saleswoman, and Mrs. Matilda P. Spencer
another of the members of the Board is in
charge of the dressmaking department. It is
earnestly hoped that the ladies of the City and
especially those directly interested in the
advancement of women will patronize and help
sustain this institution, which has been es-
tablished by the united efforts of a number of
the sisters who are anxious to promote home
industries and help forward the cause of equal
rights. The store is located at, 123. E. First
South St. opposite City Hall.


NATIONAL AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.
	The twenty-third annual convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, D. C., in
Albaugh’s Opera House, Feb. 26—March 1st,
1891.
	Each annual convention has recorded an
increasing public sentiment in favor of woman’s
legal and political enfranchisement. Largely
as a consequence of our movement, the in-
dustries and learned professions have been
opened to women, laws have been changed
to secure protection for her personal and
property rights, and she has been welcomed
to a partial participation in government, as a
school voter in twenty-two States, as a munipal
voter in Kansas, and a holder of important
public offices in nearly every State in the
Union. But the coming convention will have a
fuller significance than any that preceded it.

	The admission of Wyoming into the Union

[Column 2]
as a State with equal rights for women
guaranteed in its organic law, not only sets its
sovereign seal of approval upon woman suffrage
after practical experience for twenty-one
years, but makes women a recognized factor
in national politics. Hereafter the chief
executive and the members of both houses of
Congress will owe their election partly to the
votes of women. The injustice and absurdity
of allowing women in one State to be sovereign
rulers, and across the line in every direction
obliging them to occupy the position of a
subject class, taxed without representation and
governed without consent, and this in a nation
which by its Constitution guarantees equal
rights, to all the States, and equal protection
to all the citizens, must soon be manifest even
to the most conservative and prejudiced. We
therefore congratulate the friends of woman
suffrage everywhere that at last there is one
spot under the American flag where justice is
done to women. Wyoming, is all hail ! the
first true Republic the world has ever seen !

	The present is a time of upheaval in politics.
New ideas are pushing to the front. The
brotherhood of humanity, the establishment
of justice, the protection of the weak, the
value of the individual, the right of all to
equal privileges and opportunities, are now
not only the rallying cry of moral and social
leaders, but are pressing forward to the ballot-
box as the expression of the popular will.
These all include and hinge upon the en
franchisement of women. Let us, therefore,
gather to this convention as those who know
that their cause is the outcome of all the heroic
struggles for freedom which have been made
in the past, and the forerunner of a more
perfect realization of the principles of republi-
can government.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON President.
	SUTAN B. Anthony—Vice President at
large.
	LUCY STONE—Chairman Execntive Com-
mittee.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL—Corresponding
Secretary.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY—Recording Sec-
retary.
	JANE H. SPOFFORD—Treasurer.

		NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS.
	The National Council of Women will meet
in the same place the three preceding days.
There will thus be a double inducement to
visit Washington at this time. The reduced
railroad fares will extend from Feb. 19th to
March 3rd. The Riggs House will be the
headquarters of the Association, and will give
reduced rates to delegates and visitors to the
convention.
	Every auxiliary State society is entitled to
send three delegates, and one additional dele-
gate foreach hundred members.
	The first executive committee meeting will
be held at 3 o’clock P. M., Wednesday, Feb.
25th.


OBITUARY.

	Died in Provo, Utah Co. Oct 6th 1890, of heart disease,
Elizabeth Annie Trehem Griffin aged 49 years, 11 months,
and 27 days. Sister Griffin was born in Herefordshire
England. She was baptized Nov. 1858, and rebaptized
into the United Order, August 1st, 1875.
	She was a member of the Newton Ward, Cache Co.
Utah, and was absent from her home, under medical
treatment for a tumor, and had partially recovered, and
was upon the point of returning home. But upon her
husband’s arrival in Provo he found her dead, she having
the previous night. The funeral services were held in the
Newton meeting house, and the remains followed to the
Cemetery by a numerous concourse of relatives and friends
	She was a kind and affectionate wife and mother and
leaves a husband and three children to mourn her loss.


She was the Treasurer of the Relief Society for a number
of years, and since 1883 acted as Secretary; and was the
President of the Primary Association since its organization
and was much respected by the children.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Griffin adopted by the
Relief Society of the Newton Ward.
	Whereas in the providence of God she has been called to
a higher sphere. We bow in reverence to the will of Him
who doeth all things well. She died in full faith of the
Gospel and will be missed by the Society.
	Resolved that these resolutions be entered in the Relief
Society Record and a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and printed in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
					MARY ANN PARSONS,
					MARY JENKINS,
					MARY LEDINGHAM,
									Committee.


[Image of "UNION PACIFIC THE OVERLAND ROUTE" badge]
TICKETS
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S.W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
———————————————
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
———
R.K. THOMAS
—————————————–
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir
——————————————
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
—
**Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
41 EAST DAVID JAMES. BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1,1891.			No. 14.


CONTENTS. 
	A Happy New Year,—Aunt Em. Some Old
Love Letters. Twilight Musings,—Lu. Auto-
biography—Elizabeth B. Pratt. A Co-operative
Scheme,—Elizabeth Dustin. Co operative House-
keeping,—Ex. National-American Woman Suff-
rage Association. Miss Anthony’s Reception-
What a Lady Does Not Do. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Year of Grace 1891. Edi-
torial Notes. The National Council of Women.
Resolution of Respect. Mother and Son,—Vina.
	POETRY:—Thoughts of the Old Year,—Lu.
Bethlehem-Town,—Eugene Field. Evanescent,
Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Memoria,—Florence
Earle Coates. The Old and New Year,—Ada
Giddings-Park. Lines,—Sarah J. Austin.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	THOUGHTS OF THE OLD YEAR.

	An old man sat in his chair of State
		His head was bowed and bare,
	Deep furrowed lines in his forehead great,
		Were traced by time and care,
	And his limbs were chilled and stiff with age,
		Life's weenes refused to flow,
	The feeble pulse of the hoary sage,
		Told the world he soon must go.
	Now around the old man's dying couch,
		Gather a motley throng,—
	Remorse and Grief, Feast, Dance and Mirth,
		Withering care and scorn.
	Low kneeling beside the monarch great,
		Are Faith and humble Prayer;
	His parting breath to receive they wait,
		And greet the son and heir,
	But ere he quits this shadowy vale,
		Time caught his  murmured sigh,
	And wrought for earth a living tale,
		That in it ne'er can die.
	But now farewell, for the old man's gone,
		His heir is standing by;
	One lingering look we'll cast behind,
		And breath one soft good-bye.
	Hopeful we welcome the New Year in,
		And as its days move on,
	We will pray that richest blessings crown,
		This year of ninety-one.
										LU.
Atchison, Kas.


BETHLEHEM-TOWN.

As I was going to Bethlehem-town
Upon the earth I cast me down
All underneath a little tree
That whispered in this wise to me;
"Oh,I shall stand on Calvary
And bear what burthen saveth thee !”

As up I fared to Bethlehem-town
I met a shepherd coming down,
And thus he quoth:  "A wondrous sight
Hath spread before my eyes this night—
An angel host most fair to see
That sung full sweetly of a tree
That shall uplift on Calvary
What burthen saveth you and me !"

And as I gat to Bethlehem-town,
Lo ! wise men came that bore a crown—
“Is there,” cried I, "in Bethlehem
A King shall wear this diadem?"
“Good sooth," they quoth, "and it s He
That shall be lifted on the tree
And freely shed on Calvary
What blood redeemeth us and thee !”


Unto a Child in Bethlehem-town
The wise men came and brought the crown;
And while the infant smiling slept
Upon their knees they fell and wept;
But, with her babe upon her knee,
Naught recked that Mother of the tree
That should uplift on Calvary
What burthen saveth all and me.

Again I walk in Bethlehem-town
And think on Him that wears the Crown—
I may not kiss his feet again
Nor worship Him as did I then;
My King hath died upon the tree
And hath outpoured on Calvary
What blood redeemeth you and me !
			EUGENE FIELD, 	in Chicago News.


EVANESCENT.

Slowly she came and her eyes so brown
	Were shadowed with thought, not of joy, or play;
And, musing, she said as she met my look—
	" 'Twas a butterfly, and it flied away."

Yes, over the bowers the rover went
	Heedless of all her winsome grace,
Had drank of the flowers she loved so well,
	And all less fair, than her own sweet face.

Farther he wandered where climbing high
	Gaudier flowers glared and shone
And my little one pondering 'o'er his flight,
	Among the flower beds strayed alone.

Blossoms with odors rank and strong
	Flattered his senses just as well,
As breath of roses and violets
	Or dew in the woodbine’s coral bell.

He drank where grew a poisonous draught
	And giddier whirled his joyous flight,
'Till he caught amid a silvery mesh
	Spread like a mirror to catch the light.

Drowsily resting he fell adream,
	Deeper and deeper he went alone
Adown the riotous steeps of thought
	With deadly berries and thorns o’er grown.

Well! that my little one never knew
	The fate of the rover that flew away;
Why should a regret o'er cloud her face
	That had right to sunshine 'round its way?

And then, the while that she gently mused,
	A little bird came near us and sang,
We thrilled with joy, for its voice so clear
	Around and all over above us rang.

A stranger-bird from a far-off coast,
	I knew from whither his flight had strayed;
And stories of his bright tropic home
	I told my wondering little maid.

He built his nest where we all might see
	His brilliant colors and hear his voice,
Bright Oriole ! how thy coming effaced
	Her loss and made her heart rejoice.

Oh, griefs, though ye may be great or small,
	Whether fruit of thoughtlessness or of wrong;
The heart that lists to the "still small voice"
	Shall hear and smile to the sky born song.

Oh, blessed life ! that of sin and ill
	Hath known so little that it may say—
(Scarred not, wondering, passing on)
	"False and fair, thou hast gone thy way."

Though thy baby lips the verdict framed,
	Remember it even by night and day, 
Say of all things that unworthy prove—
	“ 'Twas a butterfly,	and it flied away."


Then shall a voice by the Father sent
	Reach through the cloud with a steadfast ray,
Chiming in harmony with thy heart
	To dwell therein forever and aye !
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Dec. 29, 1890.


A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	What associations that phrase recalls! What
vivid pictures of the past, what prophetic
visions of the future! There is no other
particular day recognized as a holiday, so sig-
nificant of happiness to me, as the first day of
the new year. The term “a happy new year,”
so long and so universally applied, has given
it tone and prestige; and a glad response
springs from the heart of each recipient, when
the accustomed salutations are interchanged.
There are few people indeed in ‘civilized
countries, who do not observe some special
ceremonies on  "New Year’s Day."  Customs
change somewhat in detail, but in reality they
have been much the same for the last hundred
years. The season itself is calculated to con-
duce to happiness; and happiness is the
phantom that all pursue. In winter, families
come into closer accord; a great share of labor
which calls one from home is necessarily laid
aside, and more time is usually devoted to
fireside conversation, to reading, to study, and
to employments that savor of the home.
	Home! what a magic word! Is there a human
heart that does not feel a thrill of pleasure,
whenever the word home is uttered? How
many tender recollections, how many sacred
reminiscences it brings to mind! The word
has a peculiar meaning to the Latter-day
Saint, who knows so well what it is to be an
exile; but I must return to my subject, New
Year’s Day and winter pleasures, when the
outside world is under the absolute sway of
the king of frost and snow, and we depend
upon the domain within, for companionship
and amusement. The harvest has been
gathered, and its fruits garnered away; the'
husbandman rejoices in the abundance he has
reaped from his toil, and the good wife who
shared in the husband’s labors, partakes of the
enjoyment, and a spirit of peace broods over
the habitation, and contentment sits with them
at the hearthstone. New Year’s Eve finds
the family seated round the fireside—the
bright warm curtains are closely drawn and
each one tries to interest the other. The little
folks in the background prattle in childish, pas-
time, and sport their new dolls and Christmas
toys, while the older ones recite snatches of
verse and sing old-time songs. How many en-
chanting stories of fairies and genii have been
repeated by the winter fire, when the taper
burned low, and voices were hushed, save the
one on whom all were gazing, while they lis-
tened with strained eyes and bated breath.
The situation has its effect. How often in
childhood have I listened to these marvelous
tales, told with a grave ‘ loftiness of manner,
while, in the reflection of the flickering light,
fantastic shadows flitted about, and seemed to
take on living forms; and every nerve thrilled
with the intense excitement, producing an im-
pression never to be effaced. Ah! where was
I? At New Year’s Eve! Here let us pause
for one retrospective moment, and look back
over the hills of the radiant past, and ask our
own hearts some solemn questions, which each
one is best prepared to answer for himself?


[Column 1]
﻿What precious fruit have we garnered for the
soul’s heritage?  What evil have we overcome
in our own erring natures, and what sacrifices
have we made of self?  If wo have not been
seeking wisdom from the living fountain of
knowledge, it is a good time now to commence.
The year is slipping fast away, soon the New
Year will be upon us; it seems almost as
though we were parting with an old friend, so
strong is the imagination. It is an eve of sad-
ness and yet of joy; there are many pleasant
realisms, which fill the lap of life with bless-
ings; and if there are some sorrows, some re-
grets, some human pain, let us acknowledge
God in all things, and, trustful in His provi-
dence, look into the bright new year with hope-
ful glance, never doubting His kind care and 
protection.
	The New Year!  Yes, I hear the bells ring-
ing, and their echo is answering back, telling
such tales!  O, those wondrous bells! I linger
pen in hand, to catch the sound; like magic
their spell is upon me—are there no bells ring-
ing here to-night? What was it then? I heard
the rich tones floating in the air.  Ah me!
the bells of memory! Is fancy then so power-
ful? O those merry, merry bells! what a vision
they have presented to my view.  I am a child
again for one brief moment; in an old fashioned
house I see familiar faces, I hear them sing—
they open the doors, and a flood of music fills
the whole house, echoing from room to room;
it is the music of the midnight bells; and all at
once a rich burst; the melody of human voices
in joyous chorus, shouting “A happy new
year?”
	Tenderly we take leave of the old; re-
luctantly we reach out to the future, knowing
not what it may bring in its train.  We are
blest to-day—friends, loving, warm and true
are round about us.  How grateful all should
be who are surrounded with the blessed
luxuries of home and friends. The new year
is a fitting time for re-unions, sweet inter-
changes of affection, the precious endearments
that sweeten the cup of life, the graces that
embellish the sanctuary of the heart.  There
should be no deceit, no affectation at such
seasons, but heart speaking to heart without
flattery or empty compliment.  Let it be one
of the fresh, green places in our lives towards
which, in after years, we may turn with a
sense of infinite restfulness, a refuge of peace
in moments of pain.  That which ye sow, ye
shall also reap—if we sow the seeds of love
and kindness in youth, may we not anticipate
a rich harvest of blessed love in return, when
the winter of age has silvered over the shin-
ing hair, and one by one, bright hopes, fondly
nurtured. have faded away? While we cherish
reverently the beautiful past, and our hearts
yearn for the tender tones that have long
since been forever hushed in the stillness of
death—let us not forget the living, who are
hungering all around us for love and affec-
tion.
	It is well to be fully alive to the needs of
the overflowing present, for no greater age
was ever ushered in than the one in which
we are now living.  There are grand possibil-
ities to engage in of sufficient importance to
satisfy the most ambitious; but nothing gives
to life such complete fulness of expression as
domestic happiness.  Without it the whole 
world would be an aching void.  The greatest 
men who ever lived, while standing upon the
pinnacle of fame, have felt the sorest need of
sympathy, have pined for true, unselfish devo-
tion.  Strong in intellect, yet, in moments of
weakness and doubt that come alike to all,
needing human love to give them courage.
Everything  which tends to exalt human
character should be encouraged, and the culti-
vation of domestic affections assuredly en-

[Column 2]
nobles and beautifies life. The homes of the 
people are sure indications of their capabilities.
Build up the home, fortify it with walls of
affection, hedge it round with delicate germs
of tenderness, and let it be ever curtained
with gentle charity. Like fragrant flowers
along our pathway, whose perfume lingers
with us, long after passing, are the blessed
holidays, scattered here and there along the
road of life, helping to brighten the dreary
way; and one of the best of these is New Year’s
Day.
	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

	THE romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the contrary,
notwithstanding. And perhaps  one of the
most interesting things that invariably lends
charm to real life is a love letter, whether it is
a few words ungrammatically written, or an
epistle filled with the choicest language; it
matters not if the person by whom the words
were penned is capable of pouring into the
composition the true eloquence of the soul, it
finds its counterpart in the heart of the receiver,
and is forever cherished among the most valu-
able treasures.  I am aware of the old saying,
it is easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart is
in it or not. There may be exceptions to this
rule as there are to all others, but many a
happy union has been consummated because of
some outpouring of the human heart on paper;
and many a reconciliation has been effected
through a love letter where a misunderstanding
or a lover’s quarrel had existed.  Some strange
things have happened too, worth relating for 
the amusement of a winter evening, for though 
we speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more unions
are consummated than “June the month of 
roses and of love,” but the courting has been
done beforehand in the long winter evenings
and finished off possibly in the lovely Spring 
time, with the perfume of violets in the air
and the sweet songs of the wild birds in their
ecstacy, nest building; by the brink of some
mossy brook or flowing fountain, or under the
apple boughs when the pink and white blossoms
were fluttering to the ground.  But apropos
of old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell. In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret and
these places were the repository of everything
that the family wanted to put out of sight, and
occasionally some treasure would be lost among  
the heaps of rubbish carried up there, when
the clearing up, or house cleanings were in 
progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will never-
theless be as good as new, for it has been well-
kept.  The principal actors in the pretty
drama are dead long ago, but we do not even
at this late date feel justified in giving their
real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s one
day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle of
old letters tied  with a very faded and soiled
yellow lute-string ribbon would make
a sash for her dolly and proceeded forthwith
to untie the knots, and scatter the letters
among the rubbish, never dreaming that in so
doing, she was divulging a secret or disclosing
a treachery.  But so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that ribbon
?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her little
grand niece who was playing with her dolly in
the drawing-room, and then such a crowd of

[Column 2]
memories came rushing back as she took the
once pretty ribbon in her fingers, fondling it
that little Helen suspected she had done some-
thing naughty, but the child was on the best of
terms with Aunt Dorothy, and as if to make
reparation said, ‘I found it in the garret and
washed it for my new doll, it was tied in such
hard knots around a bundle of old papers
with ink so faded no one could ever read
them. “What did you do with them child?”
said Aunt Dorothy, excitedly, “I threw them
down again in the corner with a whole lot of
other things, “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought grand-
ma wouldn’t like that, I only wanted the
pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.” “Very
odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy in an absent way,
and was soon slowly and thoughtfully wending 
her way up the staircase, and then on again to
the garret, talking to herself as she went, ‘I
wonder what letters could have been hid away
up there for all these years. Its forty years or
more since I wore that ribbon, how happy I 
was then and what a bright future I antici-
pated, and then came those evil days, when a
dark shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me.  O, why have these remembrances
come back, just at the sight of a faded rib-
bon?” Sure enough, why do those tender days
that are gone come back and haunt us, when
we have groped blindly through the darkness
and sorrow and find ourselves calmed by the
distance that divides us from the dismal past.
Thus musing, Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the
last step and surveyed the garret searchingly;
she went through pile after pile of cast off
clothing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered some
papers peeping from out a corner and trem-
blingly reached out to take the shattered work-
box containing them, for such it proved to be
in her hands.  She shook like an aspen tree as
she lifted it, and it fell in fragments at her
feet, and out from the papers rolled down
among the rubbish on the floor,a ring with an
glowing setting.  For a moment she seemed
stunned, a great sob came swelling up in her
throat, and her mouth was dry and parched,
and she sank down upon the floor as pathetic-
ally as if she had been a beautiful young girl
still in her teens, instead of an old maid of
half a century.
	But no one would have guessed her age for
she was still strikingly handsome and exquis-
itely neat in her dress, and had that sort of
delicate way of adjusting everything that we
call stylish, the draping of her brown silk dress
lay about her soft folds and with her eyes
suffused with tears, she gazed wonderingly
upon the lost ring she had found after all these
long years.  So many times she had ransacked
boxes, drawers and closets, in possible and
impossible places, and now it had come to light 
too late, when her hair was silvered o’er and
her eyes faded with weeping.  An emerald
ring, engraved D. V. from E. L., such a pecu-
liar shape, a rare beauty she had once thought
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night he had given it to her under the great
elm tree, in the yard,and pledged his faith, his
honor, the devotion of a life time, and begged
her to be his promised bride, and with maiden
blushes, and modest downcast eyes more elo-
quent than words, she had given him his silent
answer.  The few months that followed the
betrothal had been full of sweetness and the
tenderest association lovers could enjoy whose
sentiments were so near akin.  But in their 
case the old adage proved true, “The course of
true love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy shiver-
ing in the garret while we go over her past life,
and tell what befell her, and why she was a
lonely old maid in the home of her childhood,


where the third generation was now growing
up, instead of being a happy grandmother like
her sister-in-law who was only a few years
older.
	Singular coincidences sometimes transpire;
that might almost lead us to believe in the
fatuity of certain events acting upon each other,
years had passed by since anything had hap-
pened to call up these tender reminiscences in
Aunt Dorothy’s past and now just a faded old
ribbon had awakened a torrent of emotions,
and a flood of events came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and Miss
Vose gathered up the broken box and scraps
of paper in her black silk apron and fled down
the stairs to her own room as though all the
ghosts of those haunted memories were follow-
her. Once in her chamber with the door se-
curely fastened, she picked up piece by piece
the broken workbox where these papers had
been hidden away. She knew the box well, it
had been a handsome one inlaid with pearl,
but now fallen apart, disclosing its contents. 
But how came the ring in the possession of the
the owner of the box; that was a mystery she 
could never expect to unravel, not even if
she could make up her mind to read the let-
ters, which she hardly dared to think of yet
though they were in her keeping. She took
the faded fragments one by one and laid them
together, and the broken box and put them in
a drawer and turned the key as if to shut
them out of her sight, and away from the
temptation of reading them. Her face was
paler than usual, and her limbs quivered as
she descended to the dining-room when supper
was announced, but apparently no one noticed
anything unusual in her face or manner ex-
cept little Helen, who had not forgotten how
strangely her aunt had questioned her about
the yellow ribbon, and when they were leav-
ing the table the child approached her saying,
“Are you ill Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not
ill, only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.” “Were
you a little girl then like me?” inquired the
little grand-niece. “O, no, I was a young
lady with great expectations,” said Aunt
Dorothy with a strong emphasis on the two
last words. Little Helen looked puzzled, but
with childish persistency she pursued her in-
quiries, “Was that when your picture was
painted that hangs in grandpa’s room over
his desk.” “My picture was painted so long
ago I really don’t know. I never look at it.
It is not like your mamma’s Aunt Dorothy
is it?” “Yes a little, I believe you had the
yellow ribbon on that’s what made you take
so much notice of it when you saw it today.”
Miss Vose was glad the child was satisfied
and soon after retired for the night; should
not however yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the perusal.
She tried in vain to sleep, the wretched past
came so vividly to mind, that the gray dawn
of morning found her still tossing upon her
pillows, her head aching and eyelids heavy
with weeping. Finally she fell asleep; the
bright sunshine streaming into her room awoke
her, and she started up suddenly but lay
down for a moment or two and thought over
again the dream from which she had been
aroused. She had certainly had a remarkable
dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and
anxiously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she re-
plied perhaps the peculiar dream she had that
morning was the cause, and her brother and
his daughter joined in the request that she
should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: "I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by

[Column 2]
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the in-
spiration of the Holy Ghost, and the transla-
tion had been published in a book; and he had
the book with him and showed it to us, and
then the scene changed and we were in the
woods about a mile from here where the river is
deep between those big rocks, and the same
stranger stood in the water and baptized us
all, and I shivered with cold and woke with
the sun shining into my room.
	“Dorothy”said her brother addressing her“did
you know the man who came bearing this
Gospel message?” Dorothy replied rather re-
luctantly, “I think I did it was one we knew
intimately in days gone by.” Mr. Vose knew
very well what his sister meant when she
spoke thus, for they never had mentioned his
name for years, even to each other. “I can-
not think why I should dream of him after
all these long years, but it was a singular
dream don't you think so?” “Very strange,
but then you must not think of it, you look
quite ill and sad, and if you brood over such
hallucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters the
day before, reason enough why she should
dream of her old lover, but during the day
the dream and the reality both troubled her,
and she resolved to put an end to her imagi
nary fears by going over the old letters to
see why they had been left behind, when those
whom she was sure they most concerned had
fled like fugitives and had never returned.
	What was the lady’s amazement when she
put on her spectacles and looked at the papers
to find one of her own letters, addressed to
Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury, Mass. It
was sealed with a pink wafer and on it was
the initial L. She paused in a tremor of ex-
citement. Why had this letter lain there all
these years hidden away from her, and she un-
knowing of its ever having been written. She
could not open it now, it seemed too much
joy—and yet she knew not what it contained,
but it was from Edward, her lover—O,so long
ago—and yet she could never hear his name,
without her heart beating more rapidly, and
her face betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one by
one, and found some in his handwriting ad-
dressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin, and
rival, she could not and would not read them,
she fancied she knew the purport of their
contents. Her own letter, she kissed again
and again, and tried to summon courage to
read it, she had no need to break the pretty
seal, for the corners, were worn and it was
easy to open the folds, for those were not the
days of envelopes, remember; she turned the
letter over and over, until a curl of pretty
auburn hair fell from it, and she could no
longer resist the desire to see what he had
written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the emerald
ring, for it was part of himself; he might be
dead, she knew not; but this pretty curl was
something she could keep; how vexed she had
felt when Helen found the ribbon, but now
how glad, it had led to the unfolding of a
mystery, the lost ring, and the auburn curl,
two treasures she would cherish while life
lasted; the hatred and jealousy of her cousin
were gone now, though the sorrow had never
left her heart, but she had long ago forgiven
them both, and would have been glad to know
if they were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a

[Column 3]
message from an unknown region, out of the
beautiful past. At last she took up the scraps
and put them together for as she tried to open
it—the pieces fell apart—and her heart almost
stood still while she gazed upon the words—
Miss Dorothy Vose once my afficanced wife:
the letter was dated Boston Mass. Jan. 1805,
and in it he poured out in burning words his
love, his disappointment, reproaching her for
inconstancy and entreating her to accept a
lock of his hair, that in some lonely hour
when she had forgotten his devotion she might
be reminded of him; the ring he had given
her he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual love
and constancy as well as of their betrothal.
	In conclusion he said “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no more
from you, I shall ask her hand in marriage.
If I cannot win the heart of her whom I have
chosen out of all the world, I will devote my-
self to making another happy, who loves me
with unutterable tenderness. Farewell! and
if we never meet again remember that you
have driven me from you with your pride
and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned no
doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the oppor-
tunity to reply to them nor had she even
known that Edward deigned to make any
explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Mary loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin's
presence though she was her guest and aware
of the engagement. Dorothy saw her lover
drift away from her, and her modesty and
reticence kept her from any demonstration of
her suffering. Edward attributed it to cold-
ness and indifference. Mary was well versed
in the art of coquetry, and it was an easy
matter to win her country cousin’s lover, her
heart was in the matter too, for though she
had gone through two or three gay seasons,
since she became of age; no one had ever in-
terested her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man, with
bright prospects in store and it was not strange
that she should love him, but he was blind
not to see that behind the reserve of Miss
Dorothy there was a depth of sentiment that
her cousin Mary was incapable of feeling; she
was a gay butterfly of fashion, fond of dancing
and society, while her country cousin was
staid and womanly fond of home-life and ready
to make sacrifices for the happiness of others
instead of seeking her own.
	But we will not go back into the details of
the occurrences that had left Miss Dorothy
alone in the old home, there is no need for in
a short time after the finding of the letter and
the ring, her dream came to pass literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking over
the sermon they had heard that day, and Aunt
Dorothy expressed some dissatisfaction as to
the genuineness of the preacher: “It did not
come from his heart,” she argued and was
therefore ineffective, “what would I give to
hear the voice of a true preacher of righteous-
ness?” added the lady, and she continued
“hear the Scriptures expounded as I under-
stand them,I am weary of the tone and manner
of our orthodox ministers, it has grown
monotonous to me.” “Dorothy” said her
brother, who was the only one who ever dared
to disagree with the lady, “don’t you think
you are growing very extreme in your ideas?
Is there anything that comes up to your
standard of excellence? Aren’t you looking
for a miracle, remember these are not the days
of the Savior and his Apostles, though we do
profess to be his followers.”
	“Yes but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
	[Continued on page 110.]


The light is fading in the West—the many
tints of brightness have left the waving cloud-
lets and now they nestle together like pure
white-winged doves upon the broad blue heaven.
So beautifully blue. The old year is dying,
and visions of the past rise before us, softened
and mellowed by the idolizing tough of
memory—Years flow back full of voices
eloquent and pathetic: pavilions and gaves, pas-
sages of deep feelings strange and varied experi-
ences, withered garlands, broken rings, vases once
fragrant with flowers, hopes that failed,
buried expectations, and many a joy whereon the
memorial wreath is laid. These things back
of us known only to heaven, help to shape
our lives. Dear faces, the pressure of hands,
snatches of song, the light of long closed eyes,
and the distant murmnr of solemn earnest
prayer. All these we treasure reverently. Oh !
is it not a blessed faith that tells us of a life
immortal? By and by all lost things will come
back unto us,—like ships with which we
parted by night, they will come back fairer
than they went to anchorage. Here we watch
and wait, while the years roll on and away
with this life, giving soul cheering faith, when
shall come the fulfillment of a hope founded
on the immutable promises and boundless love
of the Almight Father, And the old conflicts
shall pass away and disappear amid the
everlasting light of a glorious Day.
	L. M. H.
	Atchison Kan.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake city, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, 		JANUARX I, 1891.


[Column 1]

THE YEAR OF GRACE 1891.

	The world has entered upon a year much talked
of by men and women whose researches have
brought them in contact with important facts in
the history of the globe, both scientists and prog-
nosticators, as well as those who profess much
irregular knowledge of the planetary system.
"Old women's sayings" are not all that are brought
forward in proof of great events that are to take
place during the present year now just upon us.
Most of us have heard of Mother Shipton's
prophecy and of old Mrs. Van Hoesen; and those
who are living in these peculiar days fraught with
the wonderful inventions and surprises that are
continually bursting upon and electrifying our
sober senses, are aware that extraordinary oc-
currences are actually taking place and that ac-
cording to the Scriptures "knowledge is increas-
ing and the people are running to and fro in the
midst of the earth," as foretold by the ancient
prophets.
	Dissatisfaction among the working classes with
monopolies is one of the disturbing elements of
the present time, and notwithstanding all the ele-
vating influences and tendencies that are abroad
in the world the opposite power reigns and pre-
dominates to an alarming extent, enlightenment
is spreading and so are the engines of destruc-
tion, a greater work is being done in Temperence
reforms and every day the need of it increases.
	But there are many "signs of the times" indica-
tive of some great change that is surely pending.
The Stoic and philosopher may reason differently
and work out everything by an evolutionary pro-
cess. but the Lord's ways are not as man's ways
and they are past finding out and are only re-
vealed as He sees fit to his servants the prophets
when it seemeth Him good that his people may
be prepared.
	The Latter-day Saints have been commanded
in these last days to do a certain work, to gather
to Zion, to build Temples, and perform therein
ordinances for the living and for the dead; this
work has been commenced and the powers of
darkness have sought to hinder it; they have
caused unjust and prohibitory laws to be made to
hinder the full exercise of religious freedom for
which our forefathers fought and bled and suffered
untold privations. But the powers of dark-
ness cannot over-rule the purposes of the Al-
mighty, the little stone that Daniel saw is rolling
forth and will accomplish its purpose and the
vision of Daniel will be fulfilled, and the
prophecies of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young
and Heber C. Kimball will as surely come to
pass, and some of them are being fulfilled before
our very eyes from day to day as hundreds of
this people can testify. In the meantime it be-
hooves those who are engaged in this great Lat-
ter-day work to be up and doing; faithful to every
duty and watchful of themselves.

[Column 2]

	The beginning of a new year is generally a
time for new resolves and greater efforts for self-
cultivation and self-improvement. The tendency
of the mind at such times is towards a higher de-
velopment of the better qualities of the head and
heart, and consequently love and charity for
others whose conditions may not be as favorable;
and what a pity it is that these holiday feelings
and thoughts, these better impulses do not prompt
one all the year to its very close, that one need
not put them on and off as they do a garment, but
keep continually that kindly spirit, how the world
would be benefitted thereby. At any rate those
who profess to be Saints should make some per-
ceptible improvement as the years roll round. If
there are more temptations than there were once
"in our happy valley," then the strength to resist
these evil influences should be doubled with the
grace and integrity obtained by the supreme
heights attained.
	The circumstances in which this people are
placed at the beginning of this year are calculated,
one would think, to make them sober-minded and
thoughtful, and yet many are giving themselves up
to gaiety and lives of pleasure? And not only
the young, but many who have had experience
are carried on by the tide-wave of pleasure that
seems to have set in upon society and has
reached "our mountain home" with its fascinat-
ing attractions; that some bright and warning
lights should be set along the shore, to ward off
danger of wrecks would seem to be a positive
necessity. Those who have the power and the for-
titude to warn the unwary and over confident ones
that there is danger lurking near them, should
"sound the alarm," and indeed is it not the im-
perative duty of teachers and Elders and fathers
and mothers to check in some degree the apparent
inclination to frivolity and excess of pleasure.
Rational enjoyment and recreation is proper for
all, and one is likely to do better work if suitable
amusements are mingled with it in moderation;
social life should have some claims and holiday
time is a blessing on that account if extremes are
not indulged in, but the spirit of the age is "fast"
and unless the saints take every precaution, many
of them are likely to be plunged into the whirl-
pool of fashionable excitement and forget their
allegiance to God and His laws and command-
ments. The women of Zion should be wide-
awake to the dangers that are lurking beneath
the seemingly harmless current with which some
of the sons and daughters of the Saints are drift-
ing away from the shores of safety, and far away
from the valley of humility out into the mid-ocean
of extravagance with its tempting allurements,
but where they can only see fair sailing. Burns
says:

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower, its bloom is shed,
	Or like the snow-fall in the river,—
	A moment white, then melts forever."

	And the poet Young writing of pleasure has 
this to say,

	"Pleasures are few, and fewer we enjoy,
	Pleasure, like quicksilver, is bright and coy;
	We strive to grasp it with our utmost skill
	Still it eludes us, and it glitters still;
	If seized at last compute your mighty gains;
	What is it but rank poison in your veins?"


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A Woman's Suffrage Association for Davis Co.
was organized at Farmington Sept. 25, 1890 with
the following officers, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Presi-
dent; Mrs. Athalia Steed, 1st Vice Pres. Miss
Lizzie Smith 2nd Vice Pres. Mrs. Jessie Stringam
3rd Vice Pres. Mrs. Ann Dustin, Vice Pres. for
East Bountiful, Miss Clara Leonard, Secretary;
Miss Emma Welling Cor. Sec., Mrs. Mary
Millard, Treasurer; Miss Kate Chase, Chairman


Executive Committee, Mrs. Augusta J. Croche-
ron, Mrs. Lizzie Coombs, Miss Alice Clark, Mrs.
Mary E. Clark and Miss Annie Christenson,
members of Ex. Com. Remarks were made by
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City and Jacob Miller, Susan Grant,
and Ezra T. Clark of Farmington upon the subject
in question, and quite a number of members were
enrolled upon the record. The newly-elected
President also made a few remarks, and Mrs.
Kimball gave some special directions to the
officers; since that time they have held regular
meetings, and are we are informed making good
progress.
	On Oct. 24, a meeting of the W. S. A. was held
at Farmington, at which Mrs. Emily S. Richards
of Salt Lake City spoke quite forcibly and in-
terestingly, giving some of her experiences in
Conventions in Washington D. C. Prof. Green-
wood also delivered a lecture upon the object of
woman suffrage associations and the benefits to
be derived therefrom. We are sorry we have
not space to give the remarks of these two
speakers in full; Prof. Howells also made some
pertinent remarks. Since then an organiznation
has been made at Kaysville but we have not the
names of the officers at hand.


THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	The first triennial meeting of the National
Council of representative women of the United
States is to be held in Albaugh's Opera House in
Washington D. C., commencing on the 23rd of
February and lasting three days previous to the
N. A. W. S. A. Convention. The National
Council is an outgrowth of the International
Council of 1888, which did so much good in unit-
ing the efforts of all organized bodies of women,
not only in America but from the lands across the
sea. Europe, Finland, India etc. At the close
of the International Council at that time a Com-
mittee on a basis Organization of a National
Council was appointed and they were to prepare
Preamble and Resolutions which resulted in the
following measures as a Constitution, which were
adopted after changing one or two terms.

CONSTITUTION OF THE
WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
ORGANIZED AT WASHINGTON, D. C.,
MARCH 31, 1888.

PREAMBLE.
	We, women of the United States, sincerely be-
lieving that the best good of our homes and
nation will be advanced by our own greater unity
of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an or-
ganized movement of women will best conserve 
the highest good of the family and the State, do
hereby band ourselves together in a confederation
of workers committed to the overthrow of all
forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the appli-
cation of the Golden Rule to society, custom and
law.
	That we may more successfully prosecute the
work, we adopt the following

CONSTITUTION.	
ARTICLE I.
Name.

	This federation shall be called the Woman's 
National Council of the United States.

ARTICLE II.
General Policy.

	This Council is organized in the interest of no
one propaganda, and has no power over its
auxiliaries beyond that of suggestion and sym-
gathy; therefore, no society voting to become
auxiliary to this Council, shall thereby render
tself liable to be interfered with in respect to its


complete organic unity, independence, or methods
of work, or be committed to any principle or
method of any other society or to any utterance
or act of the Council itself, beyond compliance
with the terms of this Constitution.

ARTICLE III.
Officers.
	The officers shall be a President, Vice-Presi-
dent at Large, Corresponding Secretary, Record-
ing Secretary, and Treasurer. Each president
of an auxiliary society shall be an ex-officio vice-
president of the National Council, and the Presi-
dent of the National Council shall be ex-officio
Vice-President of the International Council.
	The five general officers, with the Vice-Presi-
dents, shall constitute an Executive Committee of
which seven members shall make a quorum, to
control and provide for the general interests of
the Council.

ARTICLE IV.
Auxiliaries.
	Any society of women, the nature of whose
work is satisfactory to the Executive Committee,
either as to its undoubtedly national character or
national value, may become auxiliary to this
Council by its own vote and by the payment of a
sum amounting to half a cent yearly per member
in addition to a payment of twenty-five dollars,
into treasury of the National Council not later
than three months prior to its triennial meetings.

ARTICLE V.
Meetings.
	The National Council shall hold triennial meet-
ings. The Committee of Arrangements shall be
composed of the Executive Committee and one
delegate chosen by each auxiliary society as its
representative.

ARTICLE VI.
	This Constitution may be altered or amended
by a majority vote of the Council at any triennial
meeting, printed notice thereof having been sent
to each member of the Executive Committee at
least three months prior to such meeting.

	It will perhaps be remembered by the readers
of the EXPONENT that the organizations of the
Relief Society, Mutual Improvement Associations
and Primary were each represented at the Inter-
national Council in 1888—and that it will be
the proper thing to represent them again after
three years growth and increase. The women of
Utah should not be behind in any good work but
march onward and keep pace with the spirit of
the times; standing side by side with the great
enterprises that are being engaged in for the ad-
vancement of all humanity. It is doubtful in the
mind of the writer, if there is any organization of
women that has accomplished so much in the
various departments of woman's work, elevation,
and higher cultivation as has the Relief Society.
Thousands upon thousands of dollars have been
received and disbursed, industries started, and in
many ways it has been advantageous for the
community as well as those directly engaged in
the active work. Its basis is broad, deep and
high; while its first efforts are for the relief of
the poor, the sick and unfortunate, it reaches
out to all kinds of reforms, and the cultivation of
the grandest powers of which the human soul is
capable.
	The Relief Society has branches in many other
lands as well as the United States and Canada.
In England, Scotland, Germany, Switzerland,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, also on the
Sandwich and Samoan Islands, in Australia and
New Zealand. The organization is so perfect that
those at a distance are in communication with the
Central Board in this City and keep posted in re-
gard to all matters that are for the benefit of the
whole Society. Reports are received, and a

[Column 2]

General Report made semi-annually. These re-
ports include what comes under the head of
statistical and financial information but the mental
moral and spiritual elevation and the knowledge
acquired with many other noble deeds of devotion
and the alleviation of suffering humanity are only
recorded in the archives of heaven and engraven
on the hearts of those who have been partakers
of these blessings.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolutions of respect to Jeanie Mc'Lean who
departed this life November 25th 1890, aged 73.
Deceased was a native of Johnson near Glasgow,
Scotland.
	Sister McLean was set apart by Bishop A.
Speirs July the 15th 1880 as President of the Pri-
mary Association of the 10th Ward of this City,
and about the same time was appointed Treasurer
of the Relief Society of the ward, and
	Whereas she for many years past has been with
Sister Elizabeth H. Paul administering and com-
forting the sick—and
	Whereas she held these offices up to the time
of her death—we truly feel that we have lost a
faithful worker in the Society—Therefore be it
	Resolved, that we esteem and appreciate her
past faithful labors, and devotion to duty, for
which she has the worthy respect of us all; and
desire to follow her noble example.
	Resolved that we present a copy a copy of these
Resolutions to her son, and publish the same in
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on
our Record in the Relief Society and also in the
Primary Association.
		IDA SPEIRS,
		R. T. NESS,
			Committee.

	In is only a just tribute to the memory of a most
excellent woman and member of this Church, for
the writer, who knew her well to place on record
a few items as a testimonial of her faithfulness and
integrity. Sister Mc'Lean was a spiritual-minded
woman and wherever she went in the society of
the Saints she carried a comforting influence;
she was well versed in the Bible, and was able
to speak understandingly on all the principles of
the Gospel citing Scripture proofs in support
thereof. Sister Mc'Lean had quite a remarkable
presence, large and what might really be termed
a magnificent figure. She was specially gifted in
prayer and in public speaking though very modest
in manner on all occasions when called before the
public. She had that genuine sympathy for the
poor, the unfortunate, and afflicted that always
blesses while it administers physical or temporal
relief.
	The children of the Primary Association in the
tenth Ward will have reason to remember their
President,who labored so faithfully and effectively
in the interest of that organization for more than
ten years; always at her post, with a smile on her
face and a benediction on her lips. A true wo-
man in those graces that best adorn womanhood,
a mother in Israel and a Latter-day Saint in word
and in deed.


[Column 1]

MOTHER AND SON.

	Now the season advances, the season of the
year! the season of bright smiles of mysterious
parcels; the season which brings the happiness to
the children’s hearts, that no other time can bring.
The season that fills more hearts with love, and
prompts more to generous deeds than all of the
other seasons combined. The time when the
father lays aside his cares and rejoices with his
little ones. The time when the mother’s fond
heart is overflowing with love for all the world.
For she with her motherly feeling recalls every

[Column 2]
throb of pleasure which animated the heart of her
who was an instrument in bringing iuto the world
the Savior of mankind.
	There is none who can more deeply sympathize
with that mother’s broken heart who was borne
away fainting from the cross where hung her
darling son; than mothers themselves.
	We are all moved by the pathetic story of our
Savior’s death. His was a blameless life sacri-
ficed on the altar of love, but to that broken-
hearted mother he was not the. Savior of the
world, he was the loving dutiful son, who in in-
fancy slumbered on her breast. Those little feet
she guided in their tottering steps. It was his
voice whose accents caused her heart to throb,
when he first pronounced the magic word
“mother.” And when she saw him grow strong
in the grace of His Father who sent him, and
when she heard the voice from heaven proclaim,
“This is my beloved son in whom I am- well
pleased,” how that mother’s heart  swelled with
pride, and when by the power of that spirit the
multitude followed Him, He teaching them his
Father’s will, healing their sick, raising the dead,
causing the lame to walk, the blind to see, how
fervently she must have thanked her Father for
such a son.
	The scene changed, as the poet said, “As all
things human change,” her joy was turned to fear
for rumors reached her that cruel men were
jealous of her son. She knew what that meant
she trembled for his safety, she prayed for his
protection but, alas, it could not be, he had come
on wings of love and was willing to make the
greatest sacrifice the world has ever known to
save unborn millions. But was her grief less
mortal ?
	Since the star that guided the humble rejoicing
shepherd lads to see the Holy mother and son in
that rude cnamber in Bethlehem nearly 19 hund-
red years have passed, and millions have died
with the-sacred word Jesus on their lips. Count-
less little children have murmured their morning
and evening prayer in His name. His merciful
words “Go sin no more” have been the means of
turning back to the path of virtue thousands'that
would have been entirely lost.
	How did mother’s live before he came! Bend-
ingover the dying forms of their little ones, whose"'
tiny feet had never gone beyond the gates of
home. How hard to watch the spark of life ex-
pire and know those little lives they had guided
with such tender care would enter the great un-
known alone? Ah! none but those who have
passed through such scenes, fully appreciate the
loving words of our Savior “Suffer little child-
ren to come unto me and forbid them not for of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven.” When we re-
flect, what would we do without His teachings?
What would the poor do without His promises?
It is not strange that the name Jesus as it falls
on our ear has a softening influence on the soul.
It touches a cord in the human heart causing the
love to bubble up and overflow, to gladden the
lives of those around. The name Jesus teaches
us love, patience, endurance and good will to
men.
	VINA.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	TWILIGHT MUSINGS.

	It is the hour of twilight—calm, soothing,
holy. The whole earth seems hushed to a
pleasant slumber, and a sad sweet smile lies
upon nature's face. The gold and crimson
clouds that but a moment ago spread across
the western sky like a brilliant curtain, have
grown paler, softer and now their delicate
lines mingle with fleecy white and deep
azure and they float over the dome of
heaven like birds of exquisite plumage, or
seraph forms smiling upon the quiet earth-


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.

[Concluded.]
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them, there is nothing Christ-like about them,"
replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period and since, by the spirit of the times; a
forerunner of what was about to transpire.
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the same
subject, the great old-fashioned knocker on
the front door made a clanging sound echoing
through the house, and when the door was
opened two strangers in heavy overcoats and
frosty beards announcing themselves as
missionaries asked for a night's lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air many
seconds for this was a hospitable house and
being a little distance from the town travelers
often stopped for dinner or over night. When
the gentlemen were ushered into the warm
sittingroom, they were kindly greeted by the
master and mistress as well as the younger
members of the household and Mr. Vose in-
quired if they had taken supper. Something
in the voice of the elder man sounded familiar
to the host, and he said "Are you from a
distance? you seem like a Western man, but,
and he directed his glance to the first speaker
your accent is decidedly Eastern. Laselle
for it was he could no longer conceal his
identity, no matter what sort of reception he
might receive; he had come purposely, though
thinking after so many years, he might not be
recognized. He replied to Mr. Vose, that he
was from the West, but formerly resided in
Boston; that in days gone by he had been
"quite a regular visitor in this very house."
	"And you come here now for shelter and as
a missionary preaching the word of the Lord,
after the deception you practiced, betraying
the confidence of my sister," before he could
finish the sentence Dorothy Vose had risen to
her feet and with the same complacent
dignity that had characterised her throughout
her whole life, she interposed, "My dear
brother these men are our guests for to night,
do not expose our family affairs to them, nor

[Column 2]

here before these young people. Let us speak
soberly together and apart if needs be."
Edward Laselle looked like one amazed, he
had also risen to his feet when Mr. Vose
accosted him in that recriminating tone, in fact
he had expected a scene of some sort, though
until he entered the house that evening he
knew not if Dorothy was living or dead, nor
whether the place was in possession of any he
had formerly been acquainted with; but he
had been sent out into the New England
States to preach the Gospel and his footsteps
had led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possible.
Alone in the old familiar parlor where they
had sat many an evening in "the long ago,"
though somewhat modernized now, Edward
Laselle and Dorothy Vose with her brother
talked over the events of the past so closely
interwoven with their lives. She explained to
him how only a few days before she had found
the lost ring, then the unopened letter, though
she did not mention the auburn curl; Edward
betrayed much more emotion than she did, and
Mr. Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, nor did
he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he seemed
fearful of venturing upon untried ground; but
Dorothy who had seen him in a dream inquired
what his mission was, and what book he had
under his arm when he came into the room.
Thus a conversation began that lasted for
hours and was renewed again in the early
morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new to
her. It was the beginning of the fulfillment of
her dream; she was impressed with the testi-
mony borne to her by the Mormon Elder and
so was her brother; they believed the truth
as soon as it was made known to them. How
wonderful it all seemed! Had Mr. Laselle
arrived at the house previous to the discovery
of the letter he would have been turned away
without a hearing, but the finding of the ring
and the letter had so softened the heart of
Miss Dorothy, that she was willing to bury
all old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks and
there on a peaceful Sabbath morning one week
from the date of their arrival the whole Vose
family were baptized by Edward Laselle the
"Mormon" Elder. The Elders had remained
in that vicinity during the week preaching
every evening and expounding the doctrines
of the Church as opportunities offered. There
were several others besides the Vose family
that received baptism, and ere long a branch
of the Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss
Dorothy Vose which she granted him, he
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more, and
yet he felt he had no claim upon her con-
fidence. The interview he sought was cheer-
fully granted him in the old parlor, and there
he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent,or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and she
had consented without hesitation or reserve.
Almost immediately after their marriage they
had taken "the Western fever" and had gone
out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard the
Gospel and embraced it and ever since that
time he had been a firm believer and advocate

[Column 3]

of its principles. When he was called to go
out as a missionary his appointment was to
the New England States, and his inclination
had led him to visit the scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number of
years, his daughters had kept house for him,
but they were all married now and he was
quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward and
Dorothy forgave each other "kissed and made
up;" we will leave the rest to the reader's
imagination and only tell them that this time
they married, and Dorothy consoled herself
with the thought that had it not been for the
misunderstanding between them,Edward would
probably not have been a "Mormon," nor would
she have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her brother
to send him away that Sabbath evening as he
fully intended to do. There might be another
story written on their married life and what
happened but we only add,  that the Vose
family gathered with the Saints along with
many others from that vicinity.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY
OF
ELIZABETH BROTHERTON PRATT.

	I worked all summer on the farm planted,
hoed and weeded, although I did not know
a weed from a plant until Mr. Pratt showed
me the difference. We were much in want of
some articles of clothing. I had no shoes to
wear, and I took some old cloth and made me
a pair and put rawhide on them for soles.
But we did not long want, as Bro- Kimball
had prophesied that there should be a plenty
although there was no prospect at the time,
and he said afterward that he could see no
way that it would come true, but his words
were literally fulfilled.
	One of the Mormon Battalion boys dis-
covered gold while in California in the year
1848 and on their return to the City the news
soon reached the States, and gold seekers
made ready their teams, chattels and goods,
not having knowledge and wisdom they loaded
too heavily and had to throw out part of
their burdens by the way. When the emi-
grants reached here they traded with the
people for things they needed and supplied
our wants with groceries, bacon and clothing.
Some of them staid with us through the
winter. In this, we could see the hand of the
Lord.
	March 19th 1851 Mr. Pratt was appointed
on a mission to the Pacific Coast to organize
and set in order the Saints that had gone
there not knowing where the church would
locate, They went in the ship Brooklyn, I
went with him to San Francisco, we traveled
in company with A. Lyman, and C. C. Rich
when they were going to St. Bernerdino with
a company of Saints. After a tiresome
journey we arrived in San Francisco. Mr.
Pratt remained there and rebaptized quite a
number in about two months time. He then
appointed an Elder to preside and sailed to
Chili Sept. 5th 1851 on another mission. I
remained in California with the saints, they
employed me to do their family sewing which
was quite a help to the family living at Salt
Lake in Mr. Pratt's absence. He returned in
May 1852, we left San Francisco and visited
San Bernerdino and arrived at home Oct.
1852.
	April 9th 1853 at the Conference the
corner stone of the Temple at Salt Lake was
laid, it was a solemn and glorious time long to
be remembered. On the 6th of April 1854
Mr. Pratt was appointed on a second mission
to California. On the 5th of May we bade
farewell to home and friends and arrived in


[Column 1]

San Francisco on the 2nd of July. My health
was very poor; on this mission we hired a house
large enough to accomodate the Elders going
and returning from their missions. Mr. Pratt
traveled about and organized branches at
San Jose, Santa Clara and St. John's preached
the Gospel and held discussions.
	In March 1855 Mr. Pratt received a number
of books, Church works, from England and
we opened a store in San Francisco; this we
kept but a short time as we soon left for our
Valley home. I became acquainted with
some sisters in whose society I spent many
happy days and as they had not the privilege
to come here, and have passed into eternity, I
have done a work for them in the Logan
Temple. I knew this was their wish, I have
also officiated there for my own relatives.
	June 20, we bade farewell to our dear friends
in San Francisco. On the 18th of August
we arrived at home and found the family all
well. The crickets had been very troublesome
that season which made grain scarce and flour
very dear.
	Sept 11th 1856 Mr. Pratt bade adieu to his
home to go on the last mission he ever took in
this present life. He received great blessings
from Pres. Young and Pres. Kimball, but
still he appeared to doubt his safe return.
While on this mission he wrote his poem; my
fiftieth year. He had only been gone from
home seven months when his life was taken in
Van Buren, Arkansas May 13th, 1857. He
left nine widows and thirty children, fifteen
boys and fifteen girls. The most of those
children were very young and born within ten
years time after we came to Salt Lake.
	When I look back to those days, I wonder
how we got along as well as we did under
such trying circumstances, as we had nothing
to depend on but our labor. The next winter
Johnson's army came on and our boys were
out in Echo Cañon the most of the time. In
the spring we left our homes not knowing
that we should ever return to them again.
Our family and a number  of others spent
the summer in Provo. In the fall the word
came, "To your tents O Israel"! Then we
returned and were rejoiced to find things as
we had left them. Through the many lies
and exaggerated reports about the Saints that
had been driven to this wild region of the
mountains, through religious persecution and
mob violence the U. S. troops came here.
	This army was sent from the government to
wipe us all out of existence. To save tronble
and bloodshed, Brigham Young counseled all
the people to leave the city. They made the
sacrifice and all ended in peace. We have
been driven from onr homes, bereft of our
dear ones, suffered sickness, poverty and
hunger, we have been annoyed with insects,
the crickets, grasshoppers and worms,and with
all this, we have been sustained and greatly
blessed of the Lord.
	In 1857 we sold our old homestead and
divided the means and there was enough for
each one to get a home of her own. Since
then four of Mr. Pratt's wives have died, there
are five yet living, there are twenty-four
children; six having died, one hundred and
twenty-four grand children,and a great number 
of great grand children. I can testify Pres.
Kimball's words have come true in regard to
my being blessed with dreams, from that time
I have been comforted in my night visions.
After Mr. Pratt's death we had to struggle
along the best way we could, sometimes I
would feel almost discouraged, at such times
I would dream of Mr. Pratt and would think
that he was just returning from a mission, and
it would appear to me that he was not dead.
	My dead relatives often visited me in my
sleep, always reminding me to do a work for
them, they gave me no rest until I did.
	I was not much inclined to look at the

[Column 2]

dark side of a picture, although I had to pass
through many trying scenes.
	I married into polygamy and believed it to
be a divine principle, and those who enter into
it with this knowlddge and are faithful to its
requirements will inherit the same kingdom
and glory that Abraham does, the friend of
God and father of the faithful. I have tried
to keep pace with Church organizations, and
be faithful to its duties as required by its
members. I was a member of the first Relief
Society which was organized in the fourteenth
ward of this City. Sister Phebe W. Woodruff
was its president; we had good meetings and
we did considerable straw work, we made a
great many hats for both men and women,
many nice quilts and useful articles for the poor.
This socieiy was started before the Church
moved away from the city.
	I now testify that I know Joseph Smith was
a true prophet and this is the true Church of
Jesus Christ that should be set up in the last
days, spoken of by Daniel through the gift of
prophecy. Those who have held the presi-
dency have walked in the footsteps of their
file leaders and carried out the mind and will
of God in every respect, I will make mention
of the noble servants of their heavenly Father
Pres. Brigham Young who succeeded the
Prophet Joseph Smtih, he was the great
pioneer to the people's home in the west, he
gave counsel and assisted to build up and
improve the waste places, he did this by untir-
ing travel from place to place, encouraging the
people to make better their condition in life.
Pres. John Taylor gave himself as a sacrifice
for those principles that will never tarnish, nor
die, and his integrity will stand as a monument
to his name forever. Pres. Wilford Woodruff
is left to guide the Church and like the star of
Bethlehem' which if its members follow will
guide them to Jesus the great Redeemer,
"Peace on earth good will to mankind," and
while his life is preserved he will give us the
word of the Lord. When we read of the
ancient Saints going astray we are led to
marvel that they were so often tempted to stray
from the path of righteousness; or that the child-
ren of Israel should make a golden calf. But
when we examine ourselves in our day we are
too weak, like them we have too many idols
and so many weak points to overcome, it keeps
us busy watching ourselves. Yes and as we
often sing:

	"When through firery trials thy pathway shall lie
	My grace, all sufficient shall by thy supply,
	The flame shall not hurt thee I only design
	Thy dross to consume and thy gold to refine.

Salt Lake City Dec. 9th 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MEMORIA.

If only in my dreams I may behold thee,
	Still hath the day a goal;
If only in my dreams I may enfold thee,
	Still hath the night a soul.
Leaden the hours may press upon my spirit,
	Nor one dear pledge redeem,—
I will not chide, so they at last inherit
	And crown me with the rapture of that dream.

Ten thousand blossoms earth's gay gardens cherish;
	One pale, pale rose is mine;
Of frost or blight the rest may quickly perish,—
	Not so that rose divine.
Deathless it blooms in quiet realms elysian;
	And when toil gives me rest,
Forgetful of all else, in blissful vision,
	I breathe my rose and clasp it to my breast!

Ex.		FLORENCE EARLE COATES.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

Like tears that are shed o'er the coffin lid,
	And laid with the Old Year's dead,


Are some of the hopes that gladdened our hearts
	Ere the year on its mission had sped:
And we bury them deep in our inner souls
	Away from the world's gaze hid.

And the cherished hopes of the glad New Year
	Like June's buds half disclose;
We bind them in garlands around his brow,
	And wait for each full-blown rose;—
Patiently wait, yet whether for blight
	Or bloom,—God only knows!

Yet this we know;—if with courage true,
	And each duty nobly done,
Our record stands Heaven approved, and marks
	The setting of each day's sun,
Whether fortune shall smile or frown, at last,
	We are victors; --Life's battle won!

Ex.						ADA GIDDINGS-PARK.


LINES.

	[Written on the death of little Vernon Leo Potter, Dec.
14th 1890, by Mrs. Sarah J. Austin, and respectfully dedi-
cated to Brother and Sister Potter.]

	Cold is the brow as marble now,
		And still the balmy breath;
	The one we loved so well in life
		Lies beautiful in death.

	A little mound of sacred ground,
		Holds all on earth we loved;
	The spirit that entranced our own,
		With angels dwells above,

	But though he rests in earth's embrace
		His spirit dwells with God,
	And we must bow to His behest,
		And kiss the chast'ning rod.

	Look up dear friends our God is good
		He doeth nothing wrong,
	And you shall have your child again,
		Just as you laid him down.

	For Jesus in his mighty love,
		Came from the courts above;
	And died on Calvary's awful cross
		He died that we might live.

	Then let us strive to keep the laws,
		Which God to us has given;
	That we may meet our friends above,
		And dwell with them in heaven.


A CO-OPERATIVE SCHEME.

	Every now and then one hears of a new in-
stance of ingenuity on the part of the working
girls, more especially those who belong to clubs
and so get the benefit of contact with wise and
tactful women. Fourteen of Miss Grace H.
Dodge's club girls have lately gone into a very
pretty enterprise. They have established
themselves on a co-operative basis in the
manufacture of dainty baby clothes. A little
money has been put into the plan from out-
side. If the girls succeed and anything is
left above their wages the profits are to be
parted in three, one portion for the stock-
holders, one for the girls to be divided ac-
cording to their salaries, and one for an
emergency and enlargement fund. I do not
know of a pleasanter place in the city in
which to spend half an hour than the sunny
little workroom above the store, especially if
one happens in about 4 o'clock, when all the
wee smocked frocks and long robes are
dropped, while quaint blue and white cups and
saucers and the shiniest little kettle are pro-
duced, and everybody has a merry ten minutes
over afternoon tea. The girls take to their
work as gaily as if they regarded it as an end-
less succession of jolly sewing bees. They are
interested in their task,interested in one another
and interested and enthusiastic over their
novel scheme. They are about the only really
happy-looking sewing girls I have ever known.
Ex.
	ELIZABETH DUSTIN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CO OPERATIVE HOUSEKEEPING.

	Evanston, Ill., has just organized an im-
mense Co-operative Housekeeping Association
composed of two hundred and sixty-six mem-
bers, with Henry L. Graw, manager. The
central kitchen has been equipped with a com-
plete hotel apparatus, and has a capacity for
cooking three hundred orders.
	The bills of fare are sent around twenty-four
hours in advance of the meal ordered, and the
order blank at once returned. The meal is
prepared and closely packed in a huge dinner
pail, or tray with various compartments in it
for holding tin reservoirs. All these compart-
ments fit snugly in a hot water tray, where the
food will keep warm for an hour or more.
This huge dinner pail when packed is taken to
the wagon, which is fitted with racks for hold-
ing them securely, and with a team of fast
horses is conveyed to the homes of the people
who are members of this Association. The
price of meals is four dollars a week for adults
and half price for children under twelve.
	This Co-operative Housekeeping Association
is the only one of its kind in this country—an
Association where fifty families, at their own
table, will eat the same kind of food, cooked at
the same place, for the same price.
		Ex


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN SUFF-
	RAGE ASSOCIATION.

	The twenty-third annual convention of the
National American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in Washington, D. C., in
Albaugh’s Opera House, Feb. 26—March 1,
1891.
	NOTES AND INSTRUCTIONS.
	The National Couocil of Women will meet
in the same place the three preceding days.
There [--] thus be a double inducement to
visit Washington at this time, The reduced
railroad fares will extend from Feb, 19, to
March 3. The Riggs House will be the
headquarters of the Association, and will give
reduced rates to delegates and visitors to the
convention.
	Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Riggs House,
Washington, D. C., is committee on railroad
rates both for the Woman’s Council and for
Suffrage Convention. Those intending to be
present should write to her for information.
	Every auxiliary State society is entitled to
send three delegates, and one additional
delegate foreach hundred members.
	The first executive committee meeting will
be held at 3 o’clock P. M., Wednesday, Feb.
25.
	The Presidents of all State Woman Suff-
rage Associations auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. are once more reminded
of the necesity of sending the annual dues (ten
cents for each member of the State Society
and of its paid up local auxiliaries,) together
with the list of members, to the treasurer,
Mrs. Jane H. Spofford, Riggs House, Wash-
ington, D. C.


MISS ANTHONY’S RECEPTION.

	The reception given in honor of Miss Susan
B. Anthony last evening by the Woman’s
Political club of this city was a tribute to a
noble woman who fully deserves, because she
has grandly earned, all the honors which her
fellow citizens of Rochester can heap upon her.
The ladies whose thankfulness provided this
testimonial to the virtues and services of their
distinguished fellow-worker had the cordial
sympathy of the men and women of Rochester
who appreciate sterling merit, the clearest com-
mon sense, entire disinterestedness and in-


defatigable energy. Rochester is proud of
Miss Anthony. Probably no other citizen of
this city is so widely known, and wherever she
is known she inspires only respect and esteem.
	Rochester, Dec. 16.


WHAT A LADY DOES NOT DO.

	There are several things always absent in a
a true lady, which girls will do well to notice
and remember.
	A lady, for example, will never ignore little
kindnesses; conclude in a crowd that she has a
right to push her way through; consume the
time of people who can ill spare it; talk loudly
in public places, wear on the street a dress
fitted only to the house or carriage; wear a
torn glove, when a needle and thread and a few
stitches would make it all right; fail in answer-
ing letters or returning visits unless she is ill
or in trouble. fret about the heat or the cold,
the sun or the rain, the air or lack of it;
make an engagement and then not be on time,
complain of her family, or discuss personal
affairs with strangers; always believe the worst
rather than the best side of a story.
	A lady does not do any other than make
the best of everything—the world, the weather
and herself. She believes in the golden rule,
and endeavors, as far as possible, to live up to
it. Ex


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Mary Walker, who was reported to be
dying is better.
	December 17th 1890 was the eighty-third
birthday of the beloved poet, Whittier.
	A Women’s Educational and Industrial
Union has just been formed at Watertown,
N.Y., making the fifth in the State.
	Mrs. Cleveland gave a Thanksgiving dinner
to eighty children belonging to the kinder-
garten of which she is vice-president.
	Nine hundred and ninety-two women regis-
tered in Cheyenne, Wy., for the recent elec-
tion. Several women rode twenty-six miles
into Cheyenne to vote.
	Henry Ward Beecher’s old house in Brook-
lyn has been turned into a boarding-house,
and his large library cut up by partitions into
bedrooms.
	With the new year, the Women’s Penny
Paper of London, which has met with rapid
growth and success, will change its name
to the Woman’s Herald.
	It is said of the two and one quarter million
members, that over two-thirds of the Methodist
church are women; and the proportion will
probably hold true in every evangelical body.
	Walt Whitman is putting the latter touches
to a volume called “Good-Bye, My Fancies,”
containing his old-age songlets, and intended
as a “second annex and completion” to “Leaves
of Grass.”
	The reception given by the citizens of
Rochester to Miss Susan B. Anthony on the
15th, was a pleasant affair, about 700 persons
attending. It was held in the Chamber of
Commerce rooms which were beautifully
decorated with flowers and the emblematic
color abounded everywhere.
	The seal for the State of Wyoming adopted
by the legislature is emblematic and peculiarly
felicitous. One of the figures is that of a wo-
man, from whose uplifted arm hangs a broken
chain, symbolizing the granting of political
rights to Wyoming women. The motto of the
State is “Equal Rights.”


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas,Sup
[Column 1 of the first portion]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2 of the first portion]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
[Only one column]
[image of UNION PACIFIC Shield]
Tickets 
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH 
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES,
			Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1891.	NO. 15.


CONTENTS.
	The Empire of Women—N. Y. Sun. Isabella’s
Claim Upon the Women of To-day—Elizabeth
Porter Gould. The Pilgrims in Holland,—
Harpers Weekly. The Indian Question. Ex.
Miscellaneous. A Woman’s Opinion— More
Anon. Old Fashioned Party 22nd Ward,—
Adelaide Ridges, Sec. Notes and News. Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A.—C. C. Raleigh, Sec. R.S.
Reports—Snowflake— Wasatch— Davis. Hunt-
ington Primary Fair. Convention Notes.
	EDITORIAL: — Mormon Children. Emma
Abbott. Ladies’ General Meeting. Home
Thoughts.  News From Huntsville. A Gentle
Surprise.
	POETRY:—Only Wait—Mattie Dyer Britts
The New Message,—May Riley Smith. News
From Home,—E. T. Consolation,—M. F. Hayes.


ONLY WAIT!

When the spirit, worn and weary
	With life's daily load of care,
Finds the pathway long and dreary,
	And the burden hard to bear—
Tired of hoping, faint with fearing,
	Sighs to rest at heaven’s gate—
Then in tones sweet, soft, yet cheering,
	Patience whispers: "Only wait!"
		For a brighter day is dawning!
		Sunlight beameth with the morning—
		Gladness cometh with the morning—
			Only wait!

Oh, sad hearts, whose soundless sorrow
	Dares not let a murmur fall,
Only wait, and trust the morrow;
	God’s great heart beats over all.
Only wait, oh, wounded spirit,
	By life’s heavy cross weighed down;
Thou shall surely heaven inherit—
	Bear the cross, and win the crown,
		Win and bear it at the dawning,
		In the beauty of the morning—.
		In the glory of the morning—
			Only wait!

Wait and hope! If life distress us,
	Joys will be more sweet above,
Where the light of love shall bless us,
	Love is heaven, and heaven is love!
Courage, then ! His hand will guide us
	Gently to that “golden gate'’
Where no ill can e’er betide us,
	Blest forever—only wait.
		Even now the day is dawning;
		With the sunlight breaks the morning
		Lovely light of heaven's morning!
			Only wait! Only wait!
			—MATTIE DYER BRITTS, in Ledger.


THE NEW MESSAGE.

If ghosts of women dead a century
	Steal back to earth,
Then verily to-night one talked to me
	Upon my hearth.

And the pathetic minor of her tones,
	Liquid with tears,
Was like a plaintive murmur from far zones
	And distant years.

"Think not that I am come to you," she said,
	"This hallowed night
To gossip of the secrets of the dead
	Or tell their plight.

"I could not sleep; for lo! the Christmas-bells
	A new tune rang:
'New birth to women!' loud the pæan swells
	In rythmic clang.


"﻿'New birth to women!' once no right had she
	To choose her place:
Nor place had she save as man's courtesy
	Did grant her grace.

"Sometimes by beauty, trick, or accident,
	Grim fate she crossed;
But when from her obedience she unbent,
	Her power was lost.

"O woman! fitly robed at last, and crowned
	With dignity;
Walking with lifted head your chosen rounds,
	Unfettered, free;

"The barbarous traditions of the past
	Loosed from your feet;
Life's richest goblet held to you at last,
	Brimming and sweet;

"Forget not those for whom too late, alas!
	Dawn flushed the sky,
And to their spirits drain a silent glass;
	Of such am I.

"Hark to the Christmas bells! 'Good will toward men,
	Peace on the earth!'
'And unto womenl’—chime they forth again—
	'New birth! New birth!'"

If ghosts of women dead a century
	Steal back to earth,
Then this same hour one came and talked to me
	Beside my hearth.

		—MAY RILEY SMITH.


THE EMPIRE OF WOMEN.

	At the Sorosis luncheon on Monday after-
noon, Mrs. E. A. Allen contended with
much bitterness that "a woman's empire is
bounded by her youth," and that the bound
is set by the fickle fancy of man. As soon as
a woman's youthful beauty fades, said Mrs.
Allen, she loses her chance in business, her
popularity on the stage, and her place in social
life, simply because men are no longer inter-
ested in her.
	That was a very remarkable way of talking
to such a company as Mrs. Allen addressed.
Sorosis, as we understand it, is made up chiefly
of women who are engaged in various activi-
ties, have won unusual distinction in them,
and most of whom have passed beyond the
first flush of youth. Does any one of them
believe that she has reached the bound of her
empire and has lost her power to sway the
hearts of men? Does Mrs. Allen beleive it of
herself?
	The period of life at which women have
always exercised the most influence in society,
and over men more especially, comes after
their youth has gone by and their beauty has
developed with the development of their minds
and character. Such women are the rulers
of society and fashion in every civilized capital
of the world; and those who are younger must
be their mere followers, waiting until the ex-
perience and the attractions of greater matur-
ity shall enable them also to enter upon the
exercise of that authority.
	It is the same on the dramatic stage, and
also in the various professions into which
women have entered. Nearly all the actresses
of distinction at the present moment are women
who are no longer youthful, except in their
hearts, and the girls of the stage cannot hope
to compete with them except by study and by
the knowledge which comes from greater ex-
perience only. Even the most successful per-


formers of youthful parts are women who look
back on their own youth; and thereby they
show that age has not diminished their power
to influence the sentiment of men, but has
rather increased it.
	In the other professions women, like men,
must look on youth as a mere period of ap-
prenticeship. They must wait for the wisdom
and the skill which only experience can bring;
and if they have them to the same degree as
men with whom they compete, they will be as
successful. Youth will not long help them in
that contest, and age alone will not drive them
from it.
	Neither does youth have the advantage in
the matrimonial competition which Mrs. Allen
pretends to assume. Widows of mature years
may be the most dangerous rivals of young
maidens; and there is abundant proof in these
days that divorced women are not incapable
of despotic sway over the hearts of men even
after they have got well beyond the beauty of
mere youth.
	There is no bound to the empire of women,
except as they set it themselves.—N. Y. Sun,
Jan. 8, 1891.


ISABELLA'S CLAIM
UPON THE WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	Perhaps no Queen in the world's history
has to-day more claim upon woman in the
various phases of her existence than Queen
Isabella of Spain. In the first place, she ap-
peals to wives and mothers; for, through the
thirty-five years of her married life, in which
she had one son and four daughters, she fully
experienced the joys, cares, ambitions and
sorrows of a true wife and mother. In all
this, in an age when immorality abounded in
the land, which, according to Prescott, was
probably the only one in Christendom where
concubinage was ever sanctioned by law, not
a cloud shadows her virtue.
	In the second place, her relation to scholarly
women and to the intellectual development of
Spain during her thirty year's reign, allies her
to the educated or literary women of the day.
Her instructor in the Latin language was a
lady named Beatriz de Galindo, sometimes
called La Latina. Prescott says that it was
due in part to her own example of study as
well as by her personal attendance on the
academic examinations, that the women of
Spain, as in no other country of which he was
aware, took part in the public exercises of the
gymnasium and delivered lectures from the
chairs of the universities. Dona Lucia de
Medrano publicly lectured on the Latin clas-
sics in the universities of Salamanca; and
another, Dona Francisca de Lebrija, daughter
of the historian of that name, filled the chair
of rhetoric at Alcala. This university at
Alcala, famous from having executed the
"most stupendous literary enterprise of that
age," the Polyglot version of the Scriptures,
was founded and sustained by the Queen's
right hand man, Cardinal Ximenes.
	Besides endowing a convent in Toledo with
a library consisting principally of manuscripts,
Isabella encouraged the then new art of print-
ing by having some works of her subjects
printed at her own expense, and by granting
privileges to those engaged in the art. While
interested in the education of her own chil-
dren, she did not forget the young nobility.
Through her request and support, Peter


[Column 1]

﻿Martyr had a successful school for their in-
struction. Referring to his royal mistress as
the "pattern of every exalted virtue," he says
of his work, "My house all day long swarms
with noble youths reclaimed from ignoble
pursuits to those of letters."
	But Queen Isabella is allied also to the par-
ticularly progressive women of the day by her
independent spirit as a ruler; for, though lov-
ing her husband, the King, she insisted upon
having an equal share in all governmental
acts. The likeness of each was stamped on
the royal seal, the names of each found on all
public documents; in short, independent wills
working in harmony was the motto for action.
That Spain was better for this perfect inde-
pendence, no reader of the reign of Ferdinand
and Isabella can deny. The Queen also allied
herself to progress, when, as a pioneer aboli-
tionist, she commanded to be immediately set
free the Indians, Columbus had caused to be
slaves. Then her intense longing, even in
her dying hours, for their conversion to the
Christian religion, her efforts in sending mis-
sionaries in their behalf, bring her especially
near to-day to the women of the Woman's
Board of Foreign Missions. Her devotion to
her church—the only church of that age—al-
though it became the cause of her weakness in
yielding, even though after a long reluctance,
to the horrors of the Inquisition, links her to
the devotees and advocates of church worship.
	Isabella appeals also to the philanthropic
women of the day in her efforts for moral re-
form; her temperance in diet, seldom or never
tasting wine; her simplicity in dress—aside
from royal occasions; her expenditures of
money in the erection of hospitals and churches,
some of which she adorned with embroideries,
the work of her hands; and in her last testa-
ment, whereby she ordered a plain and unos-
tentatious funeral that money might be saved
for the poor.
	But this womanly Queen becomes of special
interest to the women of the past Sanitary
Commission, and of its child, the present Relief
Corps, because of being the first person on
record to form a regular camp hospital. Visit-
ing, as was her wont, the camps of her soldiers
to relieve their wants, she ordered one day a
number of large tents to be always ready for
the sick and wounded. These, called the
"Queen's Hospitals," were furnished with
medicines, and proper attendants at her own
expense. "Her presence at these camps," says
Peter Martyr, "seemed at once to gladden and
reanimate our spirits, drooping under long
vigils, dangers and fatigue." Another writer,
who was present, says, "from the moment of
her appearance a change seemed to come over
the scene....all seemed disposed to reconcilia-
tion and peace." "When," says Prescott "the
soldiers beheld her directing their counsels,
sharing their fatigues and dangers, and dis-
playing all the comprehensive intellectual
powers of the other sex, they looked up to her
as to some superior being, with feelings far
more exalted than those of mere loyalty. The
chivalrous heart of the Spaniard did homage
to her as to his tutelar saint, and she held a
control over her people such as no man could
have acquired in any age—and probably no
woman in an age and country less romantic."
	While Isabella thus appeals especially to the
women of America to-day, her sympathetic aid
to Columbus in the time of his greatest dis-
couragement which enabled him to discover
our world, and her loyalty to him to the end,
despite the distrust of her husband and royal
counselors, make her a shining figure of the
fifteenth century to be loved and honored by
every true American citizen.
	Our national writers have already sounded
a clear note in her behalf, for to Prescott's
praise and Copper's delightful pen-picture (in
Mercedes of Castile) one adds with pleasure

[Column 2]

Washington Irving's tribute that she was "one
of the purest and most beautiful characters in
all history."—Elizabeth Porter Gould, in
Queen, Isabella Journal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


THE PILGRIMS IN HOLLAND.

THE PROPOSED MONUMENT AT DELFTSHAVEN.

	At this season when the hearts of all New
Englanders instinctively turn to Plymouth
Rock, it is well for them to remember the
action of the Congregational Club, of Boston,
a few months ago. The club resolved that it
was high time the hospitality of the free re-
public of Holland to the Pilgrim Fathers was
acknowledged by their children, and that a
suitable memorial of the ancient amity between
Holland and the Pilgrims should be erected at
Delftshaven, or port of Delft, on the river
Maas, where the Speedwell lay.
	The Pilgrims came by canal from Leyden to
Delftshaven, and there John Robinson bade
them farewell, and gave them his benediction
in the faith that there was more truth yet to
break forth from God's Word. The govern-
ment of the Netherlands has expressed the
heartiest sympathy and desire of cooperation
in so good a work, and our Minister to Hol-
land, the Hon. Samuel R. Thayer, has looked
over the ground which belongs to the city of
Rotterdam, to which Delftshaven has been
annexed. The river, on which is a constant
passage of vessels, sweeps around the town in
such a manner that over the lowland the me-
morial could be seen in every direction far
away.
	A costly monument is not proposed. But a
few thousand of dollars would provide one in
every way suitable, and all money for the pur-
pose sent to Mr. Frank Wood, the treasurer,
352 Washington street, Boston, will be held
for the national association which will have
charge of the work. The Rev. Dr, Storrs
warmly commended the project in his noble
oration on the Puritan spirit, and its propriety
will need no argument to the mind of any son
of the Pilgrims. The Dutch and New Eng-
land societies have long exchanged compliments
in recognition of this old friendship. That
old Dutch hospitality is one of the most beau-
tiful incidents in history, and if the feeling
which prompts the compliment should erect
the memorial, it would be a most happy
sequel.—Harper's Weekly.


THE INDIAN QUESTION.

	The present excitement and alarm offer
the proper occasion to repeat emphatically
what is undoubtedly the truth, that the radical
trouble is the bad faith of the white man.
Long ago General Grant, discussing the Indian
question, said that we had taught them to dis-
trust us. He said that after leaving West
Point, when he was stationed upon the frontier,
he had observed that the American white man
cheated the Indian. He added that the Eng-
lish Canadians were wiser, for they kept faith,
and he illustrated his remark by saying that if
they promised the Indian a certain kind of
blanket, the Indian was sure to get it. But
the Indian was not sure that our engagements
would be as honestly kept. When promises
have been faithfully kept there has been little
serious trouble, and the actual progress made
by Indians toward civilization under the most
exasperating circumstances shows how much
might have been expected from a more hu-
mane and honest course. Bishop Hare's recent
statement, and he is one of the best witnesses
and counselors in Indian difficulties, contains
two important suggestions; one is that there
are certain Indian ringleaders who ought to be
imprisoned and kept from mischief, and the


other is that indiscriminate punishment of
Indians should not be allowed. The mis-
sionary work among them seems to have pro-
duced excellent results, and if it does no more,
it shows the good results of good faith. The
President is understood recently to have ex-
pressed himself as favoring a transfer of the
Indian Bureau to the War Department. This
is a very serious question. Certainly the care
of the Indians by the Interior Department
leaves very much to be desired. But the indis-
pensable conditions of a wise Indian policy
are: First, a single head of the Indian Depart-
ment, who shall be a man of high character
and capacity; then the complete separation of
the care of the Indians from politics, and the
education of Indian youth. There is no more
signal illustration of the mischiefs of the spoils
system than that afforded by the ever-recurring
Indian troubles. The distinction of our Indian
policy is want of principle and common
sense.—Harper's Weekly.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	The greatest of faults, I should say, is to be
conscious of none.—Carlyle.
	Peace is the evening star of the soul
as virtue is its sun, and the two are never far
apart.
	Give what you have.  To some one it may
be better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.
	It is a good rule to be deaf when a slanderer
begins to talk.
	The real man is one who always find ex-
cuses for others, but never excuses himself.—
H.W. Beecher
	It is employment, says Daniel Webster, that
 makes people happy; and, says Jean Paul, I
have fire-proof, perennial enjoyments called
employments.
	Great is the power of eloquence; but never
is it so great as when it pleads along with
nature; and the culprit is a child strayed from
his duty and returned to it again with tears.—
Sterne.
	A good book and a good woman are ex-
cellent things for those who know how to ap-
preciate their value. There are men, however
who judge of both by the beauty of their covering.
	Faith at most but makes a hero, but love
 makes a saint; faith can but put us above the
world, but love brings us under God's throne;
faith can but make us sober, but love makes
 us happy.—Cardinal Newman.
	As I like to see a young man who has some-
thing old about him, so I like to see an old
man in whom there remains something of the
youth. He who follows this maxim may be-
come an old man in body, but never in heart.
Cicero.
	The road to eminence and power from
obscure condition ought not to be made too
easy, nor a thing too much of course. If rare
merit be the rarest of all rare things it ought
to pass through some sort of probation. The
temple of honor ought to be seated on an
eminence. If it be open through virtue let it
be remembered, too, that virtue is never tried
but by some difficulty and some struggle.—
Burke.


Mrs. Whitelaw Reid, wife of the American
minister at Paris, who is, with her husband,
making a tour of the East was honored by
the Sultan at Constantinople conferring upon
her the order of the Shefkat, the highest
Turkish decoration that can be given to a
woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NEWS FROM HOME.

"Anna's babe is dead!" is the first sad news to hear;
Though to us he is a stranger, yet we cannot stay the tear.
For 'tis just one short week ago they laid in her narrow
	bed
Another of their darlings, and now their babe is dead,
And we feel for the father's anguish, and the mother's
	heart-broken woe—
As we kiss our babe's upturned face, and think if she
	should go
Across the "Valley of Death," though to her a blessed rest,
How hard 'twould be for us to feel that God knows what
	is best.

"Janet has a lover and they say he's good and clever."
Shy, quiet Janet, I did not think that ever
Her heart could be won, but I trust 'twill bring her bliss
And that he may prove worthy of a maid as pure as this.

"Josie has married and gone to a distant land,"
Woo'd and won by a stranger affable and bland,
Has left a sorrowing mother and friends protecting care;
H'en her faith she's laid aside for a stranger's love and
	care.
Can he be trusted? is he noble, good and true?
Or will after life bring sorrow with unavailing tears?
Ah me! I think that this is the very saddest news;
For with our hope and good wishes we still have many
	fears.

"Mother says she wishes that you folks far away
Would come in and see her and have a holiday."
Dear, darling Mother, who has passed three score and
	ten,
Still loves her children,—mature,gray-bearded men—
And women that are mothers and past all youthful bloom.

So it is the whole world over,
To the absent well loved rover.
Be there sadness, be there sorrow,
Be there grave doubts of the morrow;
In the thought of future meeting—
And the thought of kindly greeting,
Oh 'tis joy thus to receive,
Tho' the message oft time grieve,
The latest, news from friends at home.

		E. T.


CONSOLATION.

What art thou, Death, that men doth fear thee so?
Why dread they with such shrinking thine approach?
Art thou some goblin grim, some monster fearful
That prison souls of men in dungeons foul,
In order that thou mayest, like fiend incarnate,
Torture them, and mock with glee demoniacal?

Or, rather, art thou not a messenger from God,
Who'rt sent to call us from this vale of tears—
Tell us our work is done, our life is finished;
That we've fulfilled our measure of creation
And shown to Him, how we have used the agency
Which He did give us, with our life and station?

Who then have need to fear thee? Not the young—
The babe, the little child that knows no sin,
To it, 'tis but a going to sleep, to wake to-morrow
Upon a brighter shore, in angels' arms
Where it shall ne'er know sorrow, pain or grief,
Safe sheltered from earth's cold and bitter storms.

Why weep we then with such a bitter mourning
When Death our pure babe hath called away?
And ask, "Oh, why was it e'er given to us
Only to stay awhile, till it had won
It's way into our warmest, tenderest love;
And then to die, and leave us here to mourn?

Oh, know ye not, ye weak, short-sighted mortals
That thy sweet babe, which thou would'st fain keep here,
Was once a spirit, which till now has waited
Anxiously to take a body here on earth,
That it might then return and fill the mission
It only could attain to though a birth?

It knew no sin, but went back to its Maker
Pure and holy, and free from guile and stain.
And 'tis become a link between our hearts and Heaven,
To draw our minds from petty earthly cares
And centre them above, in Heaven's realms—
For where our treasure is, so will our hearts be there.


Again, Death, who need fear thee? Not the young,
The youth or tender maid who've 'bedient been
To counsel given, and who have thus lived lives
Of truth, and honor, and purity so bright,
That, though life is sweet, its joys entrancing.
They need not fear, the world beyond is light.

Those in their prime, and, too, in middle age,
Who in their lives have trials and troubles seen,
Who've stemmed temptation's tide and struggled onward,
Why need they fear, if they be called by thee?
But calmly go, to take their rest in Heaven,
And all their dear ones gone before to see.

And then the old, whose tired feet have trod
The long and weary journey to old age,
Who've lived according to the light they had,
Whose hearts are true and consciences are clear;
How willingly they lay the burden down
To dwell with Christ in a far happier sphere!

Who, then, need fear thee? Those they are
Who've yielded to the tempter's wily snares,
Who're steeped so far in wickedness and sin
That they do fear to die, lest they receive
Just punishment as dues for sins committed,
For God, they know, they never can deceive.

		MARY FENTON HAYES.
	Salt Lake City.


A WOMAN'S OPINION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There has been a great deal said of late
about Woman's Rights. We believe in her
having all the rights she is entitled to, and
a great deal more than what she gets, and we
also wish to say, that as women of Utah have
to be subject to the laws as well as others, and
are liable to punishment for breaking them,
they at least ought to have the privilege of
helping to make them; while at the same time
we believe that a woman's highest calling is in
her home, yet it is by no means the only one
that education has fitted her for.
	There are political and religious rights and
liberties that need to be spoken about and
kept in mind, and also Woman Suffrage work
to be looked after by those who have the
ability for such work. We also believe it is a
woman's right to have a husband and home
of her own, and a right to have children to
grace that home with, for the love of her off-
spring is one of the strongest instincts im-
planted in women, there is nothing that can
compensate her for the want of them. They
are necessary to her and her husband's happi-
ness. Well, as mothers in Israel we know
they are the Lord's heritage, and "Happy is
the man that hath his quiver full of them."
Psalms 127.5.
	And women in the darkest hour of adver-
sity, every true wife and mother is expected
to be at home and have her family around
her. Oh woman! what would the world be
without her. But how is it with some of the
lords of creation, they think that a woman
should have no individuality of her own: some
of them are very fond of trying to reduce
their wives to a state of unquestionable obedi-
ence, in fact treating them as if they were
creatures possessed of no brains hopes, or ideas of
their own. Woman's privileges indeed should
be talked about before such men? "Oh, no,
 she  must stay at home and attend to her
family duties, and if she finds it very hard
she must not grumble, but seek the patience
of Job, and the courage of Daniel, to enable
her to bear all things in an humble and sub-
missive way." What a good thing it is such
men are few and far between in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel
very thankful that I live in an age when some
of the noblest of mankind live on the earth;
who are willing to accord to woman-kind her
proper sphere. A man's heart ought to be
large enough to grasp and hold many wives


and children within its vast capacities, if it
pleases God to give them to him. Some men
are so narrow-minded that they can't love but
one woman at once, but it should not be so.
How beautiful it must be when large families
can come together in the harmony of beautiful
love, though now denied that precious blessing,
such can say and truly too, let us live our short
lives that eternity may only prove a prolon-
gation of unstinted affection—happy indeed are
such. Oh, that there were more of them!
When we step out of this existence those who
have obeyed the celestial law will not be cur-
tailed in their privileges or rights, but a higher
power than man's will govern and control all
things and we shall be satisfied.
		   MORE ANON.


OLD FASHIONED PARTY—22ND WARD

	On Tue. Dec. 30th, 1890, according to the
wish of Bishop Solomon, the sisters of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward got up a
feast for the poor, and all of the ward who
wished to participate with them in the new
Meeting House. The young ladies had
decorated the Hall and it presented a beauti-
ful appearance; the teachers had visited their
respective blocks and notified the people if
they wished to contribute to send in their
picnic in the morning. The people responded
liberally and the tables were filled with good
things. At about two o'clock they sat down
to dinner when the Bishop asked a blessing,
and with happy countenances and smiling
faces they partook of the bounties of the earth.
At five o'clock there was an intermission of
two hours and the hall was cleared ready for
dancing, which commenced about seven o'clock.
	There was a large assembly of old and
young to join in the dance. It reminded me
of old times when the prophets and apostles
used to join in the dance. It reminded me
of old times when the prophets and apostles
used to join with us in the dance. It continued
until twelve o'clock when it closed with
prayer, and they all went home feeling thank-
ful for the many blessings they enjoyed in
these the valleys of the mountains.
		ADELAIDE RIDGES, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The recently-formed Georgia Woman Suff-
rage Association has become auxiliary to the
National American.

	REV. ANNA H. SHAW, Mrs. Clara B.
Colby and Miss Lucy E. Anthony "received"
at the Riggs House in Washington on New
Year's Day, in the absence of Miss Susan B.
Anthony. Miss Shaw will give a fortnight to
work in Canada, beginning to-morrow in
Toronto.
	MRS. CHARITY HATHAWAY,of Beemer Hill
Sullivan Co. Pa.,is said to be the only woman in
the country who is by profession a trapper and
dealer in raw furs. Last season she cleared
nearly $450 from the sale of furs and ginseng
root. Most of the furs were obtained by her-
self.
	General Spinner, who secured the admission
of women as clerks in the U. S. Treasury, was
a strong believer in equal rights for women in
every respect. He said of himself with pride:
"In the first Congress of which I was a member,
I voted for Lucretia Mott for Chaplain to the
House of Representatives. In the next Con-
gress, my vote was cast for Lucy Stone. In
the next Congress, I voted for a man for chap-
lain; so I stand recorded twice for women, to
only once for a man. That is about the way
I feel now. My sympathies have always been
on the side of the weak. So I have always
been in favor of, as the Englishman expresses
it 'the under dog.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m.	every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARX 15, 1891.


MORMON CHILDREN.

	WASHINGTON, Jan. 19.—Justice Brown to day
rendered his first opinion as a member of the
United States supreme court. He delivered two
opinions, of which the more important was in the
case of George N. Cope vs. Janet Cope and
Thomas H. Cope, brought here on appeal from
the supreme court of the Territory of Utah. The
question involved was whether or not a son by a
polygamous marriage had a right of inheritance
from his father, it having been claimed he was
illegitimate. The court holds that a son by a
polygamous marriage did have such right and
reversed the judgment of the territorial court.
The court says: "The Edmunds-Tucker act de-
clared legitimate all children of Mormon parents
born within less than twelve months from its
passage. The object," the court says, "was to
make these unfortunate children an especial object
of care, and to make their parents relinquish
polygamy by fixing a period after which their
children should be illegitimate."


[Column 1]

EMMA ABBOTT.

	The lovely and gifted songstress, Emma Abbott
whose voice has thrilled multitudes in the various
cities and towns of the world, and cheered many
a lonely heart and weary pilgrim, and who at-
tained a musical reputation only reached by a few,
has passed away from earth to join "the choir
invisible whose music is the gladness of the
world."
	A feeling of ineffable sadness came over the
writer, as she heard the words, "Emma Abbott
is dead," it was as though one near and dear had
gone, for has she not made herself near and dear
to all lovers of true music who have ever heard
her sweet rich voice with its rare melody holding
spell-bound many thousands at once.
	The prima donna died at the Templeton in this
city at twenty minutes to eight o'clock January 5,
1891. The Doctors who attended her stated that
"the immediate cause was heart failure brought
on by an attack of acute pneumonia." She was
conscious all the time during her illness, realized
that death was fast approaching and remarked
that she was not afraid to die. Her body was em-
balmed and shipped to Chicago where her mother
and relatives are residing the same evening. Her
wish was to be cremated and sometime ago "she
had an elaborate urn made," in which her ashes
were to be deposited. Her mother's wishes
however will control the matter. Her husband
is buried at Gloucester, Massachusetts.
	Dr. Condon of Ogden paid a beautiful tribute
to her memory in his article published in the
Standard from which we have taken the follow-
ing paragraphs:
	"It is said that the dying swan, when the last

[Column 2]

moments of dissolution arrive, pours out its soul
(for birds have souls) in a flood of melancholy
song so low and soft and full of tenderness that it
seems to be made of tears, and it seemed to us
who had often heard her sing before that Miss
Abbott, the pure and gifted Queen of Song, on
the opening night of the Grand Opera House,
sang as if it were to be the crowning effort of her
life, or rather as if coming events were casting
their shadows before; that she fully realized that
the curtain was about to be rung down on her
life and she should face alone the dread, and
mystery, and eternal silence that comes to all. Of
course no one thought then, but looking back it
seems to me as if I never heard her sing with
such sweetness and power as on that occasion
and hereafter the playhouse that she dedicated as
the last act of her life, will have an interest that
the future can add little to nor detract anything
from.
	"But the sweet voice that so often made the world
forget its cares will never again be heard, and the
applause of charmed multitudes will fall on dull
ears as the winter snows fall on the grave where
she sleeps unheeded. Her life was as pure as a
sunbeam, and will crown like an aureole the spot
where her form sinks into pulseless clay. Alas
that the strings of such a harp should be broken
asunder, that such divine fires of genius should
be extinguished. To many breaking hearts the
music of her voice and sweet ways brought heal-
ing; to how many storm-tossed souls made mad
by the wild tempest of unrestrained passion, her
rendition of "The Last Rose of Summer,"
charmed into repentance and forgetfulness, this
world will never know. Her songs were music
and music is divine. It can sooth the savage
breast that sometimes leaps from the hearts of
men; it subdued the fiends in tophet while
Euradice escaped; the spheres salute one another
in their journeys through the upper sky, with
music and the angels in the climax of their ecstacy
and in their sorrowing for the follies of weak
humanity, are singing ever and always. And so
it was with Emma Abbott, she sang to the good
and the bad, to the rich and poor alike, sang as
if the gift of song were not her own, as if she
were but its custodian and mnst one day render
an account of how she used it.

	"In the modest little town of Peoria, Ill., where
she first saw the light, there will be real grief, and
it will reach out till it covers this continent.
There will be no need of consanquinity to give it
point. She reached the understanding with the
wonderful gift of song and manner; she played
on the chorus of the human heart and all who felt
the power of her gentle touch loved her, honored
her, and paid her homage. She sang in prison
cells where turbulent hearts were beating against
the bars of passion that are stronger than the
girders that shut them in from the world and
appealed to the angel of their better nature. She
carried sunshine into the hospitals of pain. She
responded to the pitying voice of charity and
without compensation, other than that which the
consciousness of a deed well done always brings.
She charmed thousands; for to hear her sing even
the miser would unlock his iron box."

	Miss Abbott possessed great strength of char-
acter, as well as being wonderfully gifted; and
she won the hearts of all the profession at "one
fell stroke," when she arose in the Church at
Nashville, Tenn., and contradicted the preacher
who was violently denouncing the stage and all its
disciples as depraved and immoral, etc. It must
have taken a great deal of moral courage to take
such a stand, but she was equal to the effort, and
it gave her prestige, although she acted on the
impulse of the moment without waiting to con-
sider the consequences. It was however a heroic
step to take in defense of the stage.

[Column 3]

FUNERAL SERVICES AT THE TEMPLETON.
	"It was decided early in the day to have brief
funeral services at 5 o'clock. At this hour the
members of the company, sixty in number, as-
sembled in the little suite of rooms looking out on
the west, on the fourth floor, and all were allowed
a glance at the departed. She looked almost as
if in sleep, so little had her illness changed her.
She was clothed in a manner strikingly beautiful.
She wore the white dress seen in the first act of
"Ernani," Wednesday night Dec. 31 1890—her
farewell appearance. It was white moire, paneled
with violet and green velvet, and embroidered
with purple lilacs in great natural bunches, white
lilacs on the violet and violet lilacs on the white,
gathered around the waist with white pearls. A
white embroidered veil strewn with roses, covered
her arms and neck. One hand held a pink rose,
the other a bunch of white roses, while on the
breast was a beautiful bunch of lilies of the val-
ley.
	"It was some moments before the emotions of
the little congregation could be restrained. Then
the male chorus, led by Broderick and Pruette,
sang, "Lord, in Mercy Hear my Prayer." The
effect was most touching—almost weird, and
Pruette and some others of the singers were un-
able to conclude. When the last notes were
heard, a great pent-up sob was loosed from the
throats of all present, and for a few moments sor-
row flowed without any attempt to restrain it.
The Rev. Mr. McNiece then arose and read a
chapter from the Bible after which the whole
chorus sang ,'Nearer My God to Thee." There
were next a few very appropriate remarks from
Mr. McNiece, with a short prayer, and the male
voices rendered with exquisite effect, the familiar
"Soldier's Farewell," beginning "How can I bear
to leave thee." After a brief pause, the whole
assembly sang, "Home Sweet Home," and the
exercises, which, impromptu as they were, were
of the most touching and impressive description,
drew to a close. There was hardly a dry eye
among the guests of the hotel—who had quietly
assembled in the hall, as the sounds of "Home
Sweet Home" rolled forth and the thought of
Emma Abbott's desolate home in the east came
to their minds.
	"There were some beautiful floral offerings: A
heart of dark red roses—Abbott's favorite color
—from the company; a cross of yellow roses
from Mr. and Mrs. Pratt; an anchor of white
flowers and calla lilies from the hotel—a beauti-
ful lyre from the theatre, and a large and most
exquisite design showing an arch, open gates and
a crown of flowers, with the words worked in
purple flowers, "Farewell Abbott." This came
from the Salt Lake Choral society, and was re-
garded as a particularly graceful act.
	At a quarter to nine the funeral cortege left the
hotel, the coffin, enclosed in a metallic casket,
and carried by Messrs. Michelena, Broderick
Consadine, Larrange, McCormack and Pruette,
was borne to the hearse. A procession composed
of fourteen carriages conveyed the company to
the Rio Grand depot, and at 10 o'clock the last
sorrowful farewell of Salt Lake was taken and
the train steamed off for Denver and Chicago.

FROM FUNERAL ADDRESS BY REV. DR. THOMAS,
OF CHICAGO.
	"Against her social reputation there was never
a breath of suspicion, and the unquestioned purity
of her life did not a little to lessen the prejudices
and to rebuke the harsh, unjust criticisms of the
clergy and the church. She compelled the re-
spect of all; she was admired and loved by those
who knew her personal worth. She helped ele-
vate the character, and inspired with a noble zeal
and purpose the drama of her time. Thousands
of young and aspiring artists have felt the inspira-
tion of this noble life, and will themselves b


greater and better because she added to great-
ness the crown of goodness.
	Upon few, if any, of the social questions of our
day has the change of the better class of public
opinion been greater of late years than in the
kindlier and more appreciative attitude of the
church toward the stage. This is owing, in part,
to the gradual wearing away of the sharp lines
once drawn between the church and the world.
The larger intelligence of the present is beginning
to see that the quality of goodness is the same
wherever found, and that the drama has its place
and value; that between the hours of work and
worship there are hours when the mind and heart
may find rest and improvement in the diversions
and lessons of the opera and the play. And then
the character of the singers and players has
shared in the common growth of morals in all de-
partments of life, so that more thoughtful minds
now no longer ask, How shall we get rid of the
drama; but how shall its evils be lessened and
its greatest power for good be realized?
	Not pausing long, perhaps, if at all, to theorize,
Emma Abbott quietly entered this field of labor,
and it may be without any aim at first of making
it better, but simply with the noble resolve to be
herself good. And in that way she came to know
and to value the good in others, and by the simple
power of her own life and personality she has
helped make the position of the conscientious
artist one of the most honorable, and of that
honor she was herself justly proud and tenderly
sensitive. She did not play on the Sabbath, but
used that day for rest and worship. In a
Southern city, where she attended service one
Sabbath morning, and heard the minister de-
nounce the stage in almost unmeasured terms,
she asked the privilege of replying after the
audience was dismissed and she was heard in its
vindication. She was herself a Christian, and
lived a life of faith and prayer.
	The death of this noble woman leaves our
world poorer in that in which it needs be richer.
The power of music to charm and bless has not
yet been realized; the mission of song has only
begun; the time will come when the true dramatic
artists will take their places as among the recog-
nized backers and helpers in all that is good.
The great chorus of humanity is yet to be heard
in the glad day when all the people shall sing.
	It is deeply to be regretted that this child of
song, this pure spirit of earth, has gone away so
soon. Had she obeyed the word of her physician
it might have been different; but only those who
serve the public know how hard it is to disappoint
that public; and how many sing and speak when
they should rest and sleep. It was her energy
that made her what she was, that nerved her to
her last effort. Such voice culture and power
come only at the end of hard years of study.
Emma Abbott was yet in the rich summer-time
of life, and there should have been many years
before the autumn and the winter.
	It is strange and pathetic to think how all the
treasures of learniug, of scholarship, of poetry
and art, are held in these frail earthen vessels;
in brains and hearts that tire, that wear out or
break down by the way. Oh, it must be that this
is the beginning, not the end; that the spirits of
earth go away to live and love, to think and love
to think and sing in some other land that is better.
This was the blessed faith and hope that lived in
this heart that beats no more. "I shall sing my next
song in heaven." "I am not afraid to die." And I
think that her hold on life was weakened by the
great sorrow through which she had passed, and
that it was easier to go away because her husband
had gone before, and the gates were left open
and sweet voices were calling her to come."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LADIES' GENERAL MEETING.

General meeting held in the 14th Ward Assem

[Column 2]

bly Rooms Sat, Jan. 3, 1891. Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding. Meeting opened with singing, "Come
let us anew," and prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Stevenson, singing, "Now let us, rejoice etc."
Minutes of P. A. of 17th and 8th Wards were
read by their secretaries.
	The President wished the congregation "A
happy new year," with peace and prosperity;
said those who have come to meeting to-day will
receive a blessing. Was much pleased to hear
our young secretaries read their minutes so very
correctly, the minutes were quite instructive.
We have just passed a very eventful year, many
important changes have taken place, one that is
greatly to be lamented is the awful state of
morality in this city, brought about through the
change of parties: To think it unsafe to walk
our streets is a strange thing for us who have been
so accustomed to good order in our city; but we
see by the steps the "Liberals" re taking for re-
form in this matter that they are aware of the con-
ditions; and the hand of the Lord is ruling and
over-ruling for the good of His people; all the
events transpiring will tend to prepare this people
for the coming of the Son of Man. See how
things are transpiring among the Indians, they
did not harm the government in any way, but the
spirit of the Lord is working among them and
perhaps some of their blood had to be shed;
you my sisters, have read of the visions they have
had, it reminds one of the shedding of the blood
of Joseph and Hyrum; their blood also had to be
shed to seal their testimony. Let us have the
shield of the Almighty around us, that we may
be prepared for the changes that are coming.
Our financial affairs are in a very uncertain con-
dition; many are fearful of a great crisis in busi-
ness. Another important step that was taken in
1890 was the establishing of a Woman's Store on
a co-operative principle; we expect it to be a
success, but it will need our energies and talents,
our means and our faith united; let all our sisters
take an interest in the store by going and making
our purchases there, and talking it up in our
meetings, and with one another.
	Let us be humble and true to our covenants,
that we may be able to call on the Lord to cause
the power of the destroyer to depart from our
homes and families, that sickness may cease
among the people of God.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, let us try and improve
on the past year and do better than we have done;
she testified to the power of administering to the
sick, that she had seen the sick healed in many
instances. Spoke upon prayer and tithing,
advised the mothers to impress upon their child-
ren to pay the Lord one tenth of the little
presents they get in money, they will never forget
it, and the Lord will bless them. Mothers teach
your sons and daughters chastity; it is lament-
able to hear of young people going astray, these
things should not be in our midst; let us implant
in the minds of our children pure, virtuous prin-
ciples. Referred to the meeting held in the
Methodist Church and applauded the course
taken there by Brother Nicholson.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said by watching the signs
of the times we can see the fulfillment of both
ancient and modern prophecies; we are living in
an eventful time, and we should instruct our
children in the truths of the Gospel that they may
not be led into temptation, but shun all appear-
ances of evil, be modest and careful in their de-
portment in all places. Teach our children faith
in the Lord. that they may have power with them
in sickness or in calling down any blessing they
may require from the Lord.
	Mrs. Mary Clark said,we must watch as well as
pray that we may always have the testimony of
the Gospel in our hearts; rear our children in the
spirit of prayer that they may claim the blessings
of heaven. Watch ourselves that we may be

[Column 3]

ready to meet the Savior and enjoy the blessings
in store for those who serve the Lord. Let us
have charity, not look at each other's weaknesses,
nor say anything to hurt anyone but guard each
other's characters. Spoke eloquently of Temple
work and advised the sisters to go there if they
felt weak and get their strength renewed.
	Mrs. E. Stevenson also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, "I wish to live to do
good, I am glad I have laid a foundation of work-
ing in the Temple for my ancestors; if I can't do
all I leave those behind that will carry on the
work. To one is given one gift, to another,
another gift, let us build each other up and culti-
vate chastity in our own lives, that our children
may be imbued with the purity that we as a peo-
ple should be filled with.
	Pres. Horne said,we have had good instruction,
let us be wise, judicious and prudent, that we
may enjoy our religion. It is our duty to teach
correct principles, and it is our duty to pay at-
tention to this teaching, and let us have a will to
do right.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks, singing "All
hail the new-born year," and benediction by Mrs.
E. Howard.
		E. H., Sec'y, pro tem.


FOR THE EXPONENT.
	HOME THOUGHTS.

	To make home a delightsome and an attractive
place, does not depend upon a large, fine house
with plenty of costly furniture, and expensive
surroundings, although these are very pleasing
and attractive to the eye; but the true secrets and
attributes of a happy home are not purchased
with gold or silver, but are placed there by the
hearts and the united efforts of the inmates of
that dwelling. What are riches compared with the
love of sincere and honest hearts? It does not
matter if the floor is bare, the rooms limited and the
furniture unpainted, the home may be far more
pleasant and enjoyable than the finest mansion
that is without the peace and quietude of loving
hearts. In a home where the Spirit of the Lord
is an inmate, the husband and wife are each
striving for the welfare of the other, and unitedly
striving for the welfare of their children. If they
wish their children to be polite they are not
afraid to say "If you please" or "Thank you" to
each other, or to the children, for a kindness
shown them. Teaching by example as well as
precept, and showing them that they do not re-
quire more of them than they do themselves.
The character of our young people are, to some
extent, molded at home; then should we not be
watchful and prayerful in regard to the influence of
that home? Ever striving  to retain a feeling of
love and happiness that will cause a desire to re-
main there and not go out into other company
to find enjoyment. If one of our daughters—the
same may also be applied to one of our sons—is a
little thoughtless or reckless,and does not keep
company with the young man of our choice, is it
our duty to take away her agency by saying, "You
shall not keep company with that young man?"
I think not. But it is our duty to teach, instruct,
advise and pray for her, and do everything within
our power to persuade her to shun evil company
and seek for good, that thereby she may be
saved in the Kingdom of God. And then, if she
still persists, is it not better to allow her to invite
her company home to spend the evening, rather
than compel her to go some other place, we know
not where, to meet him, as is too often the case.
Great wisdom and knowledge is required in teach-
ing and instructing our children, and we should
look to Him who says,"He that lacketh wisdom
let him ask of God who giveth to all men
liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be
given him," that we may raise them in that wa[-]


and manner that will lead them unto eternal lives.
For many are the snares that are set for our
young people, and many should be the prayers
that they may be able to resist them.
		M. E. H.
	Nov. 24th, 1890.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM HUNTSVILLE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As the New Year has come we thought it wise
to report ourselves through your paper. We find
that we are living in the tops of the mountains;
secluded from the civilization as you have it in
Salt Lake City. We are right in the beautiful
snowclad hills, where health and bloom adorn
the faces of old and young, which blessing we
are thankful for.
	Last year at this time death was stealing its
victims from among us causing much sorrow but
God in His mercy stayed His hand, and we are
again having jovial times. The holidays have been
well spent; parties pretty well conducted under
the auspices of the Young Men's Improvement
Association which is a good and successful
organization. Our Relief Society is in good
working order; the poor are well cared for.
Young Ladies' Association, doing excellent work
in the way of improvement; the Primary also is
progressing fine. When we look upon our
lovely children, we wish some of our outside
friends could see them, they neither look hungry
or ill-clad; if they would look after their own poor
it would be a blessing for many of them. Our
Society is gathering all the wheat they can, and
taking good care of it, according to President
Young's Counsel.
	Wishing your subscribers for the EXPONENT
and all co-laborers a Happy New Year, we are
your sisters in the faith of the Gospel,
		ELIZA A. TRACY, Pres.
		EMMA BURROWS, Secy.


A GENTLE SURPRISE.

	A few sisters gathered at the house of Bro.
Josiah H. Perry's, Nov. 7th, 1890, to celebrate the
70th, birthday of his wife, Lucinda Eliza Perry,
daughter of Barnet and Phebe Venolstine Cole,
born at Springville, Pennsylvania. Her parents
joined the Church in the early settlements of the
Saints in Kirtland, Geaugua Co. (Now Lake Co.)
Ohio. Lucinda joined the church at the age of
nine years, at the same time Eliza Partridge was
baptized by Calvin Beebe; near Kirtland. The
day Lucinda was eleven years old she was driven
with the family from Jackson Co., Mo., and traveled
barefooted on the burnt prairie. Her father was
whipped the same night the Flulets and Lyman
Leonard were driven from the state and settled
in Nauvoo, Ill. She has been driven with the
Saints through all the mobbings. When the
martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch took
place she was near by. she heard the guns that 
did the hellish deed. Sister Lucinda often speaks
of the circumstances with a heart full of tender-
ness, the recollection can never be forgotten, it
makes a great impression on those who listen to
her when she speaks of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the prophet, and his noble character.
She knew him personally and testifies that he was
a man of God.
	She was married to Josiah H. Perry, Nov. 30th,
1845, received her endowments in the Nauvoo
Temple in 1846, arrived in Salt Lake City, 1850;
settled in Huntsville, Weber Co; is the mother
of nine children. We felt to congratulate Sister
Perry on her good health and appearance and
wished her many happy returns of the day; while
life shall be a blessing to her, with her aged
husband; and we hope her children may be as
firm in the testimony of truth at the same ad-


vanced age. That is the wish of those who sur-
prised her.
		E. B.
	Huntsville,Weber Co.


[Column 1]

SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of special meeting of Salt Lake
County Woman's Suffrage Association, held
in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall, Jan.
13, 1891. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, presiding; the
corresponding secretary, Miss Emma Finch,
was called to act as secretary. Mrs. Elizabeth
Price was appointed chaplain. Mrs. Kimball
spoke of the nature of the organization and
the principles underlying the subject of suf-
frage.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards was then called upon
and said she was a suffragist at heart, sug-
gested the reading of the constitution and
by-laws, for the benefit of those present, and
said she felt interested in the work, not only
on her own account, but for all women who
were heads of families. If we educate our-
selves, we will then be companionable with
our husbands and sons.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber said she felt interested
in the work, and also felt that the study of
politics would broaden the ideas of women.
Wyoming had stepped forward in this direc-
tion and she believed great good would result.
	Mrs. S M. Kimball nominated Mrs. Phoebe
Beattie as delegate to Washington, from Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. Stated that the member-
ship fee was fifty cents, also that the names
were to be sent to Washington, and a fee of
ten cents to accompany each name. The
meeting was then given into the hands of Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Pres. S. L. County W. S.
A., and Mrs. Kimball was excused; suggest-
ed that the National Constitution be a subject
of study, also Robert's Rules of Order.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell said she felt inter-
ested in the work, and thought all should
be active in making the Association a success;
felt the time would come when we would do
more good to each other on a broader platform
than we had done in the past.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, stated
that the W. S. A., at Farmington, had held
meetings with the gentlemen once a week and
had had very interesting times; formed them-
selves into a branch of the Legislature and
had passed a bill through, and had learned
more than if they had been studying alone;
suggested the reading of a pamphlet entitled:
"Freedom's Conquest." Hoped we would pro-
gress and use the franchise well when we
should receive it again. Referred to Wyom-
ing's success.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt encouraged, and
knew we were becoming better educated in the
work, as all had sustained Mrs. Beattie as dele-
gate, it would require work on the part of all
to send her to Washington. Learned more
while in Washington than she could learn by
years of study and reading, and felt that
women could and should stand side by side
with man. The politics of the day would be
purified by women if they were allowed the
franchise. We should pray for the delegates
and sustain them in every way we could.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards then read parts of the
National American Constitution, and explain-
ed what was expected from members.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp, made a few remarks,
which were followed by suggestions from Mrs.
Ann D. Groesbeck and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie;
the meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in the month, Jan. 20, at 2 p. m., in the 14th
Ward Relief Society Hall.
	E. Finch, Secretary, pro tem.

[Column 2]

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A. met as per adjourn-
ment in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall
at 2 p. m., Tuesday Jan. 20, 1891. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair; prayer by the
chaplain, Maria W. Wilcox, minutes of previ-
ous meeting read by the secretary, names of
members presented and voted upon; accepted
unanimously.
	Pres. Howard supposed that all present
were familiar with the object of the meeting;
women had for years been held back; we live
in a day of advancement. She had the privilege
of meeting with the ladies of Wyoming in
public gatherings, and had advised them to
vote for good men to fill official positions
whether they were Republicans or Democrats.
We should try and encourage others to join the
Association. From this time on our regular
meeting will be held on the third Tuesday in
each month, the place of meeting will be desig-
nated in the call issued. As Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beattie has been elected as our delegate to
represent us in Washington, it has been pro-
posed that we sustain her by our prayers.
Spoke at some length upon the subject of
bribery.
	Mrs. Beattie thanked the sisters cordially
for the honor conferred in nominating her to
such a responsible position; it would be an
entire new experience, and she would need all
the support the ladies could give her.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell was interested in
suffrage, thought we were beginning to reap
the results of our labors in this work; it would
be a good plan to have a committee to get up
subjects to be presented before the meeting.
Thought women were qualified to take many
positions heretofore occupied by men; a prom-
inent man had said to her that women had
proved themselves honest in their work. One
woman that had been taken into the Govern-
ment Office, who did more work than the men
employed there, had just half the pay—and it
would always be so until women had a voice
in making the laws.
	A poem by Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee
was read by Mrs. C. I. Kirby, who also made
some remarks upon the subject of suffrage,
and related some of her own experiences when
abroad in the world.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze made what she called
her infant speech, as she had never spoken
upon the subject before; related an instance
which took place in her childhood, in which
she considered herself outraged; had noticed
that it was the most intelligent people who
had advocated universal suffrage, good moves
slowly; women themselves are not awake to
the importance of the subject; she then gave
some happy illustrations of her position on the
question.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball explained some matters
in reference to a large membership, and Mrs.
M. Y. Dougall gave some of the points defi-
nitely.
	Mrs. Janet Morris endorsed what had been
said by the former speakers; and made the
remark that if that was Mrs. Freeze first
speech, she would like to hear her last.
	Mrs. M. E. Irvine was a born suffragist, and
honored the women who had stood forward
amidst persecution in defense of those princi-
pics, thought there should be plans for carry-
ing out a programme.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was pleased with the
interest manifested, liked the idea of some
practical plan for study, thought a mock legis-
lation as had been suggested was pretty good,
but she would like a city council to become
acquainted with municipal affairs first. Sug-
gested that we should drop the title of Mrs.,
and be plain Elizabeth Howard, &c.,
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt anxious as one
of the Executive Committee, to keep up the
meetings and not let the interest die out.
Related a little of her own experience in get-


ting a living; the reasons given for some dis-
tinction between men and women; for instance
men Doctors command a larger fee than
women, but when women ride on a railroad
they pay the same price, or if one goes to a
restaurant for dinner, there is no difference in
the price, and this is true in many cases. Men
and women are charged alike.
	Pres. Howard presented some business to the
meeting, after which it was adjourned for one
month. Quite a number of ladies came for-
ward and paid the membership fee.
		C. C. RALEIGH, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		SNOWFLAKE.
	Minutes of a conference of the Relief
Society of Snowflake Stake, held at Taylor,
Nov. 30th, 1890.
	President Emma S. Smith presiding. After
the usual opening exercises, followed by appro-
priate remarks by Sister Smith, the roll was
called, and eight officers responded.
	Sophia Johnson and Mary A. Standifird
reported the R. S. of Pinedale and Taylor.
Interesting remarks were made by Frances R.
Thompson and Emily J. Hancock.
	Counselor Sarah Driggs esteemed it a privi-
lege to meet once more in conference. Spoke
at some length of her childhood days, and the
training she had received.
	Counselor Emily J. Lewis was thankful to
live in this day, and that thus far she had been
enabled to remain faithful. Was glad she was
not ashamed to pray, and had proven many
times that much could be accomplished by
earnest prayer.
	Phoebe Kartchner was the next speaker,
mentioned some of the difficulties that beset us,
and concluded with the remark that our
Heavenly Father is very merciful, and will
amply reward us for all we are called upon to
endure.
	President Lorenzo H. Hatch spoke on the
subject of laying up our treasures in Heaven.
	President Emma S. Smith urged all to pay
heed to the remarks of Brother Hatch, and
study the Book of Mormon with prayerful
hearts. Expressed regret that the attendance
was so meagre. Prayed that peace and love
and goodwill might abound among the Saints.
	Meeting was dismissed with singing, and
prayer by Counselor Sarah Driggs.
	There was also a meeting of the sisters in
the evening. A number of the Presidents of
the several branches of the R. S. were present
and made very spirited and instructive
remarks.
					DELLA FISH, Secretary.

			WASATCH STAKE
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Wasatch Stake was held in the Stake House,
at Heber City, Nov. 7th, 1890. President
Emma Brown presiding. Meeting opened at
10 a. m. by singing, “The morning breaks, etc."
Prayer by Sister Ann Murdock, singing
“Come all ye saints, etc.” Present on the
stand the Stake Presidency also Presidents of
the different branches. Minutes of  last
Conference read and approved. President
Brown said she was pleased to see so many
present and felt glad for the privilege of at-
tending conference; said the Lord had greatly
blessed the people of this Stake, and we should
strive to show our gratitude to Him for the
many blessings bestowed on us by embracing
the opportunities offered us. Made some
other interesting and instructive remarks and
gave some good counsel. Verbal reports of
an encouraging nature were given by the
Presidents of the different branches. Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing "We

[column 2]
thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Benedic-
tion by President Brown.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m. by
singing,“Let every mortal ear attend.” prayer
by President A. Hatch Singing, “We're not
ashamed to own our Lord.” Remarks were
made by Sisters Alexander and Daybell of 
the Stake Presidency, also by Sister A.
Murdock and Brother T. Giles and Wm.
MacGee. A call was made for $1.00 a year
from the larger wards and 50 cents from the
others to be paid into the treasury for mis-
sionary purposes, which was unanimously
sustained. A yearly meeting of the branches
for the purpose of electing officers was spoken
of, and so ordered. President Brown desired
the presidents to send two missionaries to the
Primaries regularly, also requested the presidents
to see that their reports were forwarded to the
Stake Sec. by the first of March and September.
The times to meet in Conference were appointed,
being the last Thursday of May and Sept.
Sister Brown felt that we had had a very
enjoyable conference, thanked all for coming
and exhorted them to diligence in the per-
formance of duties. Conference adjourned to
meet the last Thursday in May, 1891. Sing-
ing, “Come Come ye Saints.” Benediction by
Bro. Thomas H. Giles.
			HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.

		DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held at East
Bountiful, Oct. 24, 1890. President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were the Pres.
of Stake, Mrs. Susan Grant and Counselors,
Sister Z. D. H. Young of Salt Lake City, Bro.
John Hess, Bro. William Muir and others.
After the usual opening exercises, the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ap-
proved.
	President Grant said she was pleased to
meet the sisters in the capacity of a Confer-
ence. It has been moved and seconded that
we sustain Sister Zina D. H. Young as Presi-
dent over the Releif Society in the world, and
Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith as her Counselors. Unanimously
sustained. Stake officers also presented and
unanimously sustained. Sister Grant said she
thought it best to represent Presidents of the
different branches in their own Wards. I can
testify that I have been blessed in meeting
with the different branches of R. S. in this
Stake. I think we are all trying to do the
best we can—can say that I and my counsel-
ors are united and trying to do our duty.
We will now hear from the Presidents of the
different branches. Pres. Jane Muir, Pres. 
Lucina Sessions, and Pres. Margaret Randall
each gave very favorable reports of their res-
pective branches.
	Bro. Wm. Muir, being called upon said, I
feel to add my mite to your Conference, it
really does me good to look at these aged
sisters, I think they are the ones who stand at
the helm—they are the ones who have rocked
the cradles, and their course has been onward,
and the Latter day Saints do not stop pro-
gressing. Compare the present condition of
our people with sixty years ago. It is what we
do we get credit for, and not what we leave
undone. Gave very good advice in regard to
storing wheat, and advised the sisters to do
their work on business principles,and “I want to
say, .God bless you, and can say you are
blessed.”
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young then addressed the
meeting—we have heard so much good, I hope
I shall not say anything to make you forget it.
I do enjoy the blessings of the Gospel—my
heart aches for those who do not come to meet-
ing, for we need the bread of life for our spirits.
By and by, when pay day comes, those who do

[column 3]
not attend to their duties will want just as
much as those who do, but they will fall short.
If our thoughts are pure our actions will be
pure. I am proud of my sister’s integrity and
their efforts to do good. If we speak lightly of
a man it destroys the influence of that man.
Made a few remarks in regard to the manifesto,
said it was like electricity to her when it was
read; but it is all right, and the authorities
of this Church are all right and God will bless
them. Teach your children to take care of
their health, the bondage of the flesh is not the
bondage of the soul. Advised the sisters to take
the EXPONENT. I am talking too long. God
bless you, Amen.
	Pres. John Hess expressed his pleasure and 
gratification for what he had heard, and was
pleased to be present. This organization is a 
very important one, it was organized in a very
early day when our beloved Prophet Joseph
was moved upon to organize the sisters in a
Relief Society, and I do not think the brethren
have supported it as they should have done.
The prosperity of this society depends upon the
unity of the people. I believe there is as much
expected of this society as any other, and you
are doing much good, but how much more
good might be done if there was more interest
taken. Who are profited by this meeting?
Those who are here and not those who are ab-
sent. When I contemplate the carelessness we
manifest as a people, I wonder at the prosperity
we enjoy. It is expected that the Sisters will
relieve the poor. When they do this, it is with-
out expecting a pecuniary reward, but to feel
that they have done their duty. I am glad
that I am here, I know the spirit of the Lord
and the spirit of humility are here. You that
are faithful use your influence with others, the
Lord our God has been good to us. He has
given us our agency and is not going to take it
from us; we are lacking in our faith in God,
but He bears with us. When the wicked gain a
point I think it is for our experience and our
good. I think it would be advisable for the
Presidents and Counselors to visit the people.
I pray God to bless this organization and our
aged sister, President Zina D. H. Young.
	Pres. S. Grant, we truly have had a feast,
and we will now adjourn our meeting until 2
p.m. Singing, "Come let us anew,”&c. Benedic-
tion by P. G. Sessions.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing,
“We are not ashamed to own our Lord.”—
Prayer by Pres. Hess. Singing. Pres. Hor-
tensia Leonard, Pres. Jane Blood, Pres. Phoebe
Atkinson and Pres. Elizabeth Watts then re-
ported the branches of the R. S. over which
they preside, and made very interesting and
useful remarks.
	Pres. Z.D.H. Young said, I will suggest that
the Presidents and Counselors visit those who
do not come to meeting. When the teachers
visit they should comfort the sick and afflicted,
let us be faithful to our covenants and to each
other, there are many healed by faith and 
prayer; referred to circumstances where the
sick had been healed. There is nothing greater
to me than our Primary Associations; they are
such a benefit to our children. Don't let our
hearts be fearful, for this Gospel is here to stay.
Joseph said when he organized the Relief
Society we had no conception of the good that
would be done through this organization; the
Sisters are doing a great and glorious work,
we must overcome this hurried feeling; it wears
us out. Refered to the Temple work for our
dead; and spoke of the Lord inspiring the
people to get up their genealogies. Let the
branches of the R.S. visit each other and the
Presidents and Counselors visit each other.
	Bro. Perrigrine Sessions said, how many
there are taken up with the cares of life; we
make covenants with our Heavenly Father
and they are often broken, why is it? it is be-
cause we are not faithful and diligent, and are


too much taken up with the things of this
earth; can we expect the Almighty to pour out
His Spirit if we break the covenants we have
made with him; when we attend to our duties
we have the Spirit of the Lord with us, let us
keep our covenants; be faithful and do the work
for our dead. Sisters be particular in train-
ing your children and be humble before the
Lord.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers, President of the Pri-
mary Association of Farmington, Counselor
Mary Clark and Counselor Lucinda Brown
spoke very interestingly, and gave good in-
struction.
	Sister Young said she would say a few words
on Suffrage, we should teach our sons the
necessity of voting. We have our rights with
our husbands. Sisters do all you can to make
your homes attractive, may God bless and pro-
tect us.
	Pres. Grant said, I feel very much pleased with
our meeting, and may we be benefited and
strengthened in what we have heard. We will
now adjourn our meeting for three months to
meet at Centreville. Singing, “The Spirit of
God,” &c. Benediction by Pres. Hess.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


HUNTINGTON PRIMARY FAIR.

	DEAR EDITOR: Thinking that a few lines
would be of some interest to you, from our
Primary Association, to let you know how we
are progressing out here in Emery County, we
decided to send you a notice of our Primary
Fair.
	In Huntington we have a Primary Associa-
tion of upwards of one hundred and fifty child-
ren, and we have an average attendance of
eighty. On September 27th, a fair was held
here; there was a very nice assortment of ar-
ticles shown up by the children. Fair com-
mencing at 10 o’clock. Things were arranged
to begin programme. Stake President and
Counselor were present. Proceedings com-
menced with singing and prayer.
	Forenoon exercises: recitation by Matilda
Stallworthy, repeating the ten commandments,
Lydia and Minerva Mackelprang; song, May
Robinson; recitation, Lula Stevens; dialogue,
Lizzie Johnson and others; recitation, Rosella
Riley; song, Estella Colbard; recitation, Otilda
Johnson, Bible questions asked by Susannah
Roper; song, Hattie Ovard; dialogue, Charles
Johnson and others. Stake President Margaret
Washburn spoke very interestingly to the
children, said there was a great deal of good
to be learned, and we all no doubt can bear a
strong testimony to the same.
	Song by Ellen Fowler, remarks by Presi-
dent Adelia Mackelprang; adjourned till 2 p.
m. Dancing commenced 2 p. m, for the children,
songs and recitations intermingled. At five
o’clock the children were seated and refresh-
ments served, of which they partook with joyful
hearts and happy smiles. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Parley Washburn.
	SUSANNAH R. MADSON, Secretary, Pro tem.


It is proposed to start a new magazine in
New York next spring, with Mrs. May Riley
Smith as editor.

	Gov. Russell’s address to the Massachusetts
Legislature, last Thursday, was largely de-
voted to proposed reforms of the suffrage. He
denounced the existing tax-qualification for
voting as a violation of "this great primal right
of freedom,” and he affirmed that “the consti-
tutional provision which would deny to the
poor man who could not pay his tax-bill, the
right to vote, should be forever blotted out of
the constitution of a Christian commonwealth.”
But not a word did he utter in censure of the


exclusion from suffrage of one-half of the citi-
zens solely because they are women.—Ex.


CONVENTION NOTES.

	The coming convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, to be
held at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington,
D. C., February 26 to March 1,1891, prom-
ises a programme rich and varied. There will
be two public sessions daily, at 10 a. m. and
7:45 p. m., and a service on Sunday afternoon,
March 1, which will be conducted by eight of
our best women ministers. Rev. Caroline J.
Bartlett, of Kalamazoo, Mich., will preach
the sermon. There will be choice music by
the best talent at all of the sessions, in addi-
tion to that fnrnished by the orchestra.
	Among the speakers will be Miss Florence
Balgarnie, of England; Julia Ward Howe,
Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Mrs. Lide Meriwether, Rev.
Anna Shaw, Hon. J. M. Carey, Mrs. Zerelda
G. Wallace, Carrie Lane Chapman, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Hou. Wm. Dudley Foulke,
Mrs. Josephine K. Henry, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick and a
host of others.
	Admission for the convention is announced
as follows:
Box for season (seven sessions)	. . . . $10 00
Season, reserved seat, (seven sessions) .    2 00
Single ticket (with reserved seat) . . .		50
Single admission . . . . . . . . . . . .             	25
	Sale of season tickets at 1406 G street until
February 26, and after that date at the ticket
office at Albaugh’s Opera House.
	Executive sessions and all committee meet-
ings will be held at the Suffrage Parlors, 1406
G street northwest.
	The Riggs House will be the headquarters
of the Convention, and will give reduced rates
to delegates and visitors.
	The reduced railroad rates have been grant-
ed in the name of the National Council of
Women (which meets at Albaugh’s Opera
House the four preceding days), and extend
from February 19 to March 5, thus covering
the time of both Council and Suffrage Conven-
tion. Delegates and visitors to either meet-
ings will therefore procure in the name of the
National Council of Women, certificates from
agent at point of starting that the full fare one
way has been paid, in order that the reduction
on the return trip may be granted.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, It has pleased God to take from our midst
our esteemed friend and co-laborer, Sarah E. Creer, only
daughter of William and Sarah Banks, and beloved wife
of William O. Creer. The deceased born at Spanish Fork
Utah, Feb. 5th, 1867, married Feb. 12th, 1890, died Nov.
28th. 1890. Being the happy bride of not quite ten months.
	Therefore be it Resolved: That we recognize in her
death the loss of one of earth's noble women, also a
member of the Woman's Suffrage Association of Spauish
Fork.
	Resolved: That althongh she was cut down as a flower
in full bloom and beauty, by the rude hand of death, and
torn so unexpectedly from the hearts of those who loved
her, that we acknowledge the hand of God; and ever
strive to emulate her virtues and noble example.
	Resolved: That we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and cause these resolutions to be
spread on the records of the Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion of Spanish Fork,and that a copy be presented to the
parents and to the husband of deceased, also that a copy
be forwarded to "WOMAN'S EXPONENT" for publication.
								LUCY DAVIS,
								NANCY JAMES,
								CARRIE HOLT,
									Committee.
	In behalf of W. S. A., Spanish Fork City, Jan. 13th,
1891.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naiebitt-Thomas, Sup
[column 1]
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children.
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

[no column]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
	Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES;
			Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS;
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of
	DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

	DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 308, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15,1891.		NO. 16


CONTENTS.
	Among Eastern Women—M. A. Y. Green-
halgh. Lehi W. S. A. Six Bright Women—
New York Sun. Practical Political Study The
Ideal Home—	Clara Selleck. Miscellaneous.
Items from Colorado—L. M. W. R. S. Reports
—Maricopa—Malad—Box Elder—Utah. W.S.A.
of Payson. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—Mormon Wives and Mothers.
Three Score and Ten. The Baby—The Stand-
ard. Castle Rock Valley—S. E. R.  R. S. 22nd,
Ward—Adelaide Ridges.
	POETRY:—Lines on the Death of Emma
Abbott—Mary Olive Murray. A By-Gone Day
—Patty Cary. Shadow-Land—E. B. W. Seventy
—Lula. A Mother in Zion—Emily H. Woodman-
see.


LINES ON THE DEATH OF EMMA
				ABBOTT.

As the earth grew sad on New Year’s Eve
	At wasted hours, a dying,
An angel hovered near and heard,
	O’er all the sounds of sighing,
A voice, ascending to Heaven's dome,
And the song it sang was “Home, Sweet Home.”

And as it rose, still clearer, higher,
	The angel paus'd, on wing unfurl'd
“That voice is meet for God's own choir,
	Too angel like for this vile world !
No longer shall this pure one roam,
But sing in Heaven, at “Home, Sweet Home."

He touched the lips of the singer
	With his; at his blighting breath,
The voice to earth grew fainter—
	For the angel's name was Death.
But over the surging sea of foam
Floated back the echo "Home, Sweet Home!"

Not "hushed forever," not "silent,"
	That voice, divinely sweet !
'Tis ringing on thro' the ages,
	With accompaniment more meet;
And the words were writ in Heaven’s tone
That she sings with angels, at Home, Sweet Home.

Oh, quiet your strife and listen !
	'Twill dry the springing tear—
Reach heavenward to catch the strain
	That falls so soft, so clear;
Infinity her walls, eternity her dome,
Hear the sweet voice singing —"Come Home, Sweet
	Home!”
			MARY OLIVE MURRAY, Atlanta, Ga.
	Ex.


A BY-GONE DAY.

This morning in my hands I chance to hold
A well-worn book, and in its pages old
There lay three linden leaves with hue of gold.

Three perfect leaves ! And seeing them, I stood
Again beside my lover in a wood
Where shining linden leaves the ground bestrewed.

And, searching there, my true love gathered three;
"For love," he said, "for love—and thee and me,
To keep this golden day in memory."

And as he searched the linden leaves among
All tenderly he sang this olden song,
Whose words unto the melody belong:

"And the linden leans above me
Till I think some things there be


In this dreary world that love me—
Even me—even me."

And as he sang, and looked for leaves the while
His eyes sought mine with arch and tender smile.
What joy can e'er again my heart beguile—

Since Death has done to me this cruel wrong !
Has hushed the beating of a heart so strong,
And silenced evermore the voice of song ?

O precious leaves ! “For love—and thee and me?"
Amid the pages old they still may be,
But seeing them, again I seem to see

The loving face; the far off day seems near;
The voice I loved in song again is clear,
And once again those old-time words I hear;

“And the linden leans above me
Till I think some things there be
In this dreary world that love me—
Even me—even me."
			PATTY CARY, in The Woman's News.


AMONG EASTERN WOMEN.
			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	While writing of the women of the Orient,
one’s mind naturally reverts to Palestine, and
the women of the people to which that land
by right belongs, and where, ere long, the
daughters of Israel, will take their harps from
the willows and tune them to more joyous
themes, than for long ages past they have had
the heart to do. The Jewish woman as we see
her in the cities, not only in the East, but
throughout the known world, is one to call
forth our deepest sympathy and admiration.
Many of them beautiful as a dream, chaste
and patriotic, if the term may be applied to
the gentler sex, crushed beneath a load of sor-
row and misery; yet toiling on without com-
plaining to help their fathers, husbands, or
brothers, to bear the burden of their persecu-
tion, and the utter degradation to which they
are reduced and subjected.
	In Jerusalem, Rome, Paris, London, and
indeed in every city where the traveler stops
to rest, there are to be seen many a Ruth,
Esther, Miriam, or Deborah, sad-eyed and
weary, from long suffering and toil; and we
mentally ask, when will the harp of Israel be
again heard accompanying the songs of Zion,
and its music resound through the beautiful
city, and amid the vines and olives of Judea?
In no other European city can we see them
and their suffering more forcibly than in Rome.
In that city, for many years, the Hebrew race
had a chequered and uncertain career. The
seat of their original colony was not far from
the Ghetto,where they are now located, though
several families established themselves in the
quarter Franstivere, that is the portion of the
city across the Tiber. The Emperor Domitian
banished them to the valley of Egeria, a spot
between the present bosilica of St. John
Lateran, and the ruined baths of Carscalla;
they were not allowed to walk about the
more frequented streets, to build any place of
worship, or to occupy any public position.
But the full weight of their judicial ignominy,
and the accomplishment of the old prophecies
concerning them, did not culminate until Paul
the IV. shut them up within the wall of the
Ghetto. This word is derived from the Hebrew
chat. It signifies cut down, broken, abandoned.
Paul ordered that they should never appear in

[Column 2]
the streets of Rome, unless the women wore
yellow veils, and the men yellow hats. Yellow
in some countries is emblematic of ignominy.
	When Sixtus V. became pope, he, remem-
bering that the Jews were of the family from
which Christ came,treated them more liberally
and allowed them to build libraries and syna-
gogues. But all this was undone by Clement
VIII. and his immediate successors. And thus
they were made to suffer every indignity that
could be heaped upon them, until the early
years of Pius IX. (the last pope.) The first
sign of interest that he showed, was when he
gave a small coin to an aged beggar, who was
a Hebrew, “Sire,” said his attendant, “he is a
Jew.” The pontiff replied, “What does that
matter, he is a man.”
	The streets of the Ghetto are narrow,
crooked and dark, out of them are many blind
alleys, many of them not more than five or six
feet wide, and the squalor and filth is in-
describable, and the houses all have a look of
moldy decay. The Jewish race is here seen
in its saddest and lowest plight, not a ray re-
mains of its ancient glories. There are no
dignified forms, no keen and penetrating eyes,
none of those beautiful children, who in other
lands remind the Jew of the youth of his
nation; none of those superb black eyes, that
seem to unite the passions of Judith,the softness
of Esther, and the sadness of Rachel.
	The complexion is colorless, reminding one
of plants that have grown in the dark; this is
the result of imperfect ventilation and dark
abodes. One meets at every turn pale, stoop-
ing figures; on the steps, and within the house,
near the open windows, are seen starving wo-
men, laboriously plying the needle. Misery
stares forth from the tangled hair, and com-
plains silently in the yellow brown faces, no
beauty of feature recalls the countenance of
Rachel, Leah, or Miriam. Sometimes a glance
from a deep, set black eye, that looks up from
the needle and rags seems to say: “From the
daughter of Zion all her beauty is departed.
She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears
are on her cheeks, among all her lovers she
hath none to comfort her, all her friends have
dealt treacherously by her. How hath the
Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a
cloud in His anger.”
	The Ghetto is about the most densely popu-
lated spot in any European city. The streets
are parallel to the river, and connected by
narrow lanes. Old father Tiber is just as in-
consistent a river as he was in the days of Ovid
or of Horace. He overflows his banks as
often, and sends into the streets of the Ghetto,
from the upper country, quantities of mud
and sewer filth, which requires a great stretch
of the imagination to call yellow, the only
name that will give even a faint idea of it is
black stinking mud.
	It might be presumed that the inundations
leaving this abominable deposit on the streets,
would be highly prejudicial to the health of
the inhabitants, but such does not seem to be
the case; and this is attributable to several
causes. One is the frequent ablutions of the
people, who are for the most part Pharisees of
the strictest sect. They practise the custom of
washing the hands and feet before meals, a
custom so strictly commanded among the Jews,
when the Redeemer was on the earth,that to
neglect it, was to be held guilty of a capital
crime. And to this day when an Arab or
descendant of Ishmael, wishes especially to


welcome a stranger, he will himself wash his
feet. Another cause more readily appreciable
is the copious use of olive oil, both as a 
medicine and as an article of diet. But per-
haps the habit they have of whitewashing their
houses on the return of all their festivals, is
the best preventive of disease.
	Garibaldi proposed to turn the channel of
the Tiber by means of weirs, so that when the
snows melted on the Appenine and Alban
mountains no inconvenience would be felt
from the flood in the city. This magnificent
scheme was never carried out, owing to the
poverty of the Italian exchequer.
	It has been conjectured that if the course
of the river, as it passes through Rome, could
be dried up for one year, the spoils that would
be found buried deep beneath its alluvial soil,
would amply pay the cost of the undertaking.
But no capitalist could be found to advance 
money upon such a contingency.
	And yet, amid all the filth and squalor of 
the Ghetto, are yet to be seen the remains of
the portico of Octavia. They are situated in
the very centre of the settlement. In this
magnificent abode, with its courts and corridors;
Titus was received and feasted, after his re-
turn from the conquest of Judea, and destruc-
tion of Jerusalem. He went first to pay his
vows to Capitoline Jove, leaving poor Simon,
the last of the Pharisee patriots, at the foot of
the hill, from whence he was taken to the dark
and foetid dungeons of the Mamertine prison,
and there, according to the tigerish brutality of
Rome, he was put to death, while Titus was be-
ing riotously entertained in the halls of
Octavia.
	In the Spring of 1873 the writer visited
Rome and the Ghetto, and found it as she has
described it. The imagination even of D'Israeli
could find nothing there to suggest proud reco-
lections or animating hopes, but only the petty 
wants and works of the present, that borrow 
no dignity from the past or the future.
	My memory and my pen have run away
with me, and taken me into subjects I had not
at first intended to touch upon. But who that
has visited the "Eternal City," its splendid
buildings and monuments, splendid even in
decay, and its ruins, and read in their history
the unmistakable testimony they bear to the
truth of the Gospel, can refrain from giving
vent to feelings of admiration; or or see the
degradation to which the descendants of Abra-
ham have been subjected too, without an in-
describable feeling of sorrow and pity for their
suffering, merited though it may be, through
their rejection of the Redeemer. At the same
time sending up a prayer to heaven, that our
Father will hasten the day of their restoration
and redemption.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LEHI W. S. A.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Lehi,
held their annual meeting Dec. 15, 1890.
Joanna Patten, of Provo, Utah Co., President,
and Hannah Lapish of American Fork Vice
Pres., were present and made spirited addresses.
	A reorganization was effected with 99
members. The following officers were elected,—
Pres., Mary Ann Webb, Chairman Ex. Com-
mittee, Kate Allred, Sec'y., Sarah T. Evans,
Ass't. Sec'y. Emma J. Taylor. Ex. Com.
Martha Brown, Eliza Trane, Orinda Allred,
Mary Ann Sorenson, Mary M. Gaddie,
Josephine Brown, Mary A. Standring, Sarah
B. Olmstead, Sarah C. Taylor.
		The first meeting under the new organiza-
tion was held Jan. 5, 1891. Speeches were
made by Kate Allred, Mary M. Gaddie, and
Pres. Webb. The Ex. Com. sang "The Star
Spangled Banner." The following address was
then read by Mary A. Standring.


ARE SALOON-KEEPERS AND DRUNKARDS GOOD
				CHRISTIANS?

	This question may seem rather a strange one
and in the negative a broad assertion to make,
but from my standpoint and reasoning I be-
lieve I can prove, invariably, NAY. I might
say without one exception saloon keepers and
drunkards are not good Christians. Now if
I were to ask either of these individuals,
"Are you a good Christian?" would not their
answer be, "Yes, I believe I am?" And should
I say to them, "Do you believe in doing unto
others as you would that they should do to
you, as taught by Christ, He whom all good
Christians certainly believe in, who set such
good and noble examples that all might
pattern after Him if they would?" "Oh yes,"
they will say, "this doctrine will apply very
well to religious people, but hardly to us."
"We have a living to make, we need money,
we want to become rich;" and if they the
saloon-keepers, were to tell the truth they
would say, "we do not care at whose expense
it is or who has to suffer for it." I say shame
on those persons who so wilfully rob men of
their means and their manhood, and pander to
their vile tastes, who deprive wives of their
husband's support, and children of their
father's care, and make outcasts of those who
are near and dear to us. This is the work
of saloon-keepers, with a thousand more evils
attached, which are too odious to mention.
	And what shall I say of the drunkard? A
most despicable creature indeed, with all his
reasoning faculties lower than the brutes in
the field. A man whom God created in the
beginning to be a protector over women, to
love, honor, and cherish her. A being whom
God made in His own image, with a mind
capable of becoming the most intelligent of
all His creatures. One who should set a good
example—the head of his family—being kind,
virtuous, loving, and a good provider, for
the Bible says, "he that does not provide for
his family is worse than an infidel." And can
a drunkard do this when he is visiting these
vile grog shops, with their more vile associa-
tions and temptations, spending his money on
his own dear self, with never a thought of his
poor wife and innocent children who should
have his help and support. I say he cannot.
And is this all the harm he does? How many
homes have been made desolate that once were
happy, where wives had all confidence in
their husbands, and where all things seemed
in harmony with each other, and where love
and joy prevailed. But now, how different!
How the poor wives' hearts are made to ache,
their tender feelings lacerated, their love—a
thing to be spurned. How the dear children
are made to suffer for want of proper food
and clothing, and above all, for want of a
father in the true sense of the word. Oh what
a curse drink is, in this the 19th century,
leading to all the crimes in the catalogue.
And men take it because, forsooth, they have
not the stamina or moral courage to resist it—
they, the stronger sex, they who should set a
better example, but in the mean time leave
this for the poor, despised women, the
weaker sex, to do.
	Do I not know of cases which have come
under my own observation, where lovely,
refined, virtuous girls have married men who,
to all outward appearances were gentlemen,
and after a few months this hideous vice
would make its appearance, making their wives'
lives perfectly miserable, and in a few years
when beautiful children have begun to grow
around them, have made their homes so in-
tolerable and unhappy by their vicious habits,
bad debts and wanton inability to provide for
their families, that the poor wives have been
compelled to leave their husbands, taking
their children with them and doing anything
that lay in their power to gain an honest

[column 2]
living, perhaps blamed by people for taking
such a course, while the husband and father
goes on in his downward course, neither know-
ing nor caring what becomes of them—the
dear ones whom he had vowed to love and
cherish.
	I have seen these things and it has caused
my heart to ache for the misery and unhappi-
ness it has brought. This may seem strong
language to use, and perhaps there are
exceptions to every rule, but can we consistently
say that saloon-keepers and drunkards are
good Christians?


SIX BRIGHT WOMEN.

	Miss Helen Reed, whose Sargent prize
translation of an ode of Horace leads in the
new Scribner's, has decided not to remain in
her position as literary editor of the Adver-
tiser. Miss Reed is now writing a literary
article each week for the New York World.
She will shortly make a visit in Washington.
	Mrs. Isabella Barrows, who is best known
as a writer, associate editor of the Christian
Register, quick stenographer and accomplished
linguist, was thoroughly educated for a
physician in the best foreign schools as well as
at home. But her love of medicine was rather
theoretical than practical. Literary work is
her pleasure.
	Miss O'Duffy, a young woman about 20
years old, is one of the largest importers of and
dealers in wild animals in this country. She
is the daughter of a Dublin druggist and has
a natural liking for the business.
	Miss Edith Brown is one of the most
successful of the younger artists in Boston.
She is a designer for stained glass, and has
taken prizes in competition with some of the
famous workers of this department. She is
only 21 years of age.
	Mrs. Chauncey M. Depew pays the penalty
of being the wife of New York's most popular
dinner guest. It is a very rare event for him
to dine at his own table during the season,
except when he is host himself. "So rare"
Mrs. Depew is quoted as saying "that I have
to engage him for it."
					New York Sun.


Dr. Lyman Abbott, at a meeting in the
interest of the Indians, said: "The best way to
prepare the Indian for freedom and citizenship
is to give him responsibilities—to make him a
citizen." Cannot Dr. Lyman Abbott see that,
on the same principle, devolving political re-
sponsibilities upon women will be good for
women and good for the State? If a wild
Indian with a vote is safe and useful in the 
body politic, may not civilized woman be
trusted with a vote also?
	Gov. Thayer, of Nebraska, has gone insane
through the fatigue and excitement attendant
upon the contest over the election. If a
woman had lost her mind under such circum-
stances, or if any assembly of women had behaved
as the Legislatures of Nebraska and several
other States have lately been doing it would
have been quoted everywhere as a proof that
women are not fit for legislators. We shall not
say that of the men who have so misbehaved. But
it is evident that they need the civilizing
influence of the "help meet for them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			
﻿


SHADOW-LAND.

Tell me of shadow-land with its strange seeming,
	Its doubts and its mysteries looming afar,
In vision I see the pale light of its gleaming
	Like the glimmering ray from some beautiful star,
That allures me and points to a land undefined
A realm co-existent with that of the mind.

Oh, what is this longing, this yearning to know?
	This germ of an impulse we cannot restrain?
And why should it haunt me and follow me so,
	If the quest it awakens is fruitless and vain,
Nay, I feel that beyond the scope of my dreaming,
The star of intelligence onward is streaming.

I call in the night-time for strength from on high,
	To open the flood-gates of knowledge for me,
I wait and I listen, but only the sigh
	Of the murmuring winds, in quaint melody, 
Chant the song of my heart tho' its music is clear,
We've lived heretofore in some loftier sphere.

I know by the pain that I cannot express,
	By the feeling of loss deep down in my heart,
That there is a talisman we should possess,
	To open the gates of the mansions apart,
And show us the future, as well as the past,
Thro' rainbows of beauty, the shadows have cast.
									E. B. W.


SEVENTY.

		TO PRESIDENT ZINA D. YOUNG.

		Glad were the Heavenly hosts,
			O'er tidings borne above:
		Softly the good news spread,
			Wafted on breath of love;
		Their sister, on the earth,
			In sorrow and in woe,
		Had borne a Baby Girl,
			Seventy years ago.

		Angels rejoice to-day,
			Their songs are glad and free;
		They praise Jehovah's name,
			And, sisters, shall not we?
		Yea, praise the loving grace,
			Which through all changes vast,
		Hath led and kept that babe,
			Till Seventy years have past.

		Dear Zina ! Zion's own,
			Can we essay to bring,
		A fitting tribute now,
			While angels o'er thee sing?
		Who'll tell what thou hast been,
			Or mention what thou art,
		To Zion's faithful ones,
			The earnest, Pure in Heart?

		What sorrows thou hast soothed,
			In birth, in life, in death,
		By thy sweet words of love,
			And thy prayer's holy breath.
		No tongue nor pen can tell,
			The works thou'st nobly done;
		Long live, to bless us still,
			Beloved and honored one,
										LULA.
anuary 31st, 1891.

Dear Aunt Zina:
	Mother, Levi and the children all join me
n tenderest, truest love, and sincere prayers
for you to-day.
	May you live yet many, many years to do
good in Israel.
	Please accept this very small token of love,
and my warm thanks for the invitation so
kindly extended by your daughter Phoebe, for
me to be with you this afternoon. It is a
source of deep regret to me that I cannot
meet with you and all the loved ones,
who will rejoice with you this evening; but
"Duty is duty," and connot be set aside.
		Yours faithfully,
				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


PRACTICAL POLITICAL STUDY.

	A Political Club was organized in Farming-
ton, Nov. 24, 1890, with J. F. Miller, a rising
young politician, as president; the members
being composed of both sexes. They meet as
a Legislative Assembly and as a House of
Representatives. They frame bills and
pass laws as systematically and earnestly as
though the fate of the Territory or nation de-
pended on their labors.
	A committee, appointed by the Speaker, on
Woman Suffrage, consisting of Lucy Clark,
Althalia M. Steed, Charles C. Miller, reported
the following bill, which, after an animated
discussion for three evenings, passed the Legis-
lature on its third reading by a vote of 26 to
22. The minority objected only to the clause
in the bill granting to women the right to hold
office. (The bill has not been sent to the
Governor yet.)
	"Be it enacted by the Governor and Legisla-
tive Assembly of Utah: That it shall be lawful
for women to vote at any and every election
held in the Territory of Utah, and their votes
shall be counted as valid and given effect.
And that they shall be entitled to hold any
office to which they may be elected."
	Lucy A. Clark, chairman of the committee
on Woman Suffrage, in presenting the bill,
said: Mr. Speaker, Members of the Legislature,
and Ladies and Gentlemen present: It is with
profound gratitude that we thank you for the
courtesy extended to us, the ladies who were
by special invitation from our honored presi-
dent, solicited to attend and take part in these
political deliberations. We consider that they
are educational and, therefore, accept of the
invitation, and trust that the moments we
spend here may be moments of pleasure and
profit. It is with pleasure that we present to
this honorable body of intelligent lawmakers
a bill asking that all political rights and privil-
eges may be guaranteed to women. We trust
that this honorable body will exhibit the same
degree of justice exhibited at the State Con-
stitutional Convention in Wyoming, when an
act, conferring equal rights upon all citizens,
passed the convention without an opposing
vote, and therefore became a commendable
plank in the platform, whereby they were ad-
mitted into the glorious union of States. The
Honorable Mr. Warren, Governor of Wyoming,
in his speech to the women, said: “Ladies, you
have builded well in the past, which is a suffic-
ient guarantee that your future actions will be
commendable.” It was ably proclaimed by the
champion of human rights, C. W. Penrose, that
if we would have a great race of men, we must
educate the mothers in politics, as well as other
branches, and as they had to pay taxes they
should have a voice in political affairs.
	Through a misguided and fanatical jealousy,
a board of political tricksters succeeded in
depriving the women of Utah of the suffrage,
after having intelligently and successfully exer-
cised the right for seventeen years. This un-
just measure was unsuccessfully opposed by
many intelligent men, and the leading women
suffragists of the nation.
	Some prejudice is being removed, and the
barriers that have stood in the path of woman's
progression so long are being obliterated one
by one. Their abilities are beginning to be
better appreciated by some. In twenty-four
of the forty-six States and Territories in the
Union, women exercise the suffrage on some
points. In Montana, twelve of the eighteen
county superintendents of schools are women.
Women have been placed upon the committee
of arrangements for the World's Fair, to be
held at Chicago in 1893, the highest position
of responsibility ever placed upon woman in
America.
	There is to be a pavilion constructed in hon-

[column 2]
or of Queen Isabella of Spain, whom we can
proudly and appropriately call the mother of
America, who, after Columbus had spent ten
years of toil and hardship, pleading with the
crowned heads of Europe for assistance to car-
ry out his plans, came to his relief and fitted
him out with ships and money, without which
he could not have made the discovery of this
renowned and glorious country. A lady archi-
tect, Miss Minerva Parker, has drawn the
plans for the pavilion to be erected in honor of
this renowned lady, and they have been ac-
cepted by the committee.
	Hamilton Wilcox, New York, said: “States-
men! politicians! editors! behold our move-
ment’s strength! Be wise in time; hasten,
while yet you may, to join the hosts who
struggle for the right!"
	We sincerely trust that there is not one gen-
tleman in this beautiful town of Farmington,
within the borders of this enlightened and
progressive Territory, or within the borders of
these United States, who could say to the Afri-
can slave, “step upon the platform with me,
share the emoluments of office with me,” and
at the same time say to his sainted mother,
his devoted wife, his beloved sister, or his angel
daughter, “remain below; live, breathe, and
pay taxes, but you shall have no voice in say-
ing who shall handle those taxes.”
	That all prejudice, fear and selfishness may
be ground to powder in the mill of human
progress, and that our bill may become a law,
we earnestly pray.				L. A. C.


THE IDEAL HOME.

	The ideal home is an exception rather than
the rule. The possessors of such a haven of
rest are worth a treasure “where neither moth
nor rust doth corrupt, nor thieves break
through and steal.”
	The ideal home may be in the house of a
Vanderbilt, adorned with costly paintings and
statuary; or it may be in a little cabin, frescoed
with whitewashed walls, and morning glories
twining over the door.
	In either home the sweetest music is the
ring of merry voices. The most precious
pictures are the healthy, ruddy cheeks of 
children. The costliest bric-a-brac are finger
pats upon the window-pane. Father and
mother find their greatest joys and sorrows,
their highest hopes and ambitions centered
within its walls.
	They mingle and work in the world, but
home, their home is their heart's delight. In
it each member seeks and finds sympathy,love,
and protection. 
	The man is the shield that wards and pro-
tects; the woman is the guiding star whose
light fades only with death.
	Self-sacrifice, confidence and understanding
exists in the ideal home, cach member's de-
sires, pleasures and capabilities are considered.
	Every one has a distinct, indissoluble
personality that cannot be shaken off, but two
or more leaves, though unlike, may blend into
one harmonious whole. 
					CLARA SELLECK.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Thought is the lightning of the soul.
	The highest exercise of charity is charity
toward the uncharitable.—Buckminster.
	Constant activity in endeavoring to make
others happy is one of the surest ways of
making ourselves so.—Emerson.
	It is a species of agreeable servitude to be
under an obligation to those we esteem.—
Queen Christine.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	 FEBRUARX 15, 1891.


MORMON WIVES AND MOTHERS.

	The following extracts are from The Answer,
published in Detroit, Michigan, a very ably edited
journal devoted to literary cultivation. The
article referred to is entitled "Salt Lake
Snatches" and has been written by Mrs. Mary
Grant Major, who is spending the Winter in this
City. The lady is very pleasing and amiable, and
we cannot believe would wish to make any mis-
representation, but when she affirms in her letter
to the Answer, that "all that is sweet and sacred
and beautiful withered out of the home, etc., all
except mother," we must in justice to the "Mor-
mon" women whom we represent through our
paper, qualify this saying of hers.

	"One would think that a man with six wives
would be apt to have his head so turned with
flattery that his bump of self-esteem would be
visibly swollen. Nothing is farther from the
truth. One meek, little Gentile wife, with her
lifetime of admiration and loving trust in her hus-
band's wonderful abilities, can do more toward
turning a fellow's head than all the plural wives
in Christendom.

	"Talk of strong-minded females and "the lady
bachelors of America," there does not live so
self-contained and coldly independent a creature
as a Mormon plural wife. Nor do they hesitate
to speak in terms of unmeasured contempt of wo-
men who make an unreserved surrender of thought
to their husbands—that surrender of thought that
comes from a mutual and happy confidence.
	A plural wife does not calculate that her hus-
band shall take a very prominent part in her life
or plans. There are sanctuaries into which he
is never admitted, or if admitted, it is not long
until he is thrust out and the key turned on him
forever; a husband is a necessary evil, nothing
more. If you are simple enough to ask a plural
wife if she does not miss her husband, she will
tell you in very plain terms that she does not
hanker after his society in the least. Thus,

	The mills of the gods grind slowly;
		But they grind exceeding small.

	"But toward her children the plural wife shows
unstinted love and devotion. The Mormon son's
remarks concerning "father" are extremely lim-
ited, but his mother is the subject of frequent
and loving mention. You see, the children could
never be sure that papa would be home at tea
time, so it wasn't much use depending on him.
"Father" might be on a mission, but mother was
always ready to supply the needs of childish
hearts.
	So, again, the Mormon father is a cipher in the
polygamous household, in spite of all the trash

[column 2]
that has been written about patriarchs, and such
like.
	"All that was sweet and sacred and beautiful
withered out of the home touched by polygamy,
all—except "mother."

	The home she speaks of is the home which the
Edmunds' law has destroyed. In the homes of
plural wives formerly where the father
could in other days meet with his family from
time to time and be recognized by the wife and
children as husband and father, there can be no
father, now because the law has dealt with these
households by its most positive methods. There-
fore though the father is not "a cipher," as she
says, he cannot be in the true sense of the word
"the patriarch" with his large family around him,
as was the case previous to the enactment and
enforcement of the laws which forbid such asso-
ciation. Mrs. Major says "If you are simple
enough to ask a plural wife, if she does not miss her
husband, she will tell you in very plain terms that
she does not hanker after his society in the least."
Who Mrs. Major has for authority on this subject
we cannot say, but some of us who are in posses-
sion of facts are prepared to refute this
assertion, and to say there are no women on the
earth anywhere that have more love or reverence,
for the husband (to whom they are united by the
most solemn covenants not only for time but for
all eternity), than these plural wives: some of
these wives of whom she speaks so coldly are
hiding under this cold placid exterior broken
hearts, not because of the practise of plural
marriage, but because of the cruel separations
caused by this same law, spoken of heretofore.
Some have gone down to the grave lonely and
sorrowing. Others we grant are making the best
of the situation, and do not sit bemoaning their
unhappy fate, but cheerfully perform the duties of
father and mother both to the best of their ability.
	That many "Mormon" women are strong-
minded is true, that they are self-contained and
independent, is perhaps also true of some of them,
but there are as many different dispositions and
temperaments among women in the "Mormon"
Church as elsewhere.
	"Mormon" women are bearing the heavy
burdens brought upon them by "the strong arm of
the law" bravely. They are submitting to the
conditions the government has imposed upon
them heroically, but they are not accepting, nor
are they likely to, the shelter of the Industrial
Home—such protection would be most humiliat-
ing. The women of the world however bright
and intelligent they may be are not competent
judges of "Mormon" women. They have a solace
and a hope in the religion they have embraced
that "the world knows not of," this is what sup-
ports them under trials, and in the midst of
difficulties, keeping them from sinking into settled
melancholy or despair.
	The mother makes the home, the world over,
and if plural wives are better qualified to guard
the interests of the home, and hold the hearts of
the children than others, then they are a step in
advance, and how did it come about, except
through the cultivation of those higher qualities
of the head and heart that lift women to a
broader plane, where she is not totally dependent,
but is able to stand alone, if need be. True love
makes women strong not weak, and the strongest
minded women are capable of the deepest and
most ardent love, just as the strongest and bravest
men are the most tender and lovable.


[column 1]
	THREE SCORE AND TEN.
		1821.-1891.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

A few out of the multitude of friends of (Aunt

[column 2]
Zina) as she is lovingly called, assembled at the 
residence of Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dougall, on 
Saturday, January, 31st, 1891, to celebrate the 
seventieth birthday of that honored lady and 
mother in Israel.
	The sisters many of them gathered about 4
p.m. in Sister Dougall's elegant parlors and 
greeted with congratulations and good wishes the
venerable lady, who on that day attained the age
of three score and ten years. Mrs. Young was 
dressed in black silk with dainty lace at the neck
and sleeves, and wore a cap of soft black lace.
Her complexion was as bright as that of a young
woman, and there is scarcely a sign of gray
among the soft brown hair, which she still wears 
in the old style combed plain and put behind her 
ears in a little curl with side combs. 
One rather pretty feature of the party was the 
souvenirs which had been prepared for the occa-
sion; handsome double cards painted in flowers
and miniature scenes, with an original verse in-
side, and tied at the corner with a bow of white
ribbon. 
	Dear Friends and kindred who're assembled here,
		I greet you lovingly, this day of days;
	Congratulate me on my seventieth year,
		And give our Heavenly Father all the praise,
	Rejoice with me that life has been so sweet.
		And all its joys and blessings so complete.

	These little remembrances of the day were 
handed round by Sister Young on a silver tray,
each of the ladies selected the one she liked best,
wearing it as a badge, the remainder of the 
evening.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily served to 
the guests and later on in the evening there was 
music and singing; Bishop Whitney sang some
old-fashioned songs which delighted the company
very much indeed, and added greatly to the en-
tertainment, Mrs. Hattie H. Young rendered some 
exquisite instrumental music in the very best
style, (she is a fine performer on the piano) and 
young Mr. Dougall, son of the host and hostess,
also gave a few choice selections that were well
executed. Music adds greatly to the enjoyment
of such an occasion; in fact an evening party is
hardly complete without it.
	A poem composed by Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee, and which we give here in full, was read,
and also a prose article in honor of Sister Zina's
beautiful life-work, composed and read by Susa
Y. Gates. Sister Young then gave an impromptu
address of welcome and appreciation for the
honor bestowed by her kindred and friends, and 
expressed herself as unworthy of such an ova-
tion.
	Apostle F. D. Richards in a few well-timed re-
marks, referred to the noble work done by Sister
Zina and also Sister Eliza with whom she had 
been many years associated, and whom she suc-
ceeded in the office of President of the Relief 
Society of the Church. His speech was rich in 
praise of these eminent ladies and others who
have rendered them valuable assistance, and in 
fact to all the women of Zion, who have been 
faithful in the Society.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon addressed the com-
pany briefly, commending the efforts of the wo-
men of Zion, and contrasting the present circum-
stances and surroundings of this people with the 
hardships and privations many had endured in 
the past; said prosperity would increase with the 
Saints in these valleys, and also referred to the
great future when we shall have passed into the 
exaltation prepared for the faithful. His remarks
were very comforting to those who have endured
much and made great sacrifices for the Gospel.
	About eleven o'clock the company dispersed
having spent a charming evening socially, one 
long to be remembered by all present.
	The 31st of January is also the birthday of Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Young's First Counselor


in the Relief Society, Mrs. Richards however is
somewhat younger; she arrived from Ogden on a
late train in time to participate in the evening’s
enjoyment, though her birthday was celebrated
appropriately at home with her own family and
relatives, some of whom came a long distance to
express their love and good feelings.
	The EXPONENT adds most sincere congratula-
tions, and the wish that these honored mothers
in Israel may live yet many years to carry on the
work established by the pioneer women of Zion,
many of whom have passed away,leaving a noble
example for those to follow, who are today en-
gaged in the uplifting of humanity, through the
organization of the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MOTHER IN ZION.

A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE TO OUR HONORED FRIEND
		AND SISTER, ZINA YOUNG.

The sweet name of Mother (the Universe o'er)
	Is honor'd by thousands, devoted and true;
But th' mothers of Zion, are yet at the fore—
	Are specially noble and capable too.

Since the message of God was by Joseph declared,
	"The women of Mormondom," faithful have been,
Persecution and sorrow, they bravely have shared—
	And felt the full force of the enemy's spleen.

What self-abnegation, what courage and trust,
	What loyalty too, have these mothers displayed.
Devotion to Truth by a recompense just,
	Is the ladder that reaches the loftiest grade.

And time shall refute all the epithets vile—
	Applied to the worthy, by tongue or by pen—
True earnest convictions, untarnish'd by guile—
	Will sooner or later be honored, we ken.

While waiting for Justice, we scorn to be sad,
	'Tis best to be happy as long as we may—
The children of Zion are cheerful and glad
	In spite of teh burthen and heat of the day,

We've need to be just to each other, at least,
	Whatever is due, we must gladly concede,
And thus we have met at this sociable feast,
	To honor Aunt Zina, a mother indeed.

May Providence kindly permit you to see
	Many happy returns of this jubilant day,
May your friends and your blessings yet multiplied be:
	And Faith, Love, and Truth, still illumine your way.

A noble example you truly have set,
	Have shown what a mother in Zion can do,
We trust that for years you may counsel us yet,
	And witness the triumph of Righteousness too.

Oh Mothers of Zion, true heroines blest!
	Your praise in the future shall fitly be sung;
And th' records shall show as a type of the best—
	The time honor'd name of our own Zina Young.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


THE BABY.

	What a vast expanse of unfolded possibilities is
contained within that newly-fledged atom of
humanity, the baby! The arrival of it is an event
whose importance is not one whit reduced be-
cause of its familiarity; each and every occur-
rence possesses a significance which neither fre-
quency can abate nor changing scenes obliterate.
A new being takes its place among those who
hold sway upon the earth, another star appears
in the firmament of mortality, one more creature
comes within our sphere without jostling any of
the others, setting another aside or displacing the
smallest portion of our social system. Sweetest
of all animate existence, degraded is the soul, de-
based the mind, or debauched the habits of him
who does not extend to you a glad greeting and
recognize that in his better and truer self he has
one more subject claiming, and worthy to claim,
his respect, his confidence, his protection if need
be!


We love the baby and at all times we bid it a
hearty welcome. With its hue of pinks and car-
nations and roses, its eyes bespeaking the tender-
ness just brought from a shore we cannot recall
even in dreams, its voice so plaintive as to defy
rudeness, and its whole presence so like the em-
bodiment and eternal fitness of things superani-
mate—the angels themselves—how purifying is
its presence and how sacred the influence which
its presence implies!
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and for-
bid them not."
							The Standard.
	Ogden, Jan. 25.


[Column 1]
CASTLE ROCK VALLEY.

Mrs. Mary Gray:
	Dear Sister:—I failed to write your Christmas
letter this time but will try and make amends on
this the first day of that mysterious, anxiously
waited for 1891.
	I wish I could describe my writing room to
you, will try but cannot do it justice, I am seated
on a large chair-shaped rock in one of a hundred
lovely little glens, up here in the tops of the
Sierra Madres, name familiar since my school
days, but I then little thought I would ever climb
its rocky sides and view its wild deep gulches, its
lovely cliffs, its stately evergreen trees and shrubs.
	Well perhaps you would like to know how I
happen to be perched here on a rock in the tops
of the mountains at ten o’clock in the morning,
on the first day of the new year,it is a frosty morn-
ing but the sun shines down warmly in the nook
where I am and it is quite comfortable, although
the girls at the house declared I would freeze if
I came up here to write.
	Well our old time friends who reside here came
to Juarez to spend Christmas and I came back
with them for a visit. We left Juarez on the morn-
ing of the 27th,drove down the Verde river a mile
to the mill, then across the valley towards the
mountain. I am afraid to give any of the points
of the compass for fear my West should prove to
be East and my North, South,as I have not been
able to locate the sun since I left Mesa. It is
twelve miles from the town to the foot of the
mountain, where we stopped for dinner and to
rest and feed the horses before starting up the
mountain. The valley looked very pretty with
the river winding through it, with the trees along
its banks clothed in their winter robes of red
green, yellow and brown. The entire valley is
covered with waving grass, which must be lovely
when green; it is very pretty now; looks like a
light brown carpet with dark green spots (Juni-
per trees) scattered here and there. We passed
through the first settlement our people made in
this valley, now deserted, as it proved to be on
the wrong land and they had to move farther up
the river. Many of the old chimneys, some of
the rock houses and the Liberty Pole are still
standing; a shadow of sadness crept over me as
we passed by three lone graves, on the side of a
low hill or mound beyond the town site, I know
not the names of the sleepers, but they were those
of our faith and thereby linked to me.
	After a short rest and a camp-fire dinner, we
each got a stout stick and started on our four
mile walk, or rather climb; to the left as we start
up are some of the loveliest cliffs I ever saw,
covered with green and gray moss, and shapes
that look like the hand of man as well as nature
had fashioned them; deep down on one side a
mountain stream,now but a rivulet, at other times
a torrent, wound its way, now leaping over high
rocks then rippling along over level grassy places,
I cannot describe all the beauties on our journey.
You have been in the canons and on the mountains
of Utah and know how impossible it is to describe
these works of Nature’s God.
[Column 2]
	A light drizzling rain made the walking a little
unpleasant, but pioneers don’t mind such trifles
much. After our first walk we rode most of the
way to our night camp in the park, a lovely place,
we had to drive after dark, and sometime before
we reached camp the bright rays of a huge pine
fire came out like a friend to meet us, made by a
brother who passed us on the way and reached
camp first. Soon after we had supper the moon
arose and gave to the surrounding scenery, the
tall pine trees and still water, a wierd ghost-like
appearance, which brought Rip Van Winkle into
my dreams that night.
	I must pass over the rest of the journey, for I
want to speak of some caves and cliffs we visited
the third day after we reached our destination.
the cliffs about a mile from the house the girls
have named Castle Rocks from their resemblance
to old ruined castles. There are several very high
grand looking arches and pillars in a variety of
forms and shapes; two we named Punch and Judy
from their resemblance to those noted personages;
others look like large urns and vases. We ex-
amined several of the caves which all show signs
of having been inhabited,the roof being black with
smoke, and broken pottery is scattered around;
one of them the girls has named the store,
another the meeting house, in this a gallery runs
all round the cave and a large pillar stands at the
front which the boys call the preacher. We could
not visit them all as it took too much climbing, so
after gathering some pretty ferns, mosses, and
pine cones we climbed and tumbled down again
to the lower regions, and reached home with
good appetites for dinner.
	A few days after we visited cave valley, where
the caves are larger; as we approach them the
immense rocks and cliffs and chasms look grand
beyond description, they strike one with wonder,
awe and admiration, and we are led to ask
when were they formed and whose the hands
that fashioned them. Surely amid such scenes the
unbeliever must cease to say there is no God.
	One large cave has been divided by thick walls
into a number of small rooms, and the plastered
walls are covered with pictures and hieroglyphics
as fresh and bright as if made but recently, yet
the oldest inhabitants know nothing of their origin
From this cave a deep trail was worn into the solid
rock that led down the river, at one side of the
cave a small stream of water was falling over
the rock, and had worn a basin in the rock below
Just inside the cave was an immense olla,used it is
supposed for storing grain, it is some fifteen feet
high, sloping from the centre to the top and
bottom; we found parts of several of them on a
smaller scale but this one was in perfect preserva-
tion.  In another large cave the brethren un-
covered a skeleton, which had been discovered
some time before near the entrance of the cave.
Under the rock which formed the floor was a hole
the skeleton had the appearance of having been
pushed hurriedly into it, the sight of it gave rise
to unpleasant feelings and conjectures. In fancy I
could see those poor creatures penned up in these
caves and dens in the rocks with the enemy out-
side and no doubt they perished by their weapons,
or the more slow and agonizing death,by famine.
	I shall remain here a few days longer,I have en-
joyed my visit very much.  Old friends and old
times have been spoken of round the bright pine fire
and when I return I hope I shall find my Christ-
mas letter from the “Old Home" awaiting me.
With a Happy New Year for all I will say adieu.
			Your loving sister,
							S. F. R.


R. S. 22ND, WARD.

	On Tuesday, Jan. 13th, 1891, the sisters of the
Relief Society met for the first time in an upper
room, in the new Meeting House of the 22nd,


Ward. We are going to furnish it and hold our
Society meetings there at present. There was a
good attendance. There has been a branch of
the Society organized in North Salt Lake and we
have four sisters there who have been appointed
teachers to act under the direction, of the Presi-
dent of the 22nd Ward. They expressed them-
selves as being very thankful for the privilege of
having meetings there and a Sunday School. Our
Bishop said Sunday that he and one of his Coun-
selors had visited the Sunday School that day and
they were holding it in two rooms in a private house
and it did not begin to hold them all. He told
them to look out a suitable piece of ground for a
school house.
	There is also quite a settlement west of 3rd
North St., Counselor Jeremy of the R. S. and one
of the teachers visited there, and invited the
sisters to our meeting, they attend regularly, and
some of them are appointed teachers to visit there
among the people.
	The people have been very energetic in helping
to erect the new Meeting house in this ward; and
feel very thankful we have a place to worship
God in. Our Society is in a prosperous condition.
				ADELAIDE RIDGES, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		ITEMS FROM COLORADO.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time of writing
a brief account of our little settlement among
the hills of South Western Colorado, for the
benefit of the readers of the EXPONENT, but
like every thing that can be, in this busy world
it has been left till “to-morrow.” But now,
one who has the authority says I must write
you an account of a little social affair which
took place on the 14th of this month, in honor
of Sister Mary Roberts, who until recently has
held the position of Pres. of our Relief Society.
As Sister Roberts contemplates moving away
shortly, it was decided that the sisters should
turn out in force and surprise her. Accord-
ingly, on the day appointed, the most of the
sisters, with babies and baskets, and some of
the brethren met at one of the stores, and soon
after several sleigh loads were wending their
way westward towards the home of Sister
Roberts, where on our arrival we met with a
very cordial welcome. As it was nearly noon the
first thing in order was dinner,and while it was
being prepared the company were entertained
by one of the brethren who had “been there,”
singing a song that was composed in the“pen,”
which awakened many reflections. After the
repast was over and the tables cleared away,
the company were called to order and the fol-
lowing address, written by Sister Louie White,
was read:

	Dear Sisters:—In attempting to perform my
part in the programme, I am keenly sensible
of my inability to acquit myself in as credit-
able a manner as I would like; but, as Latter-
day Saints, we are all aware that unless our
efforts, whether in speaking or in writing, are
dictated by a higher power than that of our
own, they will prove unsatisfactory and un-
profitable, therefore, I trust that although the
few lines which I shall write may be simple
and unadorned with the flowers of rhetoric
that the spirit which they breathe may be one
worthy to find an echo in the heart of each
one present. We have met to-day, dear sister,
to show you that honor and respect which we
feel is yours by right, in consideration of your
labors in our midst, not only in connection
with our Relief Society but also in the Sabbath
School, where you have been an efficient and
diligent worker, in seeking to instil in the
minds of those under your jurisdiction the
principles of life and salvation. Although at
times your spirit and body have been weighed
down, by reason of the trials and difficulties
[Column 2]
through which you have been called to pass,
you have always manifested a desire to per-
form your duties as a Latter-day Saint.
	We desire to assure you of our love and
esteem, and to express our appreciation of the
many pleasant and profitable hours that we
have spent in your society, and of the wise
counsel you have given us, especialy that por-
tion of it which admonished us to perform
faithfully the duties which we owe to our
children. Your earnest remarks on this sub-
ject have ever touched a responsive chord in
our hearts, for we realize that the most im-
portant duty devolving upon us is the bringing
forth and training of the souls of men and
women who are destined to fill responsible
positions in this great Latter-day Church, and
we trust that the Lord will give us strength
to carry out the instructions we have received,
that we may become more worthy and per-
fect mothers. We know that men and nations
are not given to rising higher than the source
from whence they spring, hence the necessity
of perfecting ourselves as mothers, that the
level to which our children may rise shall be
an exalted one. We feel that you have set us
a worthy example in the care you have
taken of the intelligent spirits that our Father
has placed in your keeping, and we trust that
you may be rewarded by having your child-
ren rise up and call you blessed, and that you
may experience the truest joy that a mother
can know,that of seeing her children grow up
valiant for the truth, honored and beloved by
the good and noble. As you journey on
through life, and encounter the trials which
beset its pathway, we pray that you may have
strength given you as your day, that you may
pass cheerfully under the rod, and feel at all
times to acknowledge the over-ruling provi-
dence of an all-wise Father; never shrinking
from the trials through which he may call
you to go, but continually seeking for strength
to bear them, realizing that they are blessings
in disguise, as each one cheerfully borne in-
creases our faith and proves our integrity.
You have been endowed with talents which, if
wisely used, will be a source of joy and satis-
faction to yourself and of encouragement to
others. Wherever you may go you will find
opportunities for the exercise of those talents
in assisting to advance the cause of truth, as
the field is wide, and the laborers few.
	You have our kindest wishes for yourself
and family, and wherever your lot may be cast
we trust that you may be blessed both
spiritually and temporally. And we also trust
that when you leave us you may carry with
you many pleasant memories of friends found
and associations formed while here. And
while we are assembled together at this time,
may the spirit which we manifest, and the
words which we speak, be of such a nature
that in years to come we shall be able to look
back to this day, as one of the bright spots in
our lives; and although in the future we may
walk in separate paths, may each one’s path be
a branch of that road which leads to life
eternal; and when we have reached the
terminus may we have the privilege of renew-
ing the associations begun in this life, with
spirits and bodies unfettered by the weaknesses
pertaining to mortality, free to enjoy to the
fullest extent each others society throughout
the boundless ages of eternity.”

	Sister Roberts then responded by expressing
her appreciation of the sentiments just read,
and of the honor shown her by those present.
Said the years spent here were among the
happiest of her life, and in leaving she would
leave behind many kind friends who would
always be affectionately remembered. Felt to
give the glory to her Heavenly Father for
whatever good she might have accomplished
while here.
	Appropriate remarks were then made by
[Column 3] 
Pres. Wm. Halls and Brother Roberts, after
which the time was spent in singing, dancing
and social chat, till about sundown, when
after a general hand-shaking, we took our de-
parture, feeling all the happier for having
shown a desire to make others happy. 
	We have about forty-five fine families here,
and are blessed with peace and a goodly degree
of prosperity. This is a very good grain country
but too high an altitude for fruit, except the
hardier kinds, and we have very little of that
as yet, so that even dried fruit is deemed quite
a luxury, especialy as we have to pay twenty-
five cents a pound for it. We have to pay
rather a high price for all our supplies, but, as
we will soon have a railroad running through
our town, we are in hopes that the prices will
be lower in the near future. Our associations
are all in fairly good running order, consider-
ing our scattered condition, the majority have
to travel two or three miles in order to attend 
meetings, which is quite a disadvantage in the
Winter time. Our educational facilities are
very good. Our people are in the minority,
but we are treated very kindly by our out-
side friends. There are three ministers of the
Methodist persuasion here, two of them have
attended our meetings two or three times and
preached for our benefit, but I haven’t heard
of their making any converts, although one of
the outsiders here promised them quite a large
sum of money when they should convert a
“Mormon.”
	Success to the EXPONENT, “May it live long
and prosper,” is the sincere wish of one who
watches anxiously for its coming and eagerly
scans its pages for tidings of old-time friends,
for,
		"My heart keeps wandering home 
	To all the dear ones there,"
and I don’t suppose it will ever for-swear its
allegiance to the old home and its associations,
but when I take into consideration the fact
that Utah of to day isn’t Utah of the past, I
console myself with the thought that perhaps,
after all, I am happier here, striving in my
humble way to assist in building up one of the
Stakes of Zion,than I would be there under the
changed state of affairs.
							L. M. W. 
	Mancos, Colo., Jan. 20,1891.


R. S. REPORTS

		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of 
Maricopa Stake, held Dec. 18th, 1890. After
the usual exercises Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy
spoke upon charity and gave good counsel.
	Pres. M.A. Hakes represented the Mesa
Ward; a faithful few were always ready and
willing to do what they could. Pres. Lizzie
Macdonald gave almost the same report of
the Lehi Ward.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman of the Alma Ward,
said we need spiritual as well as temporal food
Gave much the same report as the other wards.
Pres. Susan Savage, of the Papago Ward, said
the native sisters seemed more energetic and
prompt than the white sisters, so far as they
understood.
	Nephi Ward was breifly reported by Bro.
Noah Brimhall, as he was the only member
present.
	Counselor H. C. Rogers, Bro. Charles H.
Allen, Sister Sarah Ann Robson, and Sarah
Phelps, each spoke a short time when we
adjourned, feeling that the time had been well
spent, and all had been repaid for coming to-
gether. Singing and then the benediction
closed the meeting.
						F. E. ROBSON, Sec.

			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the


[Column 1]

Malad Stake of Zion met at Samaria, Nov.
16th, 1890. On the stand were Pres. O. C.
Hoskins, Coun. William H. Gibbs, several
of the brethren of the High Council, and
Presidents and Counselors of Relief Society
etc. Meeting called by Pres. Mary D. Davis
of Samaria, singing "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Prayer was offered by Pres.
O. C. Hoskins; singing "Thy will be done."
Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few opening
remarks. The minutes of last conference were
read and approved.
	Pres. Mary D. Davis reported the Samaria
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
said the sisters are united and striving to live
their religion and doing all the good in their
power.
	Pres. Eliza Chivers gave in a favorable
report of the Cherry Creek Society.
	Pres. Rosa Howell reported Muddy Creek
Society, said they held their meetings regularly,
when they met they had a time of rejoicing
and enjoyed a portion of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Pres. Annie Sawyer, of Malad City, said the
Society over which she presided was in a
prosperous condition and the sisters alive to
their duties.
	Coun. Mary Stewart exhorted the sisters to
attend to their meetings: spoke of the great
faith and power given to those that are
humble and striving to do the will of the
Lord.
	Pres. O. C. Hoskins felt happy to hear
the testimonies of the sisters. Spoke of the
progress the Church is making; said it has cost
the best blood of the nation, besides thousands
of dollars, to bring us to the place we are
standing in to day. Spoke of the condition of
our day schools and the necessity of teaching
our children in the ways of the Lord.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt thankful for the
good instructions givin in this conference,
hoped the sisters would feel that they had
been blessed under the instructions that had
been given, and that we would try to put in
practice that which we had heard; said as
mothers we need information on a great many
subjects especially those things pertaining to
our religion. Spoke of obedience; touched on
many important subjects pertaining to our
holy religion.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs said, without the aid
and assistance of God we are not able to edify
such an enlightened people as the Latter-day
Saints; felt proud to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies, exhorted us to live humble and
our Father in heaven would bless us.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short time.
	Bro. Samuel Davis, of Samaria, made a few
remarks. The Choir sang an anthem; and the
benediction was pronounced by Bro. David
Hall.
	ELIZA A. HALL, Sec.

BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society of the Box Elder Stake
held its Conference in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, Dec. 9, 1890. Counselor Mary
Wright presiding. Singing, "Come let us
anew." Prayer by Bishop Jenson. Singing
"O, Glory of all the Saints." Roll called,
minutes of September Conference read and
approved. Pres. Olivia Widerborg apologized
for being late, also stated that we dispense with
the verbal reports as the time would be short
and as Pres. Zina D. H. Young was with us,
we would all wish to hear her.
	Sister Young said, "We are engaged in a
great and glorious work, I am proud of the
sisters here, your faces speak well for you. O,
my sisters, be careful of your little ones, teach
them to walk in the path of our Savior;
attend your meetings. Relief Society members
make better mothers, have more faith in God,
and do more good in sickness, both by ad-
ministering and nursing; always impress the

[Column 2]

young people with faith to call on the Elders
in sickness. Sisters call upon those who are
weak in faith, and cheer them, take comfort to
the poor and lonely ones." Spoke upon pride,
and quoted some of the sayings of Pres. Young
and of Pres. Woodruff. Dwelt upon union at
home, the love, honor and purity thereof and
its natural results upon the youth. "Let us
love God and one another, the Lord holds the
destinies of our children in His hands."
Spoke upon the Deseret Hospital, the need
there was of help from the Relief Society in
all its branches and also referred to many more
great and glorious things too numerous to re-
cord, in her mild and motherly manner, ask
ing God's greater blessings on the sisters
throughout Zion.
	Presidents H. Hunsaker, Honeyville,
Hannah Harper, Lake Side, Mary Watkins,
4th Ward, Brigham City, reported their re-
spective branches, and Sister Watkins also
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph. Bishop Jenson made some
remarks encouraging to the sisters.
	Sister Young spoke of a store in Salt Lake
City that had been started by the sisters, where
dry goods are sold, and dressmaking has
already been established; it is also intended
having millinery and hair dressing connected
with the store.
	Pres. 1st Ward, Brigham City, Susanna P.
Booth made a report of the branch over which
she presides.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young, explained why Sisters
Jane S. Richards, and E. B. Wells did not ac-
company her, that both had sickness in their
family. She then spoke of laboring for the dead,
and cheering the poor; prayed God to bless all
assembled there.
	Pres. Widerborg stated there would be a
meeting in the afternoon at 2 p. m., to organize
a Woman's Suffrage Association for Box Elder
County, made some closing remarks, and
said, "We do not want to forget to give our
heartfelt thanks to Sister Young for her visit
to us."
		ANNIE WIXOM, Assistant Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Nov, 29th,
1890. Sister Mary John presiding, assisted by
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer; minutes of former conference
read and approved. Sister E. G. Cluff, was
pleased to see so many out this morning, it
was some time since she had met with us be-
fore. She had enjoyed her mission to Josepha
much, felt that we would enjoy ourselves
wherever we are if we are in the line of our
duty, and have the Spirit of God with us;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and re-
newed diligence in all good works; those that
have the approval of God are looking for
great events to happen, &c.
	Sister Marilla Daniels followed with good
instructions to one and all, was happy to meet
with us where we can enjoy the spirit of God.
We are blessed in having a chance to improve
our talents, let us strengthen and help each
other. Spoke of the death of Sister Johnson,
wife of Bishop J. P. R. Johnson, and Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the 1st Ward of
Provo, said she was a faithful sister and we
miss her, but she has fought the good fight,
and her works will follow her. Great events
are nigh and we shall need strength from the
Lord to enable us to stand, and that we may
prove faithful was her prayer. A number of the
Presidents gave verbal reports of the society
over which they presided and also bore strong
and faithful testimonies to the truth of this
work, and their desires to hold out faithful.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt happy to be with
us again; spoke of the events that had trans-
pired since our last Conference, and of the

[Column 3]

mission of herself and daughter to the States,
to attend a gathering of her kindred and rela-
tives; of the narrow escape they had from
death in a railroad accident, and of her prayers
to God to save them. Said I have proved that
God is with us and can save his children by
his Almighty power. Spoke of the testimony
that she bore to her father's house, also upon
the Word of Wisdom and various other subjects,
said there are crowns awaiting the faithful and
I prayed that we may be among the chosen
ones, &c. After a few remarks from Sister
Sorenson, and singing, conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Benediction by Sister Patten.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m, meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Bishop
Johnson was present. After a short interval
the Presidency of the Stake honored us with
their presence. Sister John felt pleased but
was sorry that we could not have the sisters
from the city as we had expected; knew this
was the work of God; exhorted the sisters to
live near and follow the teaching of our Savior
that we may not go astray. Spoke in the in-
terest of the Woman's Suffrage Association,
wished the sisters to attend the meetings, &c.
	Sister Bringhurst, from Springville gave the
sisters much good counsel and advice; also gave
a report of the society in that place as being
energetic, and the members faithful and trying
to do their duty in every way, &c.
	Sister Eliza Taylor represented the Third
Ward as being united and wiling to do all
they were called upon to do. President Smoot
said he was pleased to be with us, regarded
this society as of great worth in the Church. In
his travels through Utah County, had heard
good reports of the society and of its efficiency
in helping and providing for the poor; but
there is yet room for improvement; be on the
alert; look after the poor, comfort them, buoy
them up, speak words of comfort to them, that
is your mission. We are in a crisis religiously
and politically. We should be awake. We are
on the threshold of the greatest events that
have ever transpired, the clouds are heavy,
and daily the whole nation are arrayed against
us, a handful of people, who are trying to keep
the commandments of God. Let us look after
our children, a great responsibility rests on the
mothers in this thing; and may God help you
to be wise in all things is my prayer.
	Pres. John felt to endorse what had been
said by Pres. Smoot. There was never a time
when woman's mission was more important
than at the present, in curbing pride and infi-
delity; your mission is one of love, sympathy
and comfort and may God bless you in your
endeavors is my prayer.
	Pres. H. H. Cluff said it was gratifying
to feel the Spirit of this Gospel, it is the work
of God. These organizations are a power
among the people and wherever the Relief
Society is active the people are active. We
are on the verge of a change, we have heard
of a change for the Saints from under the
wicked and ungodly, this is the change. We are
told in the Doctrine and Covenants that when
Christ comes there will be only one half of the
people ready for Him, on the watch and pre-
pared, we know not the day nor the hour of
His coming, but may we all be faithful, and the
testimony continue with us, is my prayer.
Sister John felt that we had been blest in com-
ing together and asked the Lord to bless us
all, said, after singing, we will adjourn our
Conference for three months. Benediction by
Brother West.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			
﻿


So far is it from being true that men are
naturally equal that no two people can be
half an hour together but one shall acquire
an evident superiority over the other.—
Johnson.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


W. S. A. OF PAYSON.

	The re-organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association, of Payson, took place at Payson,
Jan. 15th, 1891. The meeting convened at
the Meeting House at the call of the vice-
president. After devotional exercises, Mrs.
Millie Stark, vice-president, stated that the
object of the meeting was that of re-organiza-
tion,  and visitors were present from Provo,
who came over for that purpose, viz: Vice-
President Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs.
Horrocks, accompanied by Isaac Bullock, Sen.
	The by-laws of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association were read by Mrs. E. Bullock, and
also the platform of the National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, which were
adopted. The following organization was then
effected by unanimous vote.
	Millie Stark, president; Hannah Wride,
vice-president; Minnie Fairbanks, secretary;
Lillie Fairbanks, assistant secretary; Jeanette
Tanner, treasurer; Ann Pickering, B. J.
Simons, Elizabeth Lant, Isabella Finleyson,
Mary A. Hardy, Ida Coombs, executive
committee, with Mrs. Pickering, chairman.
	Mrs. E. Bullock then addressed the meeting
in a very spirited manner. Said, previously
we had only a vice-president in our organiza-
tions, but she was now in favor of a president
and more complete organization, and for this
reason a president had been appointed with
more aids and committees. She believed
women should occupy a different position in
future to what, they occupy at the present day.
She referred to a speech of Mrs. E. B.Wells at
the W.S.A.: “We have known our weakness
for years now let us know our strength." Women
were destined to be equal to men. We should
assert our rights, learn what is going
on iu the world, keep posted in political
movements; we then are better mothers and
wives.
	Mr. Charles Ellis, the lecturer, eulogised the
ladies in their heroism, in pioneering the way
to this wild west, and wished them success in
endeavoring to elevate the sex, and educate
themselves in their rights and privileges, and
regain their franchise.
	Mr. Isaac Bullock made encouraging re-
marks, “Women rule the destiny of men” and
are wise counselors. They succeed in almost
everything.
	Mrs. Horrocks, of Provo, spoke of the fees
of the initiation, which is an annual fee for the
expenses of the association, of fifty cents from
each member. Mrs. E. Bullock has been ap-
pointed to go as a delegate to Washinton next
month. Women are expected to work side
by side with men, and we are not slaves but
free to act for ourselves in all matters of in-
telligence and not be trodden under foot or
tyrannized over by men.
	Mrs. M. Stark apologized and said that
through her sickness, during her past year’s,
business in the W. S. A. had been neglected.
On account of the storm to-day, we had not a
larger gathering in the interest of our associa-
tion. She encouraged all members to be
active.
	Remarks were also made by Mr. J. S.
Tanner and D. Lant which were to the point
and instructive. Adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Bishop J. S. Tanner.
			M. A. HARDY, Sec'y, protem.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Lucile Banks succeeds her father as
editor of the Index, long a leading paper of
Columbus, Miss.
	Mabel W. Moore, M. D., has been elected
a vice-president of the Montgomery County
(Pa.) Medical Society.
	The Princess of Wales has given orders

[column 2]
that nothing need be submitted for her inspec-
tion, or that of her daughters, in which birds
are used as trimming.
	E. L. Halleck, superintendent of instruction
in Oklahoma, writes to the Woman's Tribune
that the bill to give women full suffrage lacked
only two or three votes of carrying in the
Territorial Legislature, and that women "can
now vote in municipal elections and on school
matters."
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has recently
addressed large audiences on woman suffrage
at Pawnee and Bockford Ill., Washington
Iowa, and Stevens Point Wis., Feb. 12, she
will address the Illinois Legislature on the
pending municipal suffrage bill, and a little
later will address the Indiana Legislature on
municipal suffrage and the "age of consent"
bills.
	Mrs. Anna Richardson, formerly a member
of the Bible-class at the Young Women's
Christian Association, of Boston, has
established a school for colored youth at
Marshalville, Ga., where every effort is being
made to better their condition. The King's
Daughters circles of the Association have
lately contributed $100 toward the support of
the school.
	The Woman's National Press Association
of Washington voted at its last meeting to join
the National Council of Women. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln was appointed delegate, and Mrs. M.
S. Lockwood alternate, and Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. Crandall, and Mrs.  Mooney were ap-
pointed a committee to arrange for a reception
to the National Council in February.
	Gov. Russell did not own "real estate to the
value of £1,000," as required by the constitu-
tion of this State, until a few days before his
election, when his wife transferred to him
enough of her land to enable him legally to
hold the office for which he was a candidate;
but at the same time no amount of land or
money upon which she is taxed can enable
Mrs. Russell even to vote for the governor or
for any other State officer. This seems some-
how amiss.—Ex.
	The Legislatures of many States convene
this week. The friends of equal rights every-
where should try to secure municipal suffrage
for women wherever practicable. More and
more, men see the grievous injustice of with-
holding the ballot from women, who now have
opportunities for the best education, and ample
means of acquiring information upon public
questions. There is reason to hope for some
gain in this direction during the coming year,
and for the amelioration of some of the hard
legal conditions that rest upon women. At 
least, let us ask, in the hope that we shallre-
ceive.—Ex.
	George Bancroft, the historian, is dead.
He passed away at the age of ninety, full of
years and honors. Tributes sent by the
sovereigns of Europe, on the announcement of
his death, were added to many similar ones
here. The following fitting and appreciative
words were spoken of him by A. R. Spofford,
the Librarian of Congress, between whom
and Mr. Bancroft the warmest personal
friendship existed for many years: "His is the
most beautiful old age I have ever seen; calm,
peaceful, cultured, surrounded by friends, and
admired and revered by a whole nation, the
drawing to a close of his life is as grand and
beautiful and peaceful as the gradual fall of
night on a mountain peak."
								Ex.


In the elevated order of ideas the life of
man is glory; the life of woman is love.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
[column 1]
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.

[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp. City Hall, Salt Lake City

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash. House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMFS Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


Uy..... v


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 19.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1891.			No. 17


CONTENTS.
	Leaves From My Journal—Gladys. Good
Company—S. M. H. Faces in the Clouds—
Cuyler. Diamond vs. Charcoal. Caught by a
Telegram—New York Sun. Can I Entertain—
The Chautauquau. The Nation's Dead—Ex.
Women of the Nation. Poli Tics—Mys Terious.
Woman's Work in Archaeology—Frauz Xaver
Kraus. Notes and News. Testimony of Mother
Walker.
	EDITORIAL:—A Glimpse of Washington.
Notice—Sarah M. Kimball. Lucy Decker Young
—M. Y. R.
	POETRY:—The Record of a Day—Augusta
Joyce Crocheron. Farewell Hymn. Twilight
Musings—Helen M. Whitney. What Woman
has Done—Hope. To Lucy D. Young—
Josephine Spencer.


[Column 1]

THE RECORD OF A DAY.

Once in a castle famed and old
With frowning towers brown and bold,
A lovely lady's jewels lay
Resplendent in the sunlight's ray,
And seeing them, a bird flew in,
And knowing not of wrong or sin,
She drew a necklace from the rest
And bore it to her own dear nest.

Not long ago, I listened to
A story strange yet sweet and true,
And I (another bird) did take
The story for its beauty's sake;
But now return it wreathed in rhyme
And ask his pardon for the crime.
For conscience sake and loyalty
To God and truth, with others, he
Had passed through weary months and days
Of prison life, yet still gave praise
To Him who rules through storm and calm,
And saves His own through every harm.

So like each other passed the years—
At length grew dull their hopes and fears,
And patience turned with faith's content
To lessons that its pages lent.

Then some one called. A moment more,
He stood outside the prison door,
And there—upon the great high wall,
That cast its shadow over all,
A heavenly host (to them it seemed)
As fair as e'er in sleep was dreamed,
But—real, living, with sweet voice
To bid the pris'ners' hearts rejoice.
And while they gazed—the children sang
Till all the cells in music rang;
Sweet songs of love and home and cheer
From those young lips, oh! doubly dear!
For tenderest thoughts upstarted then
Within the hearts of these true men;
And even those whose souls where not
Without sin's dark unfading spot,
In memory of desperate wrong,
Were touched, and wept at that pure song.

Soon as their voices hushed again
Responsive tones rose from the Pen;
The prisoners answered joyously,
As greatful hearts that day could be:
"Home Sweet Home" and songs of love,
And joyous waltzes rose above
The prison walls to that free space
Where shone each pure and lovely face.

Oh never happier were those men
Since first they entered that dark Pen,
Than answering the sweet benison
Brought by each dear and loving one.

Again the little singers raised
Their songs of love and faith and praise,

[Column 2]

And all seemed dream-life, fairy like,
And then the bell's deep tone did strike
The songs to silence, and they knew
That signal was for parting, tool

But e'er their footsteps turned away,
As the sun throws his brightest ray
Before he vanishes at night,
A lovely farewell met their sight!
Each gentle hand in parting threw
Blossoms of every scent and hue
Upon the trampled dust below—
Jewels upon the breast of woe.

With eager hands and tear dimmed eyes
They caught them up as precious prize,
And ne'er was purer token pressed
Unto a brave man's throbbing breast,

A moment more and all was still,
And each one with a strong, brave will
Turned to the duties of the place
With softer step and tenderer face.

When years have come and passed away,
And he who wrote that page is gray,
His children oft will gather near
That journal's stories still to hear,
And little ones will sweetly say:
"Did they keep dear Grandpa that way?"
And tender eyes will fill with tears
Hearing the record of these years.

O, treasured more than ancient sword
Will be the pris'ner's written word;
Though traced in prison's sunless day,
The gems of truth will shine a'way!

All honor to each tender heart
That bore its share at home, apart,
While he who was their light was gone,
And the stern world looked coldly on;
And blessings on each darling born
To wear the wreath of shame and scorn.

When waiting at the pearly gates
Each soul the voice divine awaits,
And reads the name upon each one,
THOSE NAMES—the Patriarch Jacob's sons.

Then shall their birthright honored be—
Passport to IMMORTALITY!
Then shall the prisoner's written page
Count as CELESTIAL HERITAGE.

O, men and brothers who have known
The life behind those walls of stone,
Smile and rejoice o'er faith unmoved;
Smile and rejoice, thy test approved.

		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Jan. 24, 1891.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	I shall never forget the brief space of time
between setting foot on the steamer and leav-
ing the harbor. The conflicting emotions of
joy and sadness which filled my heart, caused
a peculiar sensation not frequently experienced.
Here was I about to realize the dream of my
life, and my pleasure at the thought, can
better be imagined than described; yet at the
same time, I was separating myself by thou-
sands of miles of the mighty ocean, from the
land of my nativity and all the world held
near and dear. Of course I thoroughly ex-
pected and believed that I should return to
the loved ones—for had not I received a bless-
ing under the hands of the apostle of the Lord,
stating that such should be my pleasure? But
nevertheless these contradictory thoughts and
feelings seemed to have possession of me and I
could not decide which was uppermost, the

[column 2]
feeling of sorrow or that of gladness. How-
ever, I was resolved not to let my feelings be
guessed by those about me, as they had rather
joked me all the way, about not being home-
sick, and had said: "Just wait until we are
about to leave the land behind, and then we
will see if you are so strong minded." I was
congratulating myself on my power of keep-
ing my feelings hidden, when a crowd of people
who had gathered upon deck, and whom I
had supposed were passengers like ourselves,
started to sing a parting hymn, the title of
which I believe was, "Till we meet," and the
last line of the chorus was, "God be with you
till we meet again." The tune was admirably
adapted to the words, and the singers all had
good voices, supplying the four melodies which
form harmony. In fact the whole was so much
in harmony with my thoughts and feelings,
that I could not withstand its melting in-
fluence, but was forced to give way before this
flood of sweet, yet solemn sound, I wept—I
wept. There was however one source of con-
solation left me in my weak-mindedness—
there were many around me to whom the soft
and penetrating sounds of music had touched
in like manner, and many were seen with the
big tear-drops running down their cheeks,
while the smiles shone through like the sun
in the midst of an April shower. We
learned that this company of singers were
members of the Baptist church, who had come
on deck to sing their good-wishes and fare-
wells to one of their missionaries who was
bound for the "Dark Continent."
	When the singing was over, there was such
shaking of hands and such expressions of
"God bless you," "Do you love Him?" etc.,
kissing and weeping and smiling altogether,
irrespective of connection or creed, that it was
quite interesting and amusing to those who
(like some of us) stood on one side and watched
the procedure.
	But the time soon came for us to start. The
great gong sounded to warn all those who had
not engaged passage to depart. The company was
 soon thinned out and the gang-way drawn up,
giving us conclusive evidence that, "The
gallant ship was under weigh, to bear us out
to sea." We had really been let loose from
the land and could already feel the motion of
the ship as it conveyed us out on the bosom
of the deep dark ocean. We had purchased
deck chairs from the man on the wharf, who
sadly tormented us as we passed by him with our
luggage up the gang-way, and they had been
placed in a position where we might watch the
rapidly receding land.
	New York presents a grand and beautiful
appearance from the harbor; the high and
majestic buildings, the church spires and Gov-
ernmental pinnacle towering far up towards the
blue skies, and many were the reflections of
my mind regarding the past history and future
destiny of this great city.
	We were, however, soon disturbed in these
thoughts by the sound of the luncheon bell,
which called us to receive comfort from the
saloon below. We hurriedly ate what we re-
quired, which was not much, though there was
set before us a tempting repast, and hastened
to our place on deck, lest we might miss see-
ing the Statue of Liberty, but it was not yet
in sight, and not until the sun was sinking in
the western sky, did we pass by the great
goddess. This Statue of Liberty giving light to
the world, is a beautiful and wonderful con-


ception, occupying a commanding position in
the harbor; as all ships bound for New York
must necessarily pass by it before they come
into port, and the light shed forth from the
uplifted right hand of the goddess, is discern-
able by vessels miles out at sea. Yet it is 
saddening to be informed that this wonder of 
modern art and invention, is like unto the
house of a foolish man, which is built upon
the sand, and is destined, if not removed, to
be submerged by the the restless waves of the sea.
Strange, very strange,this monument has ever
been held as typical of the great nation to 
which it belongs. The question arises, will
its fate typify the fate of the Republic? Is
that, too, built upon quicksand? Time alone
will possess us of the sequel.
	The sun has set. The last mountain peak 
has faded from our sight. We have indeed 
bid adieu to terra firma, and said to our 
native land farewell. The shades of eve are
hovering o'er us, and we are far out on the
bosom of the deep. Shall I ever forget that
first afternoon and evening on the ocean? I
think not.
	Not wishing to give way to a feeling of
melancholy, as we had every reason for rejoic-
ing, our party joined in singing some of the old
familiar songs. Mr. H—and I enjoyed a 
waltz, newport, etc., to the sound of the har-
monica as played by Mr B—, who walked up 
and down the deck near us while we danced,
so that we might better hear the tune. The 
performance was really jolly, and I enjoyed it
immensely. We held meeting down in the
intermediate dining room, which we also en-
joyed, but hastened to get up on deck again
lest we should turn sick.
	During my voyage I found a perpetual
source of pleasure in watching the ever chang-
ing view of the sky and ocean. How beauti-
ful they looked in each and all of their varied
aspects. How inexpressibly grand and awe
inspiring were their tremendous propor-
tions.
	While being tossed on the broad, expansive
bosom of the deep, apparently hemmed in by
the arching depth of sky above, one is lost in
wonder and admiration at the grandeur and
immensity of even the small part of the uni-
verse which we are capable of comprehending,
and we feel ourselves dwindling into nothing-
ness, and are led to wonder at the infinite love
and mercy of the Great Creator, in deigning
to consider anything so insignificant and un-
worthy as we feel ourselves to be. An evening
spent on the deck of the vessel where may be
heard the constant lashing of the hungry
waves against its sides,and where one cannot 
fail to sense their utter helplessness in case 
of anything happening to the frail bark on 
which they stand. While the upper deep is
dotted with gems innumerable, declaring the 
glory of God, and the wonderfulness of His 
handiwork. I say such sights and sounds, to
our finite minds, almost incomprehensible,
produce the beneficial effect of making plain
to us our own incompetency—our entire de-
pendence on our Father and our God. Pride
hath not, for the time being, a place in our
natures—our spirits are softened—and we are
humbled to the dust. I spent two or three
evenigns on deck, and shall never forget them,
they are treasured up in my heart and mind
among my sublime experiences.
	Thus with singing, chatting, dancing, and 
feasting our senses on the sublimity of nature
surrounding us, the afternoon and evening
passed most pleasantly, and at ten o'clock we 
very reluctantly wended our way to our 
several state rooms and berths, ready for our
first night on the water; and inwardly con-
gratulating ourselves that we were going to be 
exceptions to most travelers on the ocean, and
not be sea sick. Though the dawn of the 
morrow proved the fallacy of our hopes, I

[column 2]
might say thus ended the first day of our 
voyage.
							GLADYS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GOOD COMPANY.

	A good character is something to be prized
more than riches. It is not sufficient that we
have a good reputation, a good character is
what we should all strive our utmost to pos-
sess. There is a vast difference in the meaning
of the words, character and reputation; char-
acter is what (in our very heart and soul, and
in our daily walk and conversation) we really
are; while reputation is merely what from
all outward appearance we are supposed to be.
There are those who-while in company and
society-seem to be kind and agreeable, and
very entertaining, but who when at home, and
among their own, are cross and surly, with
never a smile or a pleasant word, such a per-
son has a reputation from which his character
differs very, very much.
	Among other things, it is necessary, in order 
to possess a good character, to keep good com-
pany. We can be kind to those who are
worthy of our kindness, but let us be intimate
with few, and be sure that the few are well
chosen.
	We generally judge persons from the com-
pany they keep, and we had better be alone
than in bad company, for "evil communications
corrupt good morals." Habits are catching as
well as diseases; and I believe that the mind
is as liable to infections as the body.
	Do wrong, and we feel that almost every-
thing is wrong; but do right, and we sense the
pleasure of having done so. Just so with the
company we keep; if we mingle with low and
degraded people, we think life is mean and
hardly worth living, but on the other hand, if
we associate with the pure in heart,the virtuous,
and those who let virtue garnish their thoughts
unceasingly, who in fact, have virtue; truth,
and righteousness for their motto, will feel that
life is sweet, and that we have in very deed
something worth living for, we will realize 
that we are not placed upon this earth merely
for the pleasure this life affords, but that we
are placed here to prepare ourselves for a 
grander and nobler life, a higher and more
exalted home. 
	We cannot allow ourselves to associate with 
those who do not consider it necessary to re-
member the Sabbath day and keep it holy.
It is a commandment to us from our Father
in heaven, and we should honor and hold it
sacred as such.
	Let us seek the society of those who fear 
God, of those who are so humble as to ask
God for blessings, and so grateful as to thank
Him for blessings received, never forgetting to
do our part, and to be as humble and grateful
as those with whom we associate. And by so
doing we will be wise for ourselves here, and
wise for eternity hereafter.
							S. M. H.


FACES IN THE CLOUDS.

	In one of the German picture galleries is a
painting called “Cloudland.” It hangs at
the end of a long gallery; and at first sight it
looks like a huge, repulsive daub of confused
color, without form or comeliness. As you
walk toward it, the picture begins to take
shape. It proves to be a mass of exquisite
little cherub faces, like those at the head of
the canvas in Raphael's “Madonna San Sisto.”
If you come close to the picture, you see only
an innumerable company of little angels and
cherubim. How often the soul that is
frightened by trial sees nothing but a confused
and repulsive mass of broken expectations
and crushed hopes! but if that soul, instead of


fleeing away into unbelief and despair, would
only draw up near to God, it would soon dis-
cover that the cloud was full of angels of
mercy. In one cherub face it would see—
“whom I love, I chasten.” Another angel
would say, “All things work together for good
to them that love God.” In still another
sweet face the heavenly words are coming
forth: "Let not your hearts be troubled: be-
lieve also in me. In my Father’s house are
many mansions. Where I am there shall ye
be also.”—Cuyler.


DIAMOND vs. CHARCOAL.

	What could seem more unlike? The one is
so bright, the other, so dark; the one, priceless,
the other, nearly worthless. Yet we are
taught that they are really identical in sub-
stance, both being nearly pure carbon. What
then makes the difference? Simply that in
the case of the diamond a beautiful law has
been at work, crystallizing the particles and
preparing them for their united and exalted
mission as transmitters and reflectors of
light.
	Here are two neighboring lives. Common
daily tasks make up each. What we often
call drudgery, monotony, tediousness, is the
weekly routine. Day after day occurs the
same round of trivial duties. But one is
selfish and the other unselfish; the one, worldly,
the other, Christian. In the one case the fires
of discontent and disobedience charr the poor
life into blackness and worthlessness. In the
other, love to Christ, the constraining and
beautiful law of the Christian heart, orders,
purifies and unifies the life, rendering it
capable of expressing God’s glory. "The
particles which make up the two lives are
alike, the little, homely duties which enlist us
all, but how vastly different are the results!
It is not too much to say that one is like a
charcoal, and the other, a diamond. Reader
which shall yours be?


CAUGHT BY A TELEGRAM.

	So long as women will be foolish, men will
be deceptive. One day I sat behind a couple
on an Ohio and Mississippi train, and it
wasn’t ten minutes before I discovered the
girl was a village belle who knew nothing of
the world, and that her companion was a trav-
eler who saw in her a victim. Several others
noticed her as well, but it was hard to see how
anything could be done. He professed great
admiration for the girl, and she blushingly
queried:
	“But how do I know that you are not a
married man?”
	“Oh, but I assure you on my honor that I
am not.”
	“Where do you live?”
	“In Louisville.”
	“And you have neither wife nor children?”
	“No.”
	At that instant the conductor came in with
a telegram and called out the address. “That’s
for me,” said the man in the seat ahead.
	It was handed to him, and he was smiling as
he tore it open. Next moment he fell forward
in a heap and rolled into the aisle in a dead
faint. Half a dozen of us, including the girl,
read the dispatch. It was dated at Indian-
apolis and read:
	“Your wife and baby burned up with the
house last night. Come at once.”
	It took us a quarter of an hour to bring him
to, and it was half an hour later when he left
the train. He had forgotten the girl who
shared his seat, and she was crouched down
and crying like a baby.—New York Sun,


Great objects form great minds.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL HYMN.

Farewell,dear Friends, a long farewell,
	For we shall meet no more,
Till you have crossed the swelling flood
	To meet on the Shining Shore.

				CHORUS.
					There's sweet rest in Heaven.

Then gird up your loins and live upright
	While life is here with you;
And praise your God and Christ the Lord,
	He'l take all fear away

And when you land on that bright plain
	How happy you will be,
To dwell where God and Christ will reign
	Through all eternity.


MIDNIGHT MUSINGS.

In the hour of God's reck'ning,
	When earth's conflicts are o'er;
When has ceased this world's bick'rings,
	And peace reigns evermore;
How sweet will be memories
	Of a righteous career:
Its fruits rich and priceless,
	Though oft garnered in tears.
Of days we've made brighter,
	The dark clouds we've dispelled,
Thereby burdens made lighter
	For souls weary and bowed.
Of works grand and eternal,
	In God's temples performed,
With hearts pure and unselfish,
	With Christ's virtues adorned.
With faith firm and unflinching,
	In the work here begun;
Ever true and unfalt'ring,
	Till life's labors are done.
						HELEN M. WHITNEY.
Dec. 30, 1890.


WHAT WOMAN HAS DONE.

She has rocked the cradle of the baby dear,
And wiped away each dewy tear,
Her hand has led through that sunny clime,
Where children's voices in sweet music chime;
Where the youth and maiden's untried feet
Would wander or falter at what they meet
In the path that leads through this life of ours,
Where mingle together the thorns and flowers.
Close, close by the pilgrim father's side
Stood the pilgrim mothers when the tide
Beat high upon the rock bound shore
That trembled at old ocean's roar.
In science and in art her name
Stands high upon the book of fame;
Imagination's fields are wide,
And she has delved from side to side.
She has explored the jungle deep,
The desert wild and mountain steep.
And she has kept the light-house torch
To guide aright each wandering barque;
To warn them from the danger land,
The rock, the whirl-pool or the strand.
We find her in the battle wild,
As warrior and as mercy's child;
As architect we find her too,
In Brooklyn bridge her work we view.
To starry worlds her path has led,
And where for Christ the martyrs bled,
As queen her fame can never fade,
And faithful subject has she made;
Old chains and bars she has defied
And now stands boldly by man's side
In college hall, and in art's high school,
In courts where law and justice rule;
Where man has been or e'er will go
Will find her too in weal or woe.
The sons are hers who rule the land,
And her's too are the outlaw band;
Her daughters claim her interest deep,
For them her care can never sleep.
Yet silent still must be her voice
For those who rule, she has no choice.


Fair Zion's daughters once posessed this right,
And swiftly grew in union, power and might.
Till Satan saw and trembling grew alarmed
And sought his minions, who his work performed.
Yet courage, oh! ye toilers in the cause
Of Woman's freedom from dark error's laws,
The Gospel-light will make her pathway plain,
Restore unto her every right again.
							HOPE.
Juarez, Jan. 27, 1891.


CAN I ENTERTAIN?

	As far back as history takes us we find men
breaking bread together. We find, too, that
those who eat the bread feel themselves under
obligation to those who furnish it, and that
they are quick to improve an opportunity to
return the favor. From some such rude be-
ginning came the laws which govern social
courtesies to-day. It is sometimes complained
that these laws are artificial and false. Give
us spontaneous social life, the disgruntled cry.
If the mooted regulations are analyzed we find
that they are controlled by two principles:
hospitality, which uses each opportunity to
show courtesy, and gratitude, which never fails
to return a favor received. Modern social
etiquette is often abused, no doubt, but a little
reflection will convince anybody that its prin-
ciples are sound, and that its growth has been
natural.
	Society is a union of congenial people for 
the sake of enjoying one another's companion-
ship, stimulating one another's ambitions,
sharing one another's ideas. It is feasible
only when everybody interested does his share
of entertaining. Society says this share shall
be in proportion to what one gets. She says
that he who would give, must receive; that no
person, no family, is excused from this law.
Now if this is not spontaneous sociability, it
is good sense. It may not be a sentimental
plan, but it is a practical one, which is much
more to the purpose.
	There are many persons who complain that
they cannot meet this rule. They want to go
but they claim they cannot return favors.
The usual excuses are that they have no
homes, that they never have entertained and
that they fear to begin, or that they cannot
afford the expense. "I am a homeless, self
supporting woman. What can I do?" "I 
am a bachelor. What can I do?" pleads one
class. Some of the most charming social 
centres we ever have seen were the simple
parlors of self-supporting women. They
were scrupulously honest in returning every
social courtesy extended, and because they
 were so careful they were invited frequently.
By their cordiality, their bright ways, their
intelligence, they gave a charm to their poor
quarters which no amount of money could
have provided. They paid their way in so-
cial life and held a recognized place. There
are old bachelors to whom the circles in which
they move owe much of their brightness and
interest. They are the counsel of the elders
in social questions, the guardian of the young
girls, the delight of the children, the refuge
of the wall flowers. They know that a con-
cert or lecture party is a fair exchange for a
dinner party. They know that a half-
Bohemian little supper in the private parlor
of a hotel, presided over by a married lady
friend, will compensate their circle of young
lady friends for their invitations to call and
to parties. They know that a bachelor's pic-
nic is the most charming of all picnics. And 
so they hold their position in society, without
imposing on the good-nature of their friends
or compromising their own self-respect. "No
home" is not a sufficient excuse to release
the person who wishes to go in society from
paying his society debts.
	Persons who would willingly entertain

[column 2]
generously but who never have done so,
dread to begin. They fear they will blunder.
They feel awkward. They are unwilling to
show themselves less familiar with social
practices than their neighbors. This is sup-
posing that the vital point in entertaining is
the appearance or style—a shoddy idea. A 
spirit of genuine hospitality, a desire to 
gather one's friends about, and to give them as
pleasant a time as possible, is the essential
point. It will be an unworthy guest who will
go away from the gathering where such a 
spirit prevails and criticise the style. Nor does
the house and its arrangements have nearly
the weight that many think. You must re-
turn what you receive, but return only in
good-will, in effort to make others happy. It
is not asked that in exchange for a glimpse of
somebody's family silver, you display Sevres
china, or that you receive in a satin-hung
room because you have been received in one
paneled in rosewood. Again, if the house is
too small to accommodate forty guests, it
may hold twenty, and twice twenty are forty.
The variety of social entertainment is great, 
and a house which will not allow a dinner
party may permit something less ambitious.
	The supposed cost of entertaining hinders
many persons. The money cost lies in the
refreshments, the decorations, the favors, the
hired entertainment, which are offered the
guest. Now, “decorations, favors, and hired
entertainment” are none of them necessary
to a successful dinner, lunch, or evening party,
and the refreshments may be as simple as
the hostess has courage to serve. People of
sense and taste go into society for other rea-
sons than to feast, to look at beautiful flowers,
to carry home dainty souvenirs, or to listen
to paid musicians or elocutionists. They  go
for the sake of the good-fellowship to be found.
If a hostess will see that her friends enjoy
themselves, her dinner may be as simple as
Madame Roland's to the ministers of the
French Cabinet, one of which when three
members of the cabinet were present is said
to have cost fifteen francs. She may give a 
party and furnish nothing but bouillon and
wafers; or coffee and sandwiches. She may
tender a reception and as the late Emperor
Frederick of Germany did when a young man
of limited income, serve nothing but a cup of
tea and a thin slice of bread with marmalade.
It is the spirit not the style or display which
is the real essence of entertaining. If the 
spirit of hospitality exists, there is nobody
who cannot entertain acceptably, even royally,
however humble his home and narrow his 
purse.—The Chautauquan.


THE NATION'S DEAD.

	The nation to-day is in grief over the loss
of one of its greatest and noblest of friends and
saviors. It is not the nature of a free people
to be worshippers of heroes. But there is
something in the soul of an honest freeman
that responds to the noble attributes of manly
men, through which before servile minds they
become heroes. This nation adored
General William T. Sherman; it will adore
his memory and through the years to come
will cling to his shrine with as strong devo-
tion as ever sanctified a hero's tomb. The de-
parted spirit whose loss we lament today was too
noble for the ages to obscure, was too humane,
and generous and lovable ever to be forgotten
or slighted. He goes to his final rest ripe in
years and in a halo of glorious associations
and memories. His life was a perfect round of
usefulness, benevolence and love. The nation
may grieve the loss of one whose life has sunk
so deep into its great and generous heart; but
it cannot mourn. There is no violence to man
or nature in his taking away. He goes only
to a natural rest.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 23 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 23 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 1, 1891.


A GLIMPSE OF WASHINGTON.

		THE WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

	We had a pleasant journey to this city. Leaving
Salt Lake City, Monday, 7 a. m, Feb. 16, and
arriving in Washington, Thursday, Feb. 19, at
10 p. m., our train was delayed a short time at
Baltimore, or we would have reached here at 8:15
p. m. Mr. and Mrs. F. S. Richards met us at the
depot and accompanied our party to the Riggs
House, where we registered and obtained such
rooms as we could get, the house being already
pretty well filled.  Before we had been in the
house an hour we were delighted to meet in the
hallway, just for a moment, the dear friend of
woman, Susan B. Anthony, and she expressed
her pleasure at our coming, and gave us two or
three good words of welcome and of cheer that
we can never forget.
	It was arranged before separating for the night
that the following morning, Mr. and Mrs. Richards
would call (they are at the Randall) and take
those who wished to go to the White House and
the Capitol Buildings, etc.
	The next morning we went first to the White
House, then to the War, State and Navy Build-
ings, and in the afternoon to the Senate and
House of Representatives.  It is impossible to
tell you what we saw and heard, we would want
time and space for that, but Mr. Richards told us
all he could in the short space of time that we
were together, and it was all most interesting,
especially so to Mrs. Beattie, Mrs. Bullock and
Miss Katie Thomas who had never been in
Washington before.
	During the day Mrs. Richards and the writer,
also Mrs. Thomas, succeeded in obtaining an ap-
pointment for an interview the next morning at
nine a. m. with Mrs. Sewall, the Committee on
Credentials for the Council.  This was very
satisfactory to all concerned, though we were
somewhat in doubt as to how the general officers
might vote upon our admission to the Council,
and here let it be understood that there are cer-
tain articles in the Constitution that have to be
complied with, etc., and several organizations
who came expecting to join the Council are go-
ing back without doing so, because of this and
that.
	On Saturday morning the Utah Delegation pre-
sented their credentials, and had an interview
with Mrs. Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y. of the Woman's
National Council as well as Committee on Cre-
dentials.  Mrs. Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Richards,
of Salt Lake City, were also with us.  Our inter-
view was satisfacory, as we were then informed
exactly what was expected of us.
	The Executive Committee held a meeting in
the afternoon, and after its close we were notified
that the Relief Society and Young Ladies'

[column 2]
Mutual Improvement Associations were admitted
to the Woman's National Council and the dele-
gates entitled to representation.
	Saturday evening Mrs. Spofford, the hostess
here, and a most magnificent woman in heart as
well as in appearance, gave a reception to the
ladies of the Woman's Council and Convention.
Many celebrated ladies were present besides
those who live in the house.  The large dining
room was handsomely decorated with stars and
stripes; at one end there was an elevated plat-
form for the musicians, and in a conspicuous
place, at the end of the room, there was a large
flag hung with one lone star on it representing
Wyoming.  At the other end of the room stood
the ladies who were receiving with Mrs. Spofford;
Miss Frances E. Willard, President of the W.
N. C., and N. W. C. Y. U., she has a lovely face
and most genial expression, a smile and pleasant
word for everybody.  Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Vice-President at large, etc., etc., and large she
is in every way as well as liberal, she is certainly
one of the grandest women of her time, or any
other time; Mrs. May Wright Sewall, the Cor.
Sec'y. of the W. N. C., and one of the ablest and
brightest women of the day.  She has excellent
executive ability, and is exceedingly helpful with
suggestions and ideas in all the work of the two
great bodies of women, who are now holding
sessions in this city, the Woman's Council and
the Suffrage Convention.  Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer,
the President of Sorosis, of New York City, was
one of the most attractive women leaders; she is
very much complimented in the papers and by
the people, not only on account of her beauty,
but style and elegance in dress.  Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer was in line with those who
were receiving; and the heart of the writer gave
a great bound at sight of her intelligent and
smiling face, remembering all her help and kind-
ness on our first visit to this wonderful city, and
how she had aided us with advice, and who will
never be forgotten.
	The reception was a brilliant affair, not so much
in the way of dress as in the brilliant eyes and
faces of the beautiful and celebrated women as-
sembled to greet the hostess and her co-workers.
There were, however, some very elegant costumes,
some artistic and Parisian.  Mrs. Rachel Foster-
Avery, whom Miss Anthony declares to be the
best cor. sec'y. in the world, wore a very heavy
white brocaded silk with an immense train, and
she looked charming.  She has one of the sweetest
faces and most fascinating manners.  There are
many we would like to mention by name, but
cannot do the subject justice, and so will only say
there were women lawyers, doctors, ministers,
artists, editors, correspondents and reporters.
	The ladies (for there were very few gentlemen)
congregated in groups chatting for a few minutes
in a friendly way, and later on a part of the com-
pany (for many had already retired) went up to
Mrs. Spofford's apartments, and were ushered
into a room profusely decorated with flowers,
where lunch was served in the most delightful way.
Icecream, cakes, dainties and salads, and the
most delicious coffee; but the greatest attraction
there was the presence of such women as Susan
B. Anthony, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Clara
Barton and others known to fame, whose noble
works are of themselves a living and lasting
monument. But we must pass on, and only give
them brief recognition now.
	Sunday there were services in Albaugh's Opera
House, as had been previously announced, and in
the evening an entertainment was given to raise
funds for a Mary Washington monument, although
as Miss Anthony said throughout the whole
affair, "they never even mentioned that Washing-
ton had a mother."
	Monday morning the Woman's National Coun-
cil was formally opened.  Miss Willard in the
chair, and by her side then and throughout the

[column 3]
entire Council, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs.
Sewall, the Cor. Sec'y., was the right hand
director and manager.  She seemed to be the
chief person on the staff to assist the President.
Rev. Anna Shaw was one of the most efficient
helps, and is a most eloquent speaker, as well as
being very executive in all her work.  She had
charge of the bell and was the time-keeper, so
much time being allotted to each speaker, and it
was her duty to give the signal, even if in the middle
of a sentence.
	Miss Anthony would almost invariably arise
and say in her conciliatory manner, it will all be
given in the official report of the Council.
	The President's address to the Council was
the leading feature of the opening and was im-
mediately printed in pamphlet form and circulated
free.  It opened with these significant words o
Elizabeth Cady Stanton's, "A difference of
opinion on one question must not prevent us from
working unitedly on those on which we can
agree."
	After Miss Willard's speech, which was a grand
one in every sense of the word, came Anna
Garlin Spencer, who spoke upon "State Control
and Social Care of Dependent Classes;" then
"The Care of Defective Children," Fanny B.
Ames; "The Need of Women in Public Institu-
tions," Dr. Rose Wright Bryan; "Our Duty to
Dependent Races," Alice C. Fletcher; "Women
as Police Matrons," Lillie Devereux Blake.
	It is not the intention to go into details in this
article, but give the opening of the great National
Council of Women, to which several great or-
ganizations of women have been admitted.  Per-
haps it will convey but little of the true idea
after all, but it shall be the pleasure of the writer
to explain and make clear, to as many as possible,
this federation of womens' organizations after her
return home.
	In regard to the Delegates from the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A., in which the members
of these organizations are more specially in-
terested, it will perhaps do as well to give you the
newspaper reports, until you get it officially from
the regular report of the Woman's National
Council which is to be published.  Here is the
statement of the Washington Post, the reporter
of that paper sitting in the Council during the
several sessions of that body:
	"Miss Willard then introduced Mrs. Caroline
St. Thomas, the delegate from the Young Ladies'
National Improvement Association, who read an
interesting paper descriptive of the work of the
young ladies' organization, which had done a
great deal for its members.
	"Mrs. Jane S. Richards, delegate from the
National Women's Relief Society, in a few words
expressed the pleasure she had experienced on
her attendance on the council. She gave way to
Mrs. Emily Wells, of Utah, who told something
of the Relief Society, which had its head-
quarters in New York, and had been in existence
over half a century.  There were branch societies
all over the country and in some foreign lands.
It had over 400 branches, 25,000 members, $100,-
000 worth of real estate, a hospital managed
solely by women, and published a paper, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	"It was an uncompromising enemy of the dram
shop, and when women had the right of suffrage
in Utah, the society furnished a rallying point for
the women of the State.  The society had done a
world of good works of charity, and was one of
the most benevolent organizations of women ex-
tant."
	The Woman's Tribune of Feb. 28, gives, in the
report of the Council, the following concerning
our delegation:
	"Next on the list, The National Improvement
Society, was represented by Mrs.  Thomas, who
spoke briefly on and told in an interesting manner


of the benefit young ladies were deriving from
it.
	“The next speaker introduced to the audience
was Mrs. Richards, of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, who began her brief address by
saying:  'I have the honor to represent Utah.
The 25,000 women whom I represent are seeking
to have love and  peace and goodwill extended to
all. On account of the length of the programme
I will not speak longer, except to say that I am
stopping at the Riggs House, and will be pleased
to answer questions there. I will now give way
to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.’
	“Mrs. Wells is editor of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, of Salt Lake City, and one of the most
interesting women at the Council. She has been
chastened and spiritualized by suffering into a
sympathy with woman that truly represents the
spirit of Him whom those of her faith call Master,
as well as those of Christian denominations.
Mrs. Wells gave a short account of the Relief
Society. Its headquarters are in New York; but
it has branch societies all over the country, a hos-
pital managed entirely by women, and has its own
organ—The WOMAN'S EXPONENT." 
	The three days’ sessions of the Woman’s
National Council were of an exceedingly interest-
ing character. In fact so much has been crowded
into the minds and hearts of the people who have
been listening through these three days that it
will take weeks of thought to digest the whole
matter, and sufficient material has been furnished
to occupy the next four years in developing;
the seed which has been planted will surely
bring in a rich, a golden and abundant harvest
that will bless and comfort the world of humanity.
	Grand, noble, yea queenly,are the women who
are laboring to unite, in a great band of sister-
hood, the several great organizations and bring
them in loving unison and fellowship one with
another and blessed mutual helpfulness. That
the Lord is working through His Holy Spirit upon
the women of this nation, and other nations,
must be apparent to all who have eyes to see,
and ears to hear. That this is woman’s era who
can longer doubt? Among the foremost of the
women of the world, who are actively engaged in
the great questions that are being agitated for the
benefit of the women of our own and other
lands (and what uplifts women, elevates the
whole human family), are the very women who
have planned and carried into effect this union of
organizations, this great federation of associa-
tions. One very pleasing and promising feature
of the Council is the great number of bright, in-
telligent, attractive young women that have come
forward and taken an active part in the work-
This is specially gratifying, for it is and must
necessarily be the young women of the present
century upon whom the great burden of respon-
sibility will fall and who are to work out the lines
of progression that will ensure the victory desired
for those who have toiled, lo, these many years.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE !

	The reports from the various branches of the
Relief Society throughout the Territory and
the region adjoining, should be forwarded to Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, at the Deseret Hospital, Salt
Lake City, so as to reach there no later than
March 20th, 1891. If they are not received by
April 1st, they will not be included in the com-
piled report.
					SARAH M. KIMBALL, Sec.


LUCY DECKER YOUNG.

	Sister Lucy Decker Young, wife of the late
President Brigham Young, passed quietly away
at 6 o'clock, Saturday morning, Jan. 24th, 1891.


She was born at Phelps, Ontario County, New
York,  May 17th, 1822.  Her death occured at
the residence of her daughter,  Mrs.  Mira  Y.
Rossiter.
	Her illness extended nearly three months, and
during that time she suffered intensely, but un-
complainingly, enduring her sickness with the
same patience and fortitude that ever char-
acterized her every action in life.  She embraced
the Gospel at an early age, and came to Salt Lake
City in the year 1848.  She endured the priva-
tions and persecutions that the Saints had to
undergo, bearing up bravely under all circum-
stances; cheering and comforting those around
her, extending charity to the needy, and ever
ready to lend a helping hand to those in distress.
She bore poverty and trouble without a murmur,
and in the home circle shone with undimmed
lustre.  Her counsel was ever instructive and
veneficial. One of her greatest characteristics
was her keen perception and prompt answers to 
questions of importance.  She was the mother of
ten children, seven of whom, with one sister and
two brothers, remain to mourn her loss.  She was
singularly  reticent and unobtrusive,  scarcely 
leaving her own fireside, but withal never ceas-
ing to do good whenever she had the opportunity.
No call upon her was made in vain, and her
sympathy was ever great to those in need. Her
determination to do right was ever uppermost in
all things. She was humble, and a devoted
servant to her. Master, and when He saw fit to 
call her home, she was ready to go. Her work
was done.  Throughout her whole life she was
pure and unaffected, being solicitous for the com-
fort and happiness of those around her, she was
a devoted mother, a loving wife, and won the
friendship of all who knew her.
	This was proven during her sickness by the
many inquiries made by relatives and friends,
proffering a helping hand to alleviate her suffer-
ings.  These attentions were gratefully appre-
ciated by the members of her family, as was also
the sympathy extended in her approaching death
	The services were conducted at the residence of 
her daugther and were both impressive and com-
forting.  She was noble looking in life, and most
beautiful in death.  Her work was finished, her life
ended.  Her crown is priceless, her reward sure.
May her children emulate her many virtues and
live so as to meet her who has "gone before."
								M. Y. R.


TO LUCY D. YOUNG.

Her life's work ended—rounded and complete,
	All earthly problems given noblest test,
We know that death's low whisper sounded sweet,
	Bidding her enter in to peace and rest.

Not with vain tears that good life's quiet close
	Now shall be mourned—for o'er all earthly grief—
We know on high what songs of joy arose
	From kindred spirits greeting her relief.

We know the sorrows that had bruised her heart
	In long past years, turning to night its day,
Are healed with balm God's loving hands impart
	To those who nobly tread earth's thorn paved way.

No longer in that patient heart the sound 
	Of sad sea murmurs waken pain and dread;
In that far world is hope's fulfilment found—
	Earth and the sea have yielded up their dead.

And filled with gladness, crowned with meed complete,
	She lives and labors with her kindred dear,
Filling in joy, with humble heart and sweet,
	The glorious mission of that higher sphere.
						JOSEPHINE SPENCER.


The Sabbath is the link between the Paradise
which has passed away and the Paradise which
is yet to come.—Doctor Wylie.


WOMEN OF THE NATION.

		A REPRESENTATIVE GATHERING.

	At the Riggs House Feburary 21st, were
gathered together, in a social way, more repre-
sentative and progressive women than were
probably ever seen at one time in this country.
The event was a reception tendered by Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford to the officers of the Wo-
man's National Council, which begins its first
triennial session this afternoon.
	The reception was held in the large dining
room of the Riggs House, which had been
cleaned and decorated for the occasion.
Around the walls of this spacious room were
hung the national colors and evergreens, while
in the windows and ranged about the orchestra
were palms, flowers, and tropical plants in pro-
fusion.  On entering the room the first thing
to attract the eye was a large American flag
which, instead of the forty-four stars in the
Union Jack, had one large lone star with the
word "Wyoming" inscribed under it.  It is
safe to say that not a single one of the hun-
dreds of earnest women there but turned more
than once to this symbol of woman's emancipa-
tion.  Here was the first break in the chain of
forty-four States that had denied the right of
suffrage to women.  The star of progress,
according to the advanced ideas of women
suffragists, has risen in the West,and Wyoming
is honored by the enthusiasts as the first
State to accede to women citizens equal rights
with the men.  The Wyoming star was the
centre of attraction last evening.  At the
southern end of the dining-hall an orchestra
of string instruments discoursed sweet music
and kept up a pleasant accompaniment to the
hum of conversation and gentle laughter that
filled the room.
	Nearly everybody, that is nearly every lady,
was there.  At least 500 people greeted the
receiving party during the two hours of the 
reception which lasted from 9 to 11.  The
reception was informal and a lady in a street
dress, or a gentleman in a morning coat did
not feel out of place, as there was plenty of 
company. Ther sterner sex was wofully in the
minority, although a score or more of gentle-
men had the courage to breathe the same
atmosphere with this crowd of brainy, witty,
and pretty young, old, and middle-aged ladies.
Everybody was there, and everybody was
made welcome.  A more amiable and gentle
assemblage could not be imagined.  The pro-
verbal sewing-circle gossips and short haired
women's rights cranks, that have unfortunately
become associated in the public mind with
every woman's movement, were conspicuous
for their absence, and in their stead was a
company of stately, amiable ladies, whose quiet
earnestness and subdued enthusiasm testified
that refinement and public spirit are not in-
compatable.
	At the left of the entrance, and stretching
almost across the wide hall, were the receiving
ladies, separated from the immense throng by
a canvas covered rope.  On the extreme right,
heading the receiving line, was Mrs. Jane H.
Spofford, the hostess of the evening.  Mrs.
Spofford carried the honors of her position
extremely well, as she always does.  Next to
her was that quiet-looking little woman who
has stirred up the temperance element of
Washington during the last week—Miss
Frances E. Willard, president of the Woman's 
Council.  Next came the veteran in the cause
of woman suffrage—Miss Susan B. Anthony, a
grasp of whose hand was most eagerly sought
for by the guests.  Next to her was Mrs. M.
Louise Thomas, the treasurer of the council,
and a lady known from one end of the country
to the other for her grand work in the elevation
of women.  Miss Clara Barton came next, the
president of the Red Cross Society, a lady


whose work of humanity has enshrined her in
the hearts of thousands of sufferers in this
country. Alongside of Miss Barton was the
bright corresponding secretary of the council,
Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis.
Next came Jennie C. Croly, whose writings
under the nom de plume of Jennie June are
known and loved from one end of the country
to the other. By her side was Mrs. Rachel
Foster-Avery, corresponding secretary of the
International Council of Women. Then came a
lady so well-known in this city, Rev. Anna
H. Shaw, president of the Wimodaughsis. By
her side was Mrs. Mary T. Lathrap, of Michi-
gan, who has been heard during the past week
on the platform of the White Ribboners.
Next to her stood one of New York's brightest
ladies—Ella Dietz Clymer, president of the
Sorosis Club. Then came Miss Mary S. Lock-
wood and Mrs. M. D. Lincoln, representatives
of the Woman’s National Press Association;
Mrs. Estelle M. H. Merill, of the New Eng-
land Women's Press Association. The last
lady in the line was Mrs. Florence Balgarnie,
a distinguished representative of woman's work
in London, where, in addition to many other
offices, she is president of the British Woman's
Temperance Association.
	These were women, nearly all of whom have
achieved a world-wide reputation in the various
lines of women's work and endeavor. Before
this distinguished party the common, every-
day individual felt disposed to stand in awe,
and still there was nothing awe-inspiring in
their appearance as they stood and chatted
with the guests as they were presented one
after another. They were clothed like other
women, except, perhaps, in better taste than
one-half the would-be society leaders; they
wore their hair, much of which showed the
whitening frost of public service, like other
women; they talked like other women, and
laughed like other women—in fact the only
thing that made them differ from the hun-
dreds of gaily-dressed sisters who came to meet
and gaze upon them,was a sort of halo that sur-
rounds those eminent in devotion to grand objects
distinguished in literature and other paths that
lead to fame.
	The following are a few of the many dis- 
tinguished people noticed at the reception:
	Mrs. William Todd Helmuth, of New York,
wife of the world-renowned surgeon, Dr.
Helmuth; Dr. Rachel Gleason, of Elmira,
N. Y.; Judge and Mrs. William Lawson, Mrs.
Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Brooklyn,sister of
the late Henry Ward Beecher; Dr. Caroline
B. Winslow, Dr. and Mrs. La Fetra, Mrs. J.
C. Wenham, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; Miss
Emily B. Ketcham, of Grand Rapids; Mrs. P.
Clarence Tabor, of Grand Rapids; Mr. and
Mrs. Scales, Miss Howe and Miss McDonald,
of Toronto, Canada; Mrs. Helen B. Jenkins,
of Detroit; Hon. Jerry Simpson, of Kansas;
Representative McComas, ex-Gov. Price, of
New Jersey, and many others,including promi-
nent ladies and gentlemen of Washington.
	The reception began promptly at 9 o'clock,
and for two hours a constant stream of people
crowded past the receiving line until the
ladies were grateful for a rest. The unusual
character of the gathering made it one of the
most interesting events that has ever taken
place in the city.
	Genial-faced dominies, in black cashmere
and silk, will show the audience, at the first
public meeting of the triennial session of the
Woman's National Council, in Albaugh's
Opera House, Feb. 22nd, what eloquence in
female pulpit orators amounts to.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Mrs. E. B. Wilworth, the former editor of
the Pythian, (Saginaw, Mich.) accepts a $1,000
clerkship in the office of the Secretary of the
State of Michigan.


POLI TICS.
THE MEETING, WHY I WENT, AND WHO I SAW
			AND HEARD.

	I had heard of Poli Tics, but had never
seen her. I believed her to be a wonderful
woman, but had little idea what she was really
like.
	When the information was given me (very
privately) that she would be at the meeting, I
determined, though it was at the last moment,
that I would go. It did not take me long to
get ready,and I rushed hurriedly along until I
reached the door—there I paused! The
thought that women only would compose the
meeting had made me feel quite fearless. Now
what was my astonishment to hear the strong,
masculine voice of Jo Cose laughing heartily
at an expression made by his little sweetheart,
Merri ment. I was, however, too much in
earnest to be frightened away at the sound of a
man's voice; especially as I knew now that
meeting was not yet commenced, and I had
the advantage of being early; so after a
moment's hesitation, I walked in. Of course
my eyes would turn towards that portion of the
congregation from whence had proceeded the
pleasant sound of Jo's voice. There he sat,
surrounded by ever so many of his classmates,
among whom I recognized Ed Ucation, Dic
Tator, Nat Ural, Hu Mility and Gym Nastics.
	Dear old Ante Diluvian sat in the big 
chair, and with her neat old fashioned cap,
her plain, comfortable dress and easy graceful
manners, she seemed to be the moving and
ruling spirit in the meeting. With that
deference which we usually show to those who
consider themselves our superiors, Ante asked
Dic Tator to call the meeting to order, and
"preside." Dic took the chair with his char-
acteristic unconcern and self-reliance. And
after the opening exercises, he showed himself
the real gentleman by asking Ante to make
the first speech. She arose in her quiet, digni-
fied way, and said the object of the meeting
was to bring together a great many influences
that were operating, in these days, in rather a
desultory manner, and by seeking to unite
them, it was hoped that they might be utilized
to far greater advantage than they could be in
their disconnected state. She alluded to the
vast difference between the ways of living in
these times and in her early days. But in re-
gard to religion, she thought the world was in
much the same condition now as when she
was young. Then Noah preached to the
people and endeavored to arouse them to a
sense of their wickdness and the dangers
awaiting them if they would not repent. But
they refused to listen to him, and the con-
sequence was their great destruction by the
flood. In these days the world refuses to accept
the light of truth which has come into it, and
will not heed the warning sent; therefore the
destruction of the wicked, the end of the world
is fast approaching.
	While Ante was talking, I was thinking,
what a good meeting we were having and how
all present were enjoying it, when I happened
to see Mis Chief at one end of the room,
blinking her eyes viciously, and poking up her
nose in a sneering manner, to attract the atten-
tion of Bell Igerent and Ani Mosity who sat
quite a distance from her. When the speech
was ended, she beckoned them to go and sit
by her, and they went. Alas! I thought, Eden
was not without an evil serpent, nor are we
free from the effects of its operations to-day.
	I was glad that neither of the three last
named persons found an opportunity of ad-
dressing the meeting; though they whispered
almost incessantly, and at the close of the
meeting elbowed through the crowd in a most
disgusting manner, and talked loudly of the
inconsistency of "Poli Tics and Poly Gamy

[Column 2]
pretending to be such great freinds, when
everybody knew that their pursuits were as
unalike as were those of the Duke of
Wellington and Mr. Bob Ingersol, or
Susan B. Anthony and Kate Field."
	The next speaker was Ele Gance. She was
attired with the most exquisite taste, and
looked charming indeed. She believed the
cause for which the meeting was called to be a
good one,and was willing to work for it. The
refinement and elevation of taste, manners and
sentiments, especially among the young, was a
very desirable object, and one in which she
felt deep interest. True refinement belonged
to every truly noble character, and should be
carefully cultivated by all.
	Ed Ucation was next called to the stand.
He said the real intent of this meeting was
scarcely yet made clear to his mind. He was
not so quick of comprehension as were some,
but felt that he would be the better for attend-
ing the meeting, as he believed, as far as he
understood it, it was for mutual benefit. To
gain intelligence, and to use that intelligence
in doing good should be the leading pursuit
of every man and every woman. If an
organization for such purposes was in contem-
plation by those who had called the meeting,
the movement would have his hearty support.
He believed that organizations for the bringing
together of different minds, different grades of 
intellect, different degrees of intelligence, were
a grand source of development to all interested. 
	Nat Ural being asked to address the meet-
ing, said he was an advocate for all sensible
reforms. He believed in everything that
tended to enlighten the understanding and
enlarge the capacities of men and women and
boys and girls. But he liked short exercises
of some kind, in which all should take some
part, rather than to have all the time occupied
by a few. We all have brains, we all have
tongues, and we should learn to use them,
that we may preserve our identity; be "our-
selves" instead of trying to imitate others whom
we admire. He liked originality.
	Gene Rosity was called upon for a speech,
and cheerfully responded. To follow the
suggestion of the last speaker, she should have
to sav something more than to endorse what
had already been said. She did not propose
to criticise Nat's speech, but would add a little
to it. In her opinion, it was better for
young people to copy the good in others than
to think so much of originality as to carry out
less worthy designs and ideas of their own.
"There is nothing new under the sun" anyhow,
and whether our talents are great or small, the
best and wisest course for us all to pursue is
to cultivate a disposition to do good wherever
and in whatever way we can. It is by no
means the ones who possess the brightest
intellects or the finest accomplishments, who
always manifest the kindest spirit, the most
goodness of heart,and the least selfishness. Yet
these fundamental principles are the most
productive of happiness, both to ourselves and
others. Gene then begged leave to introduce
to the audience her brave and much abused
sister, Poly Gamy, whom, she was sure, they
would all like to hear.
	Dic said "yes," with all his heart; and
Poly received the cheers of the audience with
a bow and a smile, and followed with her ad-
dress.
	"My sister speaks truly," she said, "I have
been abused! I have been slandered, misjudged
and misused generally, ever since my earliest
recollections. I have sometimes felt almost
friendless and alone; and but for the gentle
fidelity, the comfort and consolation I have
always found in Gene, I must have died years
and years ago. When I have been imprisoned,
or compelled to leave my home and seek refuge
from my enemies wherever I could, she has
borne her part of the burden with the meek-


ness of a lamb, and with the fortitude and
resolution of an ancient Greek. When I have
seemed to be deserted by all others, Gene has
still stood by me like a—I was going to say
like a “brick,” but as that might be considered
slang, I will say like the true heroine she
is. But you all know Gene, and I have no
need to expatiate farther upon her estimable
qualities. I would here make honorable men-
tion of my faithful and valued relative, Hu
Mility. He has,indeed, been a true friend and
wise counselor in all my wanderings, my sor-
rows and distress. But for the peace of mind
which always comes to me under the influence
of his benign presence, the encouragement and
support which he has given, I think I must
have gone mad many a time. And now I
wish to thank you all, at least each one of you
who has ever spoken a word in my favor, or
assisted in any way to shield me from the
violence of my persecutors. I will also make
a request, that none of you will ever think of
inviting me to partake of your hospitality un-
accompanied by my sister Gene and our friend
Hu. For without them I am the worst creature
alive; it is really quite impossible for me to
make myself the least agreeable unassisted by
the sunshine of their smiles, their tender
thoughtfulness and love.”
	Hu Mility was called for, but declined the
honor of making an address. Dic insisted,
however, and Hu arose, blushing like a school
girl in her first attempt to sing in company.
He said he was not aware of having done so
much good as his friend Poly gave him credit
for. In matters of moment he always sided
with those whom he thought to be in the
right, regardless of the opinion of the world
or the operations of evil doers. He had al-
ways befriended Poly because she had been
unrighteously aggrieved and condemned with-
out fault. He could sympathize with her, for
he was often slighted and treated with injustice
himself; and somehow, she had always clung
to him as though he were one of her main
stays.
	A speech from Gym Nastics was called for,
and that gentleman dilated somewhat upon
the benefits of physical cultivation and de-
velopment. He said if ladies knew how much
their health and strength and consequent en-
joyment of life would be improved by regular
physical exercises, performed in a systematic
way, they would give more attention to such
matters than they now do.
	After Gym sat down, there was a little
rustling and whispering about the stand, and
I began to think that, after all, meeting would
close without my seeing or hearing anything of
the one I came on purpose to see and hear.
	Then Dic arose and begged the indulgence
and attention of the audience for a very few
moments longer, while we should listen to the
able, learned and eminently gifted Poli Tics.
	She stood up, apparently unmoved, amid a
storm of applause, and holding up one hand
to silence the clapping and cheers, began to
speak.
	“I am no longer young,” she remarked, “and
my voice is not as firm and steady as it has
been at other times, in the halcyon days of my
youth and beauty, or in the strength and glory
of middle age. And if you would hear me
speak, you must be quiet and attentive.
(Dead silence). I presume you have all
heard of me, and have learned some little con-
cerning my character and my views. But I
am so little understood, even by those who
claim great familiarity with me, that I am
quite sure none of you (who make no such
pretentions) have ever heard much truth about
me. Like my young friend, associate and
namesake, Poly Gamy, I am regarded by
many in a false light; I am evil spoken of be-
cause of the misdeeds of those who profess to
be my best friends and ablest advocates, who

[Column 2]
all the while ignore the true principles which I
would have considered and respected. I am,
probably, the oldest one in this room. At all
events, I have lived long and learned much.
It pleases me to be introduced to such an
audience as the one before me. It is my de-
light to associate with those who seek to ad-
vance in the scale of real greatness. The
sole aim and object of all my efforts is to
promote the public welfare, to maintain the
public peace. Those who would work with
me and for me should learn who I am and of
what my principles consist. But I am grieved
to have to say that many who profess to be my
faithful adherents know little and care less
about me. By such, my name is continuously
made use of in a fraudulent manner, to serve
their own selfish purposes. I can tell you
that the Decalogue of olden times, contains the
fundamental principles of the system by which
I would have people governed. How many
of the would-be lawmakers and lawmain-
tainers of these days know anything of this?
The grand and superb structures of different
classes, which exist and have existed in
different nations, since the foundation of the
earth was laid, are all the results of strict
obedience to the system by which I would
have men and women work. Because of the
wealth and popularity which have been be-
stowed upon me, through wise and economical
management of our energetic and unselfish
workers, because of my own intrinsic value—
I say it with feelings of reverence for the cause
I represent, and without thought of boasting—
the ignoble and dishonest hang on to my skirts
and clutch at my apron strings to make it
appear that they are lawful attendants upon
me. They care nothing for me or my true
and loyal followers. It is our wealth they are
after. But once in a while I shake myself,
and away they go, sprawling about under my
feet, where, only for mercy’s sake, they would
all be soon trampled to death or tossed into
the pen. Mercy will, by-and-bye make room
for justice, however, and then will occur worse
shakings than we have yet known. But I have
trespassed upon your time too long already,
and must leave future developments for future
times.”
	Thus ended the speech of the venerable and
dignified Poli Tics, and the meeting adjourned
sine die.
			Yours sincerely,
							MYS TERIOUS.
	S. L. City, Dec. 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. S. ORGANIZATION.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is with pleasure we inform you of the
organization of the Relief Society of the South
Plymouth Branch of the Malad Stake of Zion,
with Fannie W. Garnes, Pres. Alice Ann
Smith, First Coun. and Julia A. Richards,
Second Coun. Louisa M. Stevenson, Sec., and
Caroline W. Hess, Treasurer. There was a
general meeting held Nov. 30th, 1890, when
the Pres and Sec. were chosen, but on ac-
count of the Pres. being absent from home the
organization could not be completed. There
were present the Presidency of the Relief
Society of Malad also the Stake Presidency
and others. We had a real enjoyable time.
	On Jan. 18th, 1891, there was a meeting
held when the counselors were selected.
There has been one Relief Society held since
the organization, when the Treasurer was
chosen and prospects are we shall have good
meetings.
			FANNIE W. GARNES, Pres.
			LOUISA M. STEVENSON, Sec.


A pleasant manner attracts a man; bright-
ness of brain holds him.


WOMAN'S WORK IN ARCHAEOLOGY.

		BY FRANZ XAVER KRAUS.

	Miss Margaret Stokes, the daughter of a
Dublin professor, who has given herself up to
the study of Irish antiquities. Her share in
the publication of Lord Dunraven's great work
on Irish architecture established her reputa-
tion. She then enriched Celtic learning by an
original work of the first order, in which she
published the early Christian inscriptions
collected by George Petrie, a work which has
come to be regarded as the first sure ground
won from the Christian epigraph for the
science of the Celtic language and for its
literary history. Her latest task is a little
book, which I am glad to recommend to all
visitors to London and Great Britian as a
guide to the early Christian art relics of the
island. It belongs in the series of art hand-
books gotten out by the South Kensington
Museum. Following the casts and exhibits of
the museum it gives briefly a learned and
complete survey of the early Christian monu-
ments of Ireland and England. We have
nothing like it in Germany. It is a remark-
able witness to the thorough scholarship and
the sound critical judgment of the author.
No man could have done better than this
brave college girl.
	Two women must be named who have been
great treasures to their husbands, whose mag-
nificent investigations and excavations have
filled the world with their fame: Mrs. Dr.
Schliemann, of Anthens, and Madame Dieu-
lafoy, of Paris. I cannot give my judgment
as to the really masculine culture of the two
ladies, but they both deserve high esteem for
their courage, self-denial, and sympathy with
high scientific ends, for their perseverance
and energy. These names always will be a
proof that tasks which require physical en-
durance, courage, and risk can be opened suc-
cessfully to and supported by women.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The school children of California are to
make a collection of wild flowers of the State
which will be exhibited at the World’s Fair.

	Mrs. Elizabeth Miller was recently elected
a member of the Board of Health, of Muncie,
Indiana.

	Mrs. Hodgson Burnett is said to be the
most popular woman writer in Paris, and many
of her books have been translated into
French.

	There are about 2,500 women in the United 
States who hold diplomas from medical col-
leges. The first woman physician was Eliza-
beth Blackwell, who graduated in 1848.

	Prof. Harriet Cooke, professor of history in
Cornell, is the first woman ever honored with
the chair and equal pay with the men pro-
fessors. She has taught in Cornell twenty- 
three years.	

	Mrs. Alice W. Brotherton and Mrs. Mary
Patton represented the Woman’s Press Club
of Cincinnati, at the late International Con-
vention of the Press Clubs of the United
States, held at Pittsburg,Pennsylvania.

	A nurse of the war of 1812, Mrs. Elizabeth
Sands, died at Baltimore lately, aged 101
years. She was a person of great activity,
and it is said that after having passed her one-
hundredth birthday she would go up and
down stairs thirty times a day.


A few days since a lad desired a copy of
the Constitution of the United States, and
wrote to a Congressman for it. But to the
surprise of Congressman and officials it is not
found among the publications of the Govern-
ment. It would be well to have women at the
head of National affairs for a time, because
such an oversight as this would then no more
occur, than a woman would keep house with-
out a cook book.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


TESTIMONY OF MOTHER WALKER.

	[Testimony and farewell of Mother Walker,
composed by her in her eighty fifth year.
Written by her grandson, John Coombs.]
	Thirty-seven years ago I obeyed the Gospel.
The Spirit told me it was solemn truth.
When I heard I obeyed it instantly and with-
out delay. I went down into the water that I
might have my sins washed away.
	I have never yet doubted, and I feel to
praise the Lord every day for his goodness
unto me,I love and fear my Heavenly Father,
and while I remain on the earth's sphere I
pray that I might remain calm and peaceful
until the time of departure comes. When my
spirit has left this mortal clay, lay my body
quietly down in mother earth, that it may
remain in peace until the resurrection morn-
ing.
	Then when the trumpet sounds, for it will
sound both loud and long, the righteous
will come forth from the grave to meet in air,
the Heavenly throng. Angels will guide them
to meet Christ and God on high.
	The scripture tells us that we will be chang-
ed in the twinkling of an eye.
	And when the blessed resurrection day is
past, the righteous in their celestial bodies
will praise the King of Glory through that
long eternity.
	The Lord will have His saints before Him
on that Heavenly Sabbath day, and they will
sing songs of heavenly glory, and when ten
thousand years are gone and ten thousand
more are passed, then eternity is but be-
gun, for it will forever and forever last.
	If mortals would live uprightly through
this life which God has given them here, they
would have no need to fear, for they would
find "Sweet rest in Heaven, sweet rest in
Heaven." Amen.


OBITUARY.

	Death of Elizabeth Walker, born at Bains Bridge, York-
shire,England,Aug. 15th, 1802. Emigrated from Bradford
to Utah, 1861. Died Feb. 2nd, 1891, aged 88 years 5
months and 17 days. She kept the conference house in
Bradford, England, for several years.


IN MEMORIAM.

	With much sadness we announce the death of our dear
sister, Lucy Lodica, beloved wife of John Spencer,
daughter of Hyrum and Lucina Elmer,who died of dropsy,
after a long and painful illness, at Lake Shore, Utah Co.,
Dec. 14th, 1890. She was born in Lee Co., Iowa July 3rd,
1843. Came with her parents to Utah, Salt Lake Co., in
the year 1852, moved to Payson, 1857. She was married
at the early age of fifteen to Richard Spencer, who died
within four weeks after their wedding day. Two years after
her young husband's death, she was married to John
Spencer, Oct. 7th, 1860, by Pres. Brigham Young.
	In 1877 her husband was called on a mission to preside
over the Thistle Valley Indians; although it was a great
trial to leave her home, friends and relatives, she went with
him, and there performed a great and noble work.
	The life of Sister Spencer in connection with her husband
has been closely connected with the Indians since her
marriage	She has been mother, sister, friend and teacher
to them. Teaching them household duties and all kinds
of industries, giving them food, clothing and shelter, many


times depriving herself of necessaries to promote their wel-
	In 1882 she was appointed President of the Relief Soc ety
of the Lamanites, by Sister Eliza R. Snow, and ordained
by Pres. Peterson, of San Pete Co., Sister Spencer being
the first president placed over the Lamanite Society, did
more for their promotion and advancement, than any other
sister in the Church. She was a much beloved and ex-
emplary wife, a kind and affectionate mother, dearly loved
by parents, brothers, and sisters, and all who knew her.
Through the Edmunds law she is one of our sister martyrs.
At the age of 45 her youngest child was born and her
husband sent to prison. After having lived with him 28 years,
she was compelled to leave her family and home to go into
exile among strangers, suffering much and passing through
many severe trials. During the past six years she has
suffered terribly with two cancers,      *   *	which
were taken away by Dr Riggs, of Provo. The last one
was treated a little more than a year before her death.
	Sister Spencer and family removed to Lake Shore in
Aug. 1890, where she died, as she had lived, a true and
faithful Latter-day Saint. Leaving a husband, eight child-
ren, seven grand children, and a host of friends and
relatives who deeply mourn their loss.
							ANNIE B. ELMER.


ANNIE ASHBROOK BECKER.

DEAR EDITOR:
	It has been a long time since I promised you I would
write the obituary of my dear friend, Sister Annie Becker,
who departed this life Oct. 14th, 1890, aged 60 years, 4
months and 23 days. Sister Becker's maiden name was
Annie Ashbrook, she was born, May 1830, in Manchester,
England. Her parents were George and Kate Ashbrook.
	Her health had been failing for some time and when she
was called hence, to meet her Father in heaven, she was
satisfied to go, for she had verily come home to live and
die with the Saints of God in the valleys of the mountains—
the Zion of our God. When she knew she was going, as
we stood by her bedside she said these words, "I shall
soon pass through the valley of the shadow of death, but I
am not afraid." May we all have the same assurance
when we lay on our death bed: and after that she lay
peacefully waiting for the message of death, that comes to
all in time.
	I first became acquainted with her in Liverpool in 1852
or 1853. I had the pleasure of telling her first of the Gospel
and introduced her to the brethren in the office there. I
could stay but a days as I had to return home to Birming-
ham, but in a few weeks afterwards I had the news of her
conversion to the truih; she came to Utah with one of the
hand-cart companies in 1856. Brother F. D. Richard's wagon
came along in which she rode, she married a few months
afterwards Brother E. Cast, cabinet maker of the 13th
Ward, where I believe you became acquainted with her;
she left him through force of circumstances and lived for
some time in the 8th Ward; and was there married to her
lately bereaved husband, by whom she had two children,
a boy and a girl; the boy died when a few days old; the
girl still lives to mourn the death of a fond, affectionate
mother: and may she emulate her virtues, and be deter-
mined as she was to uphold the principles of truth.
	In 1863, like many others, Mr. and Mrs
Becker went to Virginia, Montana, thinking to stay a
few months and then return home. Times were hard and
they took a trip to England instead of returning here, but
not being satisfied, she (Mrs. Becker) soon sought the
Latter-day Saints and identified herself with them again;
they were living then in Brighton; our faithful Elders who
were traveling withont purse or scrip were ever welcome
guests at her home, I have no doubt many remember her
hospitalities with pleasure.
	Again she left her home in England for her home in "the
mountains of Ephraim," and arrived here, thankful to God
that He had permitted her to return safely.
	She was a faithful, kind friend, a warm defender of the
principles of life and salvation, and though through her
failing health she seldom could attend meetings she was
ever ready to do what was required of her through the
Relief Society in helping the poor and needy, and often
called around her as best she could, her faithful sisters, that
she could bless them and be blessed thereby.
	Peace to her ashes, may we be permitted to meet in the
morning of the first resurrection to rejoice together is my
prayer, trusting all is well. Accept my kind regards.
		Your Sister in the Gospel,
							BETSY M. BROWER.
	Richmond, 1891.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Nalsbitt-Thomas,Sup

[column 1]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies &. Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall, Salt Lake City
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
-AT-
UNION TICKET OFFICE,
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
RK. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir   
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES, Box 866, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1891.	NO. 18.


CONTENTS.

	A Shetch—E. The Mother of Our Savior—L.
L. G. Richards. Should all Women Marry—
Jenny June. A Zulu Woman's Mansion—Ladies
Home Journal. Suffrage—Lexia Harris. Notes
and News. The Woman's International Press
Federation. Constitution. Salt Lake Co., W.
S. A.—C. C. Raleigh, Sec. Famous Beauties—
Elizabeth Bisland. Advancement of Women—
Boston Herald. Miscellaneous.
	EDITORALS:—General Conference. Relief
Society Conference. Representative Women of
the Convention. In Washington—M. A. G.
Greenhalgh.
	POETRY:—A Call—Ruby Lamont. "Tears Idle
Tears"—Maggie Winesburg. To My Mother's
Sister—Lula. An Old Book—Lady Lindsay.
Legend of the Violet—Merion Couthony Smith
Fire Fancies—Good Housekeeping.


A CALL.

BY RUBY LAMONT.

There's a flash of light in the midnight sky,
There's a voice of strength as the flash sweeps by,
For Oppression's doom has been sounded far,
Lovely Freedom wakes with the day-beam's star!

Shall we close our eyes to our neighbor's need?
And though we be blest shall we cease to plead
For the cause of Right, for our sister's woes,
While fair Justice droops 'neath her cruel foes?

How long, how long shall we bend and weep,
How long shall the waves of injustice sweep
Over human life, with its woe and care,
To darken a world that were else so fair?

Awaken! Arise! Let thy slumbering heart
In the march of Right take a noble part!
Thou shalt share the palm by the victor's side,
And rejoice with them who for Truth have died.

Circleville, Utah, Feb. 13, 1891.


"TEARS; IDLE TEARS."

MAGGIE WINESBURG.

There's a world of meaning in the crystal drops
	That flow from the human eye,
Sometimes it's woe too deep for words
	But a heartbreak's bitter cry.

Or they may be caused by a cruel slight
	From friends we hold most dear,
As in the crowd they pass us by
	With a slighting word or sneer.

Sometimes hot words from anger flow,
	And cruel words fall fast,
And our dearest friend is our bitterest foe
	While the angry passions last.

Then again the pearly drops flow fast,
	Like a gentle summer shower,
As in every pulse of our throbbing hearts
	We feel joy's sweetest power.

It is passing strange that those crystal drops
	Each human emotion show;
In joy or grief we find relief
	As the bright drops freely flow.


TO MY MOTHER'S SISTER.

In a quiet and peaceful home was seen
A band of sisters, whose youth serene
Was passing so calmly, tho' swiftly by,
It was scarcely seen by the watchful eye
Of a tender father, who waited there,
Or marked by a mother's gentle care.


And the sisters thought not, as one by one,
From the happy hearth they were passing on,
How soon the latest would yield to "fate,"
And the quiet home be desolate.

You stood together—my mother and you,
Dreaming of life's narrow pathway in view;
And for each bright fancy her visions wove,
Yet ye dreamed not afar from each other to rove.

But ye parted! ye parted! your playtime o'er,
And together ye weave bright visions no more;
For other homes ye have sought and found,
And other fair circles now gather round.

Life's future pathway may still be the theme,
While other sisters all hopefully dream,
But ye, your childhood and youth are pass'd.
And a shade on your last fond meeting cast;
The shade of a long and sad farewell,
Of which the wild winds still wailing tell.

The winds that over the desert come,
Tell of a mother who left her home,
And friends and children still true and kind,
With smiles and tears, she left behind,
To journey o'er plains and mountains wild,
And search out the home of her wand'ring child.
And the low winds whisper softly now,
How she calmly sleeps 'neath the mountain's brow

Rest gently, mother, sleep sweetly on,
Thine earthly sorrows and cares are gone:
And content ye, sisters, if needs must be,
That each other's faces no more ye see,
Content ye, afar from each other to roam,
'Till mother, in Heaven shall call ye home.

		LULA.
1866


A SKETCH.

	Far away in western climes there lies a most
beautiful garden. Remote from the constant
whirl and commotion of the metropolis, one
imagines himself exalted, as it were, to a
sphere beyond, when he feels the soft
sea breeze upon his cheek and notes the
beauties of nature which surround him. Here
all is quiet, peaceful,and the soul, in harmony
with the delightful associations, stands in con-
trast with the surging waves of the ocean as
they break in sublime grandeur upon the
shore. One cannot imagine anything more
lovely than the sunshine, the flowers, the
grand old oaks and the stately pines which
are to be found in this paradise of beauty.
	Many years ago there dwelt in this sequestered
spot a woman of fine intellect and much
beauty. Sorrow and trouble had driven her
aimlessly from one place to another, until
careworn and in solitude she had at last found
a place where the weary heart might rest in
quietude. Day after day she spent wandering
over the acres of land filled with delightful
pleasures, always finding something new in
nature to interest her susceptible mind. It
seemed to her that the woods and everything
that lived must entertain solemn and rev-
erential thoughts, so powerful and holy were
the melodies which came forth from the
branches of the trees and the flowing brooklet.
Beside the same brooklet she often sat listen-
ing to the sounds which dropped from the
branches like dew, sometimes forming in her
mind beautiful muses, and often humming in
unison with the trees and brooklet. She had
grown to love these melodies, and in her mind
she would associate the different tones and


thus make a harmonious whole. She would
imagine the brooklet telling the flowers of
the wonderful tree at its side, and then it
seemed as if the tree itself sang, so well and
truly had the pure spring related. The angels
above must have heard these delightful sounds,
and said to one another "we must have the lovely
songsters here in our heavenly garden," for
one day a scorching beam had dried up the
wonderful brooklet, and the beauty, strength
and life had left the proud tree at its side—
they had departed with the soul of a noble
woman and sainted sister.
		E.


THE MOTHER OF OUR SAVIOR.

	To contemplate the life and mission of this
most noble woman, creates within the mind
the deepest, purest reverence and admiration
that mortal is capable of feeling for mortal.
What an incentive the contemplation of this
beautiful character and divine mission should
be to every young woman, to guard her
purity and virtue with the strictest tenacity,
to "magnify the Lord and rejoice in God."
	Not that she was born of wealthy parentage,
for she says herself, in speaking of the Lord's
great goodness, "He hath regarded the low
estate of His handmaiden; for behold from
henceforth all generations shall call me
blessed.	*	*	He hath put down the mighty
from their seats, and exalted them of low
degree."
	Evidently she did not belong to any one of
the higher circles, wherein existed and
operated those of large means, or great wealth.
She was of very lowly birth, and her educa-
tion, her thoughts and imaginations must have
corresponded with her humble station in life.
Yet how pure and refined must have been
every thing in any way associated with her
wholelife and being.
	The Scriptures say little or nothing con-
cerning her personal appearance. Yet it is
natural and consistent to believe she was a
most lovely maiden. The mind, indeed, can-
not conceive of one so blest and highly favored
of the Lord, being anything but beautiful.
As the presence of the Spirit of God refines
and exalts the inner nature, so does it beautify
and glorify the outward appearance. It gives
the only true beauty, the only beauty which
will endure forever, and is therefore the one
precious charm above all others which should
be sought for and cultivated by the young
ladies in Zion, since the religion they hold to
promises blessings only which are to be ever-
lasting in their nature. The mother of Jesus
being so richly endowed with the Holy Spirit,
as is expressed in the sacred records, must
then have been most beautiful. Agreeing
with this natural supposition, the Latter-day
Saints have also a concise, and to them a most
reliable declaration given by the Prophet
Nephi, who in vision beheld this Lamb of
God, and His mother, according to the flesh.
He pronounces her "a virgin most beautiful
and fair above all other virgins."
	Very little is told concerning the character
of this illustrious woman. But enough is
written to give an idea of what she must have
been.
	The indignities heaped upon the humble
servants of Christ in these days, are continual
reminders of Himself and His own sufferings


during His short career on earth. So also, do
the persecutions brought to bear upon many
of the mothers in Israel today, cause the
mind to revert to the trials, inconveniences
and sorrows to which the mother of Jesus was
subjected. Joseph, the husband of Mary, was
warned to take the young child, Jesus, and
His mother into Egypt. The servants and
handmaidens of the Lord are also warned in
these days, to flee from place to place, to es-
cape the cruelties of the enemies of righteous-
ness.
	Another similarity is, that instead of talking
to her friends and neighbors about her affairs,
Mary "kept all these things, and pondered
them in her heart." The same things are
adhered to by many mothers among our peo-
ple today. How they should rejoice in the
midst of all the trials they are passing through.
Noble and choice spirits have been reserved to
come forth in these latter days; how every
mother should sanctify herself before the Lord
and patiently await His mandates, as did
Mary, the mother of Jesus.
		L. L. G. Richards.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 1888.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SHOULD ALL WOMEN MARRY?

	A few months ago a young woman became
engaged to be married to a gentleman in whose
family were two brothers, both eligible young
men, but no sisters. Her own immediate
family consisted of her mother and one sister;
her father was dead, and she had no brothers.
Naturally, during the weeks of visiting and
gayety that preceded the wedding, the sister of
the engaged young lady and the brothers of
the engaged young man were thrown much to-
gether. Theatre parties and dinner parties,
receptions, and afternoon teas were of constant
occurrence, and one or other of the brothers
offered his services as escort. This was more
than sufficient to set the tongues of gossips go-
ing. Smiles, winks, and nods were exchanged
whenever and wherever the young people who
were not engaged appeared, the young lady
was congratulated in advance, and the "luck"
of the girls in finding ready-made husbands in
a daughterless family freely and audibly com-
mented upon. All this time the facts were
the farthest possible from justifying the infer-
ences drawn by the vulgar and mischievous
busybodies. The young lady, whom they took
it for granted was ready to pounce upon the
first man who presented himself, was a serious-
minded girl with a distinct purpose in her
life, and with her plans laid for steadfast effort
towards its fulfilment. The young man, on
the contrary, to whom she was so summarily
assigned, was somewhat cynical, indisposed to
marry, and only waiting his brother's wedding
to make a long-contemplated trip abroad and
possible stay of years.
	It is not my purpose now to dwell on the
heart burnings and unpleasant aspects of this
case, the inexpressible vulgarity of this per-
sonal chatter and assumption of knowledge of
other people's affairs, or of the wicked inven-
tion of facts to sustain theories when subse-
quent events do not carry out previous asser-
tions. All these things are within the per-
sonal knowledge of every one of us, and are,
indeed, matters of daily occurrence. Each
one will be able to figure to him or herself the
ominous looks, the shakes of the head, the
fears, and the additional inventions which fol-
lowed the subsidence of social relations into
their accustomed grooves, the retirement of the
young lady and her mother into their quiet
life, her assiduous application, and the de-
parture of her supposed fiance for foreign
lands.
	What I specially desire to ask is this: Why
should all women be expected to marry? As

[Column 2]

a matter of fact the majority do marry, and
in this world probably always will; for, its
primary conditions render marriage more or
less of a necessity. But it is less so to the
educated woman than to her more dependent
sister, and it is less so for companionship and
social needs than formerly. The strong re-
maining inducement is the building up of
family interests and associations, that pro-
vision for the hunger of the heart in old
age, which only children and their growing life
and love can supply.
	Apart from this there is now every induce-
ment for young women as well as young men,
who are sufficient unto themselves, to remain
single. The world has become their oyster
as well as that of man. It is as secure under
ordinary circumstances for them as for men,
It holds for them its rewards of toil. its wealth
of knowledge, its high honors as the result of
patient research and endeavor. It is no longer
obligatory upon a woman to give herself to
one man to save herself from being torn to
pieces by the rest. The world has its
marauders, but they work more by tongue than
by hand, and they retire behind closed doors
at the first sniff of danger. Doubtless wo-
men are still subjected, very largely, to the
will-compelling power of men; but the wills of
men are bent less in the direction of marriage
than formerly, and the will of the woman is
bent more frequently against it. The woman
is growing into a dual personage. To her all-
womanliness she is adding some manly attri
butes: strength of purpose, self-reliance, and
that persistent energy which is the result of
the exercise and useful employment of faculty.
If such women marry, they must share life
on equal terms with their husbands, and there
are men who are good enough and great
enough to be thankful for such equal com-
panionship. But it is not necessary to say
that the majority have not reached that point,
and it is better for the woman who is able to
order her own life and live it in accordance
with the dictates of her own conscience, to do
it alone, than to subject herself to a lower
will, and be its struggling or quiescent victim
through all the years of her existence.
	There are women as well as men, to whom
marriage is not only not a necessity, it is not
congenial. They have gifts and capacities
which they desire to cultivate and exercise.
The serious pursuit of any art or industry is
incompatible with the faithful performance of
the usual duties of wife and mother. This is
the serious utterance and conviction of one
who has tried conscientiously to unite the two.
	Of course there are circumstances—absence
of children, leisure, a favoring atmosphere—
which may promote latent tendencies, or dis-
cover them, and aid in their active development
and exercise after marriage; but these are ex-
ceptions. There are also cases, as before men-
tioned, where men and women, in all integrity
of motive, may unite their lives upon an equal
footing, and spend them in fellowship and
mutual helpfulness as blissful as any condi-
tions may be on this earth.
	But we all know that these are not the
usual terms upon which men and women
marry. That the woman relinquishes her
opportunities, and takes upon herself certain
duties when she binds herself to the man; and
that whatever becomes of her duty as wife,
nature itself compels her to realize her obligation
as mother, and lay inclination on the altar of
sacrifice. This obligation is, and should be,
imperative. Family life is the sacred out-
growth of the marriage relation—it is the
Ygdrasil of our social existence, the
sanctuary under whose wide and constantly-
spreading branches all virtues should find
sustenance and nurture. This can only be
with the wise and true wife and mother as
the centre of this growing life. If her work is

[Column 3]

delegated, her strength expended, her influence
must be dissipated and measurably impaired.
	Outside of her work in the home, the ex-
ercise and experiences of the married woman
who is the household head of a family should
be socially, mentally, and physically recreative
and stimulating, calculated to enlarge her per-
ceptions, widen her knowledge, keep her in-
formed as to the doings, and in rapport with
the thought of the rest of the world. Prob-
ably the secret of the growth of the Woman's
Club is that it performs exactly this office for
the home-making woman. This is, however, a
resource for the unmarried as well as the
married woman; and while to one it furnishes
mental refreshment, to the other, who perhaps
lives by brain-work, it brings rest and com-
panionship. Life is too full and too many-
sided now for any intelligent woman to be con-
tent in one narrow groove, and the best
modern manifestation of the freer life is the
power to choose the field in which her energies
shall be expanded without being placed under
a ban.  But the woman who marries should
do it as unto the Lord, making that her
ministry, without reference to what she has
married, for marriage is not primarily or solely
for the happiness of the individual, though
this is often enhanced, but for the preserva-
tion and growth of the race.
		JENNY JUNE.


A ZULU WOMAN'S MANSION.

	The Zulu woman is the architect and
builder of the Zulu house, and the style of
architecture is known in the colonies as "wattle
and daub." It looks like an exaggerated
beehive, for the Zulu mind has this peculiarity,
that it cannot grasp the ideas of anything
that is not round or elliptical in form. There
are no squares in nature. To build her
house, the woman traces a circle on the
ground fourteen feet in diameter, and getting
a number of long, limber branches, she sticks
them firmly into the ground and then bends
the tops over, and ties them with fiber obtained
from the numerous creepers or "monkey
ropes." Then she twines thicker creepers in
and out of these sticks, all around the circle
of spaces, about twelve inches apart, and then
taking wattle (a kind of coarse grass or reed)
she thatches the edifice, leaving a small hole
at the top for a chimney, and another hole
three feet square for a door. In front of this
she builds a covered way, extending outward
about three feet, and the exterior of the house
is finished by a coat of "daub" or mud. She
then seeks the nest of the white ant, and, dig-
ging them up, obtains a quantity of white
clay, which she beats to powder, dries, and
then mixing it with water, kneads it until it
is quite smooth. This she spreads all over
the ground inside the hut, and beats it care-
fully until it is quite hard and free from
cracks. This floor a good housewife will
scour twice a day with smooth stones until it
is like a piece of polished marble. The fire-
place is near the door, and is simply a ring
of this clay to confine the embers in one
place. The other necessaries found in a hut
are a bundle of spear shafts, some tobacco
drying and several bunches of millet hanging
from the roof. Grouped around the walls are
the three anasi (a species of sour milk) jars,
the native beer jars and open jars holding
grain. Of course the dense wood smoke ris-
ing coats the roof, millet, and tobacco with soot,
and long "fingers" of it hang in every direc-
tion; but the floor will be clean enough to eat
on, and as long as that is so the social Mrs.
Grundy of Zulu is satisfied—Ladies' Home
Journal.


God reaches us good things by our own
hands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN OLD BOOK.

And old torn book, with one pale rose
	Crushed in its yellow pages:
I have not held it in my hand.
	Nor read it thus for ages.

Nay, formerly, the print was good,
	Or else mine eyes were better;
For now they're full of tears—too full
	To see a single letter. 

		LADY LINDSAY.


LEGEND OF THE VIOLET.

The violet was Love's flower, 'tis said,
	In distant ages, long ago;
Her color was a deep heart-red,
		As few may know.

Till, looking upward to the blue,
	The very deep of purity,
Her being caught that wondrous hue, 
		As all may see.

But as that perfect blue was shed	
	Upon her petals without stint,
'Twas mingled with her own heart-red,
		In purple tint.

O Love, look up to air and sun,
	Live in the largeness of God's space;
Till thou and Purity be one
		Sweet blended grace.

	MERION COUTHONY SMITH.


FIRE FANCIES.

I am sitting by my fireside,
	In its warm and ruddy glow;
While the day is slowly dying
	And the shadows come and go;
And within the glowing embers
	Shadowy forms I seem to see—
Shadows that bring back to memory
	Friends and days once dear to me.

And although this firelight dreaming
	Pleasant is, yet still there run
Through it all deep tones of sadness,
	Like to shadows o'er the sun:
For the dear ones whose sweet faces
	Made my heart so glad and gay.
They with whom I talked and journeyed
	On each happy summer day,
Now are absent; and I miss them
	As I sit alone to-night,
As I see their dreamland faces
	In the dim and flickering light.

Yet some day in the far future,
	If our Father wills it so,
I shall meet the friends I dream of
	In the firelight's ruddy glow.
But to-night, when they are absent,
	It is pleasant just to see,
In the glowing light before me,
	Faces of those dear to me.
So I sit and dream and wonder,
	In the fire flame's ruddy glow,
While the day is slowly dying,
	And the shadows come and go.

		Good Housekeeping.


[Column 1]


SUFFRAGE.

	In the early history of our country, suffrage
was limited to church members, then to
property owners, and later all restrictions were
lifted from the citizens of a free Government,
who were endowed with sufficient intel-
lectuality, to become competent judges at the
age of twenty-one. The last advancement
removed a much greater obstacle, and this
time it was decreed that race or color should
form no consideration. We now wish to
insert only the one word "sex," to make it
read race, color, or sex, then there will be no

[Column 2]

limit to the broad platform of freedom upon
which our glorious Constitution stands.
	This word should have been inserted by the
signers of the Constitution, but it was not and
the omission has caused and is causing a great
deal of unnecessary trouble.
	Why do we want suffrage you say? Why
did our forefathers wish to be represented in
the English Parlament, and have a voice in
the law-making power? Because one person
cannot justly represent another without
having experienced similar feelings. And for
the same reason we desire to place a candidate
in the halls of Congress, and aid in the making
of the laws, for if they materially conflict
with a majority of the governed, they cannot
be classed as good, or be upheld by the
populace, hence it is of vital importance that
representatives of the people should formulate
them. As it now stands only one half of the
citizens of the United States are represented
in Congress.
	One class rules the other by the hand of
tyranny. They have no voice in the laws, the
amount of taxes they shall pay, or who shall
fill the public trusts.
	In Massachusetts those who wish to vote
must first work a poll tax. Were it possible
for women to gain suffrage by paying a poll-
tax, there would be hundreds and hundreds
seen at the polls every election day. And
why would the test be unjust? The paupers,
infirm, demented and vagabond, would be
debarred. Men or women who shared not in
political enthusiasm, would not care to pay a
dollar to secure a privilege that was not
valued.
	The polls are not necessarily a place of
uncouth conduct and boisterous language.
If women were expected and continually
appearing, quiet would reign; men would
not so far forget themselves as to indulge in
abusive language or amuse themselves by
fist fighting in the presence of ladies. It is
just as Henry Ward Beecher says, that "rude-
ness at the polls is due to woman's absence,"
that "her office is to carry with her whatever
is seemly and decorous."
	We do not want to fill man's sphere, or
rule over him as Victoria does over her subjects.
We believe that man was placed at the head
by God, but that woman's place is at their
right hand. We would like to be represented
in all political circles, to let merit, not sex,
regulate the amount due for services rendered,
to be allowed to fill some appropriate offices
under the Government, and to have a voice
in the election of the same. If, as some say,
it would be like giving every man two votes to
allow each woman to cast one, as he would
be his wife's dictator, it would pay them just to
please and satisfy the women, for do they not
make for us a heaven, or a hell? And there
could be no harm in simply doubling the
number of votes, as the ultimate result would
not be changed. But who would dictate to
the bachelor's wives, the widows and the un-
married? Oh! that is not the point, they fear
that women would not always be influenced by
their husbands, and that wicked and immoral
men would not be elected. As one writer
says "Women are too scrupulous and exacting
in their choice of a candidate to be successful
in practical politics." Would that more of
the men were afflicted with the same disease!
	Why are women not as competent to vote as
men? They are oftener sober, a greater
number of them are honest, fewer commit
murder, suicide, burglary, robbery, etc., a
less ratio become insane, beggars, or visitants
of the poor house and gambling den.
Woman has the early care and training of the
child, she plants the first seeds, makes the
first and lasting impressions; and the in-
fluences that she exerts over the child's mind
remains with it to its dying day.

[Column 3]

	It is impossible for man to go very far in
advance of woman, or for woman to far
surpass man in intellectuality, but the develop-
ment of the one means the onward march of
the other, and a systematic development of
both, for do they not have the same origin?
	We cannot impart to others what we do
not possess; and when it becomes an
acknowledged fact that she is best fitted to
perform the duties of a wife and mother,
and to have the care and training of the
representatives of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religious,
and to have the care and training of the
representitves of our future government, who
is best informed upon political, civil, religeous
and domestic affairs, the zenith of woman's
glory will have been reached, and great things
may be expected from the offspring of
such a people.
		LEXIA HARRIS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	At ninety-six years of age, Mrs. Matilda
Sewall, of Augusta, Me., takes rank among
the best piano-players of her city.
	The Ladies' Health Protective Association
of New York will apply for a national charter.
They have under consideration the problem
of cleaning the streets in that city.
	Leonard Grover has closed a contract with
Eugene Tompkins for a run of "The wolves
of New York," at the Boston Theatre.
Scene painters are at work getting up the
piece, which will be elaborately presented.
	Mrs. Eliza N. Blair, wife of Senator Henry
W. Blair, has nearly completed a story of the
New England life of a generation or two back,
entitled "Elizabeth the Puritan," which will
soon be published, probably by a Boston
firm.
	A Woman's Educational Union at Frank-
fort-on-the-Main, Germany, founded in 1876,
has 809 members. Its schools have 684
pupils who study, besides the usual subjects,
tailoring, embroidery, machine-sewing, hair-
dressing, ironing,millinery, and cooking.
	Madame von Teuffle, better known as
Blanche Willis Howard, is living happily and
writing busily in Stuttgart. Her husband
lately said to friend that it would be "a blot
on his 'scutcheon' if her marriage should
paralyze his wife's literary faculties." He is
said to be as proud of her as a literary wo-
man, as he is devoted to her as a wife.
	Sarah Bernhardt, with her companion, Miss
Saylor, a valet, two maids, Mr. and Mrs.
Maurice Grau and child, a Danish hound, a
Skye terrier, and the little girl Madeline,
adopted in New York, arrived at the New
York and New England station last night on
the White Limited Express from New York.
They were met by Messrs. Abbey and Schoeffel
and driven to the Vendome, where supper was
served at about eleven o'clock. Mr. Grau
said that after completing the Boston engage-
ment the company will go in turn to Wash-
ington, Philadelphia, some minor cities and
Montreal, working westward to San Francisco
by way of Chicago and St Louis, winding up
in Australia. Returning in the autumn, the
company, will again visit Boston. In re-
ference to the child the famous artist has
adopted, he knew but little. They called
it Madeline, and it was supposed to be the
offspring of a distant relative or friend of
the actress. She had taken a great fancy to
it, and after taking it with her to Washing-
ton and Philadelphia, will send it to France
to be educated.


Learning makes a man fit company for
himself.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MARCH 15, 1891.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Sixty-first annual conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will com-
mence at 10 o'clock on Saturday morning, April
4, 1891, in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City. All
officers and members are cordially invited to be
present at the meetings.
		WILFORD WOODRUFF,
		GEORGE Q. CANNON,
		JOSEPH F. SMITH,
			First Presidency.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The second annual conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, on Tuesday, April 7, 1891.
Meetings will commence at 10 o'clock a.m. and
2 o'clock p.m. respectively.
	The officers and members of the Relief Society
and all those interested in this benevolent work
are cordially invited to attend the Conference. It
is expected that able representatives from each
State organization will be present and make brief
reports of the methods of work and results
achieved.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
			President.
		JANE S. RICHARDS,
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			Counselors.
	E. B. WELLS, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
﻿
REPRESENTATIVE WOMEN OF THE
CONVENTION.

	In the last editorial the Woman's National
Council was the principal subject, now it must be
the Woman's Suffrage Convention, which was also
held at Albaugh's Opera House, Miss Susan B.
Anthony in the chair; and she is, in the estima-
tion of many "The grandest Roman of them all."
She read Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton's speech,
which had been prepared for the occasion,
as the lady herself is in Europe, and she did it as
she does everything, with dignity and originality,
for she excels in being her own true self. She
has no imitation, and though she read Mrs.
Stanton's speech, and read it well, she was Susan
B. Anthony through it all, most emphatically, and
not Mrs. Stanton, or any body else.
	Her success in a great measure is due to her
personality. She is in every sense of the word
Susan, and does not copy the manners nor adopt
the style of either of the other great leaders of
the suffrage movement. She is as distinctive in
this respect as if she belonged to another era in
the emancipation of womankind.
	One finds many types of women in this great
movement, and there are those who follow a

[Column 2]

certain lead, or represent a class or kind, but
aside from these Miss Anthony stands out alone,
a figure representative, and although a leader, in
no sense of the word a copyist. Never could
there be one more pronounced as distinctive from
all others. It is seldom one sees such an un-
assuming, yet queenly woman as Miss Anthony.
Without having had the maternal development
that adds to womanhood stars in its crown of
glory, she stands pre-eminent among the women
of her race and time, for the valuable service she
has rendered to those who were and are adding
stars to the crown of motherhood. And so we
say Susan B. Anthony is the mother of mothers.
She has had a greater work to do than many who
have borne both sons and daughters, and we pay
her reverence and honor, and desire for her length
of days, and wide spread influence throughout
America's broad land.
	But we must hasten on and speak of others.
Lucy Stone was there. She was one of the first
who became identified with the earliest of the
crusaders in the conflict for woman's rights. She
is of a motherly type, and yet she stands some-
what alone, though a woman of family. She made
herself a name that was known throughout the
land in the Anti-Slavery commotion, and did not
change it even in marriage, and yet her union
with Mr. Blackwell is a most happy one. Their
daughter, Alice Stone Blackwell, bids fair to be-
come as famous as her mother. She has already
attained considerable celebrity in the active work
of suffrage; and is certainly one of the brightest
lights.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, one of the most noted
women in America, was also present at both the
Council and the Convention. Mrs. Howe is the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, that holds its Congress each
year in some one of the large cities of the world.
In 1889 this Congress met in Denver, Colorado.
Mrs. Howe is a very talented writer and a re-
markable woman for her age in many respects.
She travels about over the country as many young
women would think they could not; and is
still doing an active work in helping to advance
others, who have not had the advantages and ex-
perience which has made her life so full and
complete.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall is advancing very
rapidly, and her talents and executive ability are
appreciated in the great Councils of these par-
ticularly bright women that come together once a 
year in Washington. At the last executive meet-
ing of the Woman's National Council she was
elected the President for the next term, which is
a very great honor, and will give her a more
national reputation; although she has held
various other positions; she was for several years
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
National Woman Suffrage Association and Cor.
Sec'y of the Woman's National Council from
the date of its organization to the time of her
election as its President.
	There were so many other bright stars shining
in woman's firmament, if one can be allowed to
use that expression in this connection, that it is
impossible to do justice to the subject, but we
may mention the names of a few. Ella Deitz
Clymer, the former President of Sorosis, is a
superb young woman; Annie Nathan Meyers,
writer and author as well as public speaker,
is a dainty little specimen, as is also Lelia Michell,
who represented the Magazine of Poetry, how-
ever she comes in among the Press women who
will be written up in another article in this
number of the paper.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery is not only a very
efficient young woman, but is beginning to de-
velop the mother element in a marked degree.
She had her children with her, and one could
easily see what a devoted mother she was prov-
ing herself to be; and this fact disproves the

[Column 3]

argument so often brought forward by opponents
of woman suffrage that it would unfit young wo-
men for wives and mothers. Miss Foster was
very young when she commenced to take an
active part in the woman's movement, and she is
just as loving,as tender and as lovable, as though
she had never stepped outside the home circle.
	Miss Mary F. Eastman is one of the great
lights of the woman's movement. She has perhaps
the clearest method of expressing her ideas in
speaking extemporaneously of any woman on the
platform; and that is saying a great deal, for these
women are exceptionally clear headed as well as
brilliant.
	Mrs. Lyde Merriweather, with her decidedly
Southern style and accent, was one of the most
pleasing and attractive speakers; like many of
the others, her hair was very gray, almost white;
her speech was the most humorous and to many 
the most fascinating of all; she told the most
serious things in a way to make them attractive
and created more real merriment than any other
lady. She is fluent and mellifluous and has a
happy method of making people swallow "bitter
pills." She gave great truths in an effervescence
that people drank in from her charming lips and
voice, as they bubbled forth from the well filled
chalice beneath, which may make a lasting im-
pression upon those who listened, even though
taken in sparkling atoms.
	At a Convention like this, one sees and hears
so much that is good, and strong, lofty and ex-
hilarating, that it is difficult to select for a short
article the very best, because in fact it is all good,
better, best, and who is to decide which is the
highest and truest and noblest, out of so much
that is superlative. Rev. Anna H. Shaw, among
the ministers who were present should be men-
tioned separately if any one of them, because of
her great helpfulness throughout the entire week.
She possesses indomitable energy and great vigor
of mind and body; and not only has the courage
of her convictions, but is able to present her
ideas and views as vigorously and as ingenuously
as any ordained minister of "the male persua-
sion" could possibly do with fifty years practice.
	Miss Florence Belgarnie, of London attracted,
and deservedly, great attention at both the Coun-
cil and Convention, and she was indeed a pleas-
ing representative of the great Mother Country.
Miss Belgarnie was a Delegate to the Woman's
National Council from the "British Women's
Temperance Association," "The Women's Liberal
Federation," and other woman's organizations
In the N. A. W. S. A. Convention she spoke
upon the "Status of Women in England." She is
a very eloquent and spirited speaker and puts her
soul into her work; she overflows with vivacity
and is powerfully in earnest. England could not,
we think, have made a wiser choice. Miss
Belgarnie expects to lecture in several large cities
in the United States before returning to England.
She has come very highly recommended by in-
fluential people, as well as Societies, she brought
a letter of introduction to Hon. John W. Young
of our city, from a Member of Parliament. She
speaks up bravely for the working women.
	Miss Belgarnie read a Memorial of Greeting
from the women of Great Britain and Scotland,
addressed to the women of Wyoming. The
Memorial was sent to Representative Baker in
the House, and Senator Blair in the Senate. It
reads as follows:
	"We, the undersigned, women of Great Britain,
representing the societies named below, desire
to send, by our appointed delegate, Miss Florence
Belgarnie, our cordial congratulations to the
women of Wyoming on the triumph they have
won for all women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women in all the world by the eman-
cipation of the women of that State from political
serfdom.
	"We believe that the status of the women of a


[Column 1]

﻿nation is the measure of the progress attained
by the men of that nation, and that the men
and women of Wyoming, therefore, who stand
on the solid basis of political equality and full
right of citizenship, irrespective of sex, command
the highest respect and gratitude of all civilized
nations.
	"We believe also that the enfranchisement of
the women of the State of Wyoming is but a
step to the enfranchisement of the women of all
other States and nations, and we therefore offer
our sincere homage to that noble womanhood
on whose brow victory has placed the crown of
electoral freedom and equality.
	"Signed by the Central National Society for
Woman's Suffrage, the Woman's Franchise
Leagues, of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Bedford, Bridge-
port, Leicester, Nottingham, and York; the
Bristol Woman's Temperance Association, the
International Arbitration and Peace Society
the Woman Councilor's Society, the Woman's
Federal Association of Great Britain, and the
Principal of Somerville Hall,Oxford."
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby whose work on the Wo-
man's Tribune helps so much the cause of wo-
wan's enfranchisement everywhere, must not be
left out of this list of noted women, who were the
great lights in the Council and Convention. Mrs.
Colby was busy every moment (as editors
generally are), but she succeeded in getting time
to prepare a paper, and read it on the last even-
ing of the Convention; the title was, "The
Doll's House;" she described the doll wife, etc.,
and drew a very accurate picture of the situation
of such a wife, and gave apt illustrations of her
topic. She has a happy manner of presenting
unique subjects. She is doing effective work for
all women with her paper, and does not spare her-
self in the least, but enters heart and soul into
the practical management of it as well as the
editorial work.
	Isabella Beecher Hooker represented
Connecticut at the the Convention; she is one
of the best known women of the country; she
said she was tired of going down on her knees
to legislators, etc., she is certainly very witty and
always created mirthfulness in the audience
whenever she spoke, if it were but a word or two.
	The Washington Post in speaking of her said,
she had "a beautiful face, and the noble in-
tellectual features that characterize the Beecher
family;" and that she "bore a strong resemblance
to the face of the preacher and scholar, so long
the pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn."
	She is indeed a distinguished woman in ap-
pearance; once seen never to be forgotten. She
delivered quite a profound address (written) upon
"Women in Politics and Jurisprudence." She
defined politics thus: "Politics in a large sense,
meaning the science of government, includes of
course jurisprudence, or the science of law; but
treating these two separately, we will consider
politics as a method of administration, that being
the more common use of the term, and enquire
how party management will be effected by the
general participation of women in the use of the
ballot. She gave Webster's definition of juris-
prudence; a knowledge of the laws, customs and
rights of men in a state or community necessary
for the administration of justice." After elaborat-
ing upon this subject logically, Mrs. Hooker closed
her paper by saying, "thus you see, friends, the
only preparation women really need for discharg-
ing faithfully their duties of citizenship, even the
judicial, is a sense of responsibility,and that when
the legal opportunity is offered to the women of the
whole country, I believe they will not allow them-
selves to be outdone by the women of Wyoming."
	There were many other beautiful, talented, yea,
charming women, of whom it would be a pleasure
to write, who expressed sentiments and views
worthy of the highest consideration, but this

[Column 2]

article is already lengthy and at some future time
we may present to our readers, another galaxy of
these great and gifted women of the age.
	Mrs. Bertha Honore Palmer, President of the
lady board of managers of the World's Fair, is a
very handsome and graceful woman. Her speech
was of course upon the subject that at present
occupies her mind and thoughts; she made many
excellent suggestions, and added: "We urgently
request that each organization represented here
appoint a Committee of five of its most able wo-
men, to consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and present to us at an early
date their suggestions and advice as to how we
may best accomplish the great end we have in
view, and to inform us in what manner their as-
sociations will be able to co-operate with our
board in its work; and we ask that they send
their suggestions, applications for space, and so
forth, to our headquarters in Chicago, where they
will be gladly received and most carefully con-
side red and acted upon."

	"The board most cordially and pressingly in-
vites this Council to hold its international meet-
ing in Chicago at the time of the Columbian
Exposition, when it will place at the service of
the ladies, the assembly room in the Woman's
building, and should it not prove large enough,
through our congress auxiliary the magnificent
Auditorium can be secured for the International
Council of Women."
	Of the many women, whose names come loom-
ing up in the mind of the writer at this mo-
ment, and whose faces present themselves like
pictures ever present in memory, are a few we
must name here to be written of hereafter:
Elizabeth Yates, of Maine; Josephine N. Henry
of Kentucky; Ellen B. Deitrick, Mass.; Helen P.
Jenkins, Michigan; Julia B. Nelson, Minn.;
Emma Smith De Voe, South Dakota; Dr
Frances Dickinson, Chicago; Mrs. McCullough
of Pittsburg; Mrs. Freeman, of Cincinnati; Dr'
Gilchrist,of Ohio, a most charming and attractive
woman; Mary Seymour Howell and Mrs. C. K.
Hood, of New York; Lucy E. Anthony, Anna
Garlin Spencer, and scores besides.
	One, however, who must be mentioned here on
account of her valuable work for all women, is
Miss Mary F. Seymour, editor of the Business
Woman's Journal. She read a paper on the
"Occupations of Women at Date," a topic with
which she seemed perfectly familiar, and her
work in the field of labor she has chosen is a
practical illustration in herself of what energy and
determination can accomplish,coupled with talent
and executive ability. Her active work during
the week of the Council and Convention was a
positive proof of her success in the labor she has
undertaken.
	Then there were men who made speeches on
the subjects of woman suffrage, and kindred
topics, men whose names are as familiar as house-
hold words in the advocacy of suffrage, Wm.
Lloyd Garrison, of Boston, facetiously spoken of
by the ladies as "the son of his father;" Senator
J. M. Carey, of Wyoming, who received an ova-
tion that was seemingly very embarrassing, an
elegant and very large basket of magnificent
flowers, which he scarcely knew what to do with;
Senator Pickler, South Dakota; and Rev. F. A.
Hinckley,of Mass.
	The Utah Delegation must not be left out, for
they formed quite a conspicuous part of the affair,
Sarah M. Kimball, President of the Utah W. S.
A., made a five minutes speech, which we intend
publishing hereafter, and Emily S. Richards who
read a valuable paper in a clear voice and graceful
manner. Then Utah also had as delegates to the
Convention, Phebe Young Beattie and Electa
Bullock, who though not having an opportunity
to speak, did their share of voting, and as our

[Column 3]

dear Hannah T. King used to say "were excellent
listeners;" and Martha Greenhalgh was also there
as a Delegate and was a member of the Com-
mittee on Resolutions. Utah made a good show-
ing, the membership entitling her to twenty votes
the highest number from any state or territory.
	The officers of the National American Suffrage
Association for the year are: Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, President; Susan B. Anthony, Vice-
President; Alice Stone Blackwell, Recording
Secretary; Jane H. Spofford, Treasurer; Rachel
Foster Avery, Corresponding Secretary; Lucy
Stone, Chairman Executive Committee; Eliza
T. Ward, and Frederick A. Hinckley, Auditors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN WASHINGTON.
M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
"All quiet along the Potomac to-night."
	Yes, all is quiet, so far as the loud-tongued
voice of war is concerned, but the clarion notes
of Freedom's Goddess are heard on every hand;
not only are they ringing in the Capitol of 
America, but through the length and breadth of 
every nation; echoed, and re-echoed by all 
tongues, and all peoples.
	During the past week, many of God's noblest
sons and daughters have united heart and voice 
in an appeal for equal rights, not only for woman
but for humanity.  No narrow-minded distinctions
of creed or color, found a place upon their plat-
form.  In the assembly hall, in the hotels, on the 
streets, in all public places, were the delegates
and friends of this great movement fraternally
and heartily welcomed.  At the executive man-
sion all were kindly and courteously welcomed.
	Mrs. Harrison received the delegates by
special invitation, and Miss Willard gracefully 
presented each one by name.  The mistress of
the White House, attended by some of the ladies
of her family, received each one with a kindly
word, a genial smile, and a gentle hand.  President 
Harrison was equally gracious; though the im-
mense numbers which attended his receptions 
could not fail to have wearied him; still, that
cheerful, benignant face, showed no sign, and 
each one to whom he gave his hand received from
him a welcoming word and a pleasant smile.  The
 inhabitants of this beautiful city are hospitable
and courteous.  I, as no doubt did many others, 
received attentions, invitations and kindly
courteous greetings that placed me at once at
home, and I could hardly realize that this was my
first visit to the Capital of America.
	To describe Washington and its environs, in
the space I can occupy in the EXPONENT, would
be impossible; suffice it then to say, that the site
on which it stands has been well chosen, for it is
a splendid one.
	Its public buildings are massive and imposing,
if we except the White House, which is too small
and altogether inadequate to the requirements of
the head of this great republic; though I believe
it is in contemplation to enlarge it.  The sur-
rounding buildings are so large and imposing,
that they overshadow and partially eclipse the
smaller edifice.
	The reception rooms are much too small for
the needs of this rapidly growing nation, and the
sooner the contemplated enlargement and im-
provements are made, the better.
	One feature which has tended, somewhat, to
sadden us is the black drapery upon the public
offices.  They remind us that a gallant sailor,
a noble soldier, and a great statesman have
passed away; but the record of their chivalry and 
eloquence remains with us, and the nation is
comforted by the knowledge that it once pos-
sessed such men, while others will strive to emu-
late their valor and their virtues, and by so doing
in a measure supply their loss.


To individualise the many great and noble 
minded men and women I have had the honor 
and pleasure of associating with during my visit,
would be invidious, still I may be pardoned if I 
name a few of the most prominent, among whom 
are Wm. Lloyd Garrison, son of that great apostle 
of freedom, whose voice was heard so often in 
eloquent appeal for the emancipation of the
negro, and the son to-day is following in the foot-
steps of his father, fearlessly advocating the free-
dom of that older slave, woman. 
Another who deserves all praise is Senator 
Curey, of Wyoming, who, from the stage of 
Albaugh's Opera House, proclaimed Wyoming as
the "True Republic," and to whom a very beauti-
ful offering was presented by a few women 
It was a colossal bouquet of choice flowers. To 
this tribute of appreciation and welcome, I had
the pleasure of adding my mite. There are many 
more to whom I would like to give a prominent 
place, but as I said before, where so many are 
great, it would be invidious to enumerate a few.
Among the very pleasant gatherings that en-
livened our visit, should be mentioned Mrs. J.H.
Spofford's reception, held in the dining room of 
the Riggs House, which was gayly decorated for
the occasion, the lone star of Wyoming occupying
a conspicuous place at the top of the room. On 
Saturday, Feb. 21, there were assembled in that 
room, between 9 and 11 p.m., men and wo-
men of many creeds, and divers political opinions 
yet all laboring for one end, viz., the elevation of 
woman to her proper position in God's universe.
It is said that Washington is the "Paradise of 
the colored race," and truly I should think it was, 
for we find them everywhere; whatever you re-
quire done, a colored 'pusson' does it. As a 
rule they are polite, attentive and cheerful. The 
waiter, as you leave the table, smilingly hopes 
you have enjoyed your meal, the cab driver ex-
presses the same hope as to your ride, and so on 
through all the various positions in which you 
come in contact with him.
We meet many who appear to be in good cir-
cumstances, at least their appearance would 
warrant you in thinking so; they are well dressed,
stately in bearing, and in most cases intelligent 
and well informed. We seldom meet a "colored 
gentleman" and a white man together, but they 
ride in the same street cars, and seem more at 
home in the Capitol than in any other place in 
America that I have visited.
After the dome of the Capitol, the Washington 
monument is the most conspicuous building. As 
you approach the city by railway, the white dome
stands out in bold relief against the blue sky.
The Washington monument is a plain obelisk,
strongly resembling an enlarged Cleopatra's 
needle. In the interior is an elevator, by which 
you can ascend to a gallery near the top, and 
from the windows an extensive view of the sur-
rounding country is obtained.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE WOMAN'S INTERNATIONAL
		PRESS FEDERATION.
	One of the very pleasing features of the
writer’s visit to Washington was the friendly
association with press women in the pre-
liminary and actual work of arranging for
the formation of a press federation. The object
being to unite the newspaper women of the
world on some general ground that will be of
great advantage to those interested in each
other’s methods, and the uplifting of women in
the great world of progress. That union is
strength, has been pretty well conceded in
organizations of many various kinds. Several
local press associations have been formed by 
women during the last few years, and meet-
ings and clubs have given these women quite
an experience in coming together and getting
acquainted in a very friendly manner, that
[Column 2]
increases their respect for each other and
makes their affinities stronger and deeper,
and their ideas broader and more cosmo-
politan. The effect will doubtless be elevat-
ing both to the workers and the work. That the
union of women in the newspaper world will
have a tendency to greater refinement in that
line of work there can be no manner of doubt.
	The press women of Washington some years
since, formed an organization called the
National Press Association, and have held
their meetings regularly and given entertain-
ments, etc., and it was through a call by the
President and officers of the Association that 
the meetings were called.
	The first meeting of press women was in the
parlors of Willard’s Hotel, on Pennsylvania
Avenue, Tuesday afternoon, Feb. 24. Mrs.
M. D. Lincoln, Pres. of National Press Associa-
tion,in the chair; there were present gifted
and talented women from various sections of
the country. One of the most noted, perhaps,
was Mrs. Kate Tannett Woods, of Rhode
Island the author of many books, and a lady
whose name is well known throughout the 
United States and the world. Mrs. Martha
Field, of New Orleans, better known as
Catherine Cole; Dr. Rosetta K. Gilchrist of
Ohio another celebrity; Belva Lockwood, of 
Washington, Dr. Murphy, of Toledo, Ohio;
Lilia Michell, representing the Magazine of
Poetry, Buffalo, New York; and many more,
some of them residents of Washington, and
others from a distance; the rooms were filled
with ladies whose very presence was inspiring,
and who created an atmosphere of intellectual
thought and aspirations.
	Expressions as to what should be done led
to revealing what had been done, and it was
soon ascertained that Women's Press Associa-
tions had been organized in New England,
New York, Ohio, Illinois and Kansas, besides
the National one, and that there were repre-
sentatives present from each of these. After
some discussion as to uniting. the name for
such an organization was considered, and the
naming of the association proved to be of im-
portance; it took up more time and really
brought out more brilliant ideas than the plan
itself; a great many witty things were said, by
bright young women and just as many by deep
and thoughtful older ones. Finally setting
aside temporarily the name, a motion was
made to which one or two amendments were
offered, that at last resulted in a resolution
which was presented and carried, to the effect
that a committee of seven be appointed to
draw up a Constitution that could be sub-
mitted to the women of the world for their
suggestion and approval, and presented at
another meeting to be held on Feb. 26. Mrs.
Annie Diggs of Kansas, Chairman, She repre-
sented the Kansas Press Association; Mrs.
Belva Lockwood, the National Press Ass'n.;
Miss Mary Allen West, the Illinois Press
Ass'n; Mrs. Estelle M.H. Merrill, the New
England Press Ass'n; Mrs. Minerva M.
Merrill, the New York Press Ass'n.; Dr. R.
K. Gilchrist, the Ohio Press Ass'n.; and Mrs.
E. B. Wells to represent the West where no
such Ass'n., had been formed. Miss Helen
M. Winslow, of Boston, was also present by 
invitation though not a member of the Com-
mittee.
	This Committee on Constitution met in the
Riggs House parlors the following morning,
and with a great deal of deliberation and in-
terchange of ideas set about the work.
	It took some time to get the ideas crystalized
and put upon paper but when women with
marked executive ability undertake to pre-
pare a Constitution, they are sure to carry
into effect the purpose for which they started
out. The meeting of this committee brought
the ladies into such close proximity, and the 
the free and full discussion necessarily entered
[Column 3]
inso seemed to make each one feel happily 
acquainted with all the others.
	The Constitution as published in our
columns, was completed and the name given.
"The Woman's International Press Federa-
tion" this was the outcome of a desire not to
encroach upon the name National as adopted
by the Washington Ass'n., and also because
it would include the Women's Press Associa-
tions of other countries, it being well known
there was one in active operation in Australia,
and in some other lands. The Committee
decided how to get the Constitution before
the other Press Associations of the country
and adjourned.
	Another meeting was held in the Willard
Hotel parlors the following day, and the 
Constitution submitted and the Committee
dismissed, but after some consideration of the
matter it was finally decided it would be
proper for a committee to meet, and such a
committee with Mrs. Martha Field, of
New Orleans to represent Southern women,
to appoint, while in session, a Chairman and
Secretary to take in hand the preparatory
work necessary to calling a meeting of delegates
from the Women's Press Associations in all
parts of the country and notifying those abroad
to send delegates or letters. The President
and Secretary were chosen by ballot, which
resulted as follow, Belva A. Lockwood Chair-
man, Annie S. Diggs, Secretary. It was pro-
posed that a meeting of Delegates should be 
held in Boston in October next, but the mat-
ter was not decided. The National Press Asso-
ciation is anxious the meeting be held at the 
seat of government in Washington.


CONSTITUTION. 

ARTICLE I.—NAME.

	This Association shall be called the Wo-
man’s International Press Federation.
	ARTICLE II.—OBJECT.
	The object of this Federation is to bring
into communication with each other the
various women’s press clubs throughout the
world, in order that they may compare methods
of work and become mutually helpful; to ele-
vate the work and the workers, and to forward
by concerted action through the press, such
philanthropic movements as may commend
themselves to the Federation.
	ARTICLE III.—OFFICERS AND DELEGATES
	Section 1. The officers of the Woman’s In-
ternational Press Federation shall be a presi-
dent, first vice-president, and a vice president rep-
resenting each club composing the Federation,
a recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
a treasurer, and an auditor of accounts.
These officers shall constitute an executive,
committee, which shall transact the business of
the Federation and report to the Federation at
each regular annual meeting.	
	Sec. 2. The president, first vice-president,
recording secretary, corresponding secretary,
treasurer and auditor of accounts shall be
nominated and elected at annual meetings by
ballot. A majority vote of officers and dele-
gates present shall constitute an election. The
president of each club in the Federation shall be
vice-president of the Federation, or a club
may elect a vice-president from among its
members.
	Sec. 3. No member shall hold more than
one office at the same time. No officer shall be
eligible to election for the same office for more
than one term consecutively. Each officer shall,
hold office until the adjournment of the next
annual meeting. In case of a vacancy, the
executive committee shall appoint a member 
to serve till her successor be elected, at the
annual meeting following her election.


Sec. 4. Each club, belonging to the Federa-
tion should be represented at the annual meet-
ings by their president and one delegate, who
shall both be entitled to vote, and one of
whom shall present to the meeting a written
report of club work. In the absence of any
regular delegate, such delegate may be repre-
sented by an alternate.
    Sec 5. Members of clubs which have
regularly entered the Federation may be
present at any annual meeting and may take
part in discussion upon all measures brought
forward, but shall not introduce motions or
vote.
ARTICLE IV.—CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP.
    Sec. 1. A woman’s press club desiring to
join the Federation should apply to the cor-
responding secretary of the Federation, and
should send to her a copy of its constitution
and by-laws, also a sketch of its history.
    Sec. 2. The secretary of the Federation
shall present the name and the credentials of
the club to the executive committee. By vote
of the executive committee a club may be
elected a member of the Federation of women’s
clubs. On admission of members and other
important business a vote by mail may be
taken when considered necessary by the
general officers.   
    Sec. 3. A club in order to be eligible to
membership in the Women’s International
Press Federation must possess the following
qualifications:—First, a constitution which
shall show by its plan of work that it is a press
club and not purely a literary association; and
second, a record of not less than one year of
organized club life.
ARTICLE V.—MEETINGS AND DUES.
    Sec. 1. The meetings of the Federation
shall be held annually— time and place to be
decided upon by the executive committee.
    Sec. 2 The annual dues of each club shall
be $10 payable at the annual meeting. 
ARTICLE VI.—AMENDMENTS.
    This constitution may be amended at any
annual meeting of the Federation by a two-
thirds vote of the members present, the pro-
posed amendment having been approved by
the executive committee; and notice of the
same appended to the call for the meeting.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of meeting of the Salt Lake Co.
Woman’s Suffrage Association, held at the
14th Ward R. S. Hall, Feb. 17th, 1891.
	Called to order by Pres. Elizabeth Howard.
	Prayer by M. Isabella Horne.
	Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
Names of 65 ladies who wished to become
members of the Association, were presented
and voted in.	
	The by-laws and regulations of the
Association were read by the Secretary. 
	Pres. Elizabeth Howard made some remarks
upon the purity of elections and thought
that women who were rearing sons to vote,
should themselves be voters. The Mormons
had been charged with disloyalty, but we know
that the charge is false. Read an extract from
a paper presented at the Woman's National
Council, advocating the adoption of the
Golden Rule in our Associations.
	M. Isabella Horne said she had always
been a suffragist, and believed that in the
beginning men and women were born equal,
but that since the fall, man had not only exercised
the authority given him over women, but had
usurped some. Society needs reforming and
purifying, and very much depends upon the
mothers. Thought that the same purity of
character should be required of men as of
omen; do not b elieve in women taking the


places of men, but in their having equal pay
for equal work. Our husbands, sons, brothers,
and fathers, gave us the franchise before
when we had it, and we have faith to believe
that we will have it again.
    Elizabeth Paul said she had always been a
suffragist at heart, and had noticed in her
childhood the difference in the treatment of
little boys and girls, and thought much
depended on the home training. Had always
availed herself of the privilege of voting, as
long as she had the right, and would rejoice
when she had it again.
    Margaret Mitchell thought that the mothers
should be as free as the fathers, as a slave
mother was not a pleasant sight. Women were
naturally just, as well as naturally virtuous.
We should not treat our sons better than our
daughters. Try and inform our minds concern-
ing our present and future position, and felt
that we were moved upon by the same Spirit
that inspired the founders of this great
government, under which we live.
    Elizabeth McFarlane made a stirring speech,
and read a beautiful poem, illustrating
woman’s devotion in times of war. Said that
we must assert our rights, and we would get
them. Equal rights should be our motto.
There are men among us to day who are as
anxious to see women have the ballot, as
we are to have it.
    Pres. Howard announced that as we were
having a new Suffrage song book prepared,
we would probably have some music at
our next meeting, and also have a more
commodious place to meet in. Adjourned
subject to call of the President.
	C. C. Raleigh, Sec.


[Column 1]

	FAMOUS BEAUTIES.

	Two women whose prominent positions up-
on the stage have made their beauty of
world-wide fame, are Mary Anderson and
Cora Urquhart Potter, who are both dis-
tinctively American in their type, though
very unlike one another in feature. Both
are tall, exquisitely slim, with faces of a
flower-like softness and delicacy, and with a
certain air of fine, keen brilliance and vivacity
that is seen in the faces of no other type.
They both have Scotch blood in their veins,
Mrs. Potter's being of the Lowland Scotch
and the Celtic Highlander, from which latter
she inherited her splendid red hair.  Miss
Anderson is a Californian by birth, her descent
being German and Scotch.  From her birth
she was beautiful, a sort of Watteau-baby, all
pink and white and gold.  As she passed from
childhood into girlhood, she suddenly shot up
to her present height, and like all over-grown
girls, was for a time lean, awkward and un-
beautiful.  But, as the roundness of woman-
hood came, and with it grace and self-confi-
dence, her baby beauty all reappeared, and
at sixteen, America awoke to the fact that
there had appeared on the stage a woman
destined to be famous for her beauty as well
as her art. Mary Anderson was born in
Sacramento in 1859, and removed to Louis-
ville, Kentucky, whiel still a small child, re-
maining there until her sixteenth year, when
she made her first appearance on the stage
in Albaugh's Opera House, playing for one
night only in "Romeo and Juliet," to a busi-
ness of forty-eight dollars.  Her next appearance
was in New Orleans, and the rest of her
career is well know to the public.
	A charming story is told of Mary Anderson's
girlhood in Kentucky, si non e vero e ben
trovato. Her parents were not rich at the
time, and she sometimes went on errands that
should have been the duty of the servants.
One evening just at dusk she caught up an
old hat and ran without, a pitcher in her

[Column 2]
hand. Louisville is quiet enough on the more
retired streets at that hour for one to hope
that such an errand might pass unobserved.
She was then a tall, angular girl of fourteen,
desperately shy and conscious of her dress and
hat, and when she saw coming around the
corner one of the local young swells, she
made a dash in the other direction, but like
sweet Kitty of Coleraine, her foot tripped, she
stumbled, the pitcher it tumbled.  The young
man gave one irrepressible laugh, and next
moment ran forward and picked up the red,
wretched and discomfited maiden, who flung
away from his inquiries and offers of assistance
and ran home in tears. Twelve or more
years later, when the provincial swell had be-
come a celebrated journalist, he was bidden to
a reception in honor of the young actress who
had conquered all the English-speaking
people.  When he was presented she held out
her hand impulsively and cried: "I have wait-
ed for this, twelve years; it is one of my
triumphs.” Then, to his puzzled inquiries, she
replied; “Do you remember the little girl
who fell down in Louisville one evening?  I
suppose not; but I went home and cried all
the night, as only a girl of that age can weep
over a goucherie.  I knew you by sight and
reputation, and thought you a very splendid
person, and I vowed then through my tears
that I would some day revenge myself for
that laugh by becoming famous enough to
make you feel it an honor to meet me.  And
I have never forgotten the episode, because
it was the first step I made on the road I
have since traveled.”
	Mrs Potter is a native of New Orleans,
having been born there about thirty years ago.
She came of a family that had long been
wealthy and prominent in the South, and like
Miss Anderson, grew up suddenly into an ugly
awkward girl, who matured into a great beauty.
She had always a mass of brilliant, red bronze
hair, long, fine dark eyes, and skin of exquisite
delicacy, aad a beautifully modeled face, which
to this day has never lost one of its rounded,
childlike contours.  Her teeth are perfect,
and her smile peculiarly sweet and beguiling.
She was nursed in her babyhood by a negro 
mammy, waited upon in childhood by troops
of small darkies, lived the life of the average
Louisiana child, which means existence out of
doors for the better part of the entire year,
and being fed upon fruit and sugar cane.
When the lean girl was suddenly meta-
morphosed into a tall maid, slim and supple
as a serpent, crowed with a mass of ruddy
locks, and dowered with an unalterable
determination to have her own way, older
people wagged their heads wisely and
oracularly: "She will go far!"  At an early
age she married James Brown Potter, a
member of the aristocratic New York family
that had given two bishops to the diocese, and
had a career of unexampled social success in
a city where such careers are not common
without great wealth to back them.  She
organized and developed amateur theatricals
to a point they have never before or since
attained, and finally deserted her social world
for a professional career.  She has one
daughter, eight or nine years of age, who
inherits much of her mother's beauty and
emotional temperament, and who lives with her
father, seeing her other parent only at rare
intervals. Whatever may be the verdict as to
Mrs. Potter's ability as an actress, about her
very wonderful beauty there can be no two
opinions.
	Mrs. Potter has created many a stir in
fashionable circles both at home and abroad,
not only by the beauty of her face, but the
graciousness of her manner as well.  Her
strong position as a society belle enabled her
to take an independent stand on matters of
fashion, particularly in expressing her fond-


ness for artistic dress. It is related how one
day, at a reception in London, conversation
turned upon the supposed scarcity of American
materials for elegant dresses. “You have no
domestic manufactories of rich dress-goods, I
believe,” said an English friend. “Have we
not?” she replied; “I will astonish you at the
next reception by wearing an American
fabric.
	This was told from one end of London to the
other, and when the night came and most of
the people were assembled, Mrs. Potter entered,
looking as if she were a picture cut from an
old painting, in a fascinating and original
dress. Its pattern was a terra-cotta silk of
soft, pale color, beneath which were distinct
dreamy suggestions of pink flowers and green
leaves blended in exquisite harmony, trimmed
with coffee-colored lace, and with a gold
girdle around the waist. “Is that lovely fabric
really the product of American looms?” asked
her friend. “Yes, and of American design,
and better still the designer is a woman,”
said Mrs. Potter, “I like to wear these dresses,
particularly as they convince English society
that America is not without artistic taste of
the highest order.”
	In private life Mrs. Potter is even more
charming than on the stage. Her face lights
up when she talks earnestly, as she very often
does, and the fire of her eyes carries conviction
not less than her rapidly-uttered and well-
chosen words. A woman of brain and nerves,
it is scarcely to be wondered at that she
sought relief from vapid society life in some-
thing that, whatever else must be said about
it, at least calls for intense energy and
action. 
				ELIZABETH BISLAND.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	ADVANCEMENT OF WOMEN.

MRS. FRANK LESLIE’S DISPOSITION OF HER
		GREAT FORTUNE. 

	NEW YORK, March 9, 1891. Mrs. Frank
Leslie will make a new will on Wednesday,
by which the bulk of her fortune, amounting
to at least $600,000, will be left in trust for
the establishment of a great institution for
the instruction of women, and the advance-
ment of a higher education of the sex. Mrs.
Leslie, when seen by a reporter to-day said:
“I have not entirely crystallized my plans
as yet, but the main point is this: I want
to establish an institution to help women
who can and will help themselves. I
am very much interested in art. In
fact, if I had taken my own way
I should have been an artist. Therefore,
art students occupy a prominent position
in my planning. The building must, first of
all, have lecture rooms, good studios and
facilities for instruction in painting, and in
addition, a large hall expressly constructed
with a view to its suitability for exhibitions
of pictures. I also think very favorably of
making provision for advanced students to
take continental courses of instruction in
art, though upon that point I am not entirely
decided.
	Of course, literature will also be provided
for, and I think there is a very great neces-
sity for some course of instruction in that
profession. Nowadays, I am sorry to say,
nearly every young girl in the land appears
to think all she has to do is to take a pen in
her hand and become straightway a full
fledged authoress. Why, do you know, I
have over 600 manuscripts offered me every
week, and the majority of them are just ter-
rible.
	“The sum I shall devote to the project will
be the proceeds from the sale of my business.
I value it at present at $600,000, which
[Column 2]
amount I think none to high. About a year
ago I sold the Illustrated Newspaper to Mr.
Arkell for $300,000, and my Popular Monthly,
as an investment, is worth twice as much as
that, not to mention my six other publica-
tions.
	“Within the next few months I expect to
start two new papers. One will be devoted
entirely to women and their interests; the
other will be a Spanish publication, intended
to circulate through Spanish America. I
have no near relatives except one niece, who
is married to a very wealthy man in the
West. I shall leave her my houses
and jewels. I am not so young as I once
was, and although the next ten years will not
be the best of my life, still I intend to enjoy
the fortune I have earned. Then, if I am
still living, I intend to go ahead and build my
woman’s Institute. I am deluged with
begging letters continually, but there
is a class of letters that I would
like to get, however, and that is letters writ-
ten by sensible people interested in the ad-
vancement of women, who would suggest
ideas in relation to the institute I contem-
plate founding. I wish you would say that,
for the public might help me greatly in this
matter.
	“I talked the matter over last night at the
Press Club with Mrs. Croley and others of
my friends, and they were united in thinking
this the best object to which I could devote
my fortune. Don’t you think it strange
that it has never occurred to any woman
before to found an institute for women? I am
a woman’s woman all through, and although
my business has necessarily brought me much
into contact with men, and into public notice,
still all my sympathies and hopes are with
women, and I want my money to benefit
them.”—Boston Herald.


The "Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book"
in pamphlet form is now ready; price, 10cts
per copy. Send orders to this office, 25, E.
South Temple St. Salt Lake City.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It costs more to revenge wrongs than to
bear them.
	Modesty and a quiet tongue is a safeguard
to virtue.
	Small faults indulged are little thieves that
let in greater.
	Virtue and happiness are mother and
daughter.
	It is to a woman that the heart appeals
when it needs consolation.


OBITUARY.

	It is with feelings of sadness we announce the death o
our worthy young sister, Melisa Mariah McDermott, who
passed peacefully away from mortality at her father's resi-
dence in Clifton, Idaho, Feb. 10, 1891.
	She was seventeen years and one week old, a patient,
obedient daughter and a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	She was attending the B. Y. College at Logan, Utah
and while spending the holidays at home the family was
stricken with the measles. Her mother being in feeble
health the care of the family fell upon her, and patiently
she waited on her five younger brothers and sisters through
their sickness, she being the last to take the fatal malady.
She suffered much during her five weeks' illness. All was
done for her that loving hearts and willing hands could do.
	She was always a good, faithful and obedient child, and
second counselor in our Primary Association; and was
willing to do all that lay in her power for the advance-
ment of the work. She manifested in her labors that meek
and unselfish disposition characteristic of a true saint of
God.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup.
WOMAN'S 
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children.
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS, 
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

[union pacific logo] Tickets
				ON SALE
				TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
		AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. Eccles,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS

26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortments of
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address DAVID JAMES, BOX 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1891.		NO. 19.


CONTENTS.

	Essay on the Sixth Lecture of Faith—E.
Woman's Progress—Sarah A. Boyer. Report
of Utah Before the N. A. W. S. Convention—
Electa Bullock. Utah Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion—S. M. Kimball, Pres. Speech of Anna H.
Shaw. Woman's National Council—Notes and
News. Notice.
	EDITORIAL:—In Memoriam.
	POETRY:—A Tribute of Sympathy—Emily
H. Woodmansee. Song of Triumph—L. L. D.
A poetical Tribute—H. W. Naisbitt. Again
are we Afflicted—L. M. H. President Wells—
Lula.


A TRIBUTE OF SYMPATHY.

[To the bereaved family of the late honored and be-
loved President Daniel H. Wells.]
	After life's tempestuous storms—
		Cometh joy, and peace and rest—
	Yet when Death (in varied forms)
		Gathers up the loved and best—
	Truly 'tis a weighty cross,
	Unto all who bear the loss.

	Ye who mourn a husband dead.
		Ye who miss a Noble Sire,
	Let your thoughts be heavenward led;
		Let His deeds your souls inspire;
	Glory in your husband's name:
	Glory in your father's fame.

	Tens of thousands share your woe—
		Many a heart with sorrow swells—
	Loth to let a father go;
		Lo! your loss is Israel's;
	Zion mourn's a mighty chief;
	Zion needs must share your grief.

	Champion of the sore oppress'd—
		Lay your trusty armor by;
	Lion-hearted leader, rest—
		Holy Angels hover nigh,
	Holy Angels love to keep,
	Watch where valiant Heroes sleep—

	Robe the slum'bring form with white.
		Emblem of the gleaming day—
	Bursting on the raptur'd sight—
		When pure spirits pass away;
	Mystery, of myst'ries rife,
	Life is death, and death is Life!

	Brave and patient, just and true,
		Glorious record, great indeed;
	Admiration thrills us through,
		For the noble spirit freed.
	Crown his grave with immortelles,
	Faithful "Daniel Hanmer Wells."

		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Mar. 30, 1891.


SONG OF TRIUMPH.

IN HONOR OF PRESIDENT DANIEL H. WELLS.

	Glory be to God Most High!
		Glory to His Son!
	One hath laid his armor by,
		All his battles won!
	God hath called our Friend revered
		Where high anthems roll!
	Saint triumphant in his Lord,
		Victor at his goal!
			Rest in peace,
			Sweetly sleep,
			In thy holy slumber deep.


Firmly he for justice stood
	Where dark passions rolled;
Stripped of all that men call good,
	Smitten to the soul;
Still unmoved by grief or pain,
	Rage or hate of men,
Truth and right he did maintain,
	Even to the end.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep,
		In thy holy slumber deep.

God who sent him here below
	Knoweth all his worth,
Knoweth all the bitter woe,
	He did taste on earth,
Knoweth well how to repay
	All his patient trust,
So he shines a star of day
	Mid the risen just.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep,
		In thy holy slumber deep.

We who watched the glory grow
	Round his saintly head,
Loved his holiness below
	More than lips have said.
Do we mourn thee, Father, Friend,
	Nay, for joy we sing,
True and faithful to the end,
	Thou art crowned a King.
		Rest in peace,
		Sweetly sleep.
		In thy holy slumber deep.

			L. L. D.


[Column 1]

A POETICAL TRIBUTE.

THE DEPARTED LEADER!

	"Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man
fallen this day in Israel?" (2 Sam., iii, 38.)

Tread softly as befits this sacred hour,
	Let busy thought with precious memories teem;
For one more triumph of that mighty power
	Which breaks and shatters this "life's fitful dream."
Yet, 'twas no dream to him, the latest called,
	For he had wrought amid its fiercest fires,
Where every fiber of his soul enthralled,
	Was keyed to loftiest mood and grand desires!
He worked for God, for truth, and humankind,
	He gave his strength to this, his life, his all;
So Israel in their deepest heart enshrined,
	And crowned with love this consecrated soul!

In softest tones, in whispered words and low,
	We greet his friends, our friends, this hallowed day,
Oh! bow the head, let tearful hearts o'erflow,
	Though none wish his return, or urge his stay;
Full well is known, for history's pages tell,
	How in the breach he dared to be a man;
As on the air the threatening murmurs swell,
	Of sounds demoniac from a murderous clan.
Ah! who shall tell the truth? that tragic past,
	For e'er remains writ on Columbia's soil;
By few so brave, their protest then to cast
	Against oppression in its mad turmoil.

From thence among the fugitives who fled,
	Amid the silence of these mountain vales,
To dwell in peace, by heaven's direction led,
	To work and wait, till right o'er wrong prevails.
Nerved to the contest rugged nature meant,
	"Yet courting conquest," as the years flew past,
See, concentrated toil and pure intent
	Hath found its triumphs in these vales at last!
Here countless homes, and labor's grandest crown,
	Here thousands dwell, here worship hath no fear.
And when each leader, tired, shall lay him down,
	God's generations will their names revere!

[Column 2]

No need to call the roll! The illustrious dead,
	Since Joseph fell in Carthage, one by one
By him invited, upward have been led
	To move, in wider range, the work undone!
And now, as by the coffined dust we stand,
	Though thoughts and tears commingled feelings show
No sorrow stirs the heart, no trembling hand,
	Would wish it other than we see and know.
E'en now it falls upon the spirit ear
	The song of triumph, music's singing sound,
Such as he heard amid that loftier sphere,
	Where our departed hath his welcome found!

The eye of faith beholds a mighty throng
	Who forward press to greet the ransomed soul,
Some silent stand, and some with bursting song
	Bid words of victory 'mid the arches roll!
Some clasp the hand, and some with warm embrace—
	With loving tones—the family gone before;
And all the Priesthood braves, with earnest face,
	To see an old associate, loved of yore!
Homage from those who know is highest praise,
	These tasted suffering, trial had, and tears,
During those changes of the latter days,
	Such as beset the best in lengthened years.

Reception there; Farewell, we whisper here,
	Our patriot-statesman cast in Heaven's mould:
A  more than brother—friend, forever dear,
	Beyond compare with treasured hoards of gold!
Great! Yet he stooped to bless the humblest one,
	And deemed him equal, if he needed aid;
A sympathetic soul, a hand which won
	That heartfelt faith which never was betrayed.
Amid his family, like an uncrowned king,
	Affection's rule, his sceptre and his throne;
Wives and posterity today can bring
	That love most generous where he best was known.

Honored in time, thrice honored 'mid the Gods,
	Shall not our souls awake to music's swell?
In rapt thanksgiving kiss a thousand rods,
	And peaceful say: "The Father doeth well!"
		H. W. NAISBITT.


ESSAY ON THE SIXTH LECTURE OF
FAITH.

	The knowledge which persons must have
that the course which they pursue in life is
pleasing to God, in order that they may be
enabled to exercise faith in him unto life and
salvation, supplies an important place in our
religion.
	The confidence of God is an absolute
necessity to all persons to enable them to ob-
tain eternal life, and it was through this con-
fidence that the saints of ancient days, know-
ing, not believing, that the course they pursued 
was agreeable to God, were willing to take
the "wasting of their substance" joyfully, and
to suffer death in its most horrid forms.
	The glory which is laid up in Heaven
for them that fear God and worship Him ac-
cording to revelation can never be attained
without they have an actual knowledge that
they have embraced those things which God
has established for the redemption of man.
Without this knowledge, the opposition in the
hearts of unbelievers, and the persecution
which they will have to encounter will cause
them to grow weary in their minds.
	It requires more than belief or supposition
that he is doing the will of God, for a man to
lay down his character, his houses, his lands,
his brothers, his sisters, wife and family, and
even his own life for the sake of the knowl-
edge of Jesus Christ.
	In order to produce the faith necessary to


life and salvation a person must belong to a
religion which requires the sacrifice of all
earthly things, for it is through this sacrifice
that God has ordained that men should enjoy
eternal life.
	It was in offering sacrifices that Abel, the
first martyr, obtained a knowledge that he
was accepted of God, and that knowledge from
Abel's time down to the present has been ob-
tained in the same way.
	Those then who make this sacrifice will
have the testimony that their course is pleas-
ing in the sight of God; and those who have
this testimony will have faith to lay hold on
eternal life, and will be enabled through faith
to endure to the end and receive the crown
that is laid up for them that love the appear-
ance of Jesus Christ, our Lord.
		E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S PROGRESS

	MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: I have been thinking for some
time that I would write a few lines to your
valuable paper, though I do  not suppose my
silence has been missed. Our little burg has
still a longing desire for advancement, and
seeing the Herald's account of the general re-
ception given our Delegates at Washington
and since by so many leading papers, aroused
my enthusiasm more than ever, and it is usually
buoyant on the subject of the equality of
woman.
	I can note with pleasure the great strides
that have been made in the past few years,
which is being proven beyond a doubt that
women are not to be crowded out or left be-
hind, but interest in the work is
essential to true progress. Would to God
that woman herself would arise from the
apathy that has so long enslaved her, for I
regret to say that the number are few that
comprehend any responsibility of more magni-
tude than the one which encircles the four
walls of a kitchen. This, together with the
little gossip that seems to be more or less
prevalent among neighborhoods, monopolizes
all the spare time that most women have, and
which so often leads to unfavorable results.
The little things in life generally cause the
greatest trouble and possess the most influence
for good or evil. So will a single word many
times change the course of life as quickly as
an event apparently a hundred times greater.
	Let us guard our little acts, be always
watchful of the results which a carelessly
spoken word or look or frown may produce,
for we are similar to mirrors and to a greater or
less degree possess reflective and refractive
qualities; a smile will produce a smile, and
an angry word is sure to be cast back. Then let
us be watchful of our tongues and guard our
actions. Our motto should be, work with a
will at whatever will bring the greatest happi-
ness to the individual or to the masses. Now
is the time to begin if we have not already.
Don't wait. The world in its ceaseless
journey never waits. Nature in its laws has
provided well for rest, but has made no
provision for waiting.
	I imagine that the women who attend the
Washington Convention must return to their
homes fully convinced that there is a class of
women who do not wait, but who work with
a persistency of effort that is bound to bring
a victory to the cause of right; and this wo-
man's reform which is so formidable in its en-
tirety is destined to win. As "the fittest must
survive," I believe it to be in the economy of
Heaven that woman shall no longer be held
back because she is a woman, but wherever in-
telligence exists, develop it for the benefit of
humanity. How often I think man might be
benefitted by his companion understanding his

[Column 2]

position in life, in business affairs, as well as
socially; and by her co-operation and knowl-
edge she might be able to assist and
encourage him, when disappointment and
worry over business affairs harass him; a few
kind, cheering words, when understanding his
position, would count for much more than if
she was utterly ignorant in these matters; not
that we are egotistical enough to believe
everything is going to be set right when we
have the power, but that she has the right to
try, no true American can deny.
	During the past winter many of our asso-
ciations have been studying civil government
and I have been talking with several gentle-
men in regard to assisting us in understanding
something of municipal government, which, by
their aid, can be made beneficial to us. Our
reorganization was effected in January and
most of our members are workers and desirous
of progress, having in view a knowledge that God
will defend the right, without regard to sex,
for this is woman's era; never before has she so
nearly approached political emancipation as
now, and her victory is surely inevitable.
		Respectfully,
			SARAH A. BOYER.


[Column 1]

REPORT OF UTAH BEFORE THE
N. A. W. S. CONVENTION.

	I am from the first Territory that by its
 laws recognized the ballot as the natural birth-
right of woman as well as man; and a near 
neighbor of the only State in the Union that
recognizes in its Constitution that the consent
of woman is essential to the just exercise of
power in the government to make laws for
her guidance.
	I beg you will not deem it egotism when I
remind you that the Eagle, emblem of our gov-
ernment is indigenous to a mountain country,
and that there is a something in the rarified
atmosphere of high altitudes that impels the
human soul to pant for greater heights of
human liberty than is today enjoyed by the
masses. It is not strange then that the practi-
cal disenthrallment of woman, should first be-
come crystallized into organic laws in the wilds
of the Rocky Mountains.
	The branches of the Woman's Suffrage As-
sociation in Utah Territory are in a flourish-
ing condition, our meetings are frequently held
and numerously attended, and I believe a close
scrutiny of the statistical reports will show
that a larger porportion of the women of Utah
are enrolled as members of the Association
than in any State or Territory of the United
States.
	The peculiar circumstances surrounding
Utah and her political and social relations,
are such as cause the questions of the extension
and limitation of the right to vote to possess
peculiar and grave significance to all classes
of her citizens, and to elicit extensive discus-
sion by her people, about the basic principles
underlying the rights or privileges of the elec-
tive franchise. The people of Utah of all
classes, are driven by the force of circumstances
to think on this subject, and it is very gratify-
ing to note, that the more people think about 
it, the larger are the numbers of those who
advocate Woman Suffrage as an abstract
right, and as a proposed practical amelioration
of the evils which now infest society, which
man alone without the aid of woman has
hitherto been unable to successfully grapple
with and overcome.
	The fact that deep, earnest thought on this
subject generally makes converts to our theory
is all but conclusive proof, that the advocacy
of Woman Suffrage is one of those revolutions
of human society that never go backward,
hence, although we in Utah have once pos.
sessed, but we are now deprived of the fran.

[Column 2]

chise, we cannot but hope that as agitation of
this question is increased, those who now pos-
sess power may be induced to think on this
subject, and confidently expect that calm,
sober thought by the statesmen of our nation
will lead them to adopt such measures as will
permit all the women of our nation to exercise
this high privilege of citizenship.
	The fundamental principle upon which rep-
resentative Government is based is "that all
just Governments derive their powers from
the consent of the governed." Can a Govern-
ment truly be said to be just, when it deprives
one-half of the independent intelligences it
assumes to govern, of the only measure now
known by which their consent can be ascer-
tained or expressed? We think not, and so 
insist upon the theory that a truly representa-
tive Government is based upon an expression
of the free will of every individual member
who is capable of intelligently expressing his
or her will.
	It is freely conceded that insane persons do
not possess intelligent wills, hence they
cannot express them, and that children whose
minds need training and development cannot
but be dependent upon their tutors, hence their
consent is implied by the laws of existence, but
there is no law of being that makes woman's
will dependent upon the will of man. The
sexes complement each other, they travel upon
parallel lines, side by side with each other,
naturally endowed with similar aspirations,
each in its own sphere with equal intelligence,
amenable to the same laws, both human and
divine, each with individual responsibil-
ities, each entitled to personal liberty of body
and what in the near future must be con-
sidered as a higher natural freedom, the right
to express their individual choice through
casting their ballots just as we do.
	Holding these views we meet often together
to discuss social and political questions, desir-
ing that we may be fully able to discharge our
responsibilities when we shall be permitted to
exercise our rights, fondly hoping that the time
is not far distant when intelligent women will
be permitted to vote for men and measures
that will tend to elevate society; when a wo-
man's vote will be at least equal to that of a
man, who may have cast his ballot when tem-
porarily insane by intoxication.
		ELECTA BULLOCK.


Envy is a weed that grows in all soils and
climates, and is no less luxuriant in the country
than in the court; is not confined to any rank
of men or extent of fortune, but rages in the
breasts of all degrees. Alexander was not
prouder than Diogenes; and it may be, if we
would endeavor to surprise it in its most gaudy
dress and attire, and in the exercise of its full
empire and tyranny, we should find it in
school-masters and scholars, or in some
country lady, or the knight, her husband—all 
which ranks of people more despise their
neighbors than all the degrees of honor in
which courts abound, and it rages as much in
a sordid, affected dress as in all the silks and em-
broideries which the excess of the age and the
folly of youth delight to be adorned with.
Since then it keeps all sorts of company, and
wriggles itself into the liking of the most
contrary natures and dispositions, and yet
carries so much poison and venom with it that
it alienates the affections from heaven and
raises rebellion against God Himself. It is
worth our utmost care to watch it in all its
disguises and approaches, that we may discover
it in its first entrance and dislodge it before
it procures a shelter or retiring place to lodge
and conceal itself.—Clarendon.


One-seventh of the land owners in Great
Britain are women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AGAIN ARE WE AFFLICTED.

Again is ours, affliction's cup,
	Again the waves of sorrow flow,
Stirring the soul's deep anguish up,
	To feel afresh its former woe.
But oh, this cup in kindness given,
	We may not, dare not cast away:
We feel our Father's hand hath riven,
	These dear home-links from earth away.
Sorrow's retiring wave must leave
	Upon our hearts some precious gem,
To twine within affection's wreath,
	A rich, a priceless diadem.
Tho' nature for her loss must mourn,
	And our eyes fill with blinding tears,
Undying faith shall cheer us on,
	Dispelling gloomy doubts and fears.
Pointing to those bright realms afar,
	Her holy light shall be our stay,
Unto our souls a guiding star,
	Thro' Him who is the Truth and Way.
Over the rugged mount of prayer,
	And valleys oft in sorrow trod,
Lieth immortal gardens fair,
	Where dwell the ransomed Saints of God.

		L. M. H.
I write this as one who sorrows with you.


PRESIDENT WELLS.

A brave true heart, that wore no worldly mask,
	Nor ever shrank from any proving test,
A strong, kind hand, ne'er known to shirk its task.
	Now calmly rest.

Rest from their labors, but the light they shed,
	Shines now from earth to heaven,and will not dim;
The works of this, our Friend, the blessed dead;
	Do follow him.

Ye Saints of God, whose love for him was great,
	Mourn for your loss, yet deem not this complete;
Bring high resolves his work to emulate,
	As offerings mete.

Remember what sweet charity he's shown,
	Forgetting self in care for others' need;
And try to make such Christ-like love your own,
	In word and deed.

Eternal One, this Friend hath served Thee well;
	Thy mercies to his family still increase;
For love like his, Thine only can excel,
	Grant them its peace.

From first to last, e'en that lone, absent one,
	The favored child of his declining years,
Help them to truly say, "Thy will be done,"
	Amid their tears.

And help Thy Saints, oh,Lord, who labor still,
	Thy laws t' uphold, Thy name to glorify;
Like this great man, life's duties to fulfill,
	Like him to die.

		LULA.


UTAH WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIA-
TION.

	Madame President and Members of the
Convention:—Since our last report a petition
was presented to the Legislative Assembly of
Utah asking that the Deseret University,which
admits male and female students, be put under
the control of male and female Regents, instead
of, as at present, twelve make Regents. The
petition was read and, like the petitions of our
revolutionary forefathers to the British
Parliament, laid on the table.
	There are auxiliary to the territorial
organization seventeen county organizations,
and they have many auxiliary branch organiza-
tions. The paid up auxiliary territorial
membership is over fifteen hundred (1,500.)
	There have been two territorial conventions
held in Salt Lake City, at which,in addition to
the general routine of business, reports have
been received, and such instructions given as


seemed requisite. The number of meetings
held in the branches not reported.
	In some parts of the territory, notable in
Sanpete, Millard, Utah and Davis Counties,
much zeal has been manifested.
	The cause of woman's wages, woman's moral,
social and political needs have been discussed;
also the best methods of helping woman to
rightly understand her present degree of help-
less dependence, and to intelligently assert her
selfhood in a manner that will enable her to
labor more effectively for the general good of
humanity.
	Classes in civil government have been
formed; the duties of city and county officers
have been considered; mock legislative
assemblies have been organized and bills pass-
ed. These lessons have been among the most
instructive of our general exercises.
	In July, the Territorial Woman's Suffrage
Association gave a lawn fete as an Inde-
pendence Celebration, attended by over four
hundred, at which the principles of the suffrage
cause were presented from a political and
scriptural standpoint. In the same month we
held a grove Jubilee in honor of the admission
of our neighboring State, Wyoming, with her
model constitution guaranteeing equal political
privileges to men and women.
	The cruel enactment of our Government
which deprived the women of Utah, without
trial, of their vested and treasured right of
franchise, we understand to be a grievous
wrong, which calls on the administrators of
justice in our nation for redress.
	Our mountain vales are not free from
obstructions; but one by one the advancing
waves of better thought silences them,and once
timid friends of our cause come more and more
to the front.
	Women workers in the suffrage cause in
various parts of the Territory report that they
find many clear brained men who are helpful to
them in various ways. They give their names
and pay their dues,adding words of encourage-
ment, and wishing us success in the good cause
of women's full enfranchisement.
	Our publishing committee have issued a
collection of songs, which help to make our
meetings varied and interesting.
	We watch with interest the reports of the
labors of our Sister Suffragists abroad and they
have our sympathy in all their laudable efforts
in helping to raise the standard of equal
human rights.
		S. M. KIMBALL, Pres.


[Column 1]

SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

	Frances E. Willard, the Pres. of the
Council, introduced the last speaker, Rev.
Anna H. Shaw as follows:
	We have had present during the Council a
very modest, quiet, gentle, and yet indomitable
little woman, who has had the embarrassing
and unenviable duty of tapping the bell.
Now she is to come under the rule, and no
one will do it with more gracefulness or good
will. While Rev. Anna H. Shaw speaks to
us about "God's Women," she will present in
herself an embodiment of the unique title she
has chosen for her address. I will ask Mrs.
Mary T. Lathrop to time the Rev. Anna H.
Shaw.
	Miss Shaw proceeded to review Bishop
Vincent's reported assertion that God's
women are not the Deborahs and Miriams,
but the Ruths, Rachels, and Marys. She
said:
	The subject, "Gods Women," was suggested
to me by an article in a newspaper in which
a gentleman defined God's Women. It has
always seemed to me remarkable how clear
the definitions of men are in regard to women,
their duties, their privileges their responsi-

[Column 2]

bilities, their relations to each other, to men,
to government, and now to God. While they
have been doing this for years, we have been
patiently listening. The woman of the nine-
teenth century has taken to definition, and she
has come to the conclusion that it may be
possible for a woman, as well as for a man, to
comprehend the relations of women to each
other, to their homes, to the church, to the
State, and, listening for the voice of God
themselves, to know what is the relation of
woman to the Divine; and, believing this,
no divine, whether he wear the name of elder,
deacon, priest, bishop, or pope, shall define
for the woman of the twentieth century her
right to be and to become all God makes it
possible for her to be.
	The great divine who suggested this
subject to me was lecturing before an In-
stitute of Sacred Theology, in the city of New
York. Before him was a class of students,
male and female, and he was defining to the
male students what they, the males, might
permit the females to do. He says, "There
are some things which the women may be
permitted to do." Now we like that, don't
we? Some things that we may be permitted
to do! "They may be permitted to dispense
certain charities; they may be permitted to
speak in prayer and class-meetings; they may
be permitted to do certain lines of church
work. There are other things that women
may not be permitted to do. Among the
things that women may not be permitted
to do, is to hold high official relation to the
church, to become its ministers, and to
dispense its sacraments. These things women
may not be permitted to do."
	In referring to the relation of woman to
the church, he spoke of the argument raised
by many women that it was the design of
God that woman should be eligible to any
position she could occupy. The women go
to the Bible to prove their claim; and the
one woman upon whom we have all laid our
claim and our boast is that grand old woman
who was able to cry out, in looking over
Israel in its hour of peace, "There was
trouble, there was dissension, there was un-
rest in Israel until I, Deborah, a mother in
Israel, arose." We point to the fact that the
judges of Israel were always understood by
those people to be divinely selected for their
position; and being thus divinely selected,
we cannot assume that any human being
could have taken the position who was not
recognized, by the people at least, as having
been chosen by God; and even with the
authority of the bishop to back it, we cannot
assume that God did not know what he was
doing when He chose Deborah to be a judge
in Israel. If Bishop Vincent thinks God
made a mistake, he will have to wait forever
to correct the mistake, for it is done, and we
cannot go back on the record. This woman
found a country greatly disturbed, a country
where the judges had been taking bribes from
the people, where the people were utterly
demoralized, where they dared not walk on
their highways because of thieves or robbers,
and were compelled to go secretly through
crosslots in order to get from city to city.
During the forty years of her reign as judge
of Israel, the whole condition of things was
revolutionized. We are told that she judged
the people in righteousness, and the people
had peace for forty years. Just think of
forty years of peace! We have never known
such a thing since that day. Now then,
this woman was not, we are told by Bishop
Vincent, God's woman. If, then, she was not
God's woman, whose woman was she? And
if God is not able to recognize His own,
what will become of us at the last? Now, we
believe that this judge in Israel was divinely
		[Continued on page 150.]


[Column 1]

We need more such men; but the Lord will order
all these things, and we must acknowledge His
hand in whatever may betide us. May our last
end be like unto his;' may our rest be also
glorious. May the Lord grant this to all who
seek for it, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."
	The choir sang:

"O, my Father, thou that dwellest"

	President George Q. Cannon read a portion of
section 76 of the book of Doctrine and Coven-
ants.

	"Language seems to be inadequate to convey
the thoughts that now fill my heart.
	"At times silence is the greatest eloquence;
though it would not be right or appropriate on
such an occasion for all to remain silent. We
owe it to the memory of our departed friend
and brother that we should give expression to the
feelings of our hearts concerning his labors and
his life. We owe it to those who live, that we
should give utterance also to our estimate of his
character, that the lesson of his life may not be
lost upon those whom he has left behind, but that
they may feel encouraged to emulate his deeds,
the purity of his character, the grandeur of the
principles which animated him in his mortal
career.	*	*	*	He was a man who
left his impress upon his associates and upon
society, and I feel that the world is the better be-
cause Daniel H. Wells lived in it. I feel that
humanity has been uplifted by his works, by his
example, by his whole life ever since he became
acquainted with the truth. He has not lived in
vain. Look at him from whatever stand-
point you may, you will find something to admire
in the man. If there was one characteristic that
he possessed more prominently than another, it
was his fidelity. He was true to his God; he
was ready to lay down his life at any time for that
which he conceived to be right. I do not sup-
pose that a more perfect man, so far as physical
bravery is concerned, was to be found anywhere.
He had unflinching valor, not only physical, but
also that higher and rarer quality, moral courage.
He possessed these elements to a remarkable
degree. He was true to God, true to his religion,
and true to his fellowmen.
	"We are noted, as a people, for the strength of
our friendship toward each other, and in this re-
gard Brother Wells stood out conspicuously. He
never deserted his friends. The more they were
assailed, and the more unfavorably they were
talked about, the closer he clung to them. He
carried this, indeed, into all the relations of life.
He was a man faithful to his brethren, faithful to
those who were humble, and whom he might have
ignored had he chosen. Then again his love for
his family was beyond expression.

"He possessed literary ability in a marked degree.
Years ago Dr. Bernhizel and myself exchanged
views about Brother Wells, when he was in the
habit of writing papers which were not credited
to him, but which, nevertheless were the emana-
tions of his pen. Dr. Bernhizel used then to
observe how extraordinary it was that one hav-
ing had so few educational advantages was able
to prepare such masterly documents as he did.
I have been similarly struck myself. As a
speaker he was not so strong as he was as a
writer, and yet how often has it been said that the
reports of his discourses always formed delight-
ful reading. He conveyed his thoughts tersely
and lucidly. Every one who read his discourses
was pleased with them; the matter was far better
than the manner of delivery. Brother Wells was
a man of great intellect, therefore a man of power
among his fellows. As to his future we need
have no concern, though his death has brought us

[Column 2]

sadness, because we have been deprived of his
society.

	The last time I visited Manti was in company
with Brother Lyman, a few weeks ago. There
was a conference in Sanpete, at Ephraim, and be-
fore it concluded we decided to go to Manti and
hold a meeting in the evening. President Wells
had not been able to attend, the weather was
stormy, and it was not fit for him to go out. We,
however, joined him at the Manti Temple and
took our meal with him. I remarked to Brother
Lyman at that time that I feared Brother Wells
was not long for this life. I could see a change
in him—that he was more feeble than I had ob-
served him for some time. Strangely enough, he
came here without our learning of it. We were
very busy at the time, and when the news of his
illness first reached us we supposed he .was still
at Manti. It was not until a remark was made
to the private secretary to send a dispatch to
Manti to learn of his condition that we heard he
was in this city. It was a surprise to us. I last
saw him three hours before his death, and al-
though I knew how feeble he was, I little thought
he was going to die so soon. He was able to
talk the evening before his death, when some of
us visited him.

	"After the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, Presi-
dent Young, in addressing a congregation, made
a remark which, though I was but a boy at the
time, so fastened itself upon my mind that I have
never forgotten it. Speaking of Sidney Rigdon
and other men in the Church he said, contrast-
those men with Rigdon, "There are many among
us whose knees have never trembled,
whose hands have never shaken, whose
hearts have never failed." And this is true.
There are men among the Latter day Saints
who amidst the greatest perils have never trembled
nor thought of wavering, either to the right hand
or to the left to save themselves; Daniel H.
Wells was one of the most prominent among them
all—the peer of the strongest, the peer of the
most courageous, the peer of the best men among
us. I pray God to bless his posterity; I invoke
the blessings of our Eternal Father upon them,
that their hearts may be comforted in the midst
of their distress; for it is a distress to part with
such as he. They will miss him, no doubt; but
God is able to console them and to fill their hearts
with peace and joy.
	After the conclusion of Pres. Cannon's re-
marks Apostle Heber J. Grant read a letter from
Apostle Moses Thatcher, which contained many
tender and beautiful sentiments and expressions
of love and esteem for Pres. Wells.
	The choir sang:

"Look up and put your trust in God."

	The benediction was pronounced by President
Lorenzo Snow. 
	As the procession formed and the people were
leaving the Tabernacle the beautiful snow was
falling covering the earth with its white mantle,
an emblem of the purity of him who was to be
laid away under this beautiful white pall.
	The procession formed in the following order:
Berry's martial band, pall bearers, the Twelve
Apostles—as honorary pall bearers, hearse, the 
First Presidency, the family and associates, mem-
bers of the City Council during the late ex-Mayor
Wells' adminitration, the First Seven Presidents
of Seventies, Held's band, Presidents of Stakes
and their Counselors, High Councilors and High
Priests, Quorums of Seventies, Quorums of
Elders, Presiding Bishopric, Bishops and Coun-
selors, Priests, Teachers Deacons, and citizens.
	The cortege was remarkable for its length, the
hearse being followed by over sixty carriages
filled with people. When the procession reached

[Column 3]

the cemetery the carriages formed as closely
around the grave as practicable. The body was
lowered into the tomb and a quartette—Brothers
H. G. Whitney, George D. Pyper, John D. Spen-
cer and Heber Goddard—sang, beautifully and
with deep feeling,

"He is not dead, but sleepeth."

	The dedicatory prayer was offered by Apostle
Francis M. Lyman.
	"The earth was then filled in over the mortal
remains of a man of sterling qualities. His in-
tegrity was beyond question, sagacity admirable,
his devotion to truth sublime, his simplicity un-
adulterated, his friendship steadfast as the ever-
lasting hills, while every characteristic of his
grand individuality was softened by the influence
of broad sympathy, which caused him to be
closely entwined in the hearts of the people."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

"A combination and a form indeed,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
To give the world assurance of a man."

	These words of the great poet describe more
fully than any others we recall, the personality of
President Daniel H. Wells. A man among ten
thousand, remarkable in appearance, in features,
in bearing,and in all the great and noble qualities
of head and heart that mark the men of destiny.
Brave and fearless as a lion in times of danger
or peril, yet tender and gentle in times of peace
and security. Loyal in the best sense of the term
to his manhood, his country, and his God. In
every place, and at all times true to his friends
and the principles he had made the guide of his
life. But he has been called away to join the in-
numerable number of the just, gone to the society
of the prophets and patriarchs, whom he knew
and loved while here. Gone to fill some higher,
holier mission,there can be no doubt in the minds of
those who knew his fitness for the Master's work.
His labors in the Temple here were indeed a
blessed preparation for the work behind the vail.
His days were filled up with usefulness; he
labored long, faithfully and untiringly, and re-
joiced and was glad of the service he was able to
render for Zion. No sacrifice was too great for
him to make, no labor too arduous to undertake,
if it was to promote the interests of the kingdom
of God, or benefit the people with whom he had
cast his lot. He lived for others more than for
himself as great men ever do; he was as free
from selfishness or self-aggrandizement as it was
possible for a man to be. His integrity to the
Gospel was beyond question. The trying ordeals
through which, in the course of his life, he was
called to pass only made more apparent the true
greatness and sublimity of his character.

"For as gold is tried by fire
So must the heart be tried by pain."

	President Wells never shrank from trials how-
ever severe, but grew strong and valiant for the
truth, the more he was tried. The writer has on
more than one occasion heard him repeat with
much depth of feeling those grandly eloquent
words of Job: "Though He slay me, yet will I
trust in Him." The natural refinement of soul
and boundless charity that always characterized
this great and good man,shone in his countenance
vividly as he advanced in years,softening to saint-
liness the outlines of his magnificently massive
head and face. Those who saw him in his holy
calling in the House of the Lord felt how suited
was the great high priest to the sacred offices in
which he officiated.
	Language fails to give expression to the heart
when such a man passes away. Many have been
the sentiments of love, affection and esteem
spoken and written of him since his death, faith-

[Column 2]

ful tributes to his memory, and he deserved them
all. He was beloved by the people, and he loved
them truly. Those who are faithful and endure
unto the end will meet him again; the assurance
of the Resurrection of the body was one of his
favorite themes, and the joy of meeting those he
loved on earth,renewed and quickened, redeemed
and glorified, to dwell together in the family rela-
tion, was the hope firm as an anchor to his soul
and led him to exclaim with the Psalmist, "I shall
be satisfied when I awake in thy likeness."

	Daniel Hanmer Wells was the son of Daniel
and Catherine Chapin Wells, and was born at
Trenton, Oneida County, New York, October
27, 1814. His father served in the war of 1812,
and was a descendant of the celebrated Thomas
Wells, the fourth Governor of Connecticut, who
was several times elected alternately as Governor
and Lieut. Governor of that colony.
	The mother of the deceased was the daughter
of David Chapin, a revolutionary soldier and con-
nected with one of the oldest and most dis-
tinguished New England families. He served
under the immediate command of Washington
during the greater part of the War of Inde-
pendence.
	In 1826, when he was but 12 years of age, his
father died and then he took upon himself the care
of the family. Six years afterwards, with his mother
and sister, he moved to Ohio, and the following
spring to Illinois. He took up his abode at
Commerce, then a small village, but it was after-
wards noted as the "Mormon" city of Nauvoo.
Here he was elected constable, then justice of the
peace, and was an officer in the first militia or-
ganization of the district. He was a Whig in
politics and figured prominently in the political
conventions of the period. He was an ardent
champion of universal liberty and a foe to oppres-
sion in every form. He was highly esteemed by
people of all parties and creeds, and frequently
acted as arbitrator in difficulties between neigh-
bors and families. "Squire Wells" was noted, in
that early day, as a man of strict integrity, with
a high sense of justice and impartiality.
	In 1839, when the Saints,fleeing from Missouri,
settled at Commerce, he aided in securing for
them a cordial welcome. He owned, among
other pieces of property, eighty acres of land on
the bluff. This he platted into city lots and let
the poor and persecuted "Mormon" refugees have
them at very low figures and on long time for
payment. This endeared him to the people and
determined the location of the chief part of the
city, and of the Temple which was built on land
that had belonged to him.
	"Making the acquaintance of the Prophet
Joseph Smith he became strongly attached to him
though then unconnected with the Church.
When the Charter was granted by the Illinois
Legislature to the City of Nauvoo, he was elected
an Alderman and member of the City Council,
also a Regent of the University and a Brigadier-
General in the Nauvoo Legion. He was promi-
nent in the city affairs and supported every public
measure for the progress and welfare of the
citizens. When the opposition to the "Mormons"
reached its height, General Wells remained on
the side of the assailed people and would not join
in any of the movements for their injury. The
murder of the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph
and Hyrum, aroused his deepest indignation, and
he strongly protested against the demand of the
Governor of the State for the arms of the Legion,
which was made under the pretext that the people
of Nauvoo might attempt to avenge the slaughter
of their leaders.
	At the time of the exodus of the main body of
the Church from Nauvoo, and the remnant that
were left being attacked by their enemies after
having been promised prctection, Squire Wells
espoused the cause of this oppressed and perse-

[Column 3]

cuted people. His "gallant defense" of the
"Mormons" at that time will never be forgotten,
his fortitude and courage were "a tower of
strength" to those who were defending them-
selves against their enemies. The story of his
valor is graphically told by those who partici-
pated in that terrible struggle, when the aged, the
poor and helpless were compelled to leave Nauvoo
and camp upon the opposite banks of the
Mississippi River. He was the last one to leave
when the city was evacuated, and was fired upon
after crossing over into Iowa.
	He immediately started for Winter Quarters
where the Saints were camped,and rode day and
night, accompanied by Wm. Cutler, to report the
condition of the people and urge the necessity of
the teams being sent to help them.
	Squire Wells was baptized on the 9th of August,
1846, and from that time his progress has been
onward and upward; though he left all he held
dear on earth at that time for the Gospel's sake,
his wife and only child, his worldly possessions,
his honor and good name among men, and allied
himself with a people unpopular, and at that time
compelled to flee beyond the bounds of civiliza-
tion because of their religious faith. He came to
the valley in 1848, and has resided in Salt Lake
City ever since, except when away upon missions.
In the organization of the Territory,he took a prom-
inent part, and was elected to the first Legislative
Council of the provisional State of Deseret and
appointed as State Attorney; he was also elected
Major General of the Nauvoo Legion, the State
militia, by the General Assembly, May 26, 1849.
March 27, 1852 he received the rank of Lieutenant
General of the Legion, and was commissioned by
Governor Brigham Young, March 7, 1855. He
was afterwards re-elected Lieutenant General
April 6, 1857. General Wells conducted the
Indian campaigns with great military skill, and
succeeded in saving the Sanpete and Sevier
settlements from the dire disasters that threatened
them. His command of the Echo cañon expedi-
tion is a well-known historical event, and won
for him the undying admiration of the Mormon
people. For many terms Hon. D. H. Wells was a
member of the Legislative Councils, and of the
several Constitutional Conventions, with the ex-
ception of the last one in 1885, and filled other
important positions in the building up of the
country, such as Superintendent of Public Works,
Chancellor and Regent of the University of
Deseret for many years, and Mayor of Salt Lake
City ten years. The first time the women of Utah
cast their ballots was for the election of D. H.
Wells for Mayor of the City, for his third term, on
the 14th of February 1870.
	On January 4, 1857, Daniel H. Wells was or-
dained an Apostle and set apart as Second
Counselor to President Brigham Young in the
First Presidency of the Church, which office he
filled until the death of President Young, when he
was appointed a Counselor to the Twelve
Apostles. When the Manti Temple was dedi-
cated May 21st, 1888, he was appointed to take
charge of it as President, and he truly magnified
his calling in that responsible capacity, and grew
more and more into the hearts of the people as
they visited that sacred place and received bless-
ings and ministrations at his hands. But he
has gone, and the places that knew him will know
him no more until he comes forth clothed with
eternal life in the resurrection of the just.

IMPOSING FUNERAL CEREMONIES.
	On Sunday March 29th (Easter Sunday), the
large Tabernacle was filled with people, as-
sembled to pay the last tribute of respect to
General D. H. Wells. The procession left the
house in time to reach the Tabernacle at noonday.
The building was beautifully draped in soft white
cashmere, festooned with bows of white satin rib-
bon,and hung gracefully here and there were long


[Column 1]

﻿white cords and tassels, the most exquisite taste
was manifested in the draping and the decorating
with flowers and evergreens. The flower pots
were also covered with white draping,which gave
them a beautiful appearance and the whole effect
was emblematic of innocence and sublime purity.
	As the body, carried by the pall-bearers and fol-
lowed by the family, entered the Tabernacle, the
whole congregation rose and reverently re-
mained standing until the casket containing the
remains was put in its place in front of the stand
and the family were seated. The casket was an
elegant one of pure white, mounted with silver,
and engraved Daniel H. Wells, aged 76 yrs.
The floral emblems were very chaste and beauti-
ful, some of them particularly striking, a crown, a
harp of lilies, a cushion with the word Rest, a
basket of exquisite flowers and a snow white
dove with outstretched wings upon the top of it,
sheafs of ripened wheat tied with bands of white
ribbon with floral sickles, and a great bunch of
calla-lilies, and several other varieties, bouquets,
etc.
	The music of the organ commenced with a re-
quiem for the dead when the procession entered
the building, and the effect was most solemnly
grand and inspirational. Such notes of lofty
music are the best expression of grief possible
for those who mourn. In the centre of the front of
the organ hung a striking portrait of General
Wells.
	Of the General Authorities of the Church
seated on the stands there were, of the First
Presidency, Wilford Woodruff and George Q.
Cannon; of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Francis
M. Lyman, John Henry Smith, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Anton H. Lund, and Abraham
H. Cannon; Patriarch, John Smith; of the First
Seven Presidents of the Seventies, Jacob Gates,
Seymour B. Young, C. D. Fjeldsted, John Mor-
gan, B. H. Roberts, and George Reynolds; of the
Presiding Bishopric, William B. Preston, Robert
T. Burton and John R. Winder.
	There were also, of local authorities, President
Angus M. Cannon and Counselors Joseph E.
Taylor and Charles W. Penrose, besides a large
number of Presidents of Stakes and other leading
brethren from various parts of the Territory.
And almost the entire body of workers from the
Manti Temple.
	The services were opened by President George
Q. Cannon, who announced the hymn commenc-
ing:

"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone.
The  broad bereavement seems to fall
Unheeded and unfelt by none;
He was beloved, beloved by all"

	The opening prayer was offered by Elder
William C. Dunbar.
	The choir then sang that beautiful poem from
the pen of Henry W. Naisbitt:

"Rest, for the weary soul,
Rest for the aching head,
Rest, on the hillside, rest
With the great uncounted dead."

	President Wilford Woodruff was the first
speaker; he paid a fitting tribute to his departed
brother and associate, and gave excellent counsel
to the saints. His remarks were consoling and
clear, comprehensive and full of inspiration. In
reference to death and funerals he said:
	"I will express myself here to my friends, as I
have done on many occasions, with regard to
funerals, with regard to death, and with regard to
going into the spirit world. I have never felt to
mourn in my spirit to follow any Prophet, any
Apostle, any Saint of the living God to the grave
who has been true and faithful to God, who has
been true and faithful to his covenants, who has
received the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and the or-
dinances thereof, and the holy Priesthood. Such

[Column 2]

men and women have filled their missions here
upon earth with honor, with labor, with love, until
they have been called home. They have
died in the faith, and they will receive
a crown of glory. These have been
my feelings in the death of President Young,
Brother Kimball, Brother Taylor, the Twelve
Apostles, and all men who have received the
Gospel of Christ and been true and faithful in
that mission. There is an eternal reality—which
the whole world will find out—in life. There is
an eternal reality in death. There is an eternal
reality in the resurrection, and in the future judg-
ments, and in God's dealing with all men in the
future according to the deeds done in the body;
and when a man or a woman who has entered into
covenant with the Lord, who has received the
Gospel and the ordinances thereof, and been true
and faithful in his or her day and generation, has
been called home into the spirit world, where is
the man who comprehends these principles that
can mourn for that brother or sister? Here lies
before us the tabernacle of Counselor Daniel H.
Wells. His death has been sudden to us. I did
not know that he was sick, or that he was in the
city, till about two days before his death. Well,
we mourn his loss. We feel his loss. All those
associated with him do. We feel the loss of men
occupying such positions as he has done. His
position has been very responsible. He has
magnified it unto the end. Now, when Brother
Wells' spirit left his body, what was his con-
dition? Well, I have my faith and my views with
regard to it. When his spirit left his body he
met with a corps of friends ready to receive him
—those friends with whom he has dwelt, with
whom he has labored, with whom he has toiled
in building up the Church and Kingdom of God
on the earth. There is rejoicing when the spirit
of a Saint of the Living God enters the spirit
world, and meets with the Saints who have gone
before him."
	Apostle Anton H. Lund referred to the ex-
cellent qualities of the departed and to the high
esteem in which he was held by his co-laborers
in the Manti Temple. He said: "We are
gathered here today to pay our respects to our
beloved brother, President Daniel H. Wells, who
has just departed. With you I feel the loss we
have sustained, because I have had the privilege
of being associated with him for the last three
years in the Temple at Manti. During that time
I have much enjoyed his company and felt that he
was indeed a man of God. He was a man of
great kindness, coupled with rare ability. It was
pleasant to meet him every morning and to feel
at home in his presence. It was pleasant to
listen to his discourses. They were brief, but
gems of wisdom. And those who have been as-
sociated with him will remember his teachings
and impart them to their children after them. I
know this to be the feeling of all who have
labored with him in the Temple.
	"Brother Wells, although he loved the Saints
from the time when they came to Nauvoo, was
not at first impressed with their doctrines, until
he heard the Prophet Joseph preach on "baptism
for the dead." This principle he at once accepted
as true, and he decided to devote his life to the
work for the departed. It was the charity and
the infinite mercy shown in the doctrine that im-
pressed it upon his loving heart.
	"One day he was walking on the street in
Nauvoo when Brother Kimball came up behind
him, touched him on the shoulder and said, 'You
are thinking of joining the Church and becoming
one of us.' He was startled, because he had not
mentioned what he felt to any one. He did not
join this people until they had suffered the ut-
most, and he did not cast his lot with them be-
cause he expected any worldly returns. He
received a testimony of the truth and therefore
he became one with us.

[Column 3]

	"After having referred to the labors of the de-
ceased in the Endowment House and in the
Temple, the speaker said that the words of the
Apostle Paul could properly be applied to
Brother Wells: "I have fought a good fight; I
have finished my course; I have kept the faith;
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousness." (2 Tim., iv., 7-8.) He fought
indeed the good fight, and kept the faith. The
work in the Temples is eminently a labor of faith.
	"Few have performed so much work of this
kind as he. He spent his time and his means in
that direction, and worked for a great many on
the other side of the veil. I have no doubt that
he has now met with many of those who through
his ministrations have received the truth.
	"May God bless his family and friends who are
left here to mourn his departure."
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards spoke as fol-
lows: "Beloved friends, I share with you the loss
that we have sustained by the departure of this
great and good man, who has finished his earthly
course, and whose remains are here with us to-
day.

	"I must now stop to go into details; but I
would like to tell you that he was much beloved
by the Prophet Joseph. The fact that Brother
Wells was with the Saints in the various circum-
stances which attended them during their sojourn
from 1839 to 1846, in Nauvoo, created in the
hearts of all the people an affection for him that
has intensified ever since.

	"We have seen him promoted to the highest
military rank known in the existence of a Terri-
tory of the United States, and we have seen him
with his officers gathering men and means and
going to various positions in the Territory to sub-
due the occasional hostilities which occurred with
the Indians. But he was most careful lest there
should be any bloodshed, and the aborigines came
to learn through his kind though firm treatment
that this people were their true friends; for he
taught them that it was better to fight them with
tobacco and biscuit than powder and lead. His
officers all loved him, and the longer his associa-
tion with them, the deeper became their attach-
ment to him. We have known him too as a
foreign missionary. Twice has he been to
European countries, preaching the Gospel, pro-
claiming it both verbally and through the press.
His acquaintance among the human family was
extensive. All Israel seem to know him today
and he knew all Israel; for when he came to be
a counselor to the First Presidency, he traveled
and labored throughout the length and breadth of
the Territory. Some of us have had the satisfac-
tion of enjoying those sacred seasons with him.
And how he loved them! How he sought by
night and day to interest all God's people! He
never appeared to set anything before this pur-
pose of his heart. And then he was called to
labor in the Endowment House. My own ex-
perience with him enables me to say that we have
very few men in Israel who understand and com-
prehend the law of God and can make so careful
and faithful an application of it to the multifarious
conditions of the human family as did President
Daniel H. Wells. His great experience in this
enabled him to do it with love and affection, by
which he technically maintained every right and
every interest of all concerned.

	"May the Spirit of the Father be upon the sor-
rowing ones, abide with them, and be ever near
to whisper to them words of comfort and conso-
lation; and may God guide them in that honor-
able course until they reach that happy end to
which Brother Wells has attained. We cannot
mourn for any sin of omission or commission on
his part; but we shall feel his absence keenly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPEECH OF REV. ANNA H. SHAW.

[Concluded.]
ordained for the work. because otherwise she
could not have done her work so well.
	This same divine tells us that Miriam was
not God's woman either; that she was a sort
of something interpolated for the times of
war and distress. All great souls are in-
terpolated for great occasions when they are
needed. And when God wants a certain
thing done that He knows needs a woman to
do it, He generally raises up a woman and
not a man for the position. The world
needed a woman. Here was a boy, Moses,
under the reign of a man, by whom Moses
would have been put to death in his baby-
hood, but that the loving heart of his mother
said, "He shall not die," and she hid him
away.
	We are told that women have no reasoning
powers. They are not able to arive at logical
conclusions. When I was in the theological
school, a young man who was studying
theology, and who was arrayed, as they always
are during the first year, with a coat buttoned
up high around the neck, and all that, said
he thought it was his duty to warn me in
the beginning. He said: "You are making a
great mistake. God never intended a woman
to preach the gospel. God has so constructed
the brain of a woman that she cannot give a
correct and continuous exegesis of Scripture."
Doesn't that sound like a first year student?
"It may be," I said, "that God has construct-
ed our brain so that we cannot give a correct
and continuous exegesis of the Scripture.
But He has at least constructed our brain
so that somewhere or other He has found a
place in it in which He has bestowed a large
amount of gumption. Now if we do not pos-
sess exegetical ability, we at least have gump-
tion enough, if we undertake to preach and
find our church empty, to get out of the pulpit
and into the pew. What a grand thing it
would be for the church at large if the other
sex had some of that kind of gumption! There
would not be some bishops who are preaching
today.
	Now this woman, Miriam, we are told, is
not God's woman. But see this little woman's
gumption, how she gets around the young
princess and the mother-heart of the young
princess, goes out towards the baby! She was
a woman, though she was a princess. See how
shrewdly this little girl planned it so that the
child's mother should become his nurse, and
how, under the guidance and care of his
mother, Moses was reared to become the leader
of the people of Israel! You see that in all
that transaction, God did not need a man, and
He did need a great woman; and He found
women enough of the kind He wanted to do
just the work that He wanted done. What more
natural than that when Moses, years after, led


[Column 1]

the people out from Egypt, there went by the
side of the great leader his sister Miriam, and
that they, with their other brother, became the
united leaders of the children of Israel out
from their bondage?
	If God chose a woman to act in these cases,
when the world needed a clear brain, a tender
affectionate, loving, motherly heart, a firm and
determined will, and chose the woman to do it,
and if when the people needed a leader to
guide them out of bondage to freedom, He
chose a woman to be among the leading in-
struments of that great undertaking, who
shall dare to say, be he layman or priest, that
such a woman is not God's woman?
	The Bishop says there are certain classes of
women who are God's women. We want to
know who they are, because then we can range
ourselves on the right side. God's women
according to the Bishop, are "the Ruths, the
Rachels and the Marys." We have some of
the Marys here. Ruth was a remarkable wo-
man, because Ruth was absolutely devoted to
her mother-in-law, and that takes a great wo-
man. I shall never rise to say that a woman
devoted to her mother-in-law is not God's wo-
man. But then, Ruth had some peculiar ways
of getting along in this world. I hardly think
the Bishop would like to have some of us who
are unmarried follow Ruth's method of secur-
ing a husband. I hardly think he would like
us to follow her line of courtship; yet the only
two things for which she is admired are a de-
votion to her mother-in-law and a peculiar
method of obtaining a husband. These are
perhaps two very good things in themselves,
but we should hardly think they were of such
importance to the race that such a woman
should be especially held up as a type of God's
woman.
	Then there was Rachel. We know two or
three things about Rachel. One is that she
had such a high sense of the subserviency of
woman to man, that, while the lazy shepherds
lay about, gazing at each other, and at the
skies, and perhaps at her, she left them gazing
while she went to the well to draw water to
water the flocks. That might be the Bishop's
idea of God's woman, but it is hardly my idea
of the proper division of labor between the
sexes. I should prefer to let the Bishop draw
the water while I gazed. There is another
thing we know about Rachel—that she was
a very handsome woman. Every man and
every woman likes to see a handsome woman;
but I have heard it said that women are al-
ways jealous of each other's beauty, and al-
ways angry if anybody says anything about
the beauty of another woman. This gathering
of women is certainly an exception to the rule
for we have been the proudest set of women
you ever saw, because in the providence of
God there has been gathered here with us in
this council such a magnificent band of beau-
tiful young women of whom we are all proud,
and we glory in their beauty. Those of us
who have passed our youth, look at these
young girls, not with envy, but with a little
bit of pain in our hearts, and say: "If God
had only made us that way, we would have
been glad." We do rejoice in each other, and
we are glad of a good-looking young woman.
Rachel was so good looking that Jacob wanted
to marry her, and he worked seven years for
her. She must have been a very desirable
woman for Jacob to give seven years' hard
labor for her. Nowadays if a man courts for
a few evenings he thinks it is plenty of time
to spend on it. Jacob waited seven years and
then got cheated out of the woman he wanted,
and had to marry her eldest sister. Rachel,
however, was a courageous woman, and he
was a faithful man, so he waited seven years
more. The only other thing I know about
Rachel is, that the Bible says she wept for her
children because they were not. The inference

[Column 2]

is that you men may go on behaving, as you
say you do, improperly in politics; that you
may make the politics of this nation dark,
damaging and unclean; that at last you may
have an unrighteous war, and then take our
children and kill them on the battlefield, and
all we have to do about it is to stay at home
and weep for our children because they are
not! We are to have nothing to say as to
whether you shall kill them or not. All we
are to have to do about it is to cry about it.
	Then the Bishop tells us Mary was one of
God's women. There are a number of Marys,
and the Bishop does not designate which of
them it was. If he means the Mary out of
whom the seven devils were cast, I should not
agree with him. If it was the Mary who
washed the feet of Christ and wiped them
with the hairs of her head, in token of peni-
tence, I admire her penitence, but I do not
admire the sin that led to the necessity of that
penitence. If it was the Mary who was his
mother, the Bishop has brought forward the
wrong Mary to prove his case. What does the
Bible tell us? In the fulness of time, God
needed for the world a Redeemer. How
should He give the Redeemer to the world?
He gave the Redeemer to the world by choos-
ing out of the world a woman to become the
mother of the Savior of the race. God and a
woman gave to the world its Redeemer. Men
were counted out of the transaction. She did
a great work for the world, but she did not do
it in her kitchen, cooking chickens for con-
ference season and other occasions when the
ministers came around.
	Then there was another Mary, and she is the
Mary whom I have taken as my example in
my profession. This was the Mary who stood
by the tomb of the Lord, and there at the
mouth of the open tomb she received the first
divine commission from the Divine One Him-
self to go out into the world and preach the
gospel of a risen Lord.
	We have one other Mary, and that Mary
was the Mary who sat at the feet of the Lord
learning theology of Him; and the only reproof
the Lord ever gave a woman was not given to
Mary,the theological student,but to Martha,the
woman who worried about her house-work, and
wanted Mary to give up theology and go into
the kitchen and cook the dinner.
	Now then, here are the Marys, two of whom
were sinners. One was the mother of the
Lord, doing the greatest public work for the
race that has ever been done in the world.
One was a woman who was a theological
student learning at the feet of the Master The
other was the first divinely commissioned
preacher of the resurrection. I am glad that
Bishop Vincent holds that women ministers
are God's women; that women theological
students are God's women; and that the wo-
man who was the mother of the Savior of the
world was also God's woman. I believe they
were; I believe that the Miriams and the
Hesters and Vashtis were God's women too.
	When I was a girl I read the Bible through
in order to select from it the two people who
were to be my hero and heroine through life.
My hero was Jacob, and my heroine Vashti.
Vashti disobeyed her husband, and left her
palace because she had disobeyed her husband.
I selected Vashti from among them all, be-
cause she did disobey her husband—a woman
away back in the centuries, who recognized the
dictates of her own self-respect; a woman who
refused to become the puppet of a king, and
of his drunken courtiers; a woman ready to
give up a man and a throne, a husband and a
kingdom, rather than do an ignominious thing;
such a woman is God's woman,husband or no
husband. I wish the world were full of
Vashtis today, standing by the right of their
individual self-respect; and I sigh to God for
such womanhood.

[Column 3]

	The concluding remarks of Bishop Vincent
were in relation to motherhood. He referred
to that passage of Scripture which we have
heard so much about in this discussion. "She
shall be saved in childbirth." Most of us re-
gard this passage of the Scripture as meaning
that she shall be saved by the coming of the
Child—shall be saved by the birth of Jesus
Chirst. She shall be saved because Jesus
Christ came into the world to save not man
alone, but women also. Women shall be saved
because of the coming of Him who is the
Emancipator of the race, women included.
Believing this, we think the discussion which
has been raised upon this line is a mere make-
shift; it has nothing to stand upon.
	There are two things to be considered in re-
lation to motherhood. We have heard that
motherhood is a crown of glory. They say
motherhood is the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. We answer, No;
motherhood is not the greatest crown of glory
which a woman can wear. Motherhood may
even not be a crown of glory at all. Motherhood
may or may not be a crown of glory. It may be-
come a crown of shame. It requires that there
shall be a something back of motherhood to
define what motherhood shall be, and in this
something back of motherhood lies that which
shall make it a crown of glory. The highest
crown of glory which a woman can wear is
not motherhood. The highest crown of glory
which a woman can wear is womanhood—true,
noble; strong, healthy, spiritual womanhood;
the daughter of the King, the child of God,
the heir of the Lord Jesus Christ, equal with
Bishop Vincent, or any man in the world. If
the woman is first of all a woman, motherhood
shall become to her a crown of glory; but after
she is a woman, all things shall be to her a
crown of glory, whether it be motherhood or
spinsterhood. The mother heart of woman,
the mother heart that reaches out to the race
and finds a wrong and rights it, finds a broken
heart and heals it, finds a bruised life ready to
be broken and sustains it—a woman in-
stinct with mother-love, which is the expression
of the Divine love, a woman who, finding any
wrong, any weakness, any pain, any sorrow,
anywhere in the world, reaches out her hand
to right the wrong, to heal the pain, to com-
fort the suffering—such a woman is God's wo-
man. It matters not where she may be;
where she was born, under what skies she has
lived; she is God's woman, and at last she shall
find her God.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S NATIONAL COUNCIL.

RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, That it is the unanimous voice of
this Council that all institutions of learning
and of professional instruction, including
schools of theology, law and medicine, should
in the interest of humanity, be as freely
opened to women as to men; that opportun-
ities for industrial training should be as gen-
erally and liberally provided for one as the
other, and that the representation of organized
womanhood in this Council will steadily de-
mand that in all avocations in which both men
and women engage, equal wages shall be paid
for equal work; and, finally, that an en-
lightened society should demand, as the only
adequate expression of the high' civilization
which it is its office to establish and maintain,
an identical standard of personal purity and
morality for men and women.
	Resolved, That the National Council en-
dorses the general features of the plan of or-
ganization outlined in our president's address,
and that the general officers fully elaborate the
plan between this and the next session of the
National Council.
	Much interest will be felt in this proposed


[Column 1]

plan of organization, which is very full and
comprehensive. It is outlined by Miss
Willard as follows:
	"I believe we should organize a miniature
council in every town and city, confederating
those in every State, and instructing the State
Council to send delegates to the National
Council. The plan would be to let these de-
legates form a lower and the heads of national
societies an upper house, whose concurrent
vote should be essential to the enunciation of
any principle, or the adoption of any plan.
The president of this society should be (as has
already been wisely ordained by this Council)
eligible for but one term, and should have
power to choose her own cabinet from the
seven ablest women of the country, represent-
ing the industries, education, professions,
philanthropies, reforms, and the religious and
political work of women. We should thus
have have within the national government, as
carried on by men, a republic of women, duly
organized and officered, not in any wise an-
tagonistic to men, but conducted in their in-
terest as much as in our own, and tending to-
ward such mutual fellowship among women,
such breadth of knowledge and sympathy as
should establish solidarity of sentiment and
purpose throughout the nation of women-
workers, put a premium upon organized as
against isolated efforts for human betterment,
minify the sense of selfhood and magnify that
of otherhood, training and tutoring women for
the next great step in the evolution of
humanity, when men and women shall sit side
by side in government and the nations shall
learn war no more.
	"The Upper Council, as it might be called,
would, by this plan, consist of two delegates
from each society which, in its judgment, was
national in scope or value, one being the presi-
dent of that society, the other chosen by bal-
lot at its last annual meeting preceding the
session of the Council (which I would have
convened biennially). This Upper Council
would answer to the Senate of the United
States, and the Lower Council, made up of
delegates chosen by the forty-four State Coun
cils from their auxiliaries, would be analogous
to the House of Representatives. We should
thus have an organization that would include
all the various groups of women hitherto
isolated (and, as a consequence in some degree
provincial), while its basis would be so broad,
its aim so far-reaching, and its plan so unique
that no other society could consider its realm
in any wise encroached upon.
	"The same democratic basis of organization
should extend to the local councils—i. e., each
should be made up of two delegates from
each local society of women in the city, town
or village, one being the president of said local
society and the other chosen by ballot of that
society. The State Council should be made
up of two delegates each, chosen in like man-
ner from the local councils, these to form a
lower house in the State Council, and the
presidents, with one other representative of
each State Society, to form the Upper Council
in each State, the president and vice-president
of the National Council to be elected bienni-
ally by a popular vote of all members of all
local societies tributary to the National
Council.
	"We have wished for a method of inducing
women to cast their ballots on a large scale;
this would be quite sure to arouse an enthus-
iasm that would "call out the vote."
	"As a financial basis, I would propose a dime
a year to the National Council from each
woman in each local organization of women
in the United States. This would be burden-
some to no one, and would be paid outside of
all other fees.
	Such a national society would incalculably
increase the world's sum total of womanly

[Column 2]

courage, efficiency, and esprit de corps; widen-
ing our horizon, correcting the tendency to an
exaggerated impression of one's own work as
compared with that of others, and putting the
wisdom and expertness of each at the service
of all Nor would it require a vast amount
of effort to bring such a great movement into
being, for the work of organizing is already
done, and the correlating of societies now
formed could be divided among our leaders,
each one taking a State, or a number of chief
towns and cities.
	Being organized in the interest of no speci-
fic propaganda, this great Association would
unite in cordial sympathy all existing societies
of women, that with a mighty aggregate of
power we might move in directions upon
which we could agree.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Emma Leach and Mrs. Beach have
recently became editors and publishers of the
Ackley (Ia.) Tribune.
	The New England Women's Club has
voted by a large majority to join the General
Federation of Women's Clubs.
	Of the $95,500 appropriated by Congress
for the National Commission of the World's
Fair, $36,000 is for the use of the Women's
Board of Managers.
	A reception was given on the evening of
March 31, at the New Century parlors in
Philadelphia, to Miss Susan B. Anthony,
Miss Florence Balgarnie of England, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofiord and Rev. Anna H, Shaw.
Mrs. Amelia E. Barr has just completed a
Scotch romance, entitled "A Sister of Esau,"
which she has sold to the New York Ledger
for $2,500. The story is laid in Fife. Mrs.
Barr is residing now at Orange, N. J.
	The attempt at co operative housekeeping in
Evanston, Ill., has failed. The Co-operative
Housekeeping Association has made an assign-
ment in the County Court. The assets are
$4,000, and the liabilities, $4,900. House-
keepers all over the country will regret it; but,
despite difficulties and frequent break-downs in
getting started, co-operative housekeeping is
bound to come.
	The appointment of Miss Emily Howland
as a director of the First National Bank,of
Auburn, N. Y., has called attention fo the
fact that several other women hold similar
positions. Mrs. C. McCullough Everhard has
been a director of the Union National Bank
of Massillon, O., for the last three years. The two
largest national banks in San Antonio, Tex.,
have each a woman among the directors.
Mrs. A. E. Stribling has occupied such a
place in the San Antonio National Bank for
ten years, and Miss Sara Lockwood in the
Lockwood National Bank for five years.
At Mt. Sterling, Ky., Mrs. Laura M. Bent
was elected director of the Farmers' National
Bank in 1887, and has the same office in the
New Farmers' Bank, which has succeeded the
former institution.


[Column 1]
		NOTICE.

	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics will
open at No. 24 S., 7th East St., Monday, April
13th, at 10 a. m. The great demand for well
trained nurses and competent accoucheurs,
should be a stimulus to those ladies who have
aptitude for these noble works, to-take advant-
age of such schooling as that given in Dr.
Shipp's classes, which is always on easy terms
and very satisfactory. For particulars com-
municate with Dr. E. R. Shipp, either per-
sonally or by letter.
[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest.  Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup

WOMAN'S 
CO-OPERATIVE 
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
 INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH 
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE 
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
		S. W. ECCLES,
		Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Addres  DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1891.	NO. 20.


CONTENTS.

	Mother, Home and Heaven—S. W. Richards.
Women in the Year 2000—Edward Bellamy.
Notes and News. Faith, Hope and Charity—M,
E. K. Far From Home—E. A. C. Watson. R.
S. Reports. N. A. W. S. A. of Utah Ter.—Ada
Croxall, Sec. In Memoriam. National-Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Convention. Miscellaneous.
The World's Fair. Notice.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference Edi-
torial Notes. The Woman's Relief Society.
Statement of the Lady Managers. Greeting.
"This Woman Beat Ingalls."
	POETRY:—A Sonnet—M. G. McClelland. In
Memory of Prest. Daniel H. Wells—Julia A.
Macdonald. Easter-Tide—Margaret E. Sangster.
The Mormon—Ella A. Gillan.


A SONNET.

"I love you"—ah! 'tis but a little thing,—
A sentence short, three tiny words,—and still,
Not poet's art, nor yet musician's skill,
Such wondrous happiness can bring
As these. O mystery-breathing spell,
Come to this heart of mine, and tell
The stories garnered through the years,
The hope made manifest, the tears
Checked at thy whisper, tender, sweet,
Soft as the wood-dove's cooing and complete
As life's fulfillment, or the grand dream
Of selfishness for love, God's master theme.
O soulful words, my spirit touch, and bring
The joy of life's celestial awakening.
		M. G. MCCLELLAND.


IN MEMORY OF PREST. DANIEL
H. WELLS.

	[By an humble admirer of his life and works, Salt Lake
City, Sunday, March, 29th 1891.]

	Silently weave him a spotless shroud,
	Oh, white-winged snow, this hallowed day!
	A shroud of ermine, soft and white,
	Set round with pearls and crystals bright;
	By rays reflected through rifted cloud
	As the Day-god takes his way.

	Daintily lift your beauteous heads,
	Snow-drop, crocus, and violet—
	Sweet harbingers of early Spring!
	Up through the snow your offerings bring;
	Deck thou the Hero's lowly bed
	With your blossoms, dewy-wet.

	Tenderly thou his requiem sing,
	Oh, feathered choir, with voices sweet;
	Now soft, now low, from tiny throats,
	Now full and clear the music floats.
	O'er hill and dale your praises bring,
	And lay them at his feet.

	Prayerfully enter the sacred fane,
	Friends of the brave, illustrious dead:
	Gaze once more, ere hid from view,
	On form and feature in life ye knew;
	Reverently asking we too may gain,
	The goal, by the path he led.

	Tenderly over the threshold bear
	The pale, unconscious form of clay—
	All that is left us of him we love!
	Freed from its trammels he lives above,
	Joyfully, tenderly greet him there,
	Friends of an earlier day.

	Peacefully lay in his narrow bed,
	E'en as a child that goes to rest,
	The Patriarch's form. His was a life
	Grand, consistent, with goodness rife;


Safe we can judge him with heaven wed,
Sure that our God knows best.

So weave a shroud of ermine;
Sweet birds, a requiem sing;
Lift up your heads, bright flowers—
A floral off'ring bring.
Let Zion's sons and daughters,
Their hearts and voices raise,
In sweetest song and music,
A noble man to praise.
And ye, his friends and brethren,
Grown aged in the fight;
For tribute of true friendship
To him, your hearts unite.

Last, and to him, the dearest, 
Fond children, loving wives,
God's comfort be upon you,
Throughout your future lives.
Until your labors finished,	
And earth's career at end,
You meet, in radiant mansions,
Your father and your friend.
					JULIA A. MACDONALD.


MOTHER, HOME AND HEAVEN.

		BY S. W. RICHARDS.

	It has been said the three dearest words in
our language are Mother, Home, and Heaven.
Not in view of questioning the absolute truth
of this assertion, but for the purpose of giving
it due recognition I give it a brief considera-
tion.
	There is in fact both truth and propriety in
the order in which these words appear.
Mother is first, from the simple fact that there
can neither be home nor heaven in their com-
pleteness without mother.
	This is not a startling assertion when we
consider that these terms are used as applicable
to the mind of man, and all men are—have
their being, because of the labor and kindly
offices of mother. Where mother is there is
home, and every child under the smiles and
influence of mother’s love may cherish hopes,
and foretaste the joys of both home and
heaven.
	That happy joyous home, with mother’s
presence blest, and virtuous influence felt, is
truly a delightful foretaste of the joys of that
heaven which is beyond—that everlasting
home which is so earnestly desired—because
mother has taught us here that home, in its
true significance, implies all that can be de-
sired by the human soul. To be at home
with all of home’s delights, implies the happi-
ness of heaven, the soul’s full feast of bliss.
	Of the earthly home, where the hopes of the
eternal are in mother’s genial rule supremely
radiant,the poet’s language is but true, that
		“Heaven on earth is now begun."
	To be the“mother of all living”is an office,by
whomsoever filled, of no mean import, and in-
volves a labor embracing the most responsible
duties of human existence. It is within the
plan of the divine government, and of the
creation, that it shall be the duty of some one
or more, to receive each human being on its
entrance into life and provide for its nurture
and education. God could not fail to throw
upon some one the important duty of receiving
and training the immortal spirit for its work
here on earth, and its employments in an antici-
pated future.
				*	*	*

[Column 2]
	Thus the family becomes a necessity, grow-
ing out of the relation of husband and wife,
and while the father devotes his attention to
the more stern and rigid labors necessary to
provide food for the body, the mother has the
exalted duty of looking after the spiritual de-
velopment, by which the child is stimulated
to love and duty, thought and affection, which
bring into play all our emotional nature, all
our kindly feelings. all those dear charities
which grow up around our homes. Love of
mother grows up in the child with the life he
draws from her breast, under these conditions;
but let a child grow up without home and
mother, and love is not there. No man or
woman was ever duly educated, upon whose
mind has not been brought to bear the love,
the tender sympathy and influence of mother,
to mould and develop the affections of the
soul.
	The father, mother and child, are necessary
to the realization of all that home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home implies.
Neither can be absent, and the home be what
God has designed it should be— the nursery
of the human soul; and when we scan the
duty and responsibilities of mother, we must
say, she constitutes the link that binds father
to son, the temporal to the spiritual, the
spiritual - the soul of man—to God; conse-
quently, no home on earth or in heaven can
be complete in its emotional development and
enjoyment without mother.
	Next to mother comes home. It is the earthly
type we have of heaven. How sweet the word!
What beautiful and tender associations cluster
thick around it! It warms the heart, and stirs
the very soul of man to love its quickening
impulse. It has inspired with courage and
patient endurance, the careworn sons of toil,
both on sea and land, and the very thought
of home has been a shield to virtue, and
brought back many a wanderer from the
paths of vice.
	The believer delights to think of heaven as
a home. He associates with with it all that im-
parts a sacredness to the homes of earth; and
more—all that imagination can picture of
happiness and bliss, without pain or sorrow;
freed from all life’s ills, and radiant with the
divine presence and glory that shall eclipse
the noonday sun, and fill every possible de-
sire for the immortal beatitudes, and riches of
an endless life.
	Mothers who do their duty to children
when young, and make the virtues of Gospel
truth the first impress upon the infant mind,
are the real saviors of men. I do not say re-
deemers, but saviors; preserving them in the in-
nocence with which they received them, with
the assurance 'that a child trained in the way
he should go, when old, will not depart from
it.’ Though they may stray from home they
will return to it. Though they may be from
heaven, they will come there again, with an
everlasting recognition and appreciation of
mother's love and care. Who would not be a
savior upon Mount Zion—a loving mother—
an efficient co worker with man’s Redeemer?
MOTHER first, then Home and Heaven.


Mrs. Esther T. Housh, state president of the
Vermont W. C. T. U., who is now on the edi-
torial staff of the Household, has been con-
tributing to the Union Signal a series of
articles on Dorothea Dix.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN IN THE YEAR 2000.

			BY EDWARD BELLAMY.
	(Author of "Looking Backward," etc., etc.)
	It is assumed that the year 2000 will
see Nationalism fully established as the basis
of the industrial system and of society, so far
as dependent upon it. Judging from the
signs of the times, I think it would be quite
safe to make the date seventy-five years earlier,
but for the benefit of those weak in the faith
it is set well ahead. As there are doubtless
some who do not understand very clearly what
Nationalism is, it may be well enough just
here to explain, so far as may be done in a
phrase, that it proposes turning over all the
business of the country to a single firm, of
which all the people, women as well as men,
shall be employess,and in the proceeds of which
all shall be equal partners. Leaving wholly
aside, for the present purpose, all explana-
tions as to the details of this plan, and all
questions as to its feasibility, it is simply
proposed to point out certain ways in which
the position of women would be affected by
its successful introduction.
	We are to suppose that every adult woman
in the United States—while required, like
every adult man (except as modified by sex
conditions), to perform some self-elected
useful work—had coming to her a regular
annual income in the form of credit, to be
expended as she pleased, equal say, to the
present purchasing power of $1,000, $3,000 or
$5,000,more or less,according to the prosperity
of the national firm, said income to be the
same in amount with that received by her
brother, husband, or father, but not to come
to her through them or through any other
intermediary, but directly from the national
administration, as a matter of constitutional
right.
	Now, considering the fact that woman,
owing to her comparative physical disqualifica-
tions as a worker, has hitherto been, as a rule,
wholly or partially dependent upon the favor
or affection of men for the means of a secure
and comfortable existence, it is evident that a
system like that described would, by render-
ing her entirely independent of men in this
respect, make a great alteration in her posi-
tion.
	Obviously the most important single re-
spect in which it would be altered would be
as to her attitude toward marriage. She
would no longer be obliged, as most women
now are, to look forward to marriage as offer-
ing, if not absolutely her only means of support,
yet at least as constituting her main hope of a
secure and comfortable life. The only possible
motive which would then impel her to give
herself to a man would be that she loved him.
May and December might still mate. Beauty
might still wed the Beast,but the sourest cynic
would no longer be able to attribute an un-
worthy motive to the bride. However sordid
she might become under temptation,then there
could be none, for not only would she be un-
der no necessity of marrying at all, but the
wealth of all her possible suitors being the
same, she could have no motive, save love or
admiration for marrying one more than another.
	Not only, however, would Nationalism guar-
antee woman dignity and independence before
marriage, but equally afterward. That event
in no way would affect her rights as a citizen
and a partner in the national concern. 	The
humiliation of complete pecuniary depen-
dence upon their husbands, of being obliged to
ask for all they have, beyond bare bread and
meat, which the best and noblest of wives
now have to endure, the wife of the year 2000
would never know.
	Let us suppose, on the other hand, that her
heart, remaining untouched, she had preferred
to remain single.

[Column 2]
	At the present time, a popular presumption
exists that all girls wish to marry, and fail to
do so because they lack an eligible opportunity.
This presumption exists on account of the ob-
vious fact that women, being able with diffi-
culty to support themselves, have in general a
greater material interest in marriage than men
have. Surely there can be few incidents
of an unmarried woman's condition more
exasperating than her knowledge that because
this is the undeniable fact it is vain for her to
expect to be popularly credited with the volun-
tary choice of her condition. She must en-
dure with a smile, however she may rage with-
in, the coarse jest or innuendo to which it
would be worse than vain to reply. National-
ism, by establishing the economic independence
of women, without referring to their single
or married state, will destroy the presumption
referred to by making marriage no more ob-
viously desirable to one sex than to another.
	Would you gain a realization of the position
of the "old maid" in the year 2000? If so,
look at the lordly bachelor of to-day, the hero
of romance, the cynosure of the drawing room
and of the promenade. Even as that bright
being, like him self-poised,sorely insouciant,free
as air, will the "old maid" of the year 2000 be.
It is altogether probable, by the way, that the
term "old maid" will by that time have fallen
into disuse.
	But while the unmarried woman of the year
2000, whether young or old, will enjoy the
dignity and independence of the bachelor of to-
day, the insolent prosperity at present enjoyed
by the latter will have passed into the salutary,
if sad, eclipse. No longer profiting by the
effect of the pressure of economic necessity
upon woman, to make him indispensable, but
dependent exclusively upon his intrinsic attrac-
tions, instead of being able to assume the
fastidious airs of a sultan surrounded by
languishing beauties, he will be fortunate if he
can secure by his merits the smiles of one.
	In the year 2000 no man, whether lover or
husband, may hope to win the favor of maid
or wife save by desert. While the poet, justly
apprehending the ideal proprieties, has always
persisted in representing man at the feet of
woman, woman has been, in fact, the depen-
dent and pensioner of man. Nationalism will
justify the poet and satisfy the eternal fitness
of things by bringing him to his morrow-bones
in earnest. But, indeed, we may be sure that
in the year 2000 he will need no compulsion to
assume that attitude.
	It implies no disloyalty to the womanhood
of to-day to believe that the personal dignity
and moral freedom,unkown before to her sex,
which will be the birthright of woman in the
twentieth century, can not fail to react most
favorably upon herself, ennobling her graces,
clothing with a new majesty her beauty, and
making her every way more worthy than ever
before of the reverence and devotion of man.
	There is another and profoundly tragic as-
pect of the relation of the sexes, which by no
means may be passed over in considering what
Nationalism will do for womanhood. The
same economical pressure which brings the
mass of women into a relation of dependence
upon men, rendered more or less tolerable
according to the degree of mutual affection, re-
duces a great multitude of women, who are
not fortunate enough to find adequate mascu-
line support, to a form of slavery more morally
degrading than any other, and more complete
in its indignity. The most ancient form of
bondage,which has grown up with the race and
flourishes to-day in the face of civilization and
Christendom as widely and vigorously as ever,
which no wisdom of the economist, no zeal of
the philanthropist has ever availed to  dimin-
ish, Nationalism, by the necessary operation of
its fundamental principle, will at once and for-
ever extirpate. Want on the one hand will

[Column 3]
then no longer drive the virtuous woman to
dishonor, nor on the other will wealth, in the
hands of unscrupulous men,tempt her frivolous
sister.—From Ladies' Home Journal.


LAWRENCE BARRETT.

	Lawrence Barrett, the actor, is dead; died
of heart failure said the telegrams which
flashed the sad news over our country. If he
died from heart failure, he died as he wished
he might, without struggle or pain. It is to
be hoped that his beautiful life ended peace-
fully. Mr. Barrett did more to elevate the
American stage than any living actor. He
was a student, a lover of art, a lover of poetry
a lover of home. He was pure in his thoughts,
clean in his speech, an example in manners,
and cheerful in disposition. Mr. Barrett was
great both as an actor and a man. He was
one of the most generous men I ever knew;
no needy soul was ever turned from his door
with "no." He was lovable, his neighbors
loved him, his friends worshipped him, his
family adored him.
	I asked him one day if he did not get tired
seeing the curtain rise and fall. "no," he
said; "on the contrary, I like to see it, but it
always reminds me of a day when it will fall
for the last time to me; but you know with my
faith, it will no sooner fall closing in the dark-
ness and silence of death's night, than it will rise
in the brightness of the morning." He has gone
into the darkness and stillness of the night;
may his rest be sweet. He will live in the
hearts of his family as a lover, in the pro-
fession as a great actor, in art as a reformer,
in society as a cultured man, and in the world
as a philanthropist.
	Peace to his ashes, progress forever to his
spirit.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A delegation from eighty Women's Liberal
Associations lately waited upon Mr. Gladstone
and asked him to support the bill allowing wo-
men to serve on county councils. Mr. Gladstone
answered that the principle was all right, and 
that he did not think there would be much 
opposition to the measure. 
	The recently appointed executive committee
of the Board of Lady Managers for the World's
Fair met in Chicago, April 8. Mrs. Potter 
Palmer divided the country into four parts of 
equal population, and selected six ladies from
each part to form the executive committee
which consists of Mrs. Jonas H. French, Boston;
Miss Ives, New Haven, Ct.; Mrs. Amy M. 
Starkweather, Pawtucket, R. I.; Miss Ellen
Ford, New York; Miss Mary E. Busselle,
Newark. N. J.; Miss Mary McCandless, Pitts-
burg; Mrs. William Reed, Baltimore; Mrs.
Newton Linch, Martinsburg, W. Va.; Mrs. 
John A. Logan, Washington; Mrs. Susan C. 
Cook, Knoxville, Tenn.; Miss Nellie E. Beck,
Tampa, Fla.; Mrs. Mary C. Cantrell. George-
town, Ky.; Mrs. James P. Eagle, Little Rock,
Ark.; Miss Shakespeare, New Orleans; Mrs. 
Rosine Ryan, Austin, Texas; Mrs. Virginia 
C. Meredith, Cambridge City, Ind.; Mrs.
Edward L. Bartlett, Santa Fe; Mrs. Sarah S. 
C. Angell, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Mrs. Henry M. 
Shepard, Chicago; Miss O. E. Miller, Cedar
Rapids, Iowa; Mrs. Francis B. Clarke, St. 
Paul; Mrs. John S. Briggs, Omaha; Mrs. E. 
W. Allen, Portland, Oregon; Mrs. Solomon
Thatcher, Jr., Chicago.


If you want to be miserable think about
yourself—about what you want, what you
like, what respect people ought to pay to
you, and what people think of you.—Charles
Kingsley.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EASTER-TIDE.

O, rare as the splendor of lilies,
	And sweet as the violet's breath,
Comes the jubilant morning of Easter,
	A triumph of life over death;
For fresh from the earth's quickened bosom
	Full baskets of flowers we bring,
And scatter their satin-soft petals
	To carpet a path for our King.

We have groped through the twilight of sorrow,
	Have tasted the Marah of tears;
But lo! in the gray of the dawning
	Breaks the hope of our long silent years,
And the loved and the lost we thought perished,
	Who vanished afar in the night,
Will return in the beauty of spring-time
	To beam on our rapturous sight.

Sweet Easter-tide pledges their coming,
	Serene beyond trouble and toil,
As the lily upsprings in its freshness
	From the warm, throbbing heart of the soil.
And after all partings, reunion,
	And after all wanderings, home;
Oh, here is the balm for our heartache,
	As up to our Easter we come !

In the countless green blades of the meadow,
	The sheen of the daffodil's gold
In the tremulous blue on the mountains,
	The opaline mist on the wold,
In the tinkle of brooks through the pasture,
	The river's strong sweep to the sea,
Are the signs of the day that is hasting
	In gladness to you and to me.

So dawn in thy splendor of lilies,
	Thy fluttering violet breath,
O jubilant morning of Easter,
	Thou triumph of life over death!
For fresh from the earth's quickened bosom
	Full baskets of flowers we bring,
And scatter their satin-soft petals
	To carpet a path for our King.
		MARGARET E. SANGSTER in Harper's Basar.


THE MORMON.

Roll back, oh flight of time, to other years,
Gaze on the past through mist of blinding tears;
Dwell on the laws of ancient prophecy;	
Prepare thy soul for all eternity.

Oh, Mormon, thy lot seems ever hard to bear,
Thrust in the gloom of deep despair:
Thy powers usurped and all the laws o’erthrown,
Thou art environed, no sympathy is shown.

Severed from ties dearer to thee than life,
Torn from thy hearth in bitterness and strife;
And all thy years of labor and of gain
Are swept away and all thy struggles vain.

When thou didst take possession of this land,
'Twas but a barren waste, a wide expanse,
With hostile foe to quell and chance thy fate,
With naught to do but labor and to wait.

And thou did'st labor long and labor well,
Or was thy heart ere known to once rebel 
From early morn until the close of day,
Still labored on to keep the wolf at bay.

And with thy skill and patience all those years,
Endowed with strength to overcome thy fears,
Thou would’st have gained the victory benign,
Unbiased in thy thoughts and love divine.

But here a change comes o’er thee like a pall,
Thou art compelled to drink life’s bitter gall,
The soul doth yearn for freedom’s cause sublime,
The foe has wrought their evil power's design.

			THE GENTILE

We gloat upon this wondrous growing town,
We now rejoice we put the Mormons down;
'Tis not enough to take their homes away,
But with our laws compel them to obey.

We take from them their church enshrined with care,
Quiessence of the soul in solemn prayer;


The Mormon Temple of the throne of grace,
We give it back as hire their sacred place.

Ah, Gentile, restore to them their house of God,
Its founder lying now beneath the sod;
And of his chosen band I grieve to say,
We have ensnared and found an easy prey.

Roll on, oh, flight of time to coming years,
Seraphic forms will chase away thy fears;
Around the throne of fair elysiums shrine,
Thou wilt be blessed, oh, Mormon soul divine.
				ELLA A. GILLAN, a Gentile.


FAITH, HOPE AND CHARITY.

	This subject is most beautifully illustrated
by the angel Moroni, or prophet as you may
choose to call him. I will say, however, it was
Moroni who had charge of the records and
gave them to the prophet Joseph Smith. And
I believe it to be the same one whose words
are recorded here.
	Moroni says "if you have not faith in Christ
then ye are not fit to be numbered among the
people of His church. And again my beloved
brethren I would speak unto you concerning
hope.
	"How is it that ye can attain unto faith, save
ye shall have hope? And what is it that ye 
shall hope for? Behold I say unto you, that
ye shall hope, through the atonement of  Christ
and the power of His resurection, to be raised
unto life eternal."
	"And this because of your faith in Him
according to the promise; wherefore; if a man
have faith, he must needs have hope."
	"And again I say unto you, he can not have
faith and hope save he shall be meek and lowly
of heart; if so his faith and hope is vain; for
none are acceptable before God, save the meek
and lowly of heart, and confesses, by the power
of the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he
must needs have charity; for if he have not
charity he is nothing; wherefore he must needs
have charity.
	"Charity suffereth long, and is kind, and
envieth not, is not puffed up, seeketh not her
own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil,
and rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in 
the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, hopeth all things, endureth all things;
wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have
not charity ye are nothing, for charity never
faileth."
	"Wherefore cleave unto charity which is the 
greatest gift of all, for all things must fail;
but charity is the pure love of Christ, and it
endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed
of it at the last day, it shall be well with
them."
	"Wherefore my beloved brethren pray unto 
the Father with all the energy of your heart,
that ye may be filled with this love which he
hath bestowed upon all who are true followers
of His Son Jesus Christ, that ye may become
sons of God, that when He shall appear we
shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He
is, that we may have this hope, that we may be
purified even as he is pure. Amen."
	Book of Mormon page 556, Sec. 7, begining
at the 4th verse.
	It seems that St. Paul and Moroni see this
subject alike; which they would not fail to do,
both being in the possession of the same
spirit.
							M. E. K.


FAR FROM HOME.

	This is a lovely Sabbath day,the elements are
so beautifully calm and pleasant, seeming to
add a sublimity to the day of days, when we
are commanded to rest from worldly cares and
keep holy this the Lord’s day.
	Perhaps some may deem me weak-minded,


but whenever my hands and mental faculties
cease to perform the labors of the week, my
mind instantly flees to dear, dear “Utah the
queen of the West,” how I love her beautiful
vales and my heart yearns for the blessed
privileges and associations so oft enjoyed “in
the land of my choice.” When a little girl I left
the country of my birth with my father, he
desiring to dwell in a land where he could be-
lieve and live in accordance with his real con-
victions; now I’m a woman and have little
girls of my own, we leave that haven of peace
and religious freedom, because we have so be-
lieved and lived. Ah, Time! why these
changes ! I only ask that I may have grace to
sacrifice and submit resignedly. Since my
last communication I have traveled northward
one hundred and thirty miles and find quite a
contrast in climate and surroundings generally.
It is much cooler here now than where I have
been during the wintry months, though the
hearts of those I have made the acquaintance
of here are just as warm as though they dwelt
in the sunny south. I have met with those
who were total strangers to me,yet showed con-
sideration and kindness far exceeding any an-
ticipation of mine; then too, when one is lo-
cated in sight of telegraph and stage coach,
the intervening distance between one and home
does not seem so great.
	Most of the Church organizations, Y. M.
and Y. L. Mutuals, Primary and R. S. are in
active operation here, though conducted some-
what differently from any I know of in Utah;
one good thing can be said of the Sabbath
school, its order could rarely be surpassed.
The Primary meetings are not running at
present on account of sickness of some of the
officers; there are two very sad cases here, both
being widows and their recovery is very doubt-
ful, one of whom is only about twenty years
of age. 
	Panaca is a prosperous, pretty little town,
the people marked with order and intelligence,
and the many bright faces of the children
make one feel quite in Mormondom, yet there
is something lacking, that I consider a loss or
disadvantage, they do not receive spiritual in-
struction direct from the leaders of our faith
as we have so often in Utah; the visit of an
Apostle is almost unthought of as being re-
alized. Were it possible, too, for the sister
workers in the Relief Society or any of the
L. D. S. women’s organizations to come and
see us that we might get personal advice from
our co-laborers at the head, it would build up,
infuse new light, ideas and hopes into the
labors of the sisters here, and bury the feeling
of being numbered with the slighted ones. Of
course there is a just cause for this remote
spot not enjoying this privilege, and, perchance
would not be considered so seriously by those
who had not so thoroughly sensed the benefit
derived from counsel and encouragement ad-
ministered with that love and power that those
in responsible positions possess.
	I watch and wait anxiously for the coming
of the paper,it being the main source of obtain-
ing any information of the movements of my
Utah sisters in the spiritual and heavenly
labors. 
					E. A. C. WATSON.
	Panaca, April 12,1891.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president of the Wimo-
daughsis, was given a reception last Saturday at
Indianapolis, by Mrs. May Wright Sewall and
the other ladies of the Propylaeum, the Wo-
man’s Club of that city. Miss. Shaw is now
filling engagements in Michigan. She will be
one of the speakers at the annual convention
and festival of the New England W. S. A.,
in May.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.  No
reduction made for clubs.  City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY., UTAH.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	APRIL     15,	1891.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The second Annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held Tuesday, April 7, 1891, in the
large Tabernacle in this city Pres. Zina D. H.
Young presiding; Counselors B. W. Smith and
J. S. Richards were present on the stand also the
Treasurer M. I. Horne, Cor. Sec. E. B. Wells
Assistant Sec. Dr. R. B. Pratt and Pres. E. S.
Taylor of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Meeting opened with sining, “Lord we come
before thee now, &c.” Prayer by Mrs. Susan
Grant, continued by singing “Now let us rejoice
in the day of salvation.”
	Pres. Young made the opening address of wel-
come in her usual kindly manner, felt to pray
that our coming together might be profitable to
all, and that union and love and perfect harmony
might prevail; thought if we had brought with us
that heavenly garment, the mantle of charity, that
all would be greatly blest. “The eyes of the
world are upon us, let us set them a good ex-
ample, let us not crave worldly things but be
covetous of the things of God, my heart is full of
blessings for you my dear sisters I know you de-
sire to be fed with the bread of life,”
	Minutes of semi-annual Conference in Oct.
1890 read and accepted. Pres. Mary John re-
ported Utah Stake, Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear
Lake Stake, Counselor Ann C. Woodbury, St.
George Stake; Susanna Briggs of Lyman Town,
reported Bannock Stake, Counselor Elizabeth
B. Mitchell, Uintah Stake, Annie Bird reported
Cassia Stake, and referred to the Fair the sisters
of that Stake had held last fall, which made a
very good showing in various kinds of needle
and fancy-work and almost every thing that wo-
men and children could make or raise; quite a
sum of money had thus been raised to help in
starting their Stake Academy. Counselor Sarah
P. Crosby reported Panguitch Stake; Pres. Mary
A. Hyde, Sanpete Stake.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards, said, “it is a great
comfort to come here and listen to the good
things that have been said today. Last fall I
could not attend our Conference but I prayed for
you, at home we can look to the Lord when we
are about our work, Sister Eliza used to tell us to
go to meeting often, so we would be missed
when we were away. It is in the line of the
work of the Relief Society to wait upon the sick
and the distressed; and we are often detained at
home on account of these duties, but whoever
regrets doing for the poor and sick? We are
not left without the Holy Spirit, even though we
are kept from meeting. The Gospel is our joy,
and we are used to trials; (sometimes I think my
path is a little thorny) and we’ve always had
trials since the days of Nauvoo and some of us
before, I don’t know how much farther back; I
started for Missouri but did not get there was

[Column 2]
stopped on my way.” The speaker then alluded
to the hymns she loved and said she found great
comfort in the singing, referred to the beautiful
hymn “Nearer my God to thee,” and said, “it al-
ways seems to bring us nearer and we feel an
acceptance with Him, we must not forget to pray
and continue to ask the Lord to help us in our
labors. We had an excellent report of our
Society read at the General Conference." Mrs.
Richards then reported briefly and in an interest-
ing manner, her visit to Washington, referring in
terms of praise to the ladies, of the Council and
Convention, and how attentively she had listened
to the many good speeches and addresses that
were given and papers that were read, thought
the majority of the women interested in these
great organizations that were represented there
were working for reform and to elevate humanity
and to bring about a better state of things; com-
mended their energy and wished they had the
Gospel to help them.The speaker had taken great
pleasure in conversing with these ladies in rela-
tion to our position here and the work in our as-
sociations also; they always wanted to hear a
little more,and would say they had been mistaken
in regard to us, there was not much time to con-
verse with them as the meetings occupied nearly
all the time; they inquired if we were not going
to Mexico or the Sandwich Islands, she had in-
formed them we were going to stay, they thought
the Gentiles were crowding us out; they are
anxious to know more about us and by and bye
they will be coming to us. “Let us keep up our
organizations and not vary from the way in which
we have held our meetings and Conferences.
We calculate that our Relief Society will lead
off, it has been organized  forty years and we
don’t expect to be superceded, let us not be dila-
tory but energetic and the Lord will bless all our
efforts, and we must be ever mindful of the sick
and needy.”
	Pres. Young followed with a few remarks, re-
ferred to what had been said of the women of the
world, their labors and aspirations, spoke of the
part they were taking in the World’s Fair; said
we are blessed above all women; blest even
more than words cau express. The prince of
this world is on the alert, let him find no malice
nor unkindness nor hate in us; that beautiful
thought that came to me this morning as I stood
here about the mantle of charity, let us be
clothed with it;” the speaker urged the sisters to
send the children to the Primary and try to en
courage those who labored in these associations;
spoke of the First Presidency and the Apostles
having been invited to attend the Conference,
and that there would likely be some of them
present in the afternoon.
	The Treasurer of the Central Board, Mrs. M.
I. Horne read a report of the money donated from
the several stake organizations of the Relief
Society for representation at the Woman’s
National Council in Washington, and to defray
the expenses of sending delegates.
	Dr. Pratt then read the totals of the statisti-
cal and financial report of the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Richards made some explanation in re-
gard to the means expended at the Council, that
in addition to the fee for admittance, there were
appropriations to be made for different purposes
that were expected of the delegates, &c. Meet-
ing was adjourned until 2 p. m., singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,” benediction
by Counselor B. W. Smith.
			[To be continued.]


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The “Utah Woman Suffrage Song Book" pre-
pared for use in the Suffrage Associations in
this Territory by the publishing committee of the
U. W. S. A. is for sale at this office and will be
sent to any address on receipt of order for any


number required. The songs are all suitable for
simple,well-known tunes and it is expected that
the book will be widely circulated and the songs
used to enliven the meetings. The publishing com-
mittee are anxious to dispose of the books in
order to pay for the printing and it is desirable
that the several associations should purchase a
sufficient number to dispose of in their respective
localities; price 10 cts. each. Address Office
WOMAN’S EXPONENT 25. E. South Temple St.
Salt Lake City.

	It seems to us a desirable thing that the women
of Utah should begin to consider what they can
do to help in making some representation in the
woman’s exhibit at the World’s Fair in Chicago,
in 1893. The time may seem a long way off
now but “time flies" and  if one wishes to do an
elaborate peice of work and do it well, it is best
to begin in season; none of course but the very
finest work of its kind will be suitable for a
World’s Fair. There are women in this Terri-
tory wno make exquisite lace aad who are in-
genious and skillful not only with the needle but
in many other departments of woman’s work;
even to the fine wood carving with a penknife etc.
Utah women are noted for industry, energy and
perseverance and should not be behind in mak-
ing a good showing on such a wonderful occasion
sa an event of so much importance as the great
World’s Fair of 1893. Considering Queen Isa-
bell’s connection with the discovery of America
women everywhere should do all in their power
to help in making the Fair a success.


THE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY.

	[Paper read at the Woman's National Council
Washington D. C, Feb. 25, 1891.]
	The Women's Relief Society, with headquart-
ers in Utah and branches in adjoining states and
territories, has had nearly half a century of life
and earnest work.  Though operating in a
sparsely settled country and far removed from
the peculiar miseries known to large cities, the
society has had a vast field for its operations;
since the early poverty and privation of the peo-
ple with the consequent demands upon the time
and resources of men, have left domestic charity
almost exclusively to women. The general
officers of the central organization are Zina D. H.
Young, President; Jane S. Richards, First Coun-
selor; Bathsheba W. Smith, Second Counselor;
Snrah M. Kimball, Secretary; Romania B. Pratt,
Assistant Secretary; M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer; and Emmeline B. Wells Cor. Sec.
A branch of the society exists in nearly every
village of Utah and the surrounding region, also
in several of the other states of the Union, and in
Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland, Scandi-
navia, the Sandwich Islands, Australia, New
Zealand and other foreign countries; each local
branch having its board of officers to correspond
with the general organization. Frequent confer-
ences keep alive the unity of the society and in-
sure the efficient system of its labors. There
are more than 400 of these branches, with a total
membership of about 25,000 persons. More than
one hundred thousand dollars worth of real
estate, consisting of halls, storehouses, granaries
etc., is owned by the organization. It has on
hand the following resources to be drawn upon
for charities and relief work:
	Fifty thousand bushels of wheat; twenty thou-
sand dollars worth of other property, consisting
of prodnce, clothing, household goods etc., and
fifteen thousand dollars in cash.  As fast as these
resources are consumed, they are replenished by
the contributions of members. The Society
maintains a large hospital, the chief physician of
which is Mrs. Dr. Pratt, a graduate of eastern
medical schools and a prominent member of the
society. Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, herself an


enthusiastic worker of the Society, edits and
publishes the WOMAN'S EXPONENT which is the
recognized organ of the association.
	Primarily, and as its name implies the Women's
Relief Society is an organization for the purpose
of benevolent work. To this end, it seeks out the
sick and the needy, without regard to creed, and
ministers to their wants. It provides food, cloth-
ing and shelter for the destitute, and gives nurses
to the sick. It provides safe employment for
worthy women; and supplies good homes, rai-
ment and education to impoverished orphans.
It is an active worker in the cause of temperance
and an uncompromising foe to the dram-shops
and the liquor dealer. In the success of its be-
nevolent and temperance labors, it has gone be-
yond any limited sphere and has accomplished
notable results for the general elevation of wo-
man. Eor instance, it has trained a large nnm-
ber of its members in business methods, prepar-
ing them, through society responsibilities, to
carry private business cares, should circum-
stances lay such burden upon them. It has
taught them what wonderful power and influence
for good are required by the united movement of
women in a community. Under the superb sys-
tem of organization and solidly in vogue, the
society's members have learned that they can
grapple successfully with all the ordinary destitu-
tion which appeals for relief, and accumulate
means with which the society's usefulness,
strength and independence are constantly aug-
menting. Its meetings have been a good training
school for public speaking; and the society
furnished a common rallying ground for the wo-
men of Utah when they had the franchise and
insured a solid vote of women in favor of public
honor and economy and such private morality as
can be fostered by wise and prudent local ad-
ministration of government. When the happy
day dawns upon Utah, that will restore the politi-
cal rights which were so inconsiderately taken
from cur sex by Congressional enactment, it will
be found that the Relief Society can furnish a
body of intelligent voters, who by experience in
business affairs and observation of the wants of
humanity, are as well fitted to wield the ballot as
any other citizens of the Republic.
	Whatever may be woman’s destiny in politics and
professional life, there is one realm in which her
sovereignty will remain forever undisputed—the
realm of unselfish benevolence—the true charity
which extends daily relief to suffering humanity,
without seeking plaudits or outside recognition.
This has been the work of our Women's Relief
Society and such will continue to be its divine
mission. We nail with joy the Councils of wo-
men and desire to unite with them in all that tends
to elevate our sex and advance the human race.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			
.


STATEMENT OF THE LADY
				MANAGERS.

	AN OFFICIAL COMMUNICATION GIVING THE
	REASONS FOR PHOEBE COUSINS’ REMOVAL.

	The following official statement of the trouble
with Phoebe Couzins has been given out by the
executive committee of the board of lady man-
agers:
	“TO THE LADY MANAGERS OF THE COLUMBIAN
COMMISSION:—Your executive committee now in
session in the city of Chicago requests your kind
consideration of the following statement concern-
ing its action in removing Miss Couzins from
office and the authority and reasons therefor, as
they are here set forth. Articles 4 and 5 of the
by-laws of the board of the lady managers,
adopted Nov. 25, 1890, read as follows:
	ART. 4. Officers of the board of lady man-
agers; The officers of this board shall consist of
a president, whose official title shall be president
of the board of lady managers of the world’s


Columbian commission; nine vice presidents,
who shall be denominated as first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth vice presi-
dents and a vice president at large, and a secre-
tary, all of whom shall hold their office at the
pleasure of the board of lady managers.
	ART. 5. Executive committee: There shall
be an executive committee, consisting of twenty-
five members besides the president, each of whom
shall be appointed by the president, each of the
standing committees to be represented on the ex-
ecutive board. The said committee, when the
board is not in session, shall have all the powers
of the board of lady managers. Ten members
shall constitute a quorum, and the committee may
make such regulations for its own government
and the exercise of its functions through the
medium of such sub-committees as it may con-
sider expedient. This committee shall recom-
mend to the chief commission such employees and
agents as may be necessary and shall distinctly
define the duties. They shall report fully all
their transactions to the board at its stated and
special meetings. In case of any vacancy in the
committee the same shall be filled by appointment
of the president. In all cases where managers
who are members of the executive committee are
absent their alternates are directed to represent
them on the committee.
	The following is the action of the world's
Columbian commission at its session in this city
Wednesday, April 1, 1891:
	Resolved, 5. That, owing to the evident inten-
tion of Congress to allow few meetings of the full
board of lady managers, the executive committee
thereof or a sub-committee of said executive
committee is hereby authorized and empowered
in the absence of the board, to exercise any and
all powers which said board might exercise in
session, including the right and privilege of
amending its by-laws should said executive com-
mittee or sub-committee at any time deem it
necessary or advisable."


GREETING.

	“The journalistic temperament is almost the
finest in the world—keen, kind, progressive and
humanitarian.  Take away the hallucination of
nicotine and the craze of alcoholic dreams, and
you would have remaining an incomparable set of
brother-hearted men.”
					FRANCES E. WILLARD.


“THIS WOMAN BEAT INGALLS."

	Of all the speakers in the remarkable series
of women’s conventions recently held in Wash-
ington, it is probably within the truth to say that
none made so marked an impression as Mrs.
Mary E. Lease, of Kansas; for, as one of the
New York papers declared in its largest head-
line, "This Woman Beat Ingalls.” If any man
would know the manner of woman reformer who
hails from “the broad prairies of Temperance and
Humanity—loving, sunny Kansas,” let him read
Mrs. Lease’s speech at Washington in defence of
the Farmers’ Alliance movement. If the reader
is not thrilled by the throbbing eloquence and
rhetorical beauty as well as by the moral intensity
of that address, he may never hope to be moved
by noble speech. Mr. Ingalls is eloquent, too;
but his is the eloquence of telling and felicitous
phrase and of polished wit. It was no match
for the prophetic enthusiasm of Mrs. Lease, who
is the Jeanne d’Arc of the farmers and working-
men of Kansas, and who has an army of Kansas
women of like spirit at her back. For the
Farmers’ Alliance admits women on equal terms
with men, and it already includes half a million
women in its membership. The Republican
majority in Kansas was thought invincible; and


yet the Farmer's Alliance last November elected
five farmer Congressmen out of seven, secured
the State Legislature, and replaced the world-
famed United States Senator Ingalls by the ob-
scure farmer Mr. Peffer. Mrs. Lease and the
women of Kansas are are in a large measure re-
sponsible for the success of the agitation.
	The fact is that the farmers, who are today as
they have always been the most typical and rep-
resentative element of American citizenship, are
tired of old-time party politics. Like the com-
mon folk of England  *	*  what is wanted is a 
new programme of social politics for the people.
The Farmers' Alliance simply breathes the spirit
that is in the air. The Western farmers know
that things are somehow wrong. They have
been trying to solve the puzzle. Doubtless their
diagnosis of society's diseases, and still more
their remedial formulas, are at some points ab-
surd. But they are honest and earnest, and in
many of their views they are clear-headed and
right. They have at least made one grand dis-
covery; namely, that they have been delegating the
business of government to politicians and lawyers,
and that if the interests of the masses are indeed
jeopardized by the syndicates and monopolies 
and growingly dominant corporations, it is high
time for the people to cease electing to legislative
and executive posts the classes of men most
amenable to the influences of corporate wealth
and power.
	The Western farmers believe that the "money
power" has been robbing them through an actual
or relative contraction of the circulating medium;
and they believe in free silver, if not in limitless
issues of irredeemable paper. Far from wishing
dishonestly to scale down the mortgages on their
farms, they desire only that money should have a
normal purchasing power. It is so easy to criti-
cise the extravagance of the accusations that
these reformers often make, and to point out
fallacies and heresies in their economic creeds,
that there is danger lest the East may forget to
note the advantage to the country that can but
accrue from the aroused mental political and
social activity of the Western farmers.
	Mrs. Lease's confidence in the Farmers' Alliance
as a piece of permanent machinery may be wholly
misplaced; but it is the spirit of awakening and
of energetic action behind the organization that 
is significant.


R. S. REPORTS.

		RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATION.
	Meeting held for the purpose of organizing
a Relief Society in the Cleveland Ward,
Emery Co., March 12, 1891. Bishops Charles
Pulsipher of Huntington, and L. P. Overson
of Cleveland; Annie Larsen,  Stake President
of Relief Society and Counselor Ann Pulsi-
pher, were present. Meeting opened by sing-
ing "Praise ye the Lord, 'tis good to raise."
Prayer by H. H. Ovaitt. Singing "I know that
my Redeemer lives."
	The following officers were then appointed
and sustained by unanimous vote: Annie M.
Alger, President; Ann Eden and Louisa
Overson, Counselors; Harriett Eden, Secre-
tary; Agnes Ovaitt, Ass't. Sec.; Margaretta
Johnsen, Treasurer.
	President Annie Larsen expressed her
pleasure at meeting with the sisters of the
ward. Spoke at length on unity and prayer.
Gave general instructions to the officers in
their different positions.
	Coun. Ann Pulsipher was pleased to witness
an organization here, and said it was the duty
of all to have the Spirit of the Lord with
them.
	Annie M Alger, Ann Eden, Bishop Pulsi-
pher, H. H. Ovaitt, Thomas Farish and
Bishop Overson, all expressed themselves


pleased with the meeting, and gave words of
counsel and encouragement.
	Choir sang "Doxology." Benediction by C.
Pulsipher.
				ANNIE M. ALGER, Pres.

			ST. JOHN'S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the St.
John's Stake of Zion, convened in the upper
room of the Tithing Office, at St. John's Mar.
7th, 1891, Pres. E. L. S. Udall presiding.
Congregation sang, "Now let us rejoice in the
day of salvation." Prayer by Counselor
Frances White. Congregation sang, “How
firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord.”
After reading reports and presenting officers,
the remaining time was occupied by the fol-
lowing speakers: Pres. E. L. S. Udall, Mary
E. B. Farr, Mary Farr, Counselor Margaret
E. Patterson, E. N. Freeman and Wm. 
Gibbons, of the Stake Presidency, and Coun-
selor Frances White.
	The subjects spoken of were prayer, the
vision of Nephi, bearing of testimony, influ-
ence of mothers over their children, condition
of woman among the nations of the earth
showing the difference between us and them,
regarding our advantage over them. Pres.
E. S. Udall after making some timely remarks
regarding the duties of R. S. presidents, read
an article from the Gazette, on the "Woman
Suffrage Bill” now before the Territorial Leg-
islature. The meeting was a very interesting
and instructive one, the remarks being ac-
companied by that Holy Spirit which brings
peace and joy to the soul.
				MARY E. B. FARR, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	﻿ N. A. W. S. A. OF UTAH TER.
	An executive session of the Utah W. S. A.,
was held April 3, 1891, at 10 a. m., in the
Assembly Hall. Salt Lake City. Mrs. Pheobe
Y. Beatie presiding. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. M. Mitchell. The minutes of the execu-
tive session of the Association held Oct. 3,
1890, were read and accepted. The Treasurer
gave her report which was accepted.
	Mrs. Hannah Dunkley, a representative
from Utah County, reported that the organiza-
tions in that section were in a favorable con-
dition and much interest was taken in them;
that three auxiliary branches had recently
been organized, making in all, eight branches
in that county, while there were still other
branches waiting to be organized.
	Lucy A. Clark represented Davis County.
There are four branches in that county and
others would be organized. In Farmington
the gentlemen had been working with the ladies.
	Salt Lake County was represented by Dr.
Maggie C. Shipp.  Ellen Jakeman was
present in behalf of Sanpete County where
there are ten branches all successfully study-
ing the subjects pertaining to the work.
Emily Richards represented Weber County.
Pres. Kimball stated that Sanpete was the
first to respond to the call for names and that
it furnished most of the names sent to Wash-
ington, a large portion of them being men.
Sarah A. Fullmer, Pres. of the W. S. A., in
Emery County, reported the condition of the
associations there.
	Mrs. Mary Ann Webb, President at Lehi,
said the W. S. A. there had been organized
for one and a half years and the members 
numbered 110.
	Emily Richards suggested that gentlemen
be asked to join the association, and she be-
lieved that men would accord us all the rights
we would ask for.  (Applause).  Miscellane-
ous business being next in order, Maria Y. 
Dougall called attention to the fact that the
Executive Committee of the Territory con-
sisted of but three persons while the By-laws

[Column 2]
and Regulations of the W. S. A., of Utah, say
that such committee shall consist of not less 
than five.  Thereupon, on motion of Emily
Richards, Theresa Hills and May Talmage
were reinstated as members of the executive
board for the Central Committee.
	The subjects of the rights and privileges of
the officers of the auxiliary associations and
the membership were discussed at some length,
On motion the meeting adjourned.
	SENI-ANNUAL CONVENTION.
	On April 3rd, 1891, at 2 p.m., in the
Assembly Hall, the Utah Woman’s Suffrage
Association met in the Territoral Convention.
Caroline Dye,having been appointed chaplain,
opened with prayer.  President Kimball was 
in the chair.
	The minutes of the convention held in Oct.
1890, were read and accepted.  Zina D. H.
Young, Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. I. Horne, Emmeline B. Wells,
Elmina S. Taylor and Maria Y. Dougall were
made honorary vice-presidents.
	President S. M. Kimball spoke on the re-
ception the delegates received at Washington,
and how the 1500 names from Utah paved 
the way for their cordial reception.
	Emily S. Richards also spoke on her visit to
Washington, and on the part that the women
are going to take at the World’s Fair.
	Ellen Jakeman, president of the Sanpete
County organization, made some remarks on
the plan of the work carried on in the associa-
tions in that county.
	Lucy A. Clark, president of the Davis
County organization, spoke on the necessity of
studying the laws of the country, also the in-
terest taken by the men of Davis County in
the association.
	Miss Viola Pratt sang a very appropriate
song.
	President Kimball introduced Hon. F. M.
Lyman, by relating in a happy manner her ex-
perience in making her first suffrage speech in
Tooele, when he invited her to address a large
congregation on that subject.
	Hon. F. M. Lyman, in addressing the con-
vention said:  “I have been an advocate of
suffrage for women as long as I can remember.
I took an active part in our legislature when.
the effort was made to extend to women’s privi-
leges in the matter of suffrage, which the ladies,
then possessed. I have heard the subject
talked against, but the severest opponents to it
have been women, not men. In 1885, when I 
was returning from Mexico, I met a highly
intellectual lady, with whom I had much con-
versation. She considered it impossible for
 women to be placed on the same plane as man
for many reasons.
	I think there is no reason that can be held
against woman’s suffrage that cannot be held
against men’s suffrage.  The fact that suffrage
might be given to women does not mean that 
they must hold office. There are but few men
that hold office compared to the whole army
of men; men seek offices because ther are
lucrative, but they are not compelled to accept
any office, and women would have that same
privilege of declining one. The granting of
 the franchise means everything to women and
office holding is a little thing; it is to put men
and women on equal ground. I do not think 
failures in office would be so frequent among
women as among men, and if women had the
franchise there are many corrections that
would be made in the laws. Woman being
deprived of this right tends to make her more
effeminate, she is prohibited from participat-
ing in political matters and is kept in a subdued
condition.
	Women, I believe, should have equal rights
and equal wages with men. (Applause.)  The
majority of employments are suitable for
them, let men have labor that is suitable to

[Column 3]
them and women work that is suitable to
them. Women ought to have more time to
read and get acquainted with the world as
men do. Colored men are given the franchise,
but white women, the mothers of superior
men, are not allowed to judge of the laws.
Suffrage for them must and is now coming.
	Wyoming will be immortalized by the step
it has taken in granting the franchise to
women.  It is a minority that rules in the
country because there is only a minority that
have and exercise the franchise.
	A short time before the death of Henry
Warde Beecher, he was asked the question,
"Shall ministers participate in politics?" He
he answered that the reason politics had got
to such a low condition was that ministers had
been excluded from them.
	The next speaker was Dr. Seymour B.
Young, who read a poem in honor of Wyoming
and gave his views of the woman question; in
a very lucid and comprehensive manner.
	The Convention then adjourned for six
months, Benediction was pronounced by Mr.
Packard.
					ADA CROXALL, Sec.
REPORT OF TREASURER MISS MARGIE DWYER.
	From Oct. 3, 1890, to April 3 1891.
Balance on hand from last report, - - 33,60
Receipts during the half year,- - -     355,90
Total, - - - - - - - - - - 			  389,50

Disbursements during the half year, - - 377,00
Balance cash on hand, - - - - - 	       12,50
								389,50


IN MEMORIAM.

	The subject of the following brief memoir,
Sister Hannah Jackson Allen, was born at
Gool, Lincolnshire, England, Jan. 29th, 1825,
was married to W. L. N. Allen, of Kingston-
upon-Hull, England, August, 14th, 1848.
Recieved the gospel which her husband had
previously recieved and was baptized by Elder
Hugh Findlay of Glasgow, Scotland, then
President of the district known as the Hull
Conference.
	By nature Mrs. Allen was ardent and
impulsive, sociable and sympathic, hence her
home at once became the main centre of the
branch. of which her husband was the loved
and respected President. Round this centre
the Saints gathered from all points of the 
large Conference, for here was open house to
all "the honest of heart," and whole souled 
welcome to such as "came in the name of the
Lord."
	Her heart went especially to the Missionaries,
both native and foreign. She realized pain-
fully their great self denial, and the hardships
to which they were subjected. Thus her
cottage home was in very deed to them a
haven of rest, and its hospitable hearth the
altar where they offered up their songs of
praise, and thanksgiving, and from which
they went forth as giants refreshed with new
wine. And to their credit be it spoken,
there are some in the land today who mindful
of these things, speak of her still as "Dear
Sister Allen."
	She was a woman of few words, but full of
deeds, golden deeds, of love and charity. She 
filled well and to the full her mission in her
native land, and carried with her the grateful
love of all hearts, when, on the 7th of Jan.,
1853, accompanied by her husband, and first
born child, an infant son of eight weeks, she
started out for the gathering place of the
Saints, where they arrived on the 12th of
Oct. following, alter a trying journey, equal
in extent to the diameter of our globe, with
good spirits, but somewhat impaired health,


[Column 1]

from a long and stormy ocean voyage in mid-
winter, and a more than thousand miles tramp
over the trackless prairie, during which she
carried her sick babe and walked from twelve
to twenty miles a day.
	How little do the emigrants of to-day
realize the privations and discomforts which
of necessity awaited the early settlers! Silver
and gold counted little in those days, it was
brain and muscle, faith and integrity, which
alone had value then, and in these things,
Sister Allen and her brave young husband
were rich indeed.
	New and perplexing circumstances greeted
them here, strangers in a strange land. But
they quickly comprehended the situation, and
with characteristic resolution took their stand,
from which they never swerved, come weal,
come woe, it was all the same, their hands
were on the Gospel plow, and being, as she
was wont to say, "of the right grit," they never
faltered, not even when the law of celestial
marriage was presented to them, that most
trying of all tests to women of her tempera-
ment and early training, but she bravely passed
the ordeal, and proved that to know her duty
was virtually to do it, and to the great surprise
of her husband, suffering not her natural
prejudices to assert themselves, she emulated
the example of Sarah, and thus secured her
own eternal honor
	In her new home even in the midst of penury,
their old hospitality distinguished them, and
in 1855 they took to their hearts and home,
four orphan children whose parents had died
on the plains, and the result of her labor of
love is found in the fact that every one of
them are to-day industrious and reliable
members of the comunity.
	Notwithstanding her native sociability,
Sister Allen was retiring even to a fault, and
when the Relief Society of the twenty-first
Ward was organized, with Mrs. A. O. Burt as
President, and she first Counselor, she would
fain have shrunk from the appointment, but
finding she could not consistently do so, she
took up the duties of her office, as she had
done everything else, with all the energies of
her being. No personal sacrifice was too much
for her to make, she was always at her post,
and could be confidently counted upon when-
ever required, until midsummer of 1887, when
in the order of an unerring Providence, she was
stricken with paralysis, and her usefulness
forever destroyed.
	But in this terrible visitation the goodness
of God to her was remarkably manifest, in
the fact, that her intellect was unimpaired,
so that she could understand and enjoy all
the blessings, which He in His love and mercy
crowded into her last years, her only trouble
was that she could not do anything for others
in return for all their devotion to her. She
would fervently remark with tears, "O if
I could only do something, even mend a pair
of socks for the children, I would not mind."
But she had done her work, had made her
record for industry, and left an example well
worthy of imitation. It was therefore per-
mitted her to rest from her labors even in this
life. During the three years and a half of
her utter helplessness, her children were untir-
ing in their devotion to her, and vied with each
other in demonstrations of their filial love, and
her husband was her constant companion.
	Her last day on earth was the 66th anniversa
ry of her birth, and waking early that morning
the Bishop said to her, "Ma, this is your birth-
day, I wish you many happy returns." "My
death day you mean," she interposed; this
remark he considerately evaded, and con-
tinued, "As the weather is cold and threaten-
ing, suppose we don't celebrate to-day, but
keep yours and mine together in May?" "Yes,
it is cold, that will be better." she replied.
But the angel of the programme had arranged

[Column 2]

otherwise, and in the afternoon brought to-
gether her sons and her daughters, with their
children, and their love tokens, to spend that
never to be forgotten evening—the last with
them. They were a happy unsuspecting party
gathered around that family board without the
faintest shadow of approaching gloom, or the
smallest hint of coming grief. No death's
head at that joyous feast, all was harmless
mirth and gaiety, and not until a late hour
was the last good-night spoken, the last ma
ternal kiss imprinted on precious lips and
cheeks which she would kiss no more. All
was done, she had finished her mother work,
then calmly and peacfully she laid her down
to rest, never to rise again! But not in the
darkness of night did she steal away, no, she
saw the morning dawn, and the bright blue
sky, ere the last of human words had fallen on
her ear, and they, coupled with his hearty and
affectionate "good morning mother," were a
joke from her last born son, to which she re-
plied in the same spirit, then the loved voice
was hushed forever.
	Some fifteen minutes later the Bishop re-
turned to the room and finding a great change,
summoned the family. There was no agoniz-
ing struggle, nothing to appal the looker on,
but evidently the finger of death had tenderly
touched the vitals, and his work too was done.
She was gone! Gone where? Through "the
beautiful gates ajar," "Unto the glorious city
beyond" from whence she beckons her loved
ones to follow. Farewell to thee patient one!
peace to thy ashes, honor to thy memory, the
blessings of consolation to thy bereaved
husband, and blessings of reward to thy dutiful
children. May every name be written in the
Saint's book of Life, and chosen when He
shall number up His jewels.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Relief Society Twenty-first Ward.
	Whereas, in His divine wisdom, it hath
pleased Almighty God to take out of her long
affliction our dear Sister, Counselor H. J.
Allen, whose unwearied devotion to the duties
of her office, whose self-sacrifice and prompti-
tude under all circumstances command our
admiration and esteem. Be it therefore
	Resolved—That while we feel keenly the
loss of our friend and fellow-laborer, we
humbly acknowledge that He who doeth all
things well hath done this also, and without
murmur we bow to His righteous decree,
praying Him to give us His grace, that we,
like her, may remain steadfast unto the end,
and having finished our work may enter into
the rest prepared for the faithful; and be it
further
	Resolved—That, we tender our most pro-
found and heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved
husband, our beloved Bishop, and our sincere
condolence to the family.
	Also that a copy of these resolutions, with
the foregoing memoir, be presented to them,
and published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and the resolutions be entered upon the
secretary's book.
	Signed in behalf  of the Officers and
Members of the Society March 1891.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN WOMAN
		SUFFRAGE CONVENTION.

			RESOLUTIONS
	Resolved: That the establishment of full
Woman's Suffrage in the State of Wyoming
by the vote of her people, and its subsequent
ratification by Congress and the President,
mark a revolution in the political statuets of
women in America, and will hereafter give the
women of the nation U. S. Senators and Rep-
resentatives, elected in part by the votes of
women.

[column 2]
	2. That School Suffrage by women in
twenty-two States, municipal Woman Suffrage
in Kansas, and full Woman Suffrage in
Wyoming give assurance that women will
eventually be recognized everywhere as the 
political equals of men.
	3. That we congratulate the Kansas House
of Representatives upon its adoption of a 
Woman's Suffrage bill by a two thirds vote
(69 to 34) and we earnestly appeal to the
Kansas Senate for its concurrence.
	4. That the recent discussions of Woman's
Suffrage on an educational qualification by
the constitutional conventions of Mississippi
and Kentucky, indicate a growing belief on
the part of enlightened legislators that the ad-
mission as voters of women who can read and 
write, will solve the difficult problem of
political illiteracy.
	5. That we recommend conventions during
the coming year in every Southern Capital, in
co-operation with the Suffragists of those
States.
	6. A. That we will continue to memorialize
Congress for a constitutional amendment abol-
ishing all political distinctions on account of
sex.
	B. That in the six remaining Territories we
will make strenuous efforts to secure full suf-
frage by statute in advance of their admission
as States.
	C. That in every State where there is no ex-
pressed constitutional exclusion of women as
voters, we advise suffragists to demand full
Woman Suffrage by legislative enactment, and
in every State to petition the legislature for
municipal and presidential suffrage by statute.
	D. That we will heartily support any State
which engages in a struggle for equal suffrage
by methods approved by this Association.
	7. That we urge the appointment of women
as physicians, matrons and managers in all
penal reformatory and other public institu-
tions containing women or children as in-
mates.
	8. That women and men should be equally
represented on School Boards.
	9. That we congratulate the friends of equal
rights upon the advancement of women in-
dicated by their late National Council and by
woman's improved opportunities, social, in-
dustrial, educational, legal, professional and
political-opportunities, which are at once a 
basis and a guarantee for her future equality
as an American citizen.
	10. That we urge each State Suffrage
Society to petition its legislature for a thorough
revision of the laws regulating the marriage
relation so as to secure to wives and husbands
equal personal and property rights, to mothers
and fathers an equal right to their children,
and to widows and widowers equal rights to
their inheritance of property.
	11. That our thanks are due to the House 
and Senate Committees of Congress for their
reports in favor of Woman Suffrage, also to
both Houses who have worked and voted for
the admission of Wyoming.
	12. Recognizing the power of the Press,
we thank the women of the several Press
Associations for aiding our cause, and we also 
express our obligations to the Washington City
papers, and to the Associated and United
Press for their friendly reports of our proceed-
ings.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	An originator of an opinion precedes the
time; you cannot both precede and reflect it;
what ten years ago was philosophy is now
opinion.—Bulwer.
	In this world misery constantly peeps mock-
ingly over the shoulder of happiness, and just
as we are about to grasp her by the hand he


knocks her roughly aside and with a strong
grip grasps our outstretched hand in his own.
—Ouida.
	As the sword of the best tempered metal is
most flexible, so the truly generous are most
pliant and courteous in their behavior to
their inferiors.—Fuller.
	The thoroughly great men are those who
have done everything thoroughly, and who
have never despised anything, however small,
of God’s making.—Ruskin.
	If the newspaper is the school of the people,
and if upon popular education and intelligence
the success and prosperity of popular govern-
ment depend, there is no function in society
which requires more conscience, as well as
ability.— G. W. Curtis.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


OBITUARIES.

	Died at West Jordan March 6th, 1891 of pneumonia,
Sister Betsy Jenson. The deceased was born Oct. 15th,
1831 in Sweden. She leaves a husband, two sons and 
three daughters to mourn her loss. She was an affection-
ate mother, a kind neighbor and friend, and a faithful
saint of God. She goes to reap the reward of the righteous.
Sister Betsy was chosen teacher in the Relief Society May
4th, 1882, and held that position until Dec, 4th, 1884,
when she was chosen counselor to Sister Louisa Egbert
and held the position until she died.
	May our Heavenly Father comfort the bereaved ones
in their sorrow, and may they acknowledge even in the 
midst of their suffering, that He doeth all things well.
					AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of R. S.
					D. G. Secretary.

	Died at West Jordan, February 19th, 1891, after an ill-
ness of one week with pneumonia, Louisa M. Egbert,
daughter of Robert E. and Margaret Petty, and wife of the
late Samuel Egbert.
	Deceased was born Dec. 27th, 1839, in Tennessee, bap-
tized when eight years of age, came to Utah in 1848, be-
came the wife of Samuel Egbert, March 11th, 1857, and
was the mother of eight children, three sons and five
daughters, all of whom are living.
	Sister Louisa was an earnest worker in the cause of
truth, she became a member of the West Jordan Relief
Society when it was first organized on April 12th, 1868, and
acted as teacher until she was chosen Counselor in 1869.
held that position until Nov. 4 1880, when she was set apart
to fill the office of President, which position she held at the
time of her death, and died as she had lived, a true Latter-
day Saint.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO LOUISA EGBERT.
	Whereas—The Lord in His infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst on the 19th day of February, 1891,
our beloved President. We the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society do feel to mourn her loss, and feel 
that we have lost a kind friend and wise counselor.
	Resolved—That we do cherish her memory, and that we
do put into practice her wise teachings and emulate her
example, and be more closely united in our society, and
always be ready and willing, as she was, to assist the
poor and needy and to care for the sick and afflicted.
	Resolved—That we do sympathize with her sorrowing
family for the loss of a kind and loving mother, and that
we extend to them a helping hand in this their hour of
trial, and do all in our power to comfort and console them.
And we feel to say, not ours, but the Lord's will be done in 
all things.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT to be printed, and that we send
a copy to her bereaved family and a copy be kept and
written in our minutes, as a record of our beloved Presi-
dent and friend.
			AGNES CUTLER, in behalf of the R. S.
			DELILA GARDNER, Secretary.

	Died at Union, March 1, 1891, Elizabeth J. Mosong
Richardson, from la grippe and other causes. She 
was a faithful and active teacher in our Relief Society since
its organization in 1877, also and Counselor in the Primary
Association, which office she filled with honor and love
though she had no children of her own.
	Deceased was born in Italy, Nov. 3, 1841. She crossed
the plains in Capt. Ellsworth's hand cart company in 1836,
enduring the hardships of the journey to these valleys, her
father dying on the plains, leaving her an orphan.

[column 2]
	Her husband followed her to rest five hours after she
had expired, from pneumonia. Thus they were one in life
and separated only a few moments in death.
	Whereas, we the officers and members of both associa-
tions feel to mourn her loss realizing it is her gain.
	Resolved that we deem it a just tribute to her memory
to say she not only labored for those she loved on earth,
but has done a good work for her honored dead in the
Logan Temple.
	May we imitate her good and noble example and send a
copy of these resolutions to her brother, also to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and keep a copy of the same on our
minutes.
		"Dearest sister thou hast left us,
			Here thy loss we deeply feel;
		But 'tis God that hath bereft us,
			He can all our sorrows heal.

		Yet again we hope to meet thee,
			When death's gloomy night has fled,
		Then on earth with joy to greet thee,
			Where no bitter tears are shed."
						ELIZABETH RICHARDS,
						ANN GRIFFITHS,
						HARRIET COX,
						MARY ANN SMART,
						SARAH BURTON,
						SARAH E. FONES.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

		A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the 
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing 
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.
	A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc. considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


[Column 1]

			NOTICE.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp’s class in Obstetrics will
open at No. 24 S., 7th East St., Monday, April
13th, at 10 a. m. The great demand for well
trained nurses and competent accoucheurs,
should be a stimulus to those ladies who have
aptitude for these noble works, to take advant-
age of such schooling as that given in Dr.
Shipp’s classes, which is always on easy terms
and very satisfactory. For particulars com-
municate with Dr. E. R. Shipp, either per-
sonally or by letter.
MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a m. to 1 p
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.
[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and 
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

Tickets
ON SALE
TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
EAST, WEST,
NORTH and SOUTH
AT
UNION TICKET OFFICE
Main Street, Salt Lake City.
S. W. ECCLES,
Genl. Pass. Agt.
R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS
Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address	DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1891.		No. 21.


CONTENTS.
	The Martiarchate or Mother-age—Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton. A Good Testimony—Mary
Kjar Sanderson. The Silent Seven. Millard
Co., W. S. A.—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. R. S. Re-
ports—Saun Juan—Uintah. Speech by E. R.
Snow. Primary Fair and Conference. The
World's Fair.
	EDITORIAL:—Woman's Special Mission. Edi-
torial Notes. Relief Society Conference. Among
Eastern Women—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. How
do we Stand?—Mary E. Kimball,
	POETRY:—Sonnet—John Howard Bryant. Re-
compense. Dear Liberty—Belle D. Edwards.
Return Love. An Obstacle—Charlotte Perkins
Stetson.


SONNET.

I love the song birds. There is naught in Nature,
E'er moved me with so deep an inspiration,
As when the hermit thrush, that tiny creature,
Poured out at eventide, his sweet libation
Of heavenly music through the lonely wood.
'Twas long ago when I in childhood years,
First heard that song celestial as I stood
Transfixed with ecstacy, and moved to tears,
Now as I seek my native home again—
The stream and wood paths, where the wild flowers blow,—
I yearn to hear once more the joyous strain
That thrilled my bosom seventy years ago;
But age-dulled nerves, can never know again.
The heartfelt rapture that o'ercame me then.
						JOHN HOWARD BRYANT.
	Princeton, Ill. November 1890.


RECOMPENSE.

There is no joy but has its drop of sorrow,
	No song  but has an undertone of pain.
Our yesterday, today, and yet tomorrow
	Has e'er its sunshine interspersed with rain,

We chase the brightest sunbeams, and they lead us
	Full often where the deepest shadow lies!
We fret at fate, but never will it heed us,
	Or turn the course of fortune otherwise.

We sigh because too heavy seems life's burden,
	The path too rugged for our weary feet.
We weep because too meagre seems our guerdon,
	And long for wayside cool and meadows sweet.

And yet we rise by obstacles surmounted,
	By burdens bravely borne and foes o'erthrown.
Each seeming hindrance may be counted
	Unto the higher realm a stepping stone.

Worthless the gold while yet untried by fire;
	The finest statue grows by many a blow.
He who has much to meet may much aspire,
	He of the even way must stay below.


DEAR LIBERTY

		TUNE—"Bethel."
Nearer we come to thee,
		Freedom, to thee;
Pleading on bended knee,
		Freedom, for thee.
Strike from our fettered hands,
Tradition's galling bands,
In near and distant lands,
		Dear Liberty.

Come we o'er frozen seas,
		Freedom, to thee,
From blooming southern leas,
		Seeking for thee.


From every land and clime,
From every age and time,
Calling thy name sublime,
		Dear Liberty.

Proudly we'll face the world,
		When we are free,
Thy starry flag unfurled,
		Over us free.
Spread, spread thy wings of light,
Dispel our long, long night,
Kindle thy glory bright,
		Dear Liberty.

Altars we'll raise to thee,
		Freedom, to thee,
Altars to God and thee,
		To God and thee.
Our voices high we'll raise
In hymns of grateful praise,
For thine unshaded rays,
		Dear Liberty.
					BELLE D. EDWARDS.


[Column 1]
THE MATRIARCHATE OR MOTHER-
			AGE.
BY MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

Read at the Woman's National Council,
	Washington, D. C., Feb. 1891, by
		Miss Susan B. Antnony.

	All along from the beginning until the 16th
century, when Luther eliminated the feminine
elements wholly from the Protestant religion
and brought the full power of the church to
enforce woman's complete subjection, we find
traces of the matriarchate. Karl Pearson, in
a series of deeply interesting essays gives us
the result of his researches into the works of
modern historians, and the startling facts they
unearth,from what to most of us is the dead, un-
known, eternal past, shadowed in mystery.
The publication of "Das Mutterecht," by Bac-
hofen in 1861, of Morgan's "Ancient Society,"
in 1877, of Wilkeson's "Ancient Egypt," in
1836, with other lesser lights pursuing the
same trend of investigation, all show the lead-
ing independent position women held for ages.
	Morgan in his "Ancient Society," gives
many remarkable examples of the superior
position of women among different tribes in
the latter part of the period of barbarism.
Among the greater number of American aborig-
ines the descent of property and children
were in the female line. Women sat in the
councils of war, and peace and their opinions
had equal weight on all questions. Among
the Winnebagoes that occupied the territory
now known as Wisconsin, a woman was at the
head of the nation. The same was true 
among the early tribes or gens in the East-
ern Hemisphere. In the councils of the Iro-
quois gens every adult male or female member
had a voice upon all questions brought before
it.
	At the epoch of European discovery, the
American Indian tribes were generally organ-
ized into gentes, with descent in the female
line.
	During the early periods the property of
women were in her own line and gens, and
man's property was in his own line and gens.
The following case at the Pueblo of Oraybe
shows that the husband aquires no rights
over the property of the wife, or over the
children of the marriage. A Zunian married

[Column 2]
an Orabye woman and had by her three child-
ren. He resided with them at Oraybe until his
wife died, when the relatives of the deceased
wife took possession of her children and
household property; leaving to him his cloth-
ing, horse and weapons. As was the custom
he returned to his own people at Zuni.
	From this it appears the children belonged
to the mother, not to the father; and that he
was not allowed to take them even after the
mother's death. Such also, was the usage
among the Iroquois and other northern tribes,
and among the villiage Indians of Mexico.
	The period of woman's supremacy lasted
through many centuries—undisputed, accepted
as natural and proper wherever it existed, and
was called the matriarchate, or mother-age. It
was plainly traceable among the Aryans, the
Germans, the Persians, and indications of it
are still seen among uncivilized tribes and na-
tions. 
	Careful historians now show that the great-
est civilizing power all along the pathway of
of natural history has been found in the wis-
dom and tender sentiments growing out of
motherhood. For the protection of herself
and her children woman made the first home in
the caves of the earth; then huts with trees in
the sunshine. She made the first attempts at
agriculture; raised grain, fruits and herbs
which she learned to use in sickness. She
was her own physician; all that was known to
the medical art was in her hands. 
	Perhaps more interesting for us to-day is
the actual existence of the matriarchate in
the north of Africa among the Touaregs.
	The child belongs to the mother and not to
father; it is the blood of the mother and not
the father, which confers on the child the rank
he is to take. Formerly,when there was a ques-
tion of territorial distribution, the lands grant-
ed to each family were inscribed in the name
of the mother. The Berber law gives to
women the administration of their property;
at Rhat, they alone dispose of houses, gardens,
—in a word, of all the landed property in the
country. Among the Touaregs, not only is
woman held the equal of man, but she enjoys
a preferable condition. She disposes of her
hand and in the conjugal community she ad-
ministers her own fortune, without being
forced to contribute to the expense of the
household. Thus it happens, that as produc-
tions accumulate, the greater part of the 
wealth is in the hands of the women.
	These social customs have produced extra-
ordinary developments in the Targui woman.
Her intelligence and her initiative spirit are
astonishing in the midst of a Mussulman
society. She excels in bodily exercises; on
the back of a dromedary she travels a hun-
dred kilometers to attend a soiree, she com-
petes in races with the boldest cavalier of the
desert. She is distinguished by intellectual
culture; the ladies of the tribe of Ymanan are
celebrated for their beauty and their musical
talent; when they give concerts the men come
eagerly from the most distant parts, adorned
like male ostriches.
	Touaregs are the descendants of the Lybians
spoken of by Herodotus. The historian tells
us that the male children are not compelled by
law to maintain their parents, this charge is
incumbent by law upon the daughters. The
imposition of such a duty on the daughters
sufficed to establish the rule that the wealth of 
the family should belong to the women, and


[Column 1]

﻿wherever the woman possesses this economic
position, she is not under the guardianship of
her husband, but is the head of the family.
	The Rev. Samuel Gorman, a missionary
among the Taguna Pueblo Indians, remarks
in an address before the Historical Society of
New Mexico that "the right of property be-
longs to the female part of the family, and
descends in that line from mother to daugh-
ter."
	Then women generally have control of
the granary, and they are more provident
than their Spanish neighbors about the future.
Ordinarily they try to have a year's provision
on hand. It is only when two years of scarcity
succeed each other that Pueblos, as a commuity
suffer hunger.
	Of the Senecas of North America, the Rev.
Arthur Wright wrote in 1873: "Usually the
females ruled the house. The stores were in
common: but woe to the luckless husband or
lover who was too shiftless to do his share of
the providing. No matter how many children,
or whatever goods he might have in the house,
he might at any time be ordered to pick up
his blanket and budge; and after such an or-
der it would not be healthful for him to
attempt to disobey.
	The women were the great power among the
clan, as everywhere else. They did not hesi-
tate, when occasion required, 'to knock off the
horns,' as it was technically called, from the
head of a chief and send him back to the
ranks of the warriors. The original nomina-
tion of the chiefs also always rested with the
women."
	The account we find given by the Portu-
guese navigators of the Nairs, a people inhabi-
ting the coast of Malabar in the fifteenth cen-
tury, is another proof of the superior con-
dition of women under previons family sys-
tems. The Nairs were then in a state of
actual civilization; they had a marine
and well-organized  army; their towns
were wealthy and the inhabitants courteous in
manners.
	The mother, or in case of her death, the
eldest daughter, was the head of the family;
the eldest brother, named the foster father,
managed the estate; the husband was a guest;
he only entered the house on fixed days, and,
did not sit at table with his wife and children.
"The Nairs," says Barbosa, "have an extra-
ordinary respect for their mother; it is from
her they receive wealth and honors; they
honor equally their eldest sister, who is to
succeed the mother and take the management
of the family. The children belong to the
mother, and she takes their support on her-
self." The Nair family system was maintained
among the Malabar people till the invasion of
Hyder Ali in 1766."
	Strabo says of the primitive people of
Spain: "That they suffered a most foolish
governance by women; that the women
possossed the property, and it passed from
mother to daughter; that the latter gave away
their brothers in marriage; that the men took
a dowry with them into the houses of their
wives; that the women perform all the agri-
cultural work, and were as hardy as men.
	The women at a later period were not only
the rulers of the home but they were priestesses;
the deities were in a great part goddesses. All
there was of learning and tradition was in the
hands of the women, the folk custom long
recognized their superiority to man.
	The safety of mother and child, in the
solitude of the vast primeval forests, was due
in no small measure, to the superstition that
woman was in communion with the gods who
would avenge her wrongs. Her spirit is sup-
posed to linger around the hearth after death,
and to-day the solitary student sitting over the
fire, or the peasant when the family are out,

[Column 2]

will tell you they have been alone at the hearth
with their mother soul.
	They are conceived of peculiarly as divine
mother, (gottermuther) traveling about and
visiting mortals. From them mankind has
learned the business and the arts of house-
keeping, agriculture, cattle raising, spinning,
weaving, sowing, reaping, as well as watching
the hearth. These labors bring peace and rest
to the land, and the memory of them remains
firmer in pleasing traditions, than war and
fighting, which like women, the majority of the
goddesses shun. Karl Pearson says: "A truer
although unconscious tribute to the civilizing
work of women, can hardly be imagined."
	Karl Pearson tells us, the transition from the
mother to the father-age was marked by the
appearance of women of gigantic stature. The
old legends of contests between men and wo-
men for supremacy are not such idle fancies as
some would have us believe. Very dark shad-
ows indeed do such figures as those of Ildico,
Fredegunde and Brunhilde cast across the
pages of history. Such women were only
paralelled by the Clytemnestra and Medea of
a like phrase in Greek development. Among
the Germans, too, the poets represented the
contest between men and women for the
mastery. Wuodan replaces Hellja; Siegfried
conquers Brunhilde; Beovulf, the offspring of
Grindel and Thor, fights with Gialp, and
Griep, the daughters of Geirrod. One great
element of physical and mental vigor is free-
dom' which women have never enjoyed except
under the Matriarchate.
	The Amazons, the present body guard of the
King of Dohomey, the astounding powers of
endurance exhibited by domestic servants and
the peasant girls of southern Germany and
Italy, and the fish-women at Boulogne, all point
to the great strength of women when once the
physique has beep developed.
	The victory of man over woman was not
easily accomplished. It took long centuries to
fully confirm it, and traces of the mother-age
remain throughout the Mediaeval times. The
permanency of sex relations among the agri-
culturists and the necessity for organization in
matters of defence, which must be entrusted
mainly to men, were the beginnings of the
father age.
	Driven from the commanding position of
home-mother, and deprived of her rights to
property and children, the last fortress of the
Teutonic woman was her sacerdotal privileges.
She remained holy as priestess. She had
charge of the tribal sacrifice and the tribal
religion.
	From this last refuge she was driven by the
introduction of the Christian religion, with its
narrow Pauline doctrine, which made woman
mentally and physically the inferior of man,
and lawfully in subjection to him.
	Morgan in his ."Ancient Society," attributes
the premature destruction of ethnic life, in the
societies of Greece and Rome, to their failure to
develop and utilize the mental and moral con-
servative forces of the female intellect, which
were not less essential than those of men to their
progress.
	In closing, I would say that every woman
present must have a new sense of dignity and
self respect, feeling that our mothers during
some periods in the long past have been the
ruling power and that they used that power
for the best interests of humanity. As history
repeats itself, we have every reason to believe
that our turn will come again, it may not be
for woman's supremacy, but for the, as yet un-
tried, experiment of complete equality, when
the united thought of man and woman will
inaugurate a just government, a pure religion,
a happy home, a civilization at last in which
ignorance, poverty and crime will exist no
more.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOR THE EXPONENT
	A GOOD TESTIMONY.

DEAR SISTER:
	I have taken the EXPONENT ever since it
was first published; but have never written a
word for it yet. So I will avail myself of
this opportunity. I have been a teacher in
the Relief Society in Gunnison and other
places since May 1868. I have walked hun-
dreds of miles to visit my sisters, and have had
many happy hours with them, and hope I shall
many more.
	In our Relief Society here in Gunnison
there are 163 members; we are getting along
well. We hold our monthly meetings regularly
also a working meeting every month in which
we make quilts for the poor, etc. We have a
very good president. She is always thought-
ful of the poor and of what she can do for
them. Our Society is having a new store
built and is progressing favorably.
	I am now seventy years old, I had my
last birthday in February, when a number of
my children and friends came and surprised
me, and they gave me some nice presents.
	I have been in the Church 35 years, but
have never regretted it. I know the Gospel
is true, I know there is no other way to be
saved. I received the Gospel in its fulness,
and will stand up for it ever, God being my
helper. I have had many ups and downs in
my life, I but still I know that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet, I can bear that testimony
to all my sisters and to all the world.

	When I sit in my little home in my lonely
hourse, I always think of what troubles and
trials I have passed through in my life; but
through it all I can see that the Lord has had
His eye upon me since I came into this world.
Sisters, let us be prayerful; pray for one
another, and the authorities of this Church.
	I will call my sisters' attention to the
Temple. Do not be too slow to do your work
there; for we see people pass away on the
right and left of us, and we know not the hour
when we will be called away. There are
many on the other side of the veil watching
and waiting for us to release them. If I had
the means, I should spend the rest of my days
in that holy House.
	There are many who are blest with means.
I think they could not spend it in a better way
for that would indeed be treasures laid up in
heaven. I have 115 names on my record for
whom I have performed a work or had it done
for them. What a happy day it will be when
I meet them in the millenium, I ask the
Lord to bless you.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARY KJAR SANDERSON.
	Gunnison, April 21, 1891.


IMPERFECTUS.

I wonder if ever a song was sung
	But the singer's heart sang sweeter!
I wonder if ever a rhyme was rung
	But the thought surpassed the metre!
I wonder if ever a sculptor wrought
'Til the cold stone echoed his ardent thought!
Or if ever a painter, with light and shade,
The dream of his inmost heart portrayed!

I wonder if ever a rose was fonnd
	And there might not be a fairer!
Or, if ever a glittering gem was grouud,
	And we dreamed not of a rarer!
Ah! never on eartn shall we find the best!
But it waits for us in the land of rest;
And a perfect thing we shall never behold
Till we pass the portal of shining gold,

		JAMES C. HARNEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RETURN LOVE.

They had a quarrel and she sent
	His letters back next day,
His ring and all his presents went
	To him without delay.

"Pray send my kissess back to me,"
	He wrote, "Could you forget them?"
She answered speedily that he
	Must come himself and get them.


AN OBSTACLE.

	Presented with compliments of the Woman's Press
Association as a souvenir of an evening with Charlotte
Perkins Stetson, at Irving Hall, San Francisco, Aprll 10,
1891.
		I was climbing up a mountain path,
			With many things to do;
		Important business of my own
			And other people's too;
		When I ran against a Prejudice
			That quite cut off the view.

		Mw work was such as could not wait,
			My path quite clearly showed,
		My strength and time were limited,
			I carried quite a load,
		And there was hulking Prejudice
			Sat all across the road.

		So I spoke to him politely,
			For he was huge and high;
		And begged that he would move a bit
			And let me travel by;—
		He smiled but as for moving—
			He did'nt even try!

		So then I reasoned quietly
			With that colossal mule;
		My time was short, no other path,
			The mountain winds were cool—
		I argued like a Solomon—
			He sat there like a fool!

		Then I flew into a passiou,
			I danced, and howled, and swore—
		I pelted and belabored him
			'Til I was stiff and sore—
		Ha got as mad as I did,
			But he sat there as before.

		And then I begged him on my knees—
			I might be kneeling still,
		If so I hoped to move that mass
			Of obdurate ill will:—
		As well implore the monument
			To vacate Bunker Hill!

		So I sat before him helpless
			In an ecstacy of woe;
		The mountain mists were rising fast,
			The sun was sinking slow,
		When a sudden inspiration came
			As sudden winds do blow.

		I took my hat, I took my stick,
			My load I settled fair—
		I approached that awful incubus
			With an absent-minded air—
		And I walked directly through nim,
			As if he wasn't there!

		CHARLOTT PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE SILENT SEVEN.
	[From Mrs. Lide Meriwether's Address
before the National American Woman Suff-
rage Association, Feb. 1891.]
	In this great and good government of ours,
this so-called free republic, there are seven
classes of people who have no voice in the
government, viz: minors, aliens, paupers,
criminals, lunatics, idiots, and women. If a
man is known by the company he keeps,
women must draw their own conclusions from
this list.
	First on the list come minors. It is deemed
essential that the novitiate should spend some
years of his life in the study of political ques-
[Column 2]
tions. Therefore no boy can cast a ballot
until he is twenty-one years old. But the girl
beside him may go on in years until she reach-
es seventy-one,and yet never reach her political
majority. And yet although a woman never
grows up, if she have a son that goes astray,
from the whole region round about goes up the
cry, "why didn't his mother train him better?"
	The next class of political mutes are aliens,
but a residence of five years endows them with
the faculty of speech, and in this case we find
that every politician practically has his adver-
tisement out-"full science of American poli-
tics taught in one lesson," and that lesson so
simple that a fool may understand it. More-
over, our politicians have reached such a
sublime height of patriotism that, instead of
requiring renumeration from their pupils, they
bestow it upon them, in the shape of schooners
of beer. quarts of the genuine American
liquid or its equivalent in United States cur-
rency. This however, applies only to the male
foreigner. His wife and daughter, you will
remember, are and will remain political aliens.
	The third incapable stands on the statute
books yclept pauper.
	A man, who is incapable of earning his own
bread is held-in some of our States-unfit to
have a voice in making the law, or choosing
the law-makers. But why should all Ameri-
can women be classed with this individual?
Are our women all paupers?	
	In the little State of Massachusetts, 251,158
women are earning their own living; in New
York city, 200,000, and all these outside of
domestic service. And besides these we find
14,465 women at the head of commercial
houses, 2,136 architects and chemists, 216
stock raisers and ranchers, 56,800 farmers
and planters, and employed in other bread
winning occupations, over 3,500,000. Are
these to be classed with paupers?
	Next on the list of the voiceless, stands the
unpardoned criminal. All right that he 
should be denied the law making power; but
why the women of this land should be kneaded 
up wholesale into the same batch with him is
one of the things in the philosophy of the
American politics that "passeth all under-
standing," all the statistics show that our
prisons are filled with male criminals,with only
one here and there of the other sex. Is this
the reason women are placed in the same list?
	Fifth, in this complimentary catalogue
comes the lunatic. The man or woman whose
reasoning power is destroyed, has, surely, no
right to the law-making power. But are all
American women lunatics, or first cousins to
that festive individual? If you go into the
lunatic asylums of this country and count
noses, you will find that the masculine nose
predominates to a startling degree. If you
look outside you will then find it rather a
puzzling task to trace the borderland between
sanity and insanity. But suppose you inquire,
which sex muddles itself most with strong
drink; which most uses the nasty brown weed?
If practices like these denote level headedness,
then I am free to confess that the masculine
half of society is the sane half, but if the
opposite be true the scale containing the
the women will tip the beam every time.
	Sixth and last, save one on the list of the
silent seven, stands the idiot, and on our
statute books, woman stands next to him, and
at the foot of the class. Do 558 women
journalists, 320 authors, 2,061 artists, 13,182
professional musicians, 5,134 government
clerks, 2,438 physicians and surgeons, 175
lawyers, 265 ordained ministers, half-a-million
teachers and three million independent bread
winners in other avocations denote idiocy. If
so I give up my case. But, if I have given 
any proof that American womanhood has no
title to be reckoned up,with this intelligent,re-
fined and capable crowd, then why should he.
[Column 3]
only governmental privileges be those of be-
ing taxed, tried, fined, imprisoned, and hung
by a jury of men.
	Let us be logical or die.


MILLARD CO., W. S. A.

	The W. S. A.  of Millard Co., over which
I have the honor to preside; and which I was
delegated to represent at the N. A. W. S.Conven-
tion, is one of which I am proud, and I think
justly so, for we have a large membership list,
and many interesting and instructive meetings
are held, where subjects are discussed of deep
interest to the higher education, and better
social status of woman.  In the two years of
my presidency I have met but four individuals
belonging to the county who expressed them-
selves, opposed to woman having the full right
to the suffrage and equal rights in all social
and political matters with men.  And while
we call ourselves the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, we take a broader, more liberal view,
and ask that the same right should be ex-
tended to every citizen of every country, in-
dependent of creed or color.  And while much
is written, and said about the Indian, and his
right to the suffrage of which many would de-
bar him, we would freely accord to him all
the rights, we as women, demand for our-
selves.  Is he not the rightful owner of the
soil of America?  are we the intruders, or is he?
surely we are the usurpers; he was here when
Columbus landed, and for how long before
who shall attempt to say.  It is fashionable to
laugh at his ignorance and sneer at his primi-
tive manners.  How long is it since the un-
tutored ancestors of our vaunted civilization
were as rude and uncultured as he?.
	Immense sums are annually expended upon
foreign missions; let some of this mission work
be done at home; devote some of the funds
for the clothing and educating of the red
man.  Have him taught a trade or otherwise
employ him,and he will soon be able to clothe
himself, and provide for his own wants, be-
come a useful member of society and repay
us many times over for what we have done
for him.  The negro is another stumbling
block, and eye-sore to many.  Has he not al-
ready suffered enough at the hands of the
white man?  should not his freedom be full
and complete?  it was dear enough purchased,
let us not curtail it.  Freedom should be given
with no niggard hand.  Make the qualifica-
tions for the suffrage an educational one, to
the extent Wyoming has, if you will; keep it
from the criminal if you choose, otherwise ex-
tend it to ALL, especially to woman.
	How is it that men, who love freedom so
well, withhold it from their mothers, wives
sisters and daughters?  Is it from jealousy or
cowardice?  They know that woman's percep-
tion is quick to discern, that she will soon dis-
cover the "right man, for the right place;" they
know that drink will not corrupt, or money
purchase her vote; do they fear to subject
themselves to the test?  I have never yet heard
a man give a valid reason for witholding the
suffrage from woman, nor do I think they can
find one.
	The time is not far distant when the con-
cession will be forced from them, why not give
it at once, gracefully, and earn the thanks of
the women of all nations, rather than wait,
and be told, "to you no thanks are due, for
you were compelled to be just to our sex."
				M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


If we would have the world about us noble,
pure and true, we must exhibit these qualities
of the heart, and then the nobleness and
purity in others will rise in beauty and grand-
eur to meet our own.—Mizpah.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms: 
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail, 
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
    Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
to regular advertisers. 
    Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second 
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m 
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
Second Class Matter. 	
SALT LAKE CITY, - - MAY 1, 1891.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S SPECIAL MISSION.

	There are so many subjects of interest in the
present day and so much occuring from time to
time that is worthy of attention, and that calls
out ideas that are original, and opinions that are
new, that when one attempts to write, or speak,
so much of importance crowds into the mind of
the individual, that it is difficult to decide what
choice to make, or in what line or direction one
can do the most good. It is the same or similar
to this when one goes on a journey and especially
when meeting many people, who are worth re-
membering, aad hearing themes and topics dis-
cussed, that create so much thought and open up
fields, as it were, to traverse over, and select the
best and choicest gems or tiny seeds scattered
for those, who follow the lead or paths opened
by those, who are as guides to the masses. It is
always the few who lead, or who sew the seed
that yields the harvest for the thousands and tens
of thousands. To some it seems to be given to
do this very work, and often without even appre-
ciation by the multitude thus benefitted.
	In the recent Council and Convention held by
the leading women in Washington, D. C., women
of the brightest intellect and superior education
gathered from the various parts of the United
States and some from other countries, there was
so much given that furnished food for thought
in those few days, and the women themselves
made such an excellent study, that looking back
upon it and recalling the whole transaction with
those who figured in it, one is lost in contempla-
tion of themes and admiration for the work and
the workers, until it seems to become a perfect
puzzle not only how so much could be crowded
into so short a space of time, but what to select
from the whole as best to use in giving a brief
description of the affair.
	The writer is often asked, what was accom-
plished, by the coming together of these great
bodies of women?" "What do you expect to
gain?" Individually to those who listened atten-
tively the actual gain was something worth while
in the way of finding out how much women knew
on certain subjects, how well they had informed
themselves, and how magnificently they could im-
part that knowledge to others. Certainly one thing
was very apparent, that women could teach pub-
licly on the platform, not only common-place
matters, such as mothers teach at the fireside but
also expound doctrine and principle, and even
the Scriptures, and that too in a way to touch the
heart and the understanding, as few men trained
in this very calling could do.
	Evidently superior women are becoming lights
to the world, they are no longer hid away in a
corner knitting or darning stockings, for both are
done now by machinery, but they stand up and
proclaim great moral and spiritual truths, and the

[Column 2]

people are glad to hear them. Such women as
the Rev. Anna Shaw, Rev. Amanda Deyo, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Isabella Davis and others with
and without the title of Reverend, speaking as
they did at that Council of Women this year, and
as they do elsewhere, will and must accomplish
something for the uplifting of humanity. Un-
doubtedly they have a mission and the spirit of it
rests upon them.
	From time to time in our columns we expect
to publish extracts from the speeches of these
famous speakers, that our readers may have the
opportunity of knowing something of the work
in which they are engaged, and the success which
is marking the march of woman's intellect in the
nineteenth century. The learned clergy generally
speaking are opposed to women preachers, and
fear their influence. Why they should, seems
utterly absurd; for men and women must rise to-
gether, one cannot do without the other, or life
itself would cease to be; therefore let woman as
well as man do what she can do best; wherever
her influence is used for good to promote moral-
ity, virtue, and temperance, or to develop any of
the higher qualities or gifts mental, moral or
spiritual, in that sphere she should be allowed to
labor. Men argue (and many women) that wo-
man's province is the home, allowing this to be
true, how many thousands of women have no
home,such women may have a distinctive mission
who can tell? Men seldom find fault with wo-
men who spend the greater part of their time in
society, that many think is a blessing, woman's
influence in the ball room at dinner parties, and
places of amusement is elevating and purifying,
yet that takes her from home, as much or often
more than to be a public speaker or minister;
but the real objection no doubt is that one inter-
feres with the calling and position of men, in-
fringes upon their 'vantage ground and the other
does not.
	When the great Prophet of this dispensation of
the nineteenth century turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman, it opened up a flood of light that
spread abroad and touched all women who were
susceptible of light from on high with a portion
of its divine radiance; and the awakening came;
just as when the spirit of Elijah came to turn the
hearts of the children to the fathers, to seek
after them etc., it reached the world, and the
people began to look up their records and
histories and genealogies and publish books of
families. So the Lord works in many directions
and in marvelous ways, and women as well as
men will have missions of great importance, and
the Lord will help them if they seek wisdom from
on high.
	In fact one cannot help thinking the Savior
himself set this glorious example of giving to wo-
man a divine mission, when he said to Mary and
the other women who were with her, "Go tell my
brethren &c." There have been times in the
history of the world as recorded in the Scriptures
when the most important questions have been
settled by a woman, (strange to state but never-
theless true) on one occasion when, the high
priests and scribes were commanded by the King
to inquire of the Lord concerning a certain matter
that was written in the book of the Law of the
Lord, which was found when they were repairing
the House of the Lord, and which thing troubled
the King, these wise men high priests and scribes
went to Huldah the prophetess, who dwelt in the
college at Jerusalem, and she actually gave them
the word of the Lord, prophesied to them; what
presumption that would be considered nowadays,
aud yet who knows what may come to pass even
in this day and age?
	It is very generally conceded that the Lord
raises up great men from time to time, and en-
dows them with special gifts to perform a cer-
tain work or works, so also why may He not in
the same way raise up women for special missions?

[Column 3]

Is it not reasonable when the man is not with-
out the woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord, must they not also be associated to-
gether in His work? The signs of the times sig-
nify the fact that woman's era has already dawned
that henceforth her plane will be a higher one,
that the curse placed upon her is gradually being
removed and in the restoration of all things that
is to come to pass, woman will have to do her
part to bring about her own salvation, and out of
that great mother-love of which she is possessed
she may do much towards the redemption of the
human family. The world is wide enough and
there is work for all in the Master's vineyard.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The sisters semi-monthly meeting held
regularly in the 14th Ward, will be postponed on
account of President Harrison’s visit from Satur-
day May 9th until Saturday May 23rd.
	Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society expects to leave the city early in this
month on a a visit to Canada; she will probably
be absent abount two or perhaps three months.
She has been in Logan for a few days attending
to Temple work and visiting sisters meetings
and conferences, and speaks very highly of the
condition of the associations in that vicinity.
	President Harrison and party are expected to
arrive in Salt Lake City on the 9th of May and
therefore the day will be observed as a general
holiday in the city. The Sunday School child-
ren are to welcome him with banners, badges,
songs and flowers; Utah is famous for beautiful
children and on this occasion there will be a
grand opportunity to let the Chief Executive of
the nation see how numerous the generation
growing up in Utah has already become; this is
one of the features of the Territory in which the
people take special delight.
	The children of the Primary Associations are
going to have a Fair in the city sometime in June
about the time of the Quarterly Conference which
will very probably be held on the 20th of June; it
is quite necessary that the preparations should
be going on in the local associations, otherwise
they would have very little time, and the officers
of the Stake organization of the Primary are
very anxious that the Children's Fair for Salt
Lake Stake shall be a decided success in the way
of display of articles requiring ingenuity and
skill. Pres. Ellen C. Clawson and her Coun-
selors will do all in their power and hope to have
the hearty co-operation of the officers and child-
ren in all the wards of this county. Pres. Claw-
son also wishes all the children of the Primary
Associations near here to consider themselves
invited to participate in the Picnic in Liberty-
Park on the first day of June, which day has
been designated as Children’s Day in honor of
President Brigham Young, and as a fitting tri-
bute to his memory from the children of Zion.
This custom will make a lasting impression upon
the minds of the little people, and it is a practise 
which will we hope spread throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden will give a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the Salt Lake theatre
on Monday evening, May 25th, at which time she
will give some of her finest recitations or readings;
and her manner of address, her voice and
style are altogether pleasing and she displays in
her acting, talents of a high order. Mrs. Boyden
has been laboring very faithfully among the child-
ren and young ladies, in this city for some months
and has given public recitations for them in
several wards, at different times, that have called
forth the commendation of those who have had
the privilege and pleasure of attending these re-


citals. One of these will be given in the 18th
Ward school house on Wednesday evening May
13th, at which time friends of the art are invited
to come and see for themselves. Mrs. Boyden's
work in that direction was highly spoken of in
the Denver papers, and she has devoted herself
exclusively to the interest of Elocution here,
winning the sincere admiration of some highly
cultivated people. We hope that Mrs.
Boyden may meet with the success her work
deserves. She will be assisted at the entertain-
ment by a few of her pupils and also by some of
the best musical talent in the city, besides music,
songs and recitations, there will be a short play.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	Afternoon session convened in the Assembly
Hall, President Zina D. H. Young presiding; be-
side her Counselors and the Secretaries, several
other ladies from a distance were seated on the
stand, and Apostles F. D. Richards and F. M.
Lyman favored the sisters with their presence
during the afternoon. Meeting opened with
singing "O, ye Mountains High" &c. prayer by
Dr. E. S. Barney, singing, "We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet," President Adeline
Barber reported Cache Stake. Counselor Ann
Pulsifer reported Emery Stake, Pres. Mary
Pitchforth, Juab Stake, Pres. Susan Grant,Davis
Stake, these organizations were all spoken
of as in good condition and a good
spiritual influence prevailing among the sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt spoke for a few minutes thought
we had enjoyed a spiritual feast, wondered if we
were grateful enough for the privileges we
enjoyed, said we had many precious promises
made to us, and we might bring them to pass if
we lived for them and asked for it,—illustrated
her idea by a beautiful field of wheat, that we first
had to prepare the ground then sow the seed,
water and tend it, work to make it bring forth the
golden grain. We need the spiritual as well as
the temporal, without spiritual food we get hard
and dark, and then we have to get down on our
knees and beseech the Lord to help us, and by
our humility we feel softened and tender, then
we can have the holy Spirit. Dr. Pratt also
spoke in behalf of the Hospital, its needs and
that every little gift would be acceptable. Coun-
selor B. W. Smith referred to the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society, to the teachings and
instructions of Joseph Smith, and the work the
sisters accomplished in that early day for the
poor, the sick, the distressed, the dying and the
dead; said many things that were mysterious to
to us then are now as plain as day; we have
grown wiser and more intelligent in many things;
there were more evil spirits to contend with then
than there are now.
	Pres. Elvira Harrison of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Malad Stake represented the Relief Society of
that Stake. Stake secretary Mary E. Snow,
represented Box Elder Stake.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the congre-
gation, said Pres. Woodruff had intended to
come and had a great desire to come, but had
been prevented; alluded to the preaching in the
Priesthood Meeting that had been held in the
morning, and the teachings in regard to fast
offerings, and the great assistance the Relef
Society would be if these things were properly
regulated. If all the Latter-day Saints observed
the Fast Day, the donations would be of great
benefit to the poor, and their cries would not go
up into the ears of the Lord, and angels would
smile upon those who performed these duties and
requirements, and a blessing would surely follow;
realized that the Relief Society formed an impor-
tant part of the Church. Referred to the neces-
sity of all working in harmony in the Society,
and counseled the sisters to be exemplary in their

[Column 2]
lives, and in all their ways and the peace of the
Lord would abide with them.
	Pres. Josephine Textonius of Leamington re-
ported Millard Stake. The Cor. Sec. then read
encouraging letters from Bannock, Beaver, Paro-
wan, Sevier, Kanab and St. Joseph Stakes.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed himself
pleased that the sisters felt to come out to the
General Conference and also to have a Con-
ference of their own, was aware that some of them
had come long distances and hoped they had en-
joyed the time and would feel paid for coming;
the work they were now doing was only a small
part of the greater things that would be expected
and would require all the strength of those en-
gaged in it, and spiritual intelligence would be
needed. The subjects introduced in the meeting
by Brother Lyman in regard to fast-offerings had
been given to the brethren of the priesthood in
their meeting which had convened that
morning. Pres. Richards continued by saying
the Lord expects and is going to require greater
works for us, the Savior said to his disciples
"greater because I go to my Father;" we all had
a natural tendency to look downward but we
should look upward and press onward. The
speaker then related the story of Ahab the
wicked king in a graphic manner that illustrated
a truth he wanted to impress upon the minds of
his hearers.
	"Your society, he said, had some delegates to
represent you in the Woman's National Council
at Washington last winter,their proceedings will
be published and have been already in the current
papers, and will be in the official pamphlet of the
Council when it is issued.
	We can't always dwell in swaddling clothes,
we haven't yet arrived at our manhood and wo-
manhood in all its glory. . Let the graces and
virtues of the Gospel blend with the good and the
bright women of the world, and if you keep the
good spirit and have a little salt to season those
who have not the grace of God and His spirit,
you may accomplish great good.
	"Evolutions and mutations are constantly bring-
ing about great changes and wonderful things,
and we shall have greater still before long. If
the sisters had not had the Relief Society many
would have been ready to lay down and die. It
has been a great spiritual blessing as well as giv-
ing help and comfort to the needy and distressed;
keep the Holy Spirit that quickens and purifies,
the swift waters, clear the stream and it does not
stagnate,disobedience to the Holy Spirit grieves it
from us.
	"The angel told Joseph his name should be
known for good and for evil throughout the earth
and so will we as a people; we are going to
shine before the world, Zion is increasing, the
bees are swarming, and every hive has to swarm;
the spirit of increase has been given to this peo-
ple and is taken from the world." Pres.Richards
also spoke earnestly of the importance of the
work for the redemption of the dead, and advised
those who were present to take home a little of
the good spirit and influence and teachings that
they had received and give it to their neighbors and
friends and take it to the local meetings that those
who had not the privilege of attending might
participate in some of its benefits.
	Counselor B. W. Smith occupled a few mo-
ments in speaking and prophesied concerning the
prosperity of Zion.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards addressed the
congregation briefly, alluding to the invitation
extended to President Woodruff and how feel-
ingly he had expressed himself in regard to the
Relief Society and his desire to be with them at
the meeting, but his absence was wholly unavoid-
able. He sent them his blessing and regrets that
he could not attend. Sister Richards said the
President as he held her hand said;"I'm very sorry

[Column 3]
I can't go but tell them God bless them and I
bless them, they have my blessing." Sister
Richards spoke tenderly to the mothers and said
she realized how difficult it often was for them to
leave home, to attend their meetings even though
they needed the instruction.
	Sister Zina gave the testimony of Pres. Young
in regard to the mothers paying tithing and
added this fast day work, given here to-day re_
minded her of Pres. Young's teachings on the sub-
ject of tithing. Urged the mothers to teach this
little ones at home tell them Bible stories that
will teach them spiritual lessons. She blessed
all the sisters and said peace to your households,
wear the beautiful mantle of charity God bless
you all, Amen.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Singing
"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah,"
Benediction by Apostle F. D. Richards.


AMONG EASTERN WOMEN.

			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

	After speaking of the women who are the de
scendants of Isaac and Rebecca, our thoughts
naturally revert to the daughters of Ishmael,
whose tents whiten the Arabian desert. Al-
though they claim their descent from the same
father (Abraham) as the Hebrew women do, yet
they differ materially, in their proclivities, and
mode of life. The descendants of Ishmael are,
for the most part, Mohamedans, living in tents
upon the vast deserts of the East, as the bulk of
them do, they have seen less of the changes time
has wrought than have the banished, and
scattered descendants of Isaac, and though so
closely allied in blood they know less of each
other than any other people. Changes of fashion
either in household matters, or dress, trouble
them little, if at all, and while the Hebrews
despise, and dislike an agricultural life, the
Ishmaelites follow the primitive occupations and
manners of their forefathers, (viz.) the keeping of
numerous flocks and herds, and the tilling of
land for their support. The Jew is by nature a
trader, and thus accumulates wealth in the cities
of every known nation on earth; while the Arab
prefers a tent for his dwelling, finds his pleasures
in hunting, and fighting, and his occupation in
herding his flocks, and cultivating enough land
to grow grain for his support, and flax for his
clothing, and in these occupations he is assisted
by the women,as indeed he is in all others. The
highest ambition of these wanderers is to own a
well of pure water, for he who does so is counted
a wealthy man, and to him come his nomadic
brethren to buy the precious fluid for their own
use and to water their cattle. In many families
the key of the well is intrusted to the charge of
the daughters, and, like Rebecca they do not feel
it beneath their dignity to attend to the watering
of their own stock, or of those who come to buy.
	When we see these veiled figures at the well,
the mind iustinctively reverts to the fair woman,
which the servant of Isaac found attending to the
same duty, dressed in the same fashion, but with
face uncovered, and we could almost believe we
were living in that age of the world, and that
thousands of years had not elapsed since the
mother of Isreal left her father’s tent to become
the wife of Abraham's favored son, and the
ancestress of the Redeemer. To-day, as in those
ages past, the daughters of a Sheik, or chief, (for
the name is synonymous;) though they do not
grind the corn, or make the sweetmeats, for
which the Arabs are famous, yet they will go to
the well, wait while the herds are watered, re-
ceive the pay, and return to their tent, with the
stately bearing, and proud look that becomes
them so well; but no man sees their face, for the
law of Mohamet forbids a woman to go abroad


without her veil,which covers the face,except the
eyes, and though the long, dark, lashes appear to
conceal those dark orbs, yet they are adepts in the
use of them and well understand their power.
	Many of the Arab women are very beautiful
when young, and their figures are lithe and grace-
ful, but as age advances they grow very stout,
and are almost repulsive in features and man-
ner.
	Many of them can spin, and weave, the beauti-
ful parti-colored fabric with which both the men,
and women, among the wealthy, clothe them-
selves, as well as the course material that forms
the dress of the poor. Many among them are
very expert in the use of the needle, as the rich
and gorgeously embroidered scarfs worn by both
sexes, as well as the splendid trappings of their
horses, testify. In their features it is easy to
trace the lineage of both Abraham and Hagar.
	In some the Egyptian mother is strongly
marked both in looks and character. Where the
nose is broad, and lips thick, the skin is darker
hued, than in those where the Hebrew is strongly
represented.
	Many traveller's describe the Arab women as
living a life of idleness and ignorance, but that
is not my experience of them; of course the
climate does not admit of their being so active,
and full of bustle, as are the women who dwell
in colder climates, for even among their neigh-
bors, who live north of Hebron, we find them
leading more active lives,the air of the mountains
is more bracing, and invigorating, and stimulates
them to take more exercise than those who
dwell on the burning plains.
	Perhaps there is no more interesting sight to
the traveler, than to meet a tribe moving their
tents from one Oasis to nnother, literally seeking
“Fresh fields and pastures new." The women
mounted on camels are completly covered, and
from their peculiar positions when riding look
like huge mishapen bundles of clothes; they sit
in a heap for hours at a time, without apparent
movement or life, and yet beneath their calm ex-
terior often lurks the most fervent passions.
	Love, hatred and jealousy, have full play in the
hearts and lives of these closely guarded, yet but
lightly prized women; they have but little will of
their own, or if they have, they cannot use it,
they are but slaves, owned by hard masters; and
those masters ihey have no voice in choosing.
The parting blessings of Abraham to Hagar have
been literally fulfilled, for the descendants of
Ishmael are extremely numerous, and comprise
many nations. They live the same nomadic life
their ancestors lived; they are just as wild and
untameable, while beneath that stolid, exterior
smolders a fire that the merest spark will kindle
into a blaze that is difficult to extinguish. As we 
near the Persian Gulf we find them following the
religion of Zaroaster, occupying cities, and
villages, and living in that semi-civilized state
which that creed professes to teach.
	But whether they are better, or happier under
that regime, is a question somewhat difficult to
answer.
	One thing, however, is certain, and that is, that
women are not less slaves there, than are their
sisters of the desert, while the last named,
breathe a purer atmosphere, have more out door
exercise, and are under less restraint than those
who dwell in the cities.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿HOW DO WE STAND?

	We find that in all the business affairs of life,
it is well to look over our accounts occasionally
and see how we stand. Well this being proper
in temporal matters is it not necessary to do the
same in the spiritual? I think so, and ask our-
selves, are we improving, as age and experience
should develop? In conversing with a friend I
am told this Gospel is the same precious gift

[Column 2]
that it ever was, the greatest comfort and conso-
lation, the one thing needful, the Pearl of great
Price? and she is proud of this Gospel.
	I feel to say the same with her with the excep-
tion of being proud; this to me is a fearful word
to use in spiritual matters and not becoming to
saints on any terms.
	In the first place we did not make this religion,
we embraced it, believing it to be exactly the
same that Jesus taught, and as we live in ac-
cordance with its teachings we know it is; be-
cause when we serve Him in all humility and
truth, then the Lord can show us His power to
do those things for us which are expedient, then
we are thankful we are happy and rejoice in the
gifts of the Gospel and the Apostle says again
I say rejoice! But does he say be proud. Are
humility and pride offsprings of the same parent?
Can both dwell in our bosoms at the same time.
	Not if I understand the word. Noah Webster
defines pride as being inordinate self-esteem;"
admitting this how quickly will vanity take
possession of our minds. Beside what does the
Apostle tell us in 2nd Corinthians 10 chap.and 15-
16-17 verses "Not boasting of things without our
measure, that is of other men's labors; but hav-
ing a hope when your faith is increased we shall
be enlarged by you, &c."	And in the 16 verse,
"boast not of another man's line of things made
to our hand;" 17th he says "He that glorieth let
him glory in the Lord."
	In my opinion, when we contemplate the two,
pride and humility, we find quite a difference.
When pride has possession of our minds, we are
so self-reliant that we do not fully appreciate the
aid of Divine assistance, we hurry on and make
mistakes until we see ourselves as we are, poor
dependent creatures. Then we can humble our-
selves and ask for aid and assistance, which the
humble saint will always receive; for then, and
not until then, do we feel our dependence. No
we have "power within ourselves, and must use
it."
	The prophet Mormon shows this so clearly, I
will here speak of his illustration. He had pre-
viously been speaking of the great battle at the
hill Cumorah. The Prophet Mormon in his
writings said he did not wish to harrow up the souls
of men, in casting before them the awful scene of
blood and carnage which was laid before his
eyes; but knowing that these things must surely
be made known, and that all things that are hid
must be revealed upon the house tops." I will
write a small abridgement.
	He also says in another place, "Thrice have I
delivered them out of the hands of their enemies
and they have not repented of their sins; but
they had sworn by all that man had been for-
bidden to swear, by the Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, they would go up to their enemies to
battle and avenge themselves of the blood of their
brethren; behold the voice of the Lord came to
me saying; "vengance is mine I will repay, and
because this people repented not, after I had de-
livered them, behold they shall be cut off from
the face of the earth."	Then Mormon refused to
be their leader, yet he mourns over their fall.
He said, "They, once a delightsome people, and
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father.	But now behold
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father. But now behold
they are led about by Satan, even as chaff is
driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed
about upon the waves, without a sail or an anchor
even as she is, so are they.
	Now look at the contrast, even like that of king
Solomon who had been so greatly blessed  with
wisdom when in possession of God's spirit,but too
self-reliant thinking this spirit was his, no matter
what course he pursued, He forgot the word of
the Lord given through His prophet Moses say-
ing that "Thou shalt not go into those idolatrous
nations; and they shall not come unto you." He
ventured to go, and what was the result, he lost

[Column 3]
the good spirit, and then all was vanity and vexa-
tion of spirit. As we learn to appreciate health
by having the opposite, in the same way we learn
all the lessons of life, and also learn that we need
wisdom's heavenly voice, to guide us.
	Dignity and self-respect, I believe to be a boon
that we inherit from the Deity our Father in
heaven. And by its purifying influence, we ask
Him for intelligence, yes, a wise and understand-
ing heart to make all the lessons of life profit-
able to us. You can learn from reading history
that those who were wise and prosperous rulers
had a great respect for the Deity, and could rely
upon the inspiration of this good spirit, and be
blessed by it, and bless others also.
	But in my opinion pride is as different from
this as day is from night, for by it we allow
foolish and vain fancies to take possession of our
minds which dignity and self-respect would for-
bid. For instnace, we fancy we must keep up
with the spirit of the times, or not be popular;
while dignity and self-respect teach us, that to
be honorable or honest, upright and true to our
convictions of that which is right or (righteous
as you may choose to call it) will command re-
spect from every honest-hearted person.
	And why should we mourn the loss of those
who are not of this class.
	May we learn the difference between these two
qualities is the prayer of your Aged Friend
					MARY E. KIMBALL.


R. S. REPORTS.

			SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the San Juan Stake was held at
Bluff, Feb. 22, 1891. Coun. Martha Hammond
presiding. Choir sang “Hail to the brightness,”
Prayer by Coun. Wm. Halls. Singing “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Coun. Hammond
regretted that Pres. Jane M. Walton was not
present, but felt sure she had a reasonable
excuse.
	In the absence of the Stake Secretary Sister
Annie M. Lyman was sustained as secretary
of the conference.
	Pres. Kistine Neilson reported the Bluff
ward. Stake Coun. Josephine Wood felt that
the Relief Society was doing a great work and
wished to do her part. Felt encouraged by
what she had heard during conference; knew
that a mother needed to be humble and prayer-
ful so as to claim help from the Lord.
	Bishop Geo. Halls reported the Mancos
ward. Said that on account of the bad weather
the sisters could not go out to meetings at all 
times, but they are alive to their duties and
anxious to do their best.
	Sister Agnes Allen bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, spoke upon kindness and
charity. Sister Eliza Redd felt well in the
work of the Society and wished to do good;
knew that mothers ought to thoroughly under-
stand the principles of the Gospel.
	Bishop Neilson testified that the Relief
Society was a help to the ward, and wished to
encourage the sisters; compared the circum-
stances that surrounded him in his young days
with those that surround the young people in
Utah.
	Sister Elsa Neilson bore her testimony to
the truth, and to the good instructions we had
received.
	Sister Harriet Ann Barton felt proud of the
sisters of Bluff for she knew they desired to
do right and they entertained good feelings to-
wards each other. Coun. Wm. Halls thought
that women ought to have an equal right with
men in saying who should preside over them.
Prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors
among the saints.
	Pres. Hammond testified that a goodly por-
tion of the spirit of God had been enjoyed by


those who had spoken. Said he had been in-
terested in what had been said. Although the
sisters felt weak they were able to say some-
thing to edify and encourage. Wished to en-
courage the sisters to speak their ideas freely
and cultivate the gift of speaking, for as a
natural consequence the gift would be im-
parted to their offspring. The Relief Society
is as a normal school for the sisters and every
mother should be a live active member of the
association. Advised the officers to attend the
general conference and mingle with the heads
of the different organizations.
	The general and stake officers of the Relief
Society were then sustained.
	Coun. Martha Hammond said there had
been some talk of not holding conference be-
cause of the absence of the President and rep-
resentatives from other wards but was glad
that conference had been held and knew that
we had obtained a blessing. 
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, choir sang "Come O thou king of
kings." Benediction by Brother Samuel
Wood.
		ANNIE M LYMAN, Sec., pro tem.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	Sixth conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake of Zion convened in the Ashley
meeting house, March 2, 1891. President
Sarah Pope presiding. Singing "Guide us O
thou great Jehovah;" prayer by Pres. Samuel
R. Bennion; singing "Come, come ye saints."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Pres. Pope spoke of the bad roads
and ways some had to come, said "we have
visited the different wards since our last con-
ference and found the most of the sisters try-
ing to do as well as they can considering the
disadvantages they are laboring under, but
nevertheless we must try and do all we can
for the needy, we must not forget the aged, the
widow and the orphan, some of the parents of
these children have stepped  behind the veil,
and their children are left here and we must
look after them; sisters we must look after our
children and do the best we can with them
while they are under our care, it is an old say-
ing the way 'the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined,' but this is not always the case, some
times children are taught good principles at
home but when they get away they do very
different from what they have been taught.
Let us keep the commandments of God while
we are here on the earth so that we shall be
prepared to die, for when we are prepared to
live we are prepared to die, and when we are
prepared to die we are prepared to live. I
feel like saying God bless my sisters this morn-
ing and may He give us his spirit to be with
us is my prayer, Amen.
	Reports were read from four different
branches of the Relief Society; after which
Sister Sarah Coltron gave the sisters some
good instructions Sister Collett spoke in-
terestingly to the sisters.
	Bishop Freestone gave the sisters good
counsel and asked the Lord to bless them in
their labors.
	Sister R. Remington was more accustomed
to speaking to the young ladies but felt to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work
and asked the Lord to bless all the associa-
tions in His church and kingdom. Sister
Oaks was pleased to think she was numbered
with the Latter-day saints, spoke of the differ-
ence between our circumstances now and when
we came here, how much more comfortable
we are at present than we were at that time;
asked the Lord to continue to bless us.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing,
"Come O thou king of kings." Benediction
by Pres. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,

[column 2]
"Once more my soul the rising day," prayer
by Bishop Oplynop, singing, "Let those who
would be saints indeed," followed by the re-
maining reports.
	Coun. Hatch said we should try to teach
our children in the way they should go and
follow the path of virtue and we never should
speak evil of each other, but rather feel to
encourage each other, and we should as wives
and mothers be kind at home that our children
should feel that home is the dearest place on
earth.
	Brother James Hacking said the sisters re-
marks here to-day have caused me to reflect
upon many things; I feel to endorse what
has been said, there has been great improve-
ment made in many ways in the different as-
sociations in the Church. We often when we
meet speak of our children, we are very anxious
for their welfare, we should try to instil into
their young minds good principles, the prin-
ciples of virtue, honesty and truth; I think
the labors of the sisters in the Relief Society
result in a great deal of good.
	Brother R. S. Collett thought we ought to
have a good time we had come a long way in
the mud; spoke of the difference in peoples'
dispositions, spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters told them they should always have their
children blessed while young, as that blessing
would follow them; spoke quite lengthy on
different subjects which were very interesting. 
Sister Freestone thought we should send our
children to the Primary meetings and Sunday
Schools that they may grow up to be useful
men and women on the earth; counseled the
sisters to beware of pride for it is not right to
be proud nor yet to uphold our children in
being proud, hoped she would be able to hold
out faithful to the end.
	Pres. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks and conference adjourned until the first
Monday in September. Sung, "Lo the Gentile
chain is broken." Benediction by Brother
Joseph H. Gardner.
				ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

SPEECH BY E. R. SNOW.

	Eighth meeting of Relief Society, Sugar
House Ward, at the residence of A. C. Pyper
July. 29th, 1868, S. E. Angell, Secretary.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Mrs. Ann S.
Clark. Miss Eliza R. Snow being present by
invitation, addressed the sisters as follow:
	"We have met in the capacity of a Relief
Society. I consider this a matter of great im-
portance. A Society of this kind has always
existed whenever the priesthood has been
upon the earth, and the allusion of the Apostle
to the Elect Lady as recorded in the New
Testament, means the one who presided over
 each Society in his day. Miss Snow said she
had brought with her the original minutes of
the meeting of the society at Nauvoo or-
ganized by the Prophet Joseph Smith from
which she read a few extracts; she said be not
over zealous, but remember that the wants of
the poor in spirit are to be deplored more
than the wants of the body, The duties of the
members of this Society are extensive, our
minds are liable to be led off, it is necessary
that we meet together often to stir up our
minds to diligence; this organization gives us
an opportunity to meet legally,it is not a mere
plaything but a sacred holy duty, under the
direction of your Bishop, do not run to him
with every trifle. Those called to be teachers
ought to be filled with the Holy Ghost that
when they enter a house they will know by the
spirit who in that house has the Holy Ghost
and who has not, some may think this an
indifferent office, but this is a mistake, and
when you visit do not be abrupt, but apply
your words in a manner which will prove

[Column 2]

beneficial to those to whom you speak, and
if they have lost their first love tell them of
the joy and peace that dwells in the hearts of
those who live up to their privileges and in
blessing others you will be blessed; we pro-
fess to be saints! what a high and holy call-
ing! we are looking forth to the time when we
shall become heirs of God and joint heirs with
Jesus Christ. The Garden of Eden was in
Jackson County Mo., when Adam and Eve
were driven out they went North. I have seen
with my natural eyes the Altar on which
Adam offered his first sacrifice, where he
blessed his children, and there is where we
shall meet the Savior face to face. The
celestinl law must be kept by those who go
there, and no one can go there, who does not
keep the word of wisdom, or is in any way un-
prepared for the society of God and the holy
angels; these are not visionary ideas, but
realities. There are many of the sisters
whose labors are not known beyond their
own dwellings and perhaps not appreciated
there, but what difference does that make? if
your labors are acceptable to God, however
simple the duties, if faithfully performed, you
should never be discouraged. The duties of
this society cannot be defined, those who will
not swerve from their duty are to become
saviors on Mount Zion. God is looking down
upon you, the angels are recording your secret
acts; and while you are here acting, you are
not expected to neglect your family duties.
You will feel so much better by attending to
these things, that you will gain time, and if
you are united in your efforts you will have
the blessing of God when you meet; in attend-
ing to these duties be careful that you bring no
reproach on the society. Our brethren are to
be kings, are we qualified for the positions of
queens? Let us pray daily, and try to become
more refined and womanly and bring up our
children to be polite and refined, that they
may be useful ornaments to society. This
society gives us a chance to improve our minds
and qualify ourselves to fill important posi-
tions.
	In Society President Young purposes to get
up classes for the sisters similar to the school
of the prophets; some sisters will not move for-
ward because they wish to go hand in hand
with the world; we should improve our talents
for the time will come when every faithful
man and woman will go forth like Adam and
Eve.
	This Society should find work for the poor
take no imposition, but let those who are able
sustain themselves; if we are called to suffer
affliction, God will sanctify it to us for our
good, if we want to be superfine flour we must
stand still and let the mill roll on. He can
overrule all things for our good; it is necessary
for us to taste affliction, that we may learn to
appreciate the blesaings of our Heavenly
Father, if we have not as much of this spirit
as we ought to have, live for it, for the spirit
of our religion brings peace; improve your
temporal affairs, endeavor to make home
happy, keep your children from vicious com-
pany; and while you study to dress them neatly
do not neglect to adorn their minds with those
principles which will tend to elevate and
enoble them, and prepare them for future
usefulness in the kingdom of our God.
	Benediction by E. R. Snow.


PRIMARY FAIR AND  CONFERENCE.

		BLUFF, SAN JUAN CO., UTAH.

	DEAR EDITOR:
	Thinking that a few lines about our Pri-
mary would be interesting to you and the
readers of the EXPONENT, I will try to tell


you something about it. We have enrolled
fifty-five members and our meetings are well
attended.
	On December 30th, we held a Primary Fair
which was a credit to the children and all
concerned. A nice assortment of things were
on exhibition, as every child made something.
After the people had viewed the things on ex-
hibition they were entertained by listening to
songs and recitations from the children who
afterwards enjoyed themselves in dancing.
	We held our Stake Primary Conference
Feb. 23rd. And on account of the stormy
weather none but the Bluff children were
present to take part in the exercises, yet, a
lengthy programme, which was instructive as
well as entertaining, was well carried out. At
the suggestion of President Hammond we met
again in the afternoon and received words of
instruction and encouragement from President
Hammond and others of the brethren. After
closing remarks by Stake President Julia Butt,
conference was adjourned for three months.
A short intermission was taken then all met
together for dancing and refreshments.
	We do not have to make the complaint that
is so common about the non-attendance of boys.
Our boys attend as regular as the girls and
seem to be just as willing to take part in the
exercises.
	Our President, Sister Josephine Wood, is a 
good, kind woman, and is greatly interested in
the duty assigned her.
				ANNIE M. LYMAN,  Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]

OBITUARIES.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Addopted by the Officers and Members of the Meadow-
ville Relief Society. To the memory of the late Mrs.
Jennette Moffat, who died Jan. 12th, 1891.
	Whereas it hath pleased our Heavenly Father to call
to himself our esteemed friend and co-laborer Sister
Jennette Moffat,
	We the officers and members of the society, feel it a
duty incumbent upon us to express our appreciation, and
sympathy with the bereaved family, friends and relatives of
our dear sister whose brief illness and death has so shocked
us.
	Resolved—that in the death of Sister Moffat our Society
has lost one of its most reliable officers and members,
whose long term of office has been distinguished by
modesty and earnestness in the interests of the sick and
needy.
	Be it furthermore resolved—That these resolutions be 
entered on the Secretary's book, and a copy of them
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			ANN M. ELDREDGE, Pres.
			PRISCILLA L. KIMBALL, Sec.

IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Annie Christenson of Redmond, Seveir Coounty,
departed this life Jan. 29th, 1891. after a long and severe
sickness leaving a husband and four small children, also
other relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	Feb. 17th the oldest son Louis Christensen, aged ten
years, also left this world of care and trouble, the same as
his mother.
	While we esteem death as a glorious gate to a land of
joy and beauty, yet mortality whispers loneliness to the
loved ones left behind.
	But let ns look beyond the darkening wave, when we
are faithful, we again shall associate with those dear ones
gone before, never more to part.
	Sister Christenson was thirty years of age. She was a 
kind and patient wife and mother, and a consistent Latter-
day Saint.  She was also a teacher of the R. S., and we
shall miss her in her accustomed place. Considering all
this we as sisters tender our love, and deep sympathy to-
wards the bereaved husband and motherless children, and
pray our Heavenly Father to ever bless and console them
	In regard to absent oues, we know that our presen
loss will be eternal gain.
			MATILDA PETERSON, Pres.
			JOSEPHINE RASMUSSEN,
			MARIA MICKELSON,
				Counselors.

[Column 2]

IN HONORABLE REMEMBERANCE.
	Our beloved President of the Relief Society of Clarkston
Sister Mary Griffin, died Feb. 23, 1891, in Clarkston,
Cache Co., Utah. She was born Aug. 4, 1810, in Flyford
Flavel, Worcestershire, England, and was baptized in 1841,
in Naunton Beauchamp: emigrated to Utah in 1866; was
president of the Relief Society about ten years, which posi-
tion she filled with great satisfaction to all. She was loved
and respected by all who knew her. She was a kind and
loving mother and sister and friend in very deed. She was
very humble,yet habitually to her last always ready to give
a helping hand. She was a great help to the Bishop and
was able to help herself to the last. She assisted in making
three dresses last Christmas to cheer and comfort the poor,
though in her 81st year. She was reasonable to the last,
patient and happy, having seen in vision the Savior and the
glory of the other world, but said she could not tell us,
but she longed to go home. She sung many hymns and 
passed away in peace. And although we mourn yet we
rejoice,for we know our loss is her gain.

So peaceful and lovely in silence she lay,
A calm o'er her features, though cold the dear clay,
Faded the rosy cheek, chilled the warm breath,
'Twas thus we beheld our dear sister in death.

	She was followed to the grave by a long train of those
who loved her, there to await a glorious resurrection. She
was a faithful Latter-day Saint.  She has gone to reunite
with her beloved husband who died Feb. 4, 1880, also in
full faith of the Gospel. She leaves 3 sons 2 daughters and
28 grand children 4 great grand children and a host of
friends to mourn her loss.
	May her example be followed by her posterity and the
sisters over whom she presided; no doubt she was wanted
on the other side, sweet be her rest. Verily her good works
will live after her.
			SARAH K. BUTTERS.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton is again
called to mourn the loss of one near and dear
in the death of her sister Mrs. Bayard of New
York City.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.
	A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc., considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


[Column 1]
MISS KATE WELLS,
			STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.

[Column 2]
﻿Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup

WOMAN'S				DRESS GOODS,
CO-OPERATIVE			FANCY ARTICLES,
MERCANTILE and		DRESS MAKING for
MANUFACTURING		Ladies & Children,
INSTITUTION.			DRESS GOODS and
							TRIMMINGS,
						BURIAL SUITS. 
						123 E. 1st SOUTH
						Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

			Tickets
			ON SALE
			TO ALL
PRINCIPAL POINTS
		EAST, WEST,
	NORTH and SOUTH
—AT—
UNION TICKET OFFICE
		Main Street, Salt Lake City.
					S. W. ECCLES,	
	Genl. Pass. Agt.

		R. K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30and 32 East 1st South St.,
		SALT LAKE CITY.
	The Leading Retail
		Cash House.
		R. K. THOMAS

		Special to the Ladies.
		AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
		And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’  Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Sir

			DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[-]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Addrs DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Naitons.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1891.		No. 22.


CONTENTS.
	The Rich And The Poor—Cardinal Gibbons
Peper. National Council of Women. A Smart
Woman—Clara Selleck. Closing Class Exercises
—M. A. S. Rosa Ronheur. Miscellaneous. The
Gifts of the Gospel—M. E. Kimball. R. S. Re-
ports—Salt Lake—Box Elder. W. S. A. Salt
Lake Co. Notes and News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Musical Festival. Editorial
Notes. Book Notices. Fifty-fifth Wedding Anni-
versary. A Pleasant Party. To My Sisters of
the Relief Society—Zina D. H. Young. Letter
From Nevada—E. C. C.
	POETRY:—May Song—E. B. W. Those Olden
Days—S. Graves. An Acrostic—W. C. The
Difference Cicily Corwin. What We Found at
Sister Bathsheba's—Lula.


MAY SONG.

We come from the hill-tops far away,
Tripping along, so blithe, and so gay;
The fairest flow'rs and sweets we bring,
With music we make the wild-wood ring,—
	To welcome the maiden May;
	For we crown our queen to-day,
The maids of honor her throne surround
And cast their garlands upon the ground.

We search for bloom where the fairies dwell,
We hunt for buds in the shady dell;
Roses and lilies in wreaths we twine
Woven from every leaf and vine,
	To adorn the queen of May,
	Whose sceptre we own to-day;
And the sweet notes for her we sing
And our purest offerings we bring.

The maids who come from from the sunny hills,
Have bathed in the sparkling, bubbling rills,
Have revel'd in loveliness, and light,
And quaff'd the nectar of dewy night;
	They have come to crown queen May,
	In their own sweet, graceful way,
The maids of beauty, lift up their voice,
For the queen of May, they made their choice.
								E. B. W.


THOSE OLDEN DAYS.

Those olden, olden days!
	When the world and we were young;
Looming through the golden haze
	Which the years have around them flung;
When the full matin roundelays
	With which the woodlands rung
Were a prophecy divine,
	And the chalices of life
Brimmed with rich and ruby wine.
	That so braced us in the strife
For the myrtle and the bays—
O, those olden, olden days!

Ah! whither have they fled
With their fond remembered dead?
The faces that we miss;
Lips we ne'er again shall kiss;
The vows that then were spoken.
Aye, and troths, alas, since broken!
Where, O where is now the dream,
And where the dreamers now?

I see the breadth of a noble brow.
And faces that beam with the magic gleam
	Of genius-lighted eyes.
		I see a maiden fair,
		With the sunlight in her hair.
And a soul as white as the stainless light
	That streams from the upper skies.


Ah! the years have chastened a lingering few,
In sunshine and shadow and falling dew; 
And the touch of the Christ has so softened the pain
As to change into rubies the dull drops of rain;
And service and sorrow a beauty have lent
To the lives that in waiting and patience are spent;
And time in his flight has a benizon shed,
As the chestnut has faded that whitens the head;
And this be the myrtle, the laurel, the bays.
That we gather and wear since those old, olden days
								S. GRAVES.
Atlanta, Ga.


[Column 1]

THE RICH AND THE POOR.

CARDINAL GIBBONS' PAPER.

	That distinguished prelate utters words
which ring with truth and sincerity, and calls
the unthinking to a realizing sense of their per-
sonal obligations. He sounds a note of warn-
ing. too, which must not go unheeded, if the
peace of the nation and the security of the
home are to be maintained. He says: "If we
may believe those who stand upon the watch-
towers and scan the signs of the times, a tempest
of war, to which all former wars were holiday
tournaments looms big upon the horizon aud
threatens to overwhelm the world in the horror.
Wealth and poverty, they say, stand more
and more apart, and glare across the widening
chasm more fiercely. 'While the wicked are
proud, the poor man is set on fire!' Capital
and labor, after severe skirmishes with varying
success, are arming for the supreme conflict.
How imminent the struggle may be no man
can affirm precisely, but signs there are which
may well fill us with disquiet. The rich are
daily becoming richer, the poor, poorer; luxury,
high living and the pride of life are on the in-
crease. The thirst for wealth becomes daily
insatiate; the cries of the distressed more sharp
and loud and poignant."
	"The economic conditions of the United
States are fast approaching those of England.
The homes of the poor are more marked by
destitution and squalor; the light of heaven
is being closed out from miserable tenement
room and attic; flesh and blood and becoming
more cheap, and bread more dear; the well-
being of the car-horse is more solicitously
watched  than that of the driver. Small
wonder that strong men, maddened by the
tears of wife and cries of starving children,
band themselves together, and sometimes re-
sort to deeds of violence.
	''It is high time, then, that Gladstone, Man-
ning, and Hughes, in England, should with
grave anxiety review the situation and sound
a note of warning. Most opportunely, here,
does a millionaire like Mr Carnegie declare it
to be the duty of a man of wealth, first, to set
and example of modest, unostentatious living,
shunning display or extravagance; to provide
moderately for the legitimate wants of those
dependent upon him; and, after doing so, to
consider all surplus revenues which come to
him simply as trust funds which he is called
upon to administer; the man of wealth thus
becoming the mere agent and trustee for his
poorer brethren."
	"What, then, is the duty of all good men
to avert the crisis? The answer is simple and
all-embracing. Back to Christ, his example
and practicable to all. There is enough, and
more than enough, within the pages of the

[Column 2]

four Gospels to disarm at once this array of
class against class. The sacred pages teem
with warnings to the rich. They are the words
of eternal truth. About their meaning there
is little substantial difference of opinion among
Christians of all shades. The bane of our
times is that the voice is no longer to many
a living voice, in the rush and clamor of
money-getting; the sacred characters are over-
laid and well-nigh obliterated by the daily-
gathering dust of worldliness. Yet, the Rev.
Hugh Price Hughes is right in affirming that
in the Bible the spirit of wealth and of greed
is oftener inveighed against than the crime
of adultery or drunkenness.
	"In the evening of careers of unexampled
brilliancy and distinguished public service
two of England's greatest men, seer-like, lift
hands and voices of warning. The conditions
which have come upon that land are, it is to
be feared, fast assuming shape and consistency
here. Let, then, the leaders of opinion and
the directors of conscience in this great re-
public strive earnestly and fearlessly by ex-
ample and precept, to avert the coming strife.
	"Above all, like the French workmen of the
Val-de-Boise and that great Christian socialist
le Comte de Min, let employers and employed
come together in amity, with a view to mutual
understanding. Let them state their mutual
grievancss and ascertain their mutual demands
and temperate Christian counsels reigning, the
result will be lasting peace."


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

	At the meeting of the Executive Committee
on Tuesday afternoon Feb. 24, 1891, the fol-
lowing officers were elected for the ensuing
year.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Indianapolis,
President; Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer, New York,
Vice-President; Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
Philadelphia, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs.
Isabella Davis, New York, Recording Secre-
tary; Mrs. Lillian M. N. Stevens, Maine,
Treasurer.
	At the final Executive Session of the Board
of the National Council of Women the follow-
ing resolutions were passed:

	Resolved: First, that the National Council
of Women of the United States send a memorial
to the clergy of the Methodist Episcopal
Church, asking, inasmuch as 62 per cent. of
the membership of that denomination has al-
ready by formal ballot expressed a desire that
women be admitted to the General Conference
that the clergy shall, in accordance with the
will of the laity, grant the admission of women
to that body.
	Second: That the Council ask that women
be placed on the Sunday School Lesson Com-
mittee, and on all committees appointed in
the various churches for the revision of their
creed.
	Third: That the Council urge upon the
National Reform Divorce League the eminent
fitness and consequent obligation of placing
women on its Board.
	Fourth: That the Nation Council of Women
shall present to the proper authorities a formal
request that in all departments of its service
the Government shall pay its employees equal
wages for equal work, and that both in engag-
ing and promoting its employees it shall con-


sider efficiency and not sex, and thus set a
standard for the country.
	Fifth: That inasmuch as the Columbian
Exposition of 1893 will afford an exceptional
opportunity for convening representatives of
all countries, the officers of the National
Council shall invite the officers of the interna-
tional Council of Women, Millicent Garrett
Fawcett President, to hold its first meeting in
in the Summer of 1893.
	RESOLVED: That the general officers shall
appoint a committee of women whose duty it
shall be to report within a year suggestions for
a business costume for women which shall
meet the demands of health, comfort, and good
taste.
	RESOLVED: That the Council approves the
movement for preventing the slaughter of birds
for the sole purpose of ornamentation, and
that it asks American women to imitate the
example of the Princess of Wales, who has
forbidden the use of the plumage of singing
birds on her toilets.
	The Council also resolved to furnish a block
of stone or marble, suitably inscribed, to place
in the monument to be erected over the grave
of Mary, the Mother of Washington, and
voted to commend to all organized bodies of
women the objects of the Mary Washington
Society.
	Before adjourning, the Executive Committee
passed a cordial vote of thanks to the musicians
whose gratuitous service had enhanced the en-
joyment of the meetings, and to the press,
local and throughout the country, for the
splendid service it has rendered the Council
during its session.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

A SMART WOMAN.

BY CLARA SELLECK.

	"My wife is the smartest woman living. I
don't believe there is another in the country
like her," and Farmer Jones leaned on his
rake with a satisfied air, and took off his hat
to wipe the perspiration from his brow.
	"If she was like other women, a-gadding
about and spending all a man earned, I'd
never get rich." He rubbed his hands together
complacently and went to work again raking
the hay, from which he expected to realize a
generous sum.
	The young man to whom the conversation
was addressed, said to himself, "For my part
I'd rather be poor all my life than to have
such a toiling, tired-looking slave for my
wife. Its none of my bread and butter, only
I do hope he won't keep me waiting for my
pay when Saturday night comes, for I want
to take Sallie on that excursion next week.
	The young man kept steadily at work for
Farmer Jones had no idlers in his vineyard,
while he whistled to the time of his rake.

"No slave my wife will ever be
To scrub, and work, and dig for me,
With ne'er a kiss, a laugh, nor smile
To light the labors of her toil.
Her face with love will shine, will shine,
And sweet to know that she is mine."

	Yes, Farmer Jones' wife was a smart woman.
Before she was married she possessed many
accomplishments, besides thoroughly under-
standing the mysteries of housekeeping. She
was considered quite the smartest girl in town,
and when she married a poor farmer, she did
so with the expectation of placing her shoulder
by the side of his against the wheel of poverty.
	With the advancing years, as prosperity
smiled upon them, her burdens grew heavier.
The piano was never opened except for com-
pany. Her heart found no music in the glad
songs of old. No hired girl ever darkened her
door. "They were too expensive," her hus-
hand said.

[Column 2]

	When the children were sick with the fever
she asked him to hire a girl, but was met with
such a rebuke she did not repeat the request.
	His tendernhss had been swallowed up in
his eagerness for wealth.
	"If he would only give me a kiss, or an
encouraging word, sometimes," she would
sigh, "I would toil on without a murmur, for
love lightens labor."
	"Only a few years more," he would say, 
"and then we will take it easy, and the 
children will be able to take care of them-
selves, for I've brought my children up to
work."
	After a while the "few more years" passed 
and he did "take it easy." He could look over
the broad fields and claim every acre of
ground. The waving grain and fields of tas-
seled corn were all his. His pastures were
well stocked with cattle. He could look into
his house and see his children, most of them
grown. He could look for the counselor and
helpmate, who had helped to accumulate all
these good things, at his side, and look in
vain. He could sit in the firelight and weave
financial webs, but he could not see the patient
woman, either knitting or sewing, and ever
ready with wise suggestions, who had been the
light of his home.
	Yes, he could "take it easy" now, but it
was alone; for one day he came home to find
the tired soul, who had so longed for rest, at
rest. The dimmed eyes were closed to awake
in a glorious dawning. The care-worn hands
had ceased their labor; they were crossed
upon her bosom, while her sealed lips seemed
to say reproachfully: "I have done what I
could; angels could do no more."
	Mr. Jones alludes tearfully to the myster-
ious ways of Providence in removing such a
"smart woman" from the world. But does
he never think in the hour of retrospection
that he had something to do with her too
early taking off, and that a fitting sentiment
for her tombstone would read:
		"Worked to death."
	The Answer.


CLOSING CLASS EXERCISES.

	We had a very enjoyable time on Saturday,
May 2nd, at the closing exercises and exami-
nation of Sister Hannah Sorenson's class in
obstetrics; she having taught a class of twenty
members during the last four montht. The
Relief Society hall was crowded, there were
many of our local sisters and a few brethren,
and also many of the sisters from other settle-
ments, showing that a great interest was taken
in regard to Sister Sorenson's methods of
teaching obstetrics, which is indeed most de-
lightful and instructive, combining as she does
religion, morality, hygiene, temporal laws, with
much valuable instruction; treating upon the
most minute details pertaining to our physical
welfare, to the most difficult cases known in
obstetrical practise. Sister Sorenson has had
over thirty years practical experience in this
line, the knowledge she is in possession of is of
incalcuable benefit to the mothers and daught-
ers in Zion, and her most earnest desire is that
others, as well as herself,might be in possession
of this knowledge, that the suffering of women
be lessened, and that they may more thoroughly
understand their own organization, and the
God-given laws which govern the same; and
I trust the day is not far distant when every
daughter in Zion will see the necessity of
learning these things, laying aside their false
prejudices, and traditions, and seeking to un-
derstand true and correct principles, which
will benefit them, and their posterity through
time and all eternity.
	Sister Sorenson will also commence another
class on the 25th of this month which is very


encouraging, as it shows a desire in the hearts
of the sisters to become proficient in those
things that are most necessary for women to
understand.
		M. A. S.
Lehi, May 6, 1891.


ROSA BONHEUR.

	Rosa Bonheur, the greatest animal painter
of her time, is sixty-seven years old, yet she
says she has still work enough in her mind
to fill two lifetimes. In 1850 she bought a
house in the little village of By, on the banks
of the Seine, not far from the forest of Fon-
tainebleau. There she has lived and wrought
ever since. She has added stables and a studio
to her house. In the stables and grounds she
has had from time to time a veritable
menagerie of animals, including lions chamois,
bears, gazelles, and an elk. It is refreshing
to read that her studio contains not an article
of bric-a-brac and scarcely anything that is
not needed in the work of the great artist.
No "kickshaws" and no trash. She has al-
ways been an early riser. She says the morn-
ing is the best time for work. Her animals
are also more docile then. She spends much
time out doors, walking or riding in a little
carriage, which she herself drives. At her
work and out-doors she wears a man's clothing
with a peasant blouse. Her life has been
devoted to her art, pure and simple, and rich
has been her reward. There are wrinkles in
her face, but her enthusiasm keeps her
young.


Washington is the only city in the United
States that can afford to pay a Charity Com-
missioner three thousand dollars per. annum
to distribute fifteen hundred dollars to the
poor of the District. "The poor you have with
you always says the Lord" and the office hold-
er as well.  Let the poor trust in God, while the
Charity Commissioner draws his salary, the
poor are entirely unselfish as well as helpless
in this respect, but they are handy to have
around in the creation of Professors of Econ-
omy and chairs of Political Science etc., with
the title of PH. and GG. Professors of soft
snaps at the expense of the people. It is
enough to make the elements weep and the
earth to quake occasionally and go on a ram-
page but unfortunately the office holders are
never swallowed up in the avalanches or
chasms, for behold we have them with us for
all time.—The Working Woman.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Genius is the gold in the mine; talent
is the miner who works and brings it
out.
	But one thing on earth is better than a
wife, and that is a mother.—Leopold Schoner.
	When selfishness comes in smiling through
one door, love walks out grieving through
another.
	Fear sometimes adds wings to the heels,
and sometimes nails them to the ground and
fetters them from moving.—Montaigne.
	The preference of traditionalism, of out-
worn, lifeless finalities, to an ever open spirit
of inquiry, is not a foundation of faith, but a
form of unbelief.—Samuel Johnson.
	The greatest of fools is he who imposes on
himself, and in his greatest concern thinks
certainly he knows that which he has least
studied, and of which he is most profoundly
ignorant.—Shaftesbury.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ACROSTIC.

IN MEMORY OF DANIEL H. WELLS.

Devout and conscientious from his youth.
A fearless patron of the "Cause of Truth."
No dread of opposition swayed his mind,
In all conditions uniformly kind;
Enlisting in the hour when cowards flee,
Led by his love of right and liberty.

How truly great, how wise, and good was he,
All learned to love who shared his company;
No one could fail his virtues to admire,
More generous oft than prudence would require;
Exemplifying what he sought to teach,
Revered was he by all who heard his speech.

When falsehood's minions vex the saints no more,
Eternal Truth prevails from shore to shore.
Like Abram's blessings, his shall never cease,
Like stars above, or atoms by the sea
Shall be the heirs of him whose name you see.

		W. C.


THE DIFFERENCE.

Grandmother doted, when she was a girl,
On back-stitch and hem-stitch and cross-stitch and pearl,
Was taught in her teens by her own careful mother
To make the fine shirts for her father and brother.
Blithely she sung over distaff and reel,
And merrily tripped back and forth at her wheel.

Grandmother's granddaugther runs a machine,
Paints like a Titian on panel and screen,
Runs over to Paris to buy a new dress,
And lectures and docters and writes for the press.
Little she knows about distaff and reel,
But dotes—oh! so fondly on grandmother's wheel:
She decks every spoke with a fine satin bow,
And then sets it up in the parlor to show.

Patient and firm through her youth and her prime,
With precept on precept and line upon line,
Her hands full of work and her head full of cares,
Grandmother managed her household affairs—
Her closets and presses by prudent forethought
Filled with the work by her deft fingers wrought.
She married her husband for better or worse
And in her whole life never thought of divorce.

From club to committee, from concert to play, 
Grandmother's granddaughter hurries away.
To her church and her charities, culture and art,
She gives much of her time and a deal of her heart.
Her world is so busy, her work is so wide,
She can spare time and thought for but little beside,
Nor pauses to think in the hurry and strife
Of the peace and contentment of grandmother's life.

		CICILY CORWIN, in Hearth and Hall.


[Column 1]

THE GIFTS OF THE GOSPEL.

	Not long since I was told by a person of
my acquaintance that the gifts of the Gospel
did not prevail in this Church to day as they
did years ago, I listened with astonishment.
"Do you think so said I? I believe you are
mistaken, and I hope so at least. I know we
are humiliated by the human family many
times. But may God forbid that we should
grieve the Holy spirit that has blest us to the
full capacity of our faith in our Heavenly
Father.
	Did He ever leave us when we went with
relying confidence to Him for His aid and
assistance, in any trouble whatever? No never.
To this I can testify and so can many others
that are living to day, besides those who have
gone home to rest in heaven.
	I would here add. We can afford to lose
wealth and our good name in the world when
we know that we do not deserve to lose it;
since humility makes us acceptable to God.
But we cannot afford to lose the gift of the
Holy Ghost which will show ns things to
come and bring all things to our remembrance.

[Column 2]

That gift which enlightens the mind and
enlivens the soul: and gives that peace of
mind which the world can neither give or take
from us. Did not the Apostle say "ye are
temples of the living God, when His spirit
dwells in you.
	This spirit was promised to be given to those
who observe to keep the laws given by Jesus
the Savior of the world. What does Moroni
say upon this subject? (Section 7—verse 4)
	The Angel Moroni says, "The Lord prepareth
the way that men may have faith in Christ
and the Holy Ghost may have place in their
hearts according to the power thereof. And
Christ saith if ye will have faith in me, ye
shall have power to do whatsoever thing is
expedient in me. And he hath said repent
all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and be baptized in my name, that ye may
have faith in me that ye may be saved.
	Moroni says "Now my beloved brethren if
this be the case that these things are true
which I have spoken unto you God will show
unto you with power and great glory at the
last day that they are trne: and if true has
the day of miracles ceased? or have angels
ceased to appear unto the children of men—
or has He withheld the Holy Ghost from them
or will He so long as time shall last, or the
earth shall stand, or there shall be one man
upon the face thereof to be saved."
	"Behold I say unto you, nay; for it is by
faith that miracles are wrought; and it is by
faith that angels appear and minister unto men;
wherefore if these things have ceased, wo be
to the children of men, for it is because of
unbelief, and all is vain."
	"No man can be saved according to the
words of Christ save they shall have faith in
His name; wherefore if these things have
ceased, then has faith ceased also and awful is
the state of man: for they are as if there had
been no redemption made."
	"But behold my beloved brethren I judge
better things of you: for I judge ye have better
faith in Christ because of your meekness; for
if ye have not faith in Him then ye are not
fit to be numbered among the people of His
church."
	Will these words apply unto us? are we
meek and humble? or do every day affairs
occupy all our time. Well every day affairs
must and will occupy our time: but with an
eye single to the glory of God we shall have
greater light, is the Savior's promise and per-
form our duty acceptable. We cannot afford
to grieve His Holy spirit and cause it to
depart from us. We must seek that we may
find; and in the first place seek to know what
we are in the sight of God our father: for He
saith Mat. 7' chap. 25 ver. "Not every one
that saith unto me Lord, Lord shall enter into
the Kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the
will of my Father which is in heaven." 22nd
verse also says "Many will say unto me in
that day, Lord, Lord have we not prophesied
in thy name? and in thy name done many
wonderful works?" 23 verse "And then I will
profess unto them I never knew you; depart
from me ye that work iniquity."
	When we lose the gifts of the gospel, we
may know of a truth that we have grieved
the Holy Ghost which was given us after
baptism by the laying on of hands. The most
precious gift of all: because we need the light
and intelligence it so freely imparts to all who
in sincerity have faith in Jesus and His
teachings.
	We need it when we offer up our prayers,
that we may ask not amiss, but ask for those
things most expedient for our good and this
great preparatory work of meeting the Lord of
heaven; yes and of earth also.
	Yet there is another who claims the earth
and all that is on it. You will remember he
took Jesus up into an exceeding high

[Column 3]

mountain, showing Him all the kingdoms of
the world and the glory of them, and said "all
these things I will give unto thee if thon wilt
fall down and worship me."
	Without any contention Jesus only replies
"Get thee hence Satan: for it is written Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him alone
shalt thou serve.  Mat. 4 chap. 8, 9, and 10
verses.—Can any one doubt, that those who
will measure themselves by the pattern that
Jesus gave the human family to live by, and
live in accordance to it, will be tested every
whit as Jesus was. Yes, like gold tried by the
fire.
	Accordingly we need those gifts and graces
that the ancient Apostles had; that onr
prayer may be offered in an acceptable manner;
for the Apostle says the effectual, fervent
prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
We have known this to be true and shall we
doubt it now?
	We need to pray for the heads of govern-
ment. Look at the precarious times awaiting
us to day. Italy is insulted and offended.
The working men have an uprising. What will
be the result of all this, and where shall we
go for wisdom but to the fountain of light
and intelligence?
	St. Paul says, in Corinthians 12 chap 4 verse
"There are diversities of gifts but the same spirit.
There are differences of administration, bnt
the same Lord. And there are diversities of
operations but it is the same God which worketh
all and in all." He then speaks of eight gifts
given by the same spirit. For by one
spirit are we all baptized into one body. and
the foot shall not say, because I am not the
hand I am not the body, or shall the ear say
because I am not the eye I am not of the body.
Is it not of the body? The eye cannot say to
the hand I have no need of thee: or again the
head to the feet I have no need of you. Now
ye are the body of Christ and members in
particular, 27 verse. And God hath set in
the Church first apostles secondarily prophets,
thirdly teachers; after that miracles, then
gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities
of tongues.
	He then asks "are all apostles? are all
prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of
miricles? have all the gifts of healing? do all
speak in tongues? do all interpret? But covet
the best gifts and yet I show unto you a more
excellent way." He then speaks of charity, as
the greatest gift of all; he also says "these gifts
are for the work of the ministry, the edifying
of the body of Christ, until all come into the
unity of the faith."
	How can we come into the unity of the
faith only in the straight and narrow path
that Jesus marked out and followed himself.
He also says "Take my yoke upon you and
learn of me for my yoke is easy and my
burthen is light." With this Spirit the
Holy Ghost it is easy and the burthen is
light. Without it we find dark and con-
fused minds, and a dreary and cold world,
when destitute of that loving spirit of truth
the Holy Ghost. May we never consent to
grieve this Spirit or cause it to leave us to
ourselves while we stay upon this earth.
		M. E. KIMBALL.


Chief Juctice Green, sitting as District
Judge at Guthrie, Oklahoma, has rendered a
decision that women are eligible to public
office, Miss Cora E. Diehl was elected
register of deeds, but the former register re-
fused to surrender the office, on the gronnd
that a woman was not eligible. The judge
held that Miss Diehl was entitled to the office
and, further that a woman may, in the absence
of a statute, hold any office not incompatible
to her sex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. - No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	MAY 15, 1891.


THE MUSICAL FESTIVAL.

	Salt Lake City has already become somewhat
famous as a musical centre in the West, partly on
account of its great organ, and immense choir,
and one might believe the rich natural voices of
the boys and girls born in this mountain region.
That climate and conditions of country have
much to do with voices as well as temperaments
the writer firmly believes, but be this as it may,
the Latter-day Saints are a musical people and
the cultivation of talent has been greatly encour-
aged by those who have had influence and abil-
ity in this direction.
	The writer well remembers in the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo when journeying through
Iowa, the Nauvoo band, and singers, were such
an attraction that they were asked to hold con-
certs in the little new towns through which the
Pilgrims passed on their way.
	Evan Stephens the present leader of the choir
and President of the Choral Society, is a musical
genius, both in teaching and in leading a great
number of voices. Gifted beyond the multitude
he is able to bring into harmony hundreds of
voices and train them to follow his lead. He is
not only a fine interpreter of other men's compo-
sitions of high quality and power, but is also a
composer of considerable merit. His talent in
composition has been acknowledged by men of
experience in the musical world.
	Utah is fortunate in having such a rare genius
and one who has so many other admirable qual-
ities of character that make him so useful in
bringing out the latent talent of others
He has labored incessantly here to develop local
talent, and has succeeded in accomplishing very
favorable results, if he has not wrought out his
ardent anticipations. Last year the musical con-
cert given in the large Tabernacle in this City,
was composed entirely of local talent, and the
rendering of difficult, classical music exceeded
the expectations of those who knew how short a
time had been spent in training the singers.
	This coming month, June, will witness an event
of importance in the history of musical cultiva-
tion in this Territory unequalled here. Prepara-
tions have been going forward for some weeks,
and to make it a most thoroughly enjoyable and
delightful affair, Mr. Stephens has secured for the
occasion two of the most noted singers of our
day and time, Emma Thursby and Myron W.
Whitney. Then we have some local singers with
superb voices, Bertha Bayliss, Agnes Olson
Thomas, Bessie Deane Allison, R. H. Easton
and Heber Goddard soloists, and these with three
or four hundred or more trained voices, will cer-
tainly create a deep and grand enthusiasm, such
as nothing else in the world except good music
can awaken.
	Salt Lake may well be proud of the musical


talent developed here at home; the Tabernacle
choir when rendering a grand inspirational
anthem, or even hymn, lift the congregation to 
sublimest heights of emotional solemnity.
	For the expression of those deeper feelings of
the human soul where language utterly fails
music is the only perfect interpreter. The ap-
preciation of this divine art will be found in the
crowded audiences that assemble on the rare oc-
casions such as the coming June Festival. The
people from all the country round about will avail
themselves of this grand opportunity to hear the
rendering of choice selections by celebrated
artists, and home talent. The building itself is a
great advantage and then the organ second to
none in this country, adds wonderfully to the
effect of the whole.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If any of the sisters have extra copies of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT of Sep.1, 1889, or May 15,
1890, they will confer a great favor by sending them
to this office and will receive double price in re-
turn for each copy.

	Sister Elizabeth Howard attended the Confer-
ence of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of
Morgan Stake at Morgan on the 9th and 10th of
May, and also attended a general meeting of both
organizations at Croyden, Morgan Co., in com-
pany with Sister Lydia Rich, President Relief
Society of that Stake, and Susannah Hiner Presi-
dent Stake Y. L. M. I. A.
	Sister Elizabeth Stevenson and Lillie Freeze
visited the Summit Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence held at Rockport on Thursday the 14th day
of May, and also the Primary Association meet-
ing held the next day. At both these Confer-
ences there was a good spirit prevailing and
much interest manifesed in the onward progress
of woman’s work.

	June first is to be known hereafter as Children’s
Day among the Primary Associations, in honor of
Brigham Young the founder of the Territory, and
to perpetuate his memory in the hearts of the
rising generation. It will be a beautiful tribute to
him in all the years to come to celebrate his birth-
day anniversary in childish sports and songs of
rejoicing.

	This is the time to renew the membership of
the Deseret Hospital Association,in May. It has
now been established nine years. During that
time about nine hundred members have been re-
corded, but comparatively few of them have kept
up the membership fee of one dollar a year. The
beautiful attribute of charity is praised by all,
yet how few there are who put it to practical use,
and in what way can we better show our faith by
our works, than in bestowing charity upon the
sick and the afflicted. To alleviate distress is
one of the-most excellent things, and to do it in
a way that will be a public benefit, and without
knowing whom we are serving seems to us to be
an excellent method. We all give of our sub-
stance to feed the poor; we as a people donate
liberally, but when we help to support a Hospital
we are indeed lending to the Lord. Our sisters
and brethren should come forward with the mem-
bership fees, at least that we may know that
those who are carrying this heavy responsibility
are in a measure supported by members of the
association as originally organized. The Board of
Directors remember with pleasure when Presi-
dent John Taylor moved forward in this matter,
and himself became a regular member of the
Association, with other Apostles and leading
men of the Church. His example is worthy of
imitation.


BOOK NOTICES.

	ANNA ELLA CARROLL.

	We have just received the work entitled “A
Military Genius” “Life of Anna Ella Carroll of
Maryland, by Sarah Ellen Blackwell.
	It is a book of 168 pages,in nine chapters neatly
bound, and contains a steel engraving of Miss
Carroll when a young girl, a striking face, and
displaying a beautiful neck and arms, being taken
in the low neck and short sleeves, the fashion of
the period, also the picture of Kingston Hall at
Rohoboth Maryland where she was born, and
portraits of Thomas H. Scott and Benjamin F.
Wade. This lady now quite in years, having been
born in 1815, claims to have greatly benefited the
leaders of the late civil war, and has the papers
to prove her work, but her claims to any compen-
sation so far, have been ignored, or set aside,
though they cannot be disproved. The author
has collected together this material and published
it, that the world may know how much was done
by one woman to preserve the union intact. We
have not yet had time to read the book but know-
ing much of the work of this wonderful genius,
can safely recommend it and hope it, may find a
place in the homes of the people all over the
country, that at least she may have some little
remuneration for valuable services from the sale of
the book. And there may, through the circula-
tion of this work telling what she has done, come
a time when positive recognition of her labors
may be made by the Congress of the United
States.
	The book is for sale at the Woman's Journal
Office 3 Park St., Boston, Mass., and at the
Rooms of the Woman’s Suffrage Society, 1406;
G. St., Washington, D. C. Price $1.10 forwarded
free on receipt of Price. 
	YELLOW RIBBON SPEAKER.
	This little book “The Yellow Ribbon Speaker,'
contains Readings and Recitations suitable for
Woman Suffrage Associations, parlor-meetings
and entertainments compiled by competent judges
of articles on this subject. Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
Alice Stone Blackwell and Lucy E. Anthony, all
young women of practical judgment and relia-
bility. The matter is collected from the writings
of men and women most of them of national repu-
tation, for instance Wendall Phillips, Lucy Stone,
Susan B. Anthony, Phebe Carey, George William
Curtis, Henry Ward Beecher, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson, Zerelda G. Wallace, Grace
Greenwood, Hon. John D. Long, Harriet Stanton
Blatch, Harriet H. Robinson, and many others
“Three Dreams in a Desert,” by Olive
Schriener, is alone worth the price of the book.
All woman’s associations and those who want
posting on these questions will find in this little
work suitable prose and poetry, containing sound
logic; and some of the recitations are very
humorous. The book is published by Lee and
Shephard, Boston, Mass., price 50cts. All suff-
rage associations should keep a supply of suffrage
literature.


FIFTY-FIFTH WEDDING
	ANNIVERSARY.

	MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH HORNE.

	It is very rarely the case that husband and
wife both live to celebrate their golden wedding,
though it does seem that there are more of these
half-century weddings celebrated than there used
to be or perhaps it is because they get published
in the papers more than formerly.
	On the evening of May 9th, 1891, Joseph
and Mary Isabella Horne celebrated their fifty-
fifth wedding anniversary with a party of friends


at their beautiful new cottage on Third Stree
in this City. Both Mr. and Mrs. Horne are re-
markably well preserved for their years, and no
one would have judged the bride of fifty-five years
to have been nearly the age she is, three score and
twelve; she has a fine bright complexion and her
hair has no tinge of gray. It is pleasant to con-
template such a long life of married happiness,
and looking back over the years that are passed
this venerable couple must have much to be grate-
ful for, although in the changes that have taken
place in this Church and they are both veterans
in the cause, they have had much to endure, in
toil and privation. They have had a very large
family fifteen children; twelve grew to manhood
and womanhood, and they have a great many
grand children, in fact a numerous posterity upon
the earth, all residing in the Rocky mountain
region, and quite a number settled around them.
	The party consisted of a few comparatively of
their most intimate friends, those with whom they
had been associated in neighborhoods and in
bonds of brotherly and sisterly love.
	During the evening remarks were made by
several brethren and sisters present, President
Angus M. Cannon being the first speaker; he re-
ferred to his boyhood when he had first known
the host and hostess, and his pleasnnt recollec-
tions of Sister Horne’s associations with his
favorite aunt Leonora Taylor; he brought up such
reminiscences of the past as were suited to the
occasion and congratulated Brother and Sister
Horne on their success in life, and especially in
regard to their children. Thought it an example
in Israel. Elder Edward Stevenson followed in
a similar strain and Bishop Geo. H. Taylor made
a few remarks also, each one complimenting
Brother and Sister Horne and offering the most
hearty congratulations. Sister Sarah M. Kimball
who had, Sister Horne thought, known her longer
than any one of the guests present, spoke briefly
and naturally enough touched upon the subject
of woman's position, and made some very good
points. Sister Elmina S. Taylor followed her
speaking tenderly of the motherly advice and in-
struction she had given to her that had been
such a blessing and help. Sisters Smith and
Richardson spoke in a sympathetic way also of
the affection they cherished for her and the.
family. Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey, their
daughter, recited “The New Church Organ," and
their son Richard Horne sang an old-fashioned
mirth-provoking song.	
Delicious refreshments were elegantly served
by the daughters and grand-daughters and a lively
stream of conversation, mostly upon the scenes of
the past and the changes that had taken place,
was kept until a late hour, when the party was
dismissed with a benediction by President Angus
M. Cannon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies met by invita-
tion at the residence of Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith on the evening of the second of May to cele-
brate the 69th anniversary of her birth. All those 
assembled were particular friends of hers, and
some of them had been associated with her for
many long years in labors of love; several of
these sisters had been acquaintances or neigh-
bors away back in Nauvoo in the early days of
the Church.
	"Sister Bathsheba" as she is best known, (that
name being more distinctive than the other) has
had in many  respects a serene and happy life,
owing mainly to her even temperament and cheer-
ful disposition. She is one of those well-or-
ganized or evenly balanced persons, that little
things do not ruffle, and that even great troubles
do not overwhelm with doubt and melancholy. In
fact she is amiable and self-reliant.She has passed


through trials that many women would have sunk
under, and yet she always looked upon them with
heroism and fortitude, and now in her seventieth
year, she stands alone, as independent as the 
evergreen, tree, youthful in her spirit, cheerful in
demeanor and gentle and gracious as though her
grand and noble husband were still by her side
to lean upon, though he has long since passed to
"the other side."
	I need not enumerate those who were present
only to say among the most distinguished guests
were Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society and Jane S. Richards her first Counselor,
Bathsheba W. Smith herself being the second
Counselor, and Sarah M. Kimball, the veteran
Secretary; also Mary Isbella Horne; Treasurer
of the Society, all of them grand Apostles of the 
faith. There were others present whose very
presence was an inspiration and a charm, two of
our sweet women poets Lula Green Richards and 
Emily Hill Woodmansee, and Mrs. Smith's 
daughter Mrs. Bathsheba Merrill, now a silver-
haired matron, and granddaughters Alice and 
Maud, who waited upon the guests in the most
delightful way, serving the appetizing viands and 
delicious fruits, cakes and creams in a natural, 
easy and dainty fashion.
	The evening was spent in conversation upon
various topics, also the renewing of old acquait-
anceship, and congratulations to the hostess
whose long years of service in the Church have
only added dignity and saintliness to her appear-
ance. A happy and peaceful spirit always pre-
vades her home, and she ever has a smile and a
cheerful face, and words of encouragement to 
greet her friends and co-laborers. 
	May her peaceful life continue to flow on in the 
same even channel, until she shall have finished
her allotted time here on earth, and her useful-
ness increase with her years in giving counsel and
imparting instruction and blessing the daughters 
of Zion in her calling, as a Priestess in the House 
of the Lord.


WHAT WE FOUND AT SISTER
BATHSHEBA'S.

'Twas Saturday, the second day of May;
And Sister Bathsheba was sixty-nine next day;
The evening came, and tired though we were.
We went to pay our kind respects to her.
Not kind respects alone, but heart felt love.
Asking all blessings on her from above;
For this dear Sister Saint, is one whose heart,
In all pure, true affection claims its part.
And in her home, where angels love to dwell.
Of what we found I wish to briefly tell.

Little household angel,
	Dainty, pure and sweet;
Springtime's loveliest emblem,
	Babyhood complete:
Never fairer blossom.
	On the earth has smiled,
Than our hostess' darling.
	Tiny great-grand-child.

Tokens too of Summer,
	Beautiful and chaste,
Pleasing to the senses,
	Luscious to the taste;
With delightful fitness,
	Free from worldly pride,
Her child and her child's children.
	Lovingly provide.

Then, our own Bathsheba,
	(Fancy thus conceives.)
Stands like glorious Autumn,
	With its golden sheaves.
Sometime in the future,
	Winter will have set
His white crown upon her,
	But he hasn't yet;
She's the Autumn May Queen,
	In whose praise we've met.

		LULA.


TO MY SISTERS OF THE RELIEF
SOCIETY.

	How pleasant to me is the sunshine of thought
and a devoted desire for the good of all humanity;
it dispels the clouds and the gloom that naturally
hover around us selfish mortals.
	Did not all those, who were favored to be at
the General Conference of the Church this
month partake of the comforting influence that
was so freely given to all present? and offered to
the whole world of mankind.
	We are taught "to call upon God while He is
near and seek Him when He is to be found." I
most humbly trust that my sisters will do this,
those who through toil and expense came from a
distance being hungry spiritually, were fed with
the bread of life, and I hope have taken home
with them sufficient to impart to those who were
not blest to be present. May we not forget these
precious things, like looking in the glass and
turning away forget what we saw therein, but be
able to treasure up the words of wisdom we heard
and continue to be even more faithful in all things
that another Conference may bring us still nearer
in spirit to become what our Father in heaven
wishes us to be, and has given us the privilege to
attain to aided by His spirit, faithful to the end
of our lives, that the sunshine of truth may ever
light our path and we as a band of sisters be
united in attending to all our daily duties, that we
may be one in our desires, and firm in our pur-
poses, and as President Taylor used often to say
for us "the kingdom of God or nothing." God
has truly manned the ship of Zion with order and
strength, that she has thus far out-rode the storms
and has made headway against the waves of per-
secution that have rolled high around her threat-
ening swift destruction. The invitation has been
extended to many of the peoples of the world, to
come and see what God has done for His people,
here in the mountains; and although the govern-
ment has lessened our family circles, the affec-
tion and true love that has, and does exist, is a
portion of heaven, that will produce its effect;
and by peace in our hearts amidst heavy respon-
sibilities, we shall not be forsaken. With the
changes that have been brought about many of
my sisters are now left lonely, with their precious
children; do not be discouraged, be faithful in
your prayers, true to yourselves in virtue and in-
tegrity, and you will not be cast down, for the
promises are for you and for your little ones, fear
not.
	Excessive pride has been and is a great snare
to many people, to be humble before God and
grateful for His blessings, is the safe path to walk
in, for through our deepest afflictions, if we will
not murmur at His providences, come the bright
rays of the sunshine of His Holy spirit. Ex-
perience is wealth, is knowledge, let us toil on
and faint not by the way; oft gather with our
little ones, in their Primary meetings, hear their
sweet voices singing the songs of Zion, seek to
elevate their pure minds, teach them true princi-
ples, tell them there are no mothers or children
so perfectly organized, watched over and pro-
tected as among the Latter-day Saints. If their
dear fathers have to be absent from them,or even
go to prison for the principles they have embraced
blessings are in store according to the things they
suffer. Mothers who have to toil on with their
little ones lonely, God will be with them, and if
they are patient and humble, He will pour out
rich blessings upon them; and their children will
grow up to be good and honorable men and wo-
men. Sisters let us not be discouraged, we are a
practical people and must prove our faith by our
works of obedience, as it is a world of toil and
hardship for a saint indeed.
	We as a Society are engaged in a labor of love,
in looking after the poor, comforting the mourner
and all who are cast down through force of cir-


cumstances; let no just complaints go up to our
Father in heaven of suffering that we could alle-
viate, either of the body or the spirit; we have
many duties to perform, many calls are made
upon us, and here let me say how I appreciate
the noble and liberal response made by our
sisters in the several stakes of Zion to the call for
means to send our Delegates to Washington, D.
C. to attend the Woman's National Council.
Please accept from me and the sisters who were
sent our most sincere thanks for your generosity
in contributing for this purpose. It was to bless
all, a general and unselfish cause, and will re-
move prejudice and spread the light, we have re-
ceived, that we may be known for our good works
among the nations. My sisters, I pray that you
all may be blest in your earthly treasures, and in
every gift and grace, with knowledge and wisdom
and an abiding faith in the truth.
	Let us sustain our home institutions and home
literature and especially the EXPONENT; our only
organ for the Relief Society in all its Stakes and
branches, to hear of our meetings, our Confer-
ences and to be informed of the workings and
condition of the Society as a whole.
	I very much regret having to be absent from
home for awhile in Canada. I wished to have
visited the sisters here and there in the various
localities, and in the lonely little branches at a
distance from head-quarters, I had greatly de-
sired to visit them this season; but there is great
comfort and satisfaction in knowing, that the
same sweet influence is with all the saints in
every land and clime; and may the good spirit be
given in rich abundance that the good seed sown
at the last Conference may bear much fruit, in
more perfectly uniting us in the bonds of love
and union which is to be enjoyed to all eternity.
	I shall surely remember my sisters, hoping they
may visit each other's branches and their Confer-
ences, and annual meetings, strengthening the
young people in the Improvement Associations,
and in the Primary; to bless this one,strengthens
all; comforts the parents, helps the Bishops
lessens his labors; all are honored in observing
these things.
	It is more than earthly treasures to care for
the poor, let no sigh of the needy ascend to our
Father. When I return home I hope to meet
often with my sisters and may our Father's bless-
ing abide with us all.
		Affectionately Your Sister
			ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
	President Relief Society, April 21, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER FROM NEVADA.

		Overton, Nev., May 9th 1891.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Some time ago I saw a piece in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT written from our quiet little town
which to do justice to the people and the place
should be corrected. We live in a small settle-
ment on a beautiful stream of water called Moapa,
which empties into the Rio Virgin River we have
plenty of land and more room for good settlers;
we have quite warm weather in summer but
generally a pleasant winter; we can raise almost
any kind of grain, and plenty of fruit such as
peaches, grapes, plums and almonds and any
other kind that may be cultivated. Generally the
health of the people is splendid, new settlers
sometimes have chills when they first come; we
have had some cases of la grippe and mumps here.
I have lived here for almost ten years and have
seen but one death of our people that being a
small babe. We are thankful to our Father in
heaven that we are not afflicted with diseases as
they are in a great many other places; you can
buy dried peaches at 8 & 10 cts. per pound,
raisins 12 1/2 cts., butter is generally 25cts. per
pound, we have a good flour mill, can buy flour


as low as $2.50 per hundred, we are a long way
from any saw mill and of course lumber is scarce,
and a valuable thing with us, some have shingle
roofs on their houses and others have them
covered with a kind of flag, we all afford a good
lumber floor, we have beautiful shade trees in the
summer they almost make a house for us being
so cool we prefer them to the house, they are
cottonwood, poplar, and locust trees not much of
a variety, but we look for the time when this
place will be more thickly settled then we will
prosper better. We have Sabbath School and
meeting every Sunday, also Primary, Relief
Society and Church Class in which old and young
take an active part. The children I can say are
very prompt in attending Primary and Sabbath
School, we have as good young men in our place
as one would wish to associate with; we have no
tobacco, strong drinks or bad language used
amongst them, they are well respected; we live a
long way from any large settlement the nearest
being St. George and it is a quite a rough road
to get here: hoping that this little article will find
a place in your paper.
		I am Very Truly &c.
			E. C. C.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Zion was
held in the 14th Ward Hall March 12, 1891,
Mrs M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the
stand with the president were Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, Mrs B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, Mrs. E. T. Webb, Mrs E. Stevenson,
and the Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Con-
ference opened by singing "Once more we
come before our God," prayer by Mrs. E.
Stevenson, singing "Our God we raise to
thee;" Roll called, fifteen Presidents, and
eight Counselors responded. Minutes read
and accepted, reports from twenty-two
branches read.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke of the labor of
love the sisters were engaged in, and urged
the necessity of faith for the sick that they
might recover, exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence.
	The secretary then read twenty more reports.
Pres. Horne wished the reports condensed as
it took up so mnch time; said we want to be
faithful in visiting the sick and the needy, if
we keep the commandments of God we have
a claim upon Him and He will hear our
prayers for the sick and distressed. Send for
the elders to administer instead of relying
upon Doctors, let us use mild herb medicines,
and entreat the Lord to spare our loved ones;
I fear we have too much pride and vanity
among us, let us humble ourselves and be
united in everything; and let us patronize our
own institutions, sustain our woman's store;
and do our best to make a success of this
undertaking, we should work together in
temporal affairs as well as spiritual, whatever
tends to build up Zion, let us take hold with
energy and assist in. Sister Horne blessed
the sisters and asked the Lord to bless them.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. singing
"Do what is right etc.", benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox-
	Afternoon sesaion commenced with singing,
"We thank thee O, God for a prophet,"
prayer by Mrs. E. T, Webb, singing, "O my
Father thou that dwellest." The general
officers of the Relief Society were sustained
by the Conference and also the afficers of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake.
	Pres. Horne expressed herself gratified to
have one of the Apostles present and knew
the sisters were also thankful for his presence;
hoped to recieve counsel from him; but first
would like to hear Mrs. Jane S. Richards

[Column 2]

give an account of her representing the
Relief Society in the Woman's National
Council in Washington.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards expressed herself
happy to meet in Conference with her beloved
sisters, had been well instructed with Sister
Horne's speech in the morning. The ladies
East she said had treated the Delegates from
Utah well and were as kind as they could be;
spoke of her dreading to go, and of the en-
couragement she recieved from her husband;
now that she had been and returned she was
thankful, she was thankful it was over; explain-
ed how hurried and yet how long the Council
meetings were; she had been favored in con-
versing with many ladies and explaining our
position, felt she would like five huudred copies
of the manifesto to distribute among them;
thought to many of them it would be interest-
ing reading; related items of interesting conver.
sations she held with many influential ladies.
There were quite a few gentlemen present on
the third day of the Convention to hear what
we had to say about Utah. Felt glad to be in
the meeting, though she hrd seen many fine
places and people while away, yet she felt at
home here among the Saints; though she
testified these ladies were working for the
welfare of humanity the best they conld; she
had invited many of them to come here, and
hoped they would, and if they did they would
be received with love and hospitality; told
them when coming to Utah to mix among the
Mormons and not go to outsiders to get in-
formation to prejudice them against us.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed his pleasure
in attending the Conference,men and women he
thought could not either of them get on very
well alone, therefore he felt the sisters were
entitled to some share of the very best attention
in the church; husbands and wives received
blessings together in the House of the Lord,
which were to endure for all eternity; and they
could be mutually helpful in performing their
various duties. Spoke of our  being gathered
together now and growing and increasing; that
the nations were looking to us and talking of
us. Pres Richards represented to the sisters
in a very able manner the great good that had
been accomplished in sending the Delegates
down to Washington, and what good seed had
been sown that would yet spring up to their
honor, thought the association of the sisters
among the influential women gathered from
the different States would be beneficial,and the
knowledge that the Rellef Society had branches
in many nations would become widely known,
thought the sisters should not regret anything
they had done to accomplish this great purpose.
	"The press throughout the world are talking
of the Mormons and wondering what we are
going to do; they are anxiuus to know all they
ban about us, we should pursue the course that
will help to bring about the time when the
Lord will come to reign over all, never forget
our religion, remember and always move on-
ward etc."
	Counselor E. S. Taylor made excellent re-
marks upon faith and the gift of healing, and
other important subjects. Mrs. E. Webb and
Mrs. E. Stevenson each spoke briefly and gave
good counsel testifying to the goodness
of God and urging the sisters to exercise
greater faith.
	Some business was transacted and Pres.
Horne made a few closing remarks, hoping the
good instructions which had been given
might be a blessing and a help to all. Con-
ference adjourned for three months, singing
"Praise to the man etc." Benediction by
Apostle F. D. Richards.
		E. HOWARD, Secretary.

BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief


[Column 1]

Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle in Brigham City, March 10, 1891.
Sister Olivia Widerborg presiding, singing
"Earth with her ten thousand flowers," prayer by
Bishop Janson, singing "High on the mountain
top." Minutes read and accepted, reports read
by the secretary. Pres. Olivia Widerborg
made some explanation concerning the reports;
exhorted the sisters to diligence in their duties
as wives and mothers.
	Mary Watkins president of 4th ward; said
"May we when our time comes, be worthy that
welcome, 'well done, thou good and faithful
servant,' let us do good when we can, both in
our own family and in others, let our hearts
be lifted in prayer to God."
	Nancy A. Bigler, counselor in 2nd ward,
felt to do all in her power to help roll on this
work.
	Sena Gregerson, counselor in 3rd ward,
spoke of the assistance rendered by the girls,
they were great helps in sickness and making
clothing for the dead, said; "we should strive
to make home attractive for our children and
guard them from evil.
	Coun. Mary Wright: "We need faith and
need to sustain each other, to enable us to
pass through our trials, although they are
nothing compared to what our Savior endured,
Let us build each other up.
	Bishop Janson said the sisters are doing a
great work and much good, knew they were
as true in teaching doctrine and principles as
the brethren, spoke of faith in sickness, and
upon other subjects.
	Pres. O. Widerborg; "sisters let us keep the
spirit by which our brother has spoken, it will
exalt us in the presence of God. Singing
"The sun that declines in the far western sky,"
benediction by Elder Crawford.

	Afternoon session, singing "How great the
joy that promised day," prayer by Counselor
Adolph Madsen, singing, "An angel from on
high." Sister Hubbard president of Willard
City; "we can not be thankful enough for our
blessings, we have our name enrolled with our
brethren and sisters, we need constantly to pray
that it may always be so, spoke of the sickness
and death of Sister Cook, she was a faithful
saint, may we eventually be worthy to inherit
the blessings we set out for is my prayer.
	Sister Harper, president at Calls Fort, "I
think the sisters in our ward are doing a
little better than formerly, we have had a
great deal of sickness, but it has been said the
calamities should commence at the house of
the Lord.
	Condensed report read by Annie Wixom.
Coun. Adolph Madsen, warned the sisters
against the use of concentrated lye, also the
use of coal oil in making fires, I beg your
pardon for speaking of this, but terrible acci-
dents have occurred, mothers should be care-
ful with matches.
	Pres. Rudgar Clawson; "These meetings
bring about a spirit of union, the sisters have
a decided influence for good or evil, just as
they choose, it does not always manifest itself
in a direct way, nevertheless it is felt.
	Pres. Olivia Widerborg; "you and I can not
afford to lose an opportunity to listen to the
teachings of the Relief Society, we are called
to give relief, let us look well after the sick
and poor, in such a manner that we may gain
the approbation of our Father in heaven; teach
your children to honor the priesthood; let us
take good care that our conversation and
actions at home may be such that angels and
our Father in heaven may hear; do not feel
discouraged, whatever may be placed upon
our heads, let us not murmur, He will give us
power to bear it."
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow; "looking upon this
assembly I see a very peculiar people, 'Mothers
in Israel,' I hope this is understood that you

[Column 2]

realize you 'Mothers in Israel,' that we are the
people of God, Joseph Smith said so; we are
sifted out of the nations, the Lord says "they
shall assemble together and He will raise up
teachers to them," I see it verified here to-day
you are gathered two of a family one of a
city. As your president has said, you have
sorrows and trials, you feel sometimes that you
have not a friend, even the Lord seems to for-
sake you, but so it was with the Savior, Jesus
Christ, we are not better than him, it seems
we must suffer, but how well we feel when it
passes and friends come; spoke of Job and how
his wife counseled him in his great trouble
saying "dost thou yet hold fast to thine in-
tegrity? curse God and die." We see this
spirit in the world, people suicide to get out of
trouble; but the mothers of Israel seek for the
comforter, what is the comforter? the Holy
Ghost; it is a principle of light, it is the principle
by which all things are made, even the Lord
on His throne, and according to our diligence
in living pure lives we shall enjoy and com-
prehend this principle. It is your privilege to
reveive as great blessings as any women since
the beginning of the world. Spoke of Rebecca
and of the mother of Samuel and the
prophetess in the temple who was told the
Savior should be born. You can have influ-
ence in your homes for a great deal of good in
connection with your husbands. Emma Smith, she
was a very peculiar woman, Joseph was perse
cuted on the right and on the left, he would
come home despondent she would tell him,
"this is the work of God, He will sustain you,"
how is it with you? when your husband comes
home, do you say, "stay at home and keep me
company," or will you encourage your hus-
band to do his duty? you sisters are making
a record, sending your children to school, and
Sunday School, what pleasure for a woman to
look back at a well-spent life, you need comfort,
many of you perhaps are farther advanced
than you know, I presume; what a beautiful
thing it is to be a Latter day Saint, what a
lovely thing it is to be a Latter-day Saint;
what ever we fail to receive in this life we shall
obtain in the next life, attend your meetings.
you sisters who hold office don't feel discour-
aged, we all do sometimes, stick to the truth,
stick to the Gospel, to your duties, all will be
well, God bless the Relief Society, God bless
the mothers in Israel."
	Pres. Widerborg made a few closing re-
marks, singing, "Great God attend while Zion
sings." Benediction by Bishop Jansen.
			EMILY D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. SALT LAKE CO.

	The W. S. A. of this county held its regular
monthly meeting in the 13th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday March 17, 1891, Pres. E.
Howard in the chair; prayer by the Chaplain,
Eliza Platte. The Sec. being absent Adella
W. Eardley was elected Sec. pro tem, the Sec.
read the by-laws of the W. S. A. of Utah.
Pres. Howard made a few opening remarks in
which she observed that we were all interested
in the great work being done by the women
of the world, and we should work for the same
political interests, and for suffrage for all;
thought when women had power we would
have better governments and purer society;
when the right people are in positions of trust
we will have a reformation in many respects;
urged the ladies to study politics more than
they had done; referred to its being St. Patrick's
day, and the way in which politics had been
run many years ago. Hoped members of the
association would be punctual in attending the
meetings, and study carefully the woman's
movement; "we ought to attend to every duty
faithfully, for time is precious and we all want
to improve."

[Column 2]

	Frances Smith, Louisa, Spencer, Mrs. Bar-
ton, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, Margaret Caine,
Adella Eardley and Mary Silver each spoke
briefly but earnestly in defense of woman's
rights, defining what they considered her privi-
leges and advocating earnestness and deter-
mination.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth Mc'Farlane thought
we would have all the rights we wanted if we
would only prepare ourselves for them; mean-
time men would have to be converted; if wo-
men attained to a higher plane,  men  would
correspondingly rise higher.
	May Talmage, said she was interested in
suffrage; recalled with pride the last time her
mother voted; she walked five miles to deposit
her ballot; she thought women were advancing
all over the world; realized there were some
positions women could fill better than men."
The suffrage in the hands of women will not
detract from woman's duty at home; we should
have a programme for our meetings and study
and prepare ourselves at home.
	Elizabeth Price. related some of the ex-
periences and difficulties Lucy Stone had to
contend with when first starting out in wo-
man's cause; but opposition as we well know
is greater evidence in favor than against a
cause; woman suffrage had been agitated a
long time and the cause will go onward and
never fail, thousands of women have to make
their own living and they need the ballot,
ability and quality should be the test and not
the sex, for office, all women could not get
positions neither can all men.
	Emma Finch made a short but interesting
speech. Meeting adjourned, subject to the
call of the President.
		A. W. EARDLEY, Sec., pro tem.

	Minutes of the W. S. A. of Salt Lake Co.
held in the 13th Ward Assembly Rooms April
21st 1891, Vice Pres. Louisa K. Spencer in
the chair. Prayer by Frances Smith.
Minutes of the two former meetings read and
adopted. Roll called.
	Ch. Ex. Com. Elizabeth McFarlane ad-
dressed the assembly, said that Mormon wo-
men are and always had been religiously and
socially free, they also wished to be politically
free.
	Sarah M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n.
and one of the delegates to the late convention
held in Washington D. C. asked if it was not
power, that women wanted, said that she for
one wanted power! woman should seek to ex-
ercise all the powers which God has endowed
her with, and not be contented to deplore her
situation and bear it, but take measures to
better the conditions. Recommended that we
lay systematic plans at each meeting, for our
next meetings work, thought that the exchange
of thought and sentiment of the delegates at
the Washington Convention had been mutu-
ally beneficial.
	Phebe Y. Beattie delegate to the Convention
from Salt Lake County gave a very pleasing
report of her labors, said they had been both
pleasant and profitable, and that she had been
highly complimented on the orderly manner
in which our reports had been compiled and
presented to the Convention.
	Honorary Vice Pres. Z. D. H. Young said
that we should exercise all the powers that
we possess to educate our children up to a
higher standard, than we a present have
reached, learn where power emanates from,
and use it to benefit the world; not merely our
own and ourselves; one drop of water alone is
of little worth, but a union of a large volume
of tiny drops makes a mighty power.
	Mary A. Freeze, Frances Smith, Caroline
Dye, and Dr. E. S. Barney, each made a few
pleasing remarks, after which the meeting was


adjourned until the third Tuesday in next
month, at the same place, at 2 o'clock, p. m.
		C. C. RALEIGH, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Maine M. E. Conference has voted in
favor of the women, 397 to 78.
	Mrs. J. S. Ladd and Mrs. Martha E.
Rolfe were recently elected school trustees in
Great Falls, Montana.
	Miss Willard has been criticised for being
an officer of the National Council among whose
ministers Unitarian and Universalist women
predominate. The public will do well to re-
member that the Council knows no race, class,
nor creed.
	Nearly $20,000 were raised in Denver, Col.,
in a single day, for the establishment of a
Deaconesses' Home. Miss Dora Adron, the
future superintendent, and Miss Elizabeth
Caldbdck, a graduated and experienced nurse,
both of whom were trained in the Chicago
Home, are already on the ground and at
work.
	The Woman's Canning and Preserving
Company. of which Miss Amanda T. Jones,
of Chicago, is president, is said to have a
capital of $1,000,000 and has one plant in
operation in Chicago which can put up 500
cans daily. They have also decided to build a
factory at Benton Harbor. Michigan. for the
canning of uncooked foods.


OBITUARY.

	There's another Bud removed,
		Ere it felt the blight of sin
	Through the gates the Angels made,
		Our baby has passed in.

	Died at Oakley, Cassia Co. Idaho March 28, 1891, Effie
Louisa, daughter of L. J. Robinson and Sarah E. Richards
Aged 11 months 21 days.

	"Our's the loss and, not our Darling's
		Our's the pain and her's the joy
	Our's the mourning and the weeping
		Her's the bliss without alloy.

	Her's the little feet that patter
		Making music as they go,
	Her's the little hand that beckons
		Ever from the radiant shore.
	Angel of the Lord to lead us
		Where we'll never lose her more."


A SAD DEATH.

	Died at Panacca, Lincoln Co. Nevada, April 13th,
1891; Jane Evelyn Wadsworth, aged twenty one. She
was deservedly beloved by all who knew her; how
great the bereavement of her sorrowing parents none can
tell, and the eyes of her many friends are dimmed with
tears, and their hearts are heavy with grief at the loss of
one that has passed away in all the bloom and loveliness
of her young womanhood.
	She had herself drank deep of the bitter cup of sorrow.
For in less than the short space of one year she had become
a wife, and had tasted the sorrows of widowhood, and
bade farewell to the cares of earth soon after becoming a
mother. For what wise purpose she was taken away from
this vale of tears, we cannot tell. We can only bow
our sorrowing heads in humble submission to the divine
will believing that what we know not now, we shall know
hereafter for.

	We know there is a world above,
		Where all the faithful meet;
	And we shall join with those we love,
		Around our Father's feet.
	And I shall hear sweet Jennie's voice
		In holier purer tone
	When all those blessed souls rejoice
		Around the Eternal throne.


Yes this is the only balm and consolation our wounded
hearts can recieve, that if we are faithful and are found
worthy, we shall in the morning of the resurrection surely
meet her again; where all tears are wiped away and there
shall be no more death.
	Rest in peace sweet Jennie.
		PHEBE C. YOUNG


IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary E. Taylor, daughter of John and Elizabeth Bailey,
and wife of Fred Taylor. We the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Fourth Ward, S. L. City, unanimously
adopt the following resolutions:
	To the memory of our esteemed sister, Mary E. Taylor,
who departed this life March the II, 1891.
	She was born in Salt Lake City, Christmas day 1853, in
the Fourth Ward where she resided until her death.
	She was a faithful member of our Society, being Secre-
tary for 18 years, and always took an active part in what
ever she was called to do. She took an active part in the
Sunday School and other societies, until the cares of her
family prevented her. She had a kind and cheerful dis-
position, and was benevolent to those in sickness and
distress.
	She was an affectionate wife and daughter, and an in-
dulgent mother.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father, to call
from our midst by the hand of death our beloved sister
and friend.
	Therefore, be it resolved that we recognize in the death
of our sister the loss of a friend and co-laborer in the
Relief Society.
	Resolved that we esteem her goodness, patience and un-
complaining endurance worthy of our imitation.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the
family of the deceased and with them acknowledge the
hand of our Father in heaven.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in the
records of the Relief Society, and also be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a copy be forwarded to
the family of the deceased.
			SUSAN SPERRY,
			M. A. HADLEY,
			C. C. KIRK,
				Committee.

	April, 10, 1891.

		Mary thou wast kind and gentle,
			Good and noble, brave and true;
		And thy spirits gone to heaven,
			Where we hope to meet with you.

		We must part from thee dear sister,
			One we've known and loved for years;
		And it grieves us all to sadness,
			But we must dry up our tears.

		Bless and comfort her dear mother,
			May she live for many years.
		To her children prove a blessing,
			As she has in all past years.

		And her husband; God will bless him,
			If he puts his trust above;
		And his children prove a comfort,
			Though bereft of mother's love.

		All her friends and all her kindred
			Loved her tenderly and well;
		She was good and sweet and patient,
			With the ransomed she will dwell.

				C. C. KIRK, Ass't. Sec., R. S.


THE WORLD'S FAIR.

A MAGNIFICENT OFFER.

	The great "WORLD'S FAIR WORD CONTEST"
is exciting universal interest and is one of
the absorbing topics of the day. A Free Trip
to Europe and $800.00 for expenses is offered
to whoever constructs the largest number of
English words from letters contained in the
text, "THE WORLD'S FAIR." Additional
prizes, consisting of an Upright Grand Piano,
valued at $400.00, Silver Tea-sets, Sewing
Machines, and many other useful and valuable
articles will also be awarded in order of merit.


A Special Prize of a 14 kt. Gold Watch,
valued at $50.00, will be awarded to the girl,
or boy, under 16 years of age, sending in the
largest list. Every one sending a list of not
less than 20 words will receive a prize. As
the winner of the first prize may not care to
make the extensive trip offered, the option of
$1,000.00 in cash is given. Send seven 2c.
Stamps for Complete Rules. Premium Cata-
logue and a sample copy of the beautifully
illustrated paper, "The Home Fascinator." The
contest is open to any person in the United
States or Canada. In case of ties on the
largest list of the first prize will be awarded to
the one bearing the earliest post-mark, distance
etc., considered.
	Address, "The Home Fascinator," Montreal,
Canada.


MISS KATE WELLS
STUDIO
One door north of Z. C. M. I.-Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.-9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.

Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas,Sup
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and 
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,
123 E. 1st SOUTH	
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City
R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
be country promptly responded to.
Address	DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1891.		NO. 23.


CONTENTS.

	Reminiscences—C. D. P. A National Temple
for Women. Labor in Literature—M. L. Payne.
Take a Woman's Paper—Woman's Chronicle.
Royalty at Work. Longfellow's Evangeline.
Miscellaneous. Birthday Anniversary. A Utah
Girl in London—Lib. R. S. Report. W. S. A.
Reports. Woman's Progress in Higher Educa-
tion—Helen L. Webster. The Wimodaughsis
Property. Invented by Women. Notes and News.
A Saddened Home—Ella A. C. Gillam.
	EDITORIAL:—Birthday of Brigham Young. Y.
M. M. I. A. Meeting and Fair. Editorial Notes.
Miss Willard's Defense. Transactions of the
National Council of Women.
	POETRY:—Peace—A. Furber.—Lucky Days—
Harriet Prescott Spofford. Thoughts and Memo-
ries of a Summer Hour—E. B. W. The Mystic
Bed—Ada Stanley. Hast Thou Been Tempted—
E. W. Hull.


PEACE.

God give you peace! your life will have its longings,
	I would not ask they be less keen and deep;
The soul that firmly stands upon the mountains
	Must know the footing of the pathway steep;
It must have trod the valleys dim and low
	And tented where the streams of silence flow.

For you no blank content of heart or brain
I crave, but I would have you, friend, to drain
	The cup of all wide living, feed and grow
Full rich in wealth of feeling, have you know
The strength of strong desire, and bravely face
The close temptations of our struggling race.
I would not spare you strife and weariness,
Nor beg that powers of darkness never press
	Anear your feet; yet ever do I pray
	The rest of God be with you all the way!

		A. FURBER.


LUCKY DAYS.

BY HARRIET PRESCOTT SPOFFORD.

When May with apple blossoms
	Her loving-cup is brewing,
With beams and dews and winds that get
The honey from the violet,
With hopes on which the heart is set,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad the time for wooing!

When August calls the locust
	To sound the year's undoing,
And like some altar dresed of old
In drapery of cloth and gold,
High pastures thick with broom unfold,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing.
	Dear lad, the time for wooing!

When brown October pauses,
	The ripened woodland viewing,
And all the sunny forests spread
Their fallen leaves, as heart's blood red,
A carpet fit for brides to tread,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad the time for wooing!

Oh, listen; happy lover,
	Your happy fate pursuing:
When fields are green, when woods are sere,
When storms are white, when stars are clear,
On each sweet day of each sweet year,
	Oh, then's the time for wooing,
	For wooing, and for suing,
	Dear lad, the time for wooing!

		—Harper's Bazar.


THOUGHTS AND MEMORIES OF A
SUMMER HOUR.

Mem'ry is busy in her haunted bow'r,
	Clad with bright thoughts the senses to beguile;
So softly falls the touch of passing hour,
	That dreamy fancies linger near the while.

I hear soft voices murmur'ng low and sweet;
	I feel the touch of gentle hands again;
And in the shadow of some lone retreat,
	I e'en forget I ever suffer'd pain.

Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flow'rs spring up afresh where all was drear;
And somthing whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign, devoid of fear.

There seems a rapture in the summer breeze,
	Borne from some region ever bright and fair;
How lovingly it plays amid the trees,
	Breathing "enchantment in the azure air."

O memory of the years now past away,
	Buried and dead, but living still in thought;
Nature was then as prescient as to day,
	And her conceptions were as grandly wrought.

Eearth rob'd herself as queenly then, as now,
	And summer mantled hill, and field, and plain,
And garlanded with flow'rs her biushing brow,
	And wreath'd her sceptre with the golden grain.

Yes, other summers have in glory woke,
	And sunshine flooded nature with its kiss;
But time's relentless hand the spell has broke,
	Though earth were in an ecstacy of bliss.

In the weird rustle of the falling leaves,
	There is a sadness touching to the heart,
For summer her departing glory grieves,
	Yet nobly doth she with her treasures part.

She sighs her requiem to the passing breeze;
	All natuae joins her in the mournful strain;
A thousand echoes whisper in the trees,
	Repeating o'er and o'er the sad refrain.

And is there in our hearts no sad regret,
No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget?
	Or glean, and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves,

Where fancy's magic wand can recreate,
	And live again the happy seasons o'er,
Food for the mind, 'gainst bitter, adverse fate,
	Harvest of thoughts to gladden evermore.

		E. B. W.


REMINISCENCES.

DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Here are a few lines for your paper if you
think them worth your notice.
	Sister Snow’s speech in your last EXPONENT
brings to mind many recollections, and par-
ticularly of that occasion.
	Some of the sisters who resided, and still
remain in that place, will, no doubt, remember
with pleasure the enjoyable time we had at 
that meeting.  Over twenty years have passed
since then, and many dear ones have gone be-
hind the vail; among the number is Sister
Eliza R. Snow; and although her mortal body
slumbers in the silent grave, her noble works
still live to her honor and praise.
	Sugar House Ward, at that time, reached
as far as the first Ward (and took in what is
now Farmers Ward) also in the opposite direc-
tion a good distance past the penitentiary;
untiring were the desires and efforts of our


dear sisters to glean and bring the fruits of
their labors to help the poor, and comfort the
sick and dying.  Some travelled miles to go
over their district, wading through mud and
mire, day after day; and they were blessed in-
deed.  It was one of the first Societies organ-
ized and in a very scattered condition.
	Only the eighth meeting—how feeble we
were—how small;—how good we felt, how
encouraged, by her comforting words; we re-
ceived new strength and fortitude, more ambi-
tion, feeling really that we were doing some-
thing to help the work along; soothing the
sick and afflicted, relieving the wants of the
poor, helping to carry the burdens of the weary 
and heavy laden, comforting those who mourn,
and endeavoring to reclaim the wayward, and
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leadeth to Eternall ife; this is the kind of work
that brings joy and consolation to the soul.
	I remember well the Relief meetings in
Nauvoo, held in Brother Joseph’s store
situated on Water street, on the banks of the
Mississippi river, on several particular occa-
sions; Brother Hyrum’s Brick office also, a
little further up on the bank of the river
where we used to go to school, and a great
many other things come to our minds when we
refer to long ago; scenes and trials the saints
of God have passed through, since the be-
ginning up to the present time, pass before the
mind like a vision and cause us to reflect
seriously, and our hearts fill with gratitude to
our Heavenly Father, that He has brought us
out from Babylon that we may not be per-
takers of her sore afflictions; that we may have
a chance by obedience to His laws and keep-
ing the commandments, and not going hand 
in hand with the world, but living near unto
Him to prepare ourselves for something bet-
ter.
								C. D. P.


A NATIONAL TEMPLE FOR WOMEN.

	During the early part of the session Monday
evening the exercises were pleasantly varied
by the presentation from the National Chau-
tauqua Association of a gift of land for the
erection of a temple, at Glen echo, for the
future meeting of the Council. The gift also
included the granite of which the temple is to
be built. The deed was read by Mr. L. D. F.
Jennings. The gift was accepted by the presi-
dent Miss Willard, and by the treasurer, Mrs.
M. Louise Thomas, who announced that the
Women's National Council had secured an act
of incorporation in the District of Columbia
which would empower them to accept any
other gifts that might be made to the Asso-
ciation.
	"I want you to understand, friends," said
she, "that the idea embodied in this Chau-
tauqua Association and its relation to women
is the idea of a woman. A woman's mind
conceived it and a woman's heart moved the
hearts of the givers to make this beautiful do-
nation to the Council. I would like to tell
you what Clara Barton said of the woman who
first thought of this." Mrs. Thomas then read the
following extract from an article written by
Clara Barton:
	Seven years ago, in the turmoil and confu-
sion of the New Orleans Exposition, where
effort failed, endeavor languished, hope


perished, and the stoutest natures gave way, I
marked a woman whose patient and persistent
labors, day by day, attracted me like a magnet.
I followed her to her "pavilion" to find
she had nothing to sell, no profits to expect
but ideas to promulgate for the uplifting of hu-
manity.
	A graduate of old Chautauqua in the North,
she was laboring to up-build a new one in the
South, and succeeded, and De Funiak Springs,
in the western arm of Florida, the only Chau-
tauqua in the South at that time, was the re-
sult of that patient toil. I followed her history
to find that this result was fraught not with
personal or pecuniary gain, but with the sac-
rifice of health and strength and in the face of
heavy loss.
	A few weeks ago I was informed of the fact
of the princely gift of land and material aid
foy a National Chautauqua at our own door,
my co-operation was asked and I was also told
that an experienced woman was active in the
movement. "The name?" "Mrs. Susie Birch
Jennings." The memories rolled back. She
was Susie Birch at New Orleans. The name
was a talisman. Perseverance, earnestness,
good judgment and experience should bring
success; and a great wave of grateful confi-
dence swept over my heart for the other gift
of that faithful worker in this new vineyard
of the Lord. It was the hand of this woman
that Mrs. Leland Stamford clasped in hers as
she uttered these eloquent and heartfelt words:
"We have a Catholic University; a Methodist
University in progress; now comes a Chau-
tauqua, with its grand amphitheater, that over-
shadows them all."
	Mrs. Thomas then introduced Mrs. Susie
Birch Jennings and Mrs. Julia Ward Howe.
The ladies were greeted with applause by the
audience and responded in graceful and fitting
remarks.
	Mrs. Thomas then said: "Our idea in our
temple is to have a representation of every in-
terest among women. We have already re-
ceived one pledge of $10,000 through Clara
Barton. The woman who has made this pledge
is Mrs. Roby, President of the Grand Army of
the Republic among women, who heads an or-
ganization of forty thousand. If she can ob-
tain one dollar from each of her constituents
her benefactions will not stop but will aid
greatly in the building of the temple.
	"Now the work is before ns. Do not let it
die or grow cold in your hearts. Remember
that we wait your message."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LABOR IN LITERATURE.

MKS. M.	L. RAYNE.

"Learn to labor and to wait."
	To the writers who send out their crude
thoughts and unfledged ideas to the standard
magazines of the country the following remarks
from an authority on the subject may not
come amiss:
	In answer to the question, "What kind of manuscript
de you desire?" Mr. Gilder of the Century says: "The
very best poem, the very best novel, or short story, essay
or descriptive article that can be written in the English
language, and especially by an American writer, is in
constant demand. What a young and ambitious and
unknown writer most needs is not influence or introduc-
tions, but brave and self-searching criticisms, and the
hardest kiud of work in the perfection of his material, be
t verse or prose."
	If these writers would read the magazines
in question, analyze their articles, catch that
snbtile, attractive quality, known as genius,
which has won their acceptance, and then
labor hard to create some poem or paper of
equal merit and interest, there might be a
chance that they would succeed. It might not


be as writers for the higher magazines, but as
humble toilers in the vale of letters. Dr.
Oliver Wendell Holmes works harder to evolve
a bright thought, and does more patient
drudgery to polish and improve it. than any
of the obscure writers would condescend to do.
One who knows him says that he writes, re-
writes, interlines and turns his sentences to
catch every possible reflection of his genius.
It is this constant respect for the art he
practices that gives to his writings their
brilliancy and their rippling flow.
	A new writer who was waiting for inspira-
tion was advised to try a little perspiration. If
an excutioner were appointed and your head
were to come off if you did not produce a good
poem or cheerful essay, you—the laggard in
literature—would achieve something worth do-
ing. There are people who are actually too
lazy to think. They plead that it gives them
a headache. They would call it time wasted
to spend twenty-four hours over the matching
of rhymes in order to get a perfect frame for
a crystallized thought. Yet a thought may be
a winged soul, carrying messages of hope and
comfort to the ends of the earth. We hear of
geniuses in lonely farm-houses bursting full- 
blown upon the waiting world, but we know
nothing of the years during which the
thoughts were worked out, the scenes enacted
in the mind of the writer, and the plot develop-
ed. Of one thing be sure. There was much
painstaking, much labor of love or sorrow, be-
fore the book with its fair leaves reached our
scanning eyes. As an example read the life
of Charlotte Bronte, and see what her prepera-
tion was for writing her great novel Jane
Eyre.
		The Answer.


TAKE A WOMAN'S PAPER.

	It will be found by those who care to in-
vestigate, that for men there are upwards
of 17,000 papers issued, while for women there
are not more than fifty. Yet the excuse most
frequently given by women, when asked to
subscribe to a woman's paper is, "My husband
takes so many papers that I do not feel that I
can afford to take this one." Would it not be
better for the husband to do with one paper
less, and let the wife have a chance to learn
what women are doing in the world?" If he
requires as a man to know what men are do-
ing, does not she, as a woman, need like infor-
mation concerning the work accomplished by
her sex.—Woman's Chronicle.


ROYALTY AT WORK.

	The daughters of the Princess of Wales,
says Lady Elizabeth Hilary in The Ladies'
Home Journal, are sensibly educated. They
know how to sew so well that they can make
their own gowns, and their knowledge of every
art taught them is thorough. They can go
into the kitchen and cook—cook well; they
understand the art of breadmaking, and if
they were ever thrown upon their own re-
sources would be able to take care of them-
selves. And this has been done not only as an
example to other mothers in the kingdom, but
because her Royal Highness thought it right
for her daughters. I wonder how many of the
daughters of American gentlewomen could
make butter, sew, paint, are good musicians,
have a knowledge of sculpture and can read
and speak three or four languages? And yet
this is true of the daughters of the Princess of
Wales, who was herself, while thoroughly edu-
cated, taught all the industries that would be
a part of the knowledge of a daughter of ordi-
nary gentlefolk. Sweet-faced, healthy-looking
girls, they are always.


LONGFELLOW'S EVANGELINE

	Here is the story of how Longfellow's
famous poem of "Evangeline" came to be
written: "Hawthorne dined one day with
Longfellow, and brought with him a friend
from Salem. After dinner the friend said,
"I have been trying to persuade Hawthorne
to write a story, based upon a legend of
Acadie, and still current there—the legend
of a girl who, in the dispersion of the Aca-
dians, was separated from her lover, and
passed her life in waiting and seeking for
him, and found him only when dying in a
hospital when both were old." Longfellow
wondered that this did not strike the fancy
of Hawthorne, and said to him, "If you
have really made up your mind not to use
it for a story, will you give it to me for a
poem?" To this Hawthorne assented, and,
moreover, promised not to treat the subject
in prose till Longfellow had seen what he
could do with it in verse."


Miss Margaret Schutt, a maiden lady, of
Derry, Pa., died recently at the age of sixty-five.
Her entire life has been devoted to hard work,
and since her father died, early in the seventies
she had been a plain domestic in the families
of the neighborhood. She dressed plainly
venturing only from the beaten path in wearing
a bustle. For some years she had been living
with a family named Bennett, from whose
house she was buried. After the funeral the
Misses Bennett went to clearing up the room
Miss Schutt had occupied. Such things as
were of no use they cast into into the fire.
When they came to the bed-ticking bustle
worn by the deceased, it was promptly pitched
into the flames, but was for some reason im-
mediately pulled out again. Then it was seen
that a twenty dollar greenback was found
sticking through the seam. Tearing open the
bustle the young women discovered a lot of
bank notes and gold and silver coins of all
denominations. The pile when counted up
made nine thousand dollars in cold cash. It
has long been a mystery what Miss Schutt did
with her earnings and this explained it. She
left no will, so the money was turned over to
her sister, who, in turn rewarded the Misses
Bennett for their discovery. The bustle will
probably go down to future generations as an
heirloom.—Ex.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Goodness is better than knowledge.
	It is the great at whom envy shoots her darts.
	Men's words to women are much more kind
when written than when they are uttered
	A man who puts His life in peril unselfishly,
and in a just cause, is entitled to the admira-
tion of all men.
	Faith is a humble, self-denying grace; it
makes the Christian nothing in himself, and all
in God.—R. Leighton.
	A tender conscience is an inestimable bless-
ing: that is, a conscience not only quick to
discern what is evil, but instantly to shun it,
as the eyelid closes itself against the mote.
	The culture of flowers, is one of the few
pleasures that improves alike the mind and
the heart, and makes every true lover of those
beautiful creations of infinite love, wiser
purer, and nobler.—J. Vick.
	Memory, like books that remain for a long
time shut up in the dust, needs to be opened
from time to time; it is necessary, so to speak,
to open its leaves, that it may be ready in time
of need.—Seneca.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE MYSTIC BED.

The chamber is low and dark and deep,
here many a one goeth down to sleep;
And the pilot who openeth the entrance door,
Closeth it never to open more;
And the occupant drest in a robe of white,
Looketh ne'er again on themoming light.

The bed is so narrow and hard and cold,
The pillow is covered with damp and mold;
And frozen mist in the clear starlight,
Are the sheets so thin and strangely white,
 And the counterpane rests, with a heavy fold,
On the sleeper there, so still and cold.

No window to let in the sweet moonlight,
To shine on the face so calm and white,
Or nestle like pearls, in the golden hair,
Where lieth a rose all withered there.
Not even the fragrant breath of the flowers
Can enter therein on the morning hours.

And down upon that mysterious bed,
Sometime I shall lay my weary head.
Whose gentle hand in the bright summer hours,
Will gather for me sweet beautiful flowers?
What loving friend will hallow my rest,
And place the white rose upon my breast?

		ADA STANLEY.


HAST THOU BEEN TEMPED?

Hast thou been tenped so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Hast fought the tempter well, and know,
His language sweet to overthrow;
	Was it thy will or circumstance
	That checked his pitiless advance?

Hast thou been tompted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Hast thou been strong where he was weak?
Mayhap thine armor yet may break
	Where his is firm and show thee where
	Corruptness festers unaware.

Hast thou been tempted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Or hath thy happy lot insured
The safety, wherein he allured,
	Would ne'er have known the want that drives
	To sin, to shame, to prison gyves?

Hast thou been tempted so,
	O cold, proud heart?
Thank God thou still art pure, but lend
Thy stronger hand in kindness, friend;
	Crush not the fallen with disdain,
	But help him back to hope again.

		E. W. HULL.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Dear Sister Harrison: We the ladies of the
Relief Society of Eureka, and other friends,
have met in your home this evening to con-
gratulate you on your returning health and
strength. We are pleased to know that you
are able to be around again, and we hope
under the blessing of God, that you will con-
tinue to improve in bodily strength until you
are fully recovered from the severe sickness
under which you have suffered so long. You
have been brought back, so to speak, almost
from the gates of death, and we are proud to
see, and to know that our kind Heavenly
Father has been so merciful to you in sparing
your life to see more days, and to give you
another opportunity to be a help and mother
to your children and to be a useful, active
member in the Relief Society in this part of
our Father's vineyard.
	We also wish to extend to you, and the
members of your family, our heart-felt sym-
pathies for the great bereavement you, in the
providence of God, have been called upon to
sustain of late in the loss of your beloved hus-
band and father, Brother Harrison.
	We feel that such a sad occurrence was one


of the greatest misfortunes that could have be-
fallen you in this life, and that you alone feel
the loss of your dear companion with greater
sorrow than we can.
	We therefore pray that God, our Father,
may give you His holy spirit to comfort you
in your day of sorrow and bereavement.
	May you have faith in His promises,and be as-
sured that He has provided ways and means
by which you shall have the presence and
companionship of your dear ones again.
	In conclusion, Sister Harrison let me say, in
the name of the ladies of the Relief Society
and other friends that we wish to present you
this small token of our respect, as one of the
members of the Relief Society, and also as a
memorial of our everlasting friendship and as
a birthday present.
	We hope that in the future when you look
upon this memento* it will bring to your
mind those who respect and sincerely sym-
pathize with you under your present circum-
stances. We also wish you many happy re-
turns of your birthday.—C. B. N.
			E. LIZZIE GILLESPIE, PRES.
			MARY KEATON, SEC.
	*The ladies presented Sister Harrison with
a haudsome and valuable present.


[Column 1]

A UTAH GIRL IN LONDON.

	London, May 3, 1891
DEAR MARY:
	We came to London after two weeks stay
in Southport. * I thought we should only
stay here a week, or ten days, but we have
decided to stay two weeks if all is well, so I
don't have to rush about sight-seeing all the
time although I have been quite busy going
about since I came,and have seen considerable.
* * * The scenery is grand coming from
Southport to London, the Derbyshire hills
especially. The castles and halls and churches
were all ivy-covered and the green fields and
flower gardens were just like what we read of
in books. We passed young ladies playing
tennis and croquet. Papa's Aunt met us at
the station and we drove direct to our apart-
ments.
	The next day we went over Westminister
bridge and passed the Houses of Parliament.
Then we went into Westministor Abbey and
saw the tombs of Milton, John Dryden,
Longfellow, Hastings, Wardsworth and many
more great men, bnt these are all I can
remember. In the afternoon we went to St.
Paul's Cathedral to see the place. We saw
the Lord Mayor of London and ever so many
more great people, but I think they all look
ordinary and are not as refined looking
as some of the middle class people.
	The next day we went to the Crystal Palace
and saw so many things I can hardly
remember them all. In this place they have
an imitation tomb of the Black Prince, I
guess yon have read about him, and there
were busts of most of the great men of every
nation, and statues of a large number of
great people. In the gallery there were
beautiful pictures of all schools and all nations.
In the aquarium were fish of all kinds. They
have courts to represent the architecture of
olden times; and a tropical region of tropical
plants and birds. In the evening pa, ma, and
I went to see a grand burlesque and variety
play; it was splendid; a man in the play had
some trained dogs, and two of them had a
boxing-glove fight; they were getting angry
over it, so the man had to separate them;
everybody roared with laughter at the fun.
	I suppose you went somewhere on May-day;
I went to one of the most stylish shops in
London and bought me a dress; wherever you
buy a dress in England you can have it made
right at the shop; the dressmaking and be-
longings costs three guineas and a half.

[Column 2]

	May 5th:—Day before yesterday we went
to the Zoological gardens to see the animals.
They  have every kind of animal there from
the white Polar Bear to the crocodiles and
snakes of South America. Mabel and Alfred
had a ride on the elephant. The next day
that is yesterday, we went to Kew Gardens,
they are exquisitely lovely. In them a Queen
used to live, the Lake and swans, the ivy-
covered tower and flowers and garden make
a perfect picture. There are two or three
museums and half a dozen conservatories of
flowers and plants. * *

	May 12. * * It will not be long now be-
fore you think of going up the cañon; the time
seems to slip by: it does not seem possible
that it will soon be June and that we have
been away from home six weeks. Pa says if we
wish to we might stay six months after the
time of his mission is up, and travel on the
continent. I should like it but of course we
cannot decide one year and a half before the
time. Anything might happen in that time.
If we should stay however it would be two
years from this summer before we should come
home. *
	We have had a continual round of sight-seeing
since we left Southport; have been in London
two weeks now,but intend to start for Hastings
a sea-side place tomorrow. This afternoon we
are going to the Royal Naval Exhibition or
else to the German. Here in London we go
by under-ground or elevated railways instead
of street-cars; they only have street-cars on
the outskirts of the City. *
	One day last week we went to the tower of
London, it is a great gloomy place and looks
as if murders had been committed there. We
stood on the place which is supposed to be the
scene of the murder of the boys Edward V.
and his brother the Duke of York, and stood
on the piece of granite underneath which are
the graves of many great people put into one
upon which the scaffold was put. The heads
of Queen Anna Boleyn, Margaret
Countess of Salisbury, Queen Katherine
Howard, Jane Grey, Robert Devereaux; Earl
of Essex, and Lord Hastings were cut off here.
We saw the block on which were two or three
axe-cuts where the axe had come down after
chopping off their heads, also saw the axe and
the executioner's mask which was horribly ugly.
When Lady Jane Grey was a prisoner in one
part of the Tower, she saw her husband led
forth to be executed on the Tower Green in
front of her window, and saw his headless body
brought to the Chapel, a little away from
Tower Green, "in a carre," while the scaffold
was being prepared for her own death on the
green in front, which took place on the same
day, Monday 12th, Feb. 1554. Wasn't it
horrible?
	Give my love to Josie, and I am going to
write to her when I get her address.
	With love to all the family and yourself
also the boys and girls.
		LIB.


“The announcement of the closing of the
Riggs House, which has been for fifteen years
the headquarters of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, brings a sense of loss to
every one connected with the movement
throughout the nation. Mr. and Mrs. Spofford
have been generous and amiable hosts, and
warm and sympathizing friends, and we can
but hope that they will establish another
hostelry from which the encroachments, of
business will not push them, for we should
hardly know how to have a Washington
Convention without them, as a rallying point.
But next time it must be called the Spofford
House.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
gne copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts; No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 1, 1891.


BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June first is the anniversary of the birth of
Brigham Young who was born in the year 1801,
and who was for many long years the President
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and a wise and judicious leader of the
people when they were driven from their homes
and possessions. He has been designated by a
gifted writer (Edward W. Tullidge) as the
modern Moses, and certainly the Lord was with
him and inspired him in a miraculous manner in
many times and places. This people have great
reason to cherish his memory and teach the
children of Zion to honor the man and the day.
"Honor to whom honor is due" so say the
Scriptures and surely honor is due to this great
and good man. It is a beautiful custom to ob-
serve the day as a holiday for the little people,
that it may be more effectually impressed upon
their minds, and the Associations of young men,
who were organized by his direction for mutual
improvement have done well in choosing his
birthday as a proper time to hold their annual
conference, and especially if on that day, the
cultivation of music is to be made a principal
feature. It is well-known that Brigham Young
took special delight in the cultivation of musical
talent both vocal and instrumental and gave every
encouragement possible in that direction even in
the days of adversity among the people. He was
richly endowed in this respect himself, possess-
ing a mellow, musical voice and a correct ear for
tune, harmony and time; and delicate apprecia-
tion of this talent and gift in others. In the
grand Temples that have been, and are to be
erected, it will be an essential matter to have
hundreds and thousands of harmonious voices
tuned to the praise of the Creator, as well as those
who can play upon instruments, in order to give
the most eloquent and glorious expression to the
human soul in its adoration of the Deity.
	In all the higher attainments of excellence the
Latter-day Saints should strive to excel, and the
youth of Zion born and reared here, have blessed
opportunities for cultivation, and it is expected
that they will surpass the world in knowledge,
because they are entitled through obedience to
the Gospel, to the Holy Spirit which leads into all
truth. But these things are not obtained without
diligence and application.
	Brigham Young's teachings were all calculated
to inspire in the mind a tendency to advancement
and progress in every department of life both
private and public. His example in regard to
methbd, promptitude and economy, is worthy of
imitation, and it would be well for the youth of
Zion to follow the course so often marked out by
him in his sermons and instructions to the people,
and especially in referrence to home productions
and home manufactures, and seek to build up
home interests and thereby build up Zion.


Y. M. M. I. A.

	A general conference of the Young Men’s
Mutual Improvement Associations opened Sun-
day May 31st, in the Tabernacle in this City;
which was well filled in the morning and crowded
in the afternoon and evening. The excellent sing-
ing was a pleasing feature of the day and added
much to the impressive exercises.
	Discourses were delivered during the morning
by Elder Charles W. Penrose and President
Angus M. Cannon, and an essay by Elder Willard
Young on the subject of Education. Some re-
ports concerning the work of the Associations
were given by the respective superintendents and
Elder Milton H. Hardy gave a summary of his
mission among the organizations in the twenty
stakes he had visited. During the morning
Heber H. Goddard rendered a solo, and the Glee
Club gave the selection “Comrades in Arms.”
	In the afternoon meeting Elder Benjamin Cluff,
of Provo delivered a lecture on Self-culture. A
communication from Pres. Jos. F. Smith ad-
dressed to Pres. W. Woodruff was read by Elder
Junies F, Wells, it contained the sentiments of
the writer on the present condition of the young
men of Zion and their future prospects, and em-
bodied many useful lessons.
	Pres. Wilford Woodruff occupied a short time
in addressing the young men and referred to the
Primary, the Sabbath Schools and the Mutual
Improvement Associations as preparatory in
qualifying the rising generation for their labors
in time and in eternity. Exhorted all to diligence
and faithfulness that were engaged in this work
and besought them to labor while the day lasts.
	Apostle H. J. Grant made some timely remarks
upon the necessity of a testimony of the truth
of the existence of the Creator and of Jesus the
Savior of the world.
	At the evening session Angus T. Wright of
Ogden gave a lecture upon “The Corner Stone of
Character,” Integrity; which was very suggestive
 nd Apostle Moses Thatcher delivered a stirring
address on the “Mission and Opportunities of the
Y. M. M. I. A.” He exhorted the young men to
labor for others as well as to seek to improve
themselves, to imitate the example of the Savior
in good works, to obtain a knowledge of God and
of His Son Jesus Christ whom to know is eternal
life, urged the young men to follow the golden
rule, “To do unto others as you would wish them
to do unto you;” to search out those that were
going astray, that were wanderers in by and for-
bidden paths, and seek to lead them back into
safe ways, not to neglect opportunities of doing
good, cautioned the young men to choose wisely
upon the political subject, admonished them to
seek wisdom like unto Solomon, to study civil
government and the histories of nations; but first
to make Jesus the Rock of their salvation; and
remember that true grateness was only to be
achieved through meekness. Reports from
several stakes were made, and much was said
about the evil influences now being brought to
bear upon the young men of this city, and the
necessity of home-missionary work right here.
The Conference adjourned to June 1st and the
choir sang the Motette “God of Israel,” benedic-
tion by Elder B. H. Roberts.


[Column 1]

MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Thursday morning May 21st, in company
with Mrs. Jane S. Richards we started for Payson
on an early train to attend the annual meeting
and Fair to be held by the Relief Society at that
place; the green fields and blooming fruit trees
along the route were a pleasant picture and rest-
ful alike to the eyes and mind. At Provo we
were joined by Pres. Mary John of the R. S. of
Utah Stake and her First Counselor, Mrs.

[Column 2]

Marilla Daniels a very dear friend of ours to
whom we were fondly attached long ago, away
back in Nauvoo. At the Payson depot we were
met by Mrs. Millie Starke,Pres, of the W. S. A.
of Payson, who informed us that we would both
be expected to speak to the W. S. A. in the
evening. The carriage drove up to the residence
of Mr. and Mrs. Douglas who are widely known
for their generous hospitality. The President of
the Society Mrs. B. J. Simons and others came
with pleasant greetings and welcome, and we
chatted until dinner was announced, and an
elaborate dinner it was. At 2 p. m. we all repaired
to the meeting bouse, where quite a surprise
awaited us in the exhibition of woman's handi-
work. Surely the ladies of Payson Relief Society
are both ingenious and industrious. The meeting
house is quite a large one with a very high pulpit
or stand, and gallery around the three sides very
like the orthodox churches of New England.
The whole interior of the building was decorated
with home needle work such as women do, paint
ing, embroidery etc. A committee of ladies had
charge of the affair whose names we did not learn,
but they had arranged everything very creditably
and the effect was quite striking as well as unex-
pected. It is scarcely possible to mention all, but
the fine old-fashioned patch work, in lilies, tulips,
and rose chains and the exquisite piecing and
quilting deserve at least a passing notice; some
of these quilts we were told had been made by
very old ladies. Of course the painting and em-
broidery was done by younger women and girls,
and here it may not be amiss to say, there are a
great number of fine healthy looking young wo-
men and girls in Payson, as well as elderly ones;
in fact that place is not behind other towns in
Utah in this respect, though of course it is not in
good taste to make comparisons on this subject.
	The silk work on exhibition was especially in-
teresting it being entirely a home production; a
handsome shawl made from the silk raised there
by one of the elderly sisters Grace Wignall is
handsome enough to grace the shoulders of any
lady in the land. It is certainly desirable that
articles of the home-raised silk should be pre-
pared for Utah's exhibit in the World's Fair.
	There was a miniature steamer on the stand
made by one of the boys there, that was really a
work of art, and drew out a great deal of admira-
tion especially from Mrs. Jane S. Richards, who
had not very long since seen a Steamer launched
from San Francisco Bay out on the Pacific ocean.
Such work should have every possible encourage-
ment, in order that the young people may exce-
in these things and not lack appreciation. There
were vases of lovely natural flowers in all avail-
able places and altogether the house was hand-
somely decorated.
	Mrs. B. J. Simons the President of the Society
for twenty-three years, presided at the meeting,
ably assisted by her Counselors Agnes Douglas
and Clarissa Moore. The minutes of the last
annual meeting and reports were read, and Presi-
dent Simons made a few remarks and introduced
Mrs Richards, First Counselor to Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who addressed the meeting upon subjects
connected with the general work of the Relief
Society and gave much valuable instruc-
tion.
	The other speakers followed in a similar strain
including Mrs. John, Mrs. Daniels and the writer,
and Bishop Jos. Tanner occupied a few moments,
expressed his good feeling and harmony with the
Society and testified to the good spirit of the
meeting.
	Another surprise awaited the visitors, in the.
vestry where tables were spread with all the
luxuries of the season. Bishop Tanner at lhe
head of the table and a few other brethren near
him, but the tables were filled with members of
the Relief Society, waited upon by young ladies
mostly, though we noticed the committee who


had charge of the whole proceedings were also
very busy. The time passed very swiftly in
pleasant conversation and we found on rising from
the table it was nearly the hour for the W. S. A.
to commence their exercises.
	The Payson band was present in full force in
the evening and rendered stirring selections of
patriotic music. The members of the Association
wore the yellow ribbon badge, and all seemed
quite energetic in the good cause. Some young
ladies gave selections on the organ (instrumental)
one of them we were told was the Presbyterian
school teacher at that place.
	The meeting house was well filled quite as many
gentlemen as ladies it seemed, and it is to be
hoped more interest will be awakened on the sub-
ject of equal rights. Mrs. Richards gave some of
our experience in Washington during the sessions
of the National Council and the N. A. W. S. A. Con-
vention this last winter. She also urged upon
the ladies the need of taking suffrage literature
not only to inform themselves upon the subject,
but to keep posted in regard to what is being
done by the women of the world in the cause of
reform. Mrs. Daniels of Provo acted as chaplain
opening and closing with prayer, the Bishop
made a few remarks and expressed his sympathy
with the cause. The music was specially good
and the Association certainly gives hopeful signs
of progress in the right direction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Sisters Jane S. Richards, Sarah Jane Cannon and
Louie Felt are visiting Bear Lake Stake to attend
the Conferences of the Relief Society and Pri-
mary Associations, and in the interest of the or-
ganizations generally.
	Sisters Elizabeth Howard and Lillie Freeze are
traveling through Wasatch Stake attending the
Conferences of the Relief Society and Primary
Associations and also visiting the different settle-
ments in the interest of the organizations.
	The Primary Associations will hold their Con-
ference the following day, Saturday June 20th, in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall as usual. Each
Association in the county should come forward
with as many of the children as is practicable to
bring; city wards can certainly make a good
numerical showing, and with the facilities now
afforded adjacent country wards can have no ex-
cuse for non-attendance. The Hall should be
filled with the children, their parents and friends.
	The Executive Committee of the Woman's
National Council met in Indianapolis Ind., on
Saturday May 30th, as per previous appointment,
and according to the telegraphic reports tran-
sacted such business as had been resolved upon
at the business sessions held in Washington D.
C., at the close of the sessions of the Council in
February last. One of the items however not
brought before the Council at that time, was a
resolution to defray the expense of entertaining
delegates to the International Council which is
expected to convene in Chicago in 1893.
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The difficulty in the Board of Lady Managers

[Column 2]

of the World's Fair between Mrs. Palmer, the
Executive Committee and Miss Phebe Counsins,
seems to grow more and more complicated, and
to hinder very much the progress of the work
necessary to be accomplished or at least fairly
begun at an early date; it is a great pity that this
little difference could not have been amicably
arranged between the two ladies themselves or by
some sort of friendly arbitration and not cause
so much ill-feeling and consequent delay in the
movement, that is to be a world-wide enterprise
and at all events should not be hampered by petty
trifles, or controversies over details.
	There will be a children's Fair of the Primary
Associations of this County held in the Social
Hall in this city. commencing about June 15th,
under the auspices of President Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. It is to be hoped the people will put
forth their best efforts to make a good showing
of handiwork of both boys and girls. A few
prizes will be awarded; one for the best bread
made by a little girl,one for the best plain sewing,
also for best darning; and for the best essay
written by either boy or girl under fifteen
years of age a handsome book will be given.
One or two persons have offered to assist with
the prizes, and if there are others who feel to aid
in this good cause they can have the opportunity
now, and such donations will be gratefully re-
ceived by those who have charge of the affair.
The various associations throughout the county
should be represented, that it may be a success
in itself and a credit to all interested in the culti-
vation energy and skilled industry of the children
of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden an elocutionist and
teacher of the Delsarte system of physical train-
ing, gave an entertainment in the theatre on Mon-
day evening May 25, for the benefit of her pupils,
and that the public might know of her work here
during the past few months, in which she has
been an active, energetic and industrious teacher.
She has not given herself proper rest and rec-
reation because of her ambition to build up a repu-
tation as a teacher in this city and Territory. She
has brought forward a number of young pupils
who have improved wonderfully under her train-
ing and there is no doubt as to her capabilities as
a teacher of elocution. Mrs. Boyden gave several
selections herself from standard authors, Jean
Ingelow, George Elliot, and Shakespeare, and
showed remarkable versatility of acting. A short
play was given by some of her pupils and fine
instrumental music by Miss Grace Williams of
Boston; Miss Viola Pratt's singing added greatly
to the entertainment, she has a magnificent voice,
fine expression, and always sings with spirit and
feeling.


[Column 1]

MISS WILLARD'S DEFENSE.

	The orthodox clergy of the country have un-
dertaken to censure Miss Frances E. Willard for
presiding at the Woman's National Council over
so many, or keeping company with so many
heterodox women; as they term Unitarians and
Universalists and unbelievers generally. Miss
Willard has made an able defense against their
attacks, and one wonders in reading, how they
are going to get around the arguments she brings
forward, and still consider themselves followers
and disciples of the Savior.
	We quote from Miss Willard's editorial in the
Union Signal the organ of the W. C. T. U. of
which she is the able President.
	The title of the editorial is,
THE MORE EXCELLENT WAY.
	"There are two ways in which the Christian
disciple; can influence his or her time; one is ex-
clusive, the other inclusive; one is provincial, the

[Column 2]

other cosmopolitan; one is the way of separatism,
the other of neighborliness. Each individual is
called upon to choose, and upon the nature of
that choice depends the character of one's career.
Strangely enough there is wide difference of
opinion among devoted disciples of our Lord as
to what was His method of meeting the world.
By precept and practice Christ was a cosmo-
politan; He taught, in the Temple and in the
synagogues of a faith He had come to supersede;
He sat at meat in the homes of rulers, whose
government He came to overthrow; He partici-
pated in great feasts among the rich; He received
publicans and sinners; He made Himself the
friend and brother of each and all. His manner
of life was in the most pointed antithesis to that
of John the Baptist, who came neither eating nor
drinking, and He had to bear the monstrous in-
justice of their criticism who said, "This man is
a glutton and a wine-bibber, a friend of publicans
and sinners."
	"Now look at the Apostle Paul. What does he
say in the ninth chapter of 1 Corinthians: (new
version.)
	"To the jews I become as a Jew that I might
gain Jews; to them that are under the law, as
under the law, not being myself under the law,
that I might gain them that are under the law;
to them that are without law, as without law, not
being without law to God, but under law to Christ,
that I might gain them that are without law. To
the weak I became weak, that I might gain the
weak; I am become all things to all men, that I
may by all means save some. And I do all things
for the Gospel's sake that I may be a joint partaker
thereof."
	Miss Willard's method of Gospel work is com-
pared with that of Mr. Moody by way of illustration
he believed it wrong to speak on the same plat-
form with any one unorthodox and because Miss
Willard thought differently he quoted to her the
passage in the second Epistle of John which
reads, "If there come any unto you and bring not
this doctrine (of Christ) receive him not into your 
house, neither bid him God speed. For he that
biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil
deeds;" and she writing in her journal, "Brother
Moody's Scripure interpretations concerning re-
ligious toleration are too literal for me; the jacket
is too strait; I cannot wear it."
	The Signal, however, states that in the fourteen
years that have elapsed since this utterance "Mr.
Moody has materially modified and broadened
his spirit of toleration."
	After dwelling at some length upon Miss
Willard's position and bringing forward demon-
strative proof of what she has accomplished in
her Christian work, the Signal states that the pur-
pose had been to pass the matter over in silence,
but the continued and unfair statements made,
seemed to call for a replay," through their National
organ. It then sums up the Woman's Council in
paragraphs, First, Second, Third and Fourth.
Here is a part of the first,
	"First, That the Woman's Council is a great
educational, philanthropic and reformatory or-
ganization, like the Social Seience Association,
the Charities and Corrections society, and the
National Educational Association. It is perfectly
colorless in respect of creed. There are women
in it of all faiths and of no faith; Jews, Catho-
lics, Protestants, Spiritualists, Agnostics; even
as there are men of equally varied belief in all
the societies we have named as being analogous
in structure to the Woman's Council. But no
Bishop or D. D. of any church whatever would
be criticised by Christian people for participating
in, or for presiding over the Social Science As-
sociation, the National Educational Covention or
the Society of Charities and Corrections. Nay,
he would be applauded for so doing as an illustra-
tion of Christianity in action.  But this is wo-
man's testing time: she is the prima donna of the


[Column 1]

world's great stage, and all the opera glasses are
leveled at her to see just how she fills her part.
Happier days are ahead, when she will have be-
come a "specimen" duly analyzed and classified,
so that humanity can turn its attention to other
parts of the great field. When good William
Blackstone recently convened in Clark street M.
E. church, Chicago, a group of D. D.'s and
Jewish Rabbis, and several of the latter decried
Christianity as thoroughly as ever Robert G.
Ingersoll was left to do, it was passed over be-
cause Mr. Blackstone belongs to the classified
sex, the center of whose "sphere" is everywhere
and its circumference nowhere."
	After much more careful and comprehensive
reasoning the fourth paragraph of her reply
winds up the matter thusly,
	Fourth, It is claimed that there was disturbance
in the meetings. This is not true. The utmost
quiet and decorum prevailed throughout the eight
sessions and over eighty addresses, save on one
evening when Mrs. Mary Lease, of Kansas, a
gifted and most earnest woman, "the prophet of
and evil time," as Mary Lathrop aptly termed her,
spoke on political conditions in her state. She
had already addressed the Council briefly once, 
to excellent acceptance, but on her second ap-
pearance she called ex-Senator J. J. Ingalls "a
consummate hypocrite," whereupon Republicans
present hissed, and Miss Willard's gavel fell
with clear-cut emphasis, as she said, "There must
be no personalities either on or off the platform."
Mrs. Lease also said that "evil-doers would be
turned into hell," wherein she claimed to have
Scripture on her side!
	"Thus much for the Council, which was the
largest, most representative and most influential
gathering of women the world has thus far seen,
and whose spirit was one of so much mutual
consideration and good will; indeed, was so full
of genuine spiritual power and tenderness that
from first to last, among one hundred delegates
from sixty totally distinct soeieties, there was not
an unkind word, but the song they sang in
pleasantry after choosing their officers, was the
keynote to their official conflusions:"
		"So say we, all of us."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN,

HELD AT WASHINGTON, D. C.,
FEBRUARY 22-25, 1891.

	Before September 1st, 1891, it is hoped that
this volume of about three hundred pages (con-
taining the report of the eight public, and three
business sessions of the Council, also the por-
traits of the retiring and the in-coming Board of
Officers), will be ready for sale.
	It is desirable that the Officers of the Council
know as soon as possible how large an edition of
this permanent report it will be necessary to
issue.
	Subscriptions should be forwarded at once to
the Corresponding secretary, price $1.00.
		RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
			748 N. 19th Street, Philadelphia.


R. S. REPORT.

	THURBER, UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our regular annual meeting was held at
the meeting House Jan. 1, 1891. Pres. Sarah
G. Meeks presiding, after the usual exercises
including reading of minutes, financial report
of the past year and so on was approved,
Bishop Wm. Meeks spoke, encouraging the
sisters in their labors thought they had done
well under the circumstances, all felt well,


determined to do better in the future than in
the past. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
closed by singing, "Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing," benediction by Bishop Wm. Meeks.
			SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
			BETSEY S. GOODWIN, Sec.


[Column 1]

W. S. A. REPORTS.

SEVIER, UTAH CO.

EDITOR ERPONENT:

	The W. S. A. of Sevier County held their
annual meeting in Richfield, May 2nd 1891,
when the following officers were elected; Pres.
Celia E. Bean; First Vice Pres. Annie
Lauritzen; Second Vice Pres. Eva M. Borg-
quist; Secretary and Treasurer, Flora D. Bean,
Cor. Sec'y. Alice A. Hatch. Executive Com-
mittee, Aggie Gardner, Chairman; Hannah
Baker, Ella Thurber, Sarah Holman, Annie
C. Morrison; with fifteen members enrolled.
	After executing the business of the meeting,
Flora D. Bean by request of the President,
favored the meeting with an organ solo. en-
titled "Fire Bell March. This was followed
by a debate, the subject being,
	Resolved that woman should have the fran-
chise. Affirmed by Annie C. Morrison. Nega-
tived by Celia E. Beau. Considerable en-
thusiasm was manifested on both sides, but the
judges decided that the Affirmative gained
the victory.
	During the past year our progress has been
greatly retarded by our President being absent
and a great amount of indifference in relation
to this subject, manifested by our ladies. Now,
that we are fully organized, we trust that by
diligence and perseverance, we may be able to
accomplish a great amount of good.
		CELIA E. BAEN, Pres.
		ALICE A. HATCH, Cor. Sec.
	Richfield, May 16, 1891.

WEBER CO.
	The Woman's Suffrage Association of Weber
Co. held an interesting meeting in the Third
Ward Assembly Hall on Friday afternoon,
May 15th.
	Besides a good attendance of members
residents in Ogden City, some settlements in
the Country were well represented. The
enrollment list which was read by the secretary
showed a large increase of membership over
last year,
	The President Mrs. E. Y. Stanford regreted,
that owing to sickness in her family, our
Delegate of the Woman's Suffrage Association
recently held in Washington, Mrs. Emily S.
Richards could not be present to report the
services she had rendered on that mission.
	A very entertaining and instructive pro-
gramme was then rendered consisting of a
select reading by Vice President Mrs. C.
Driver, a quartette by Messrs. E. T. Wooley,
H. J. Sears, R. Williams, and H. Anderson,
Miss Lucretia West playing the accompani-
ment, speeches from Messrs Thomas Wallace
and Joseph Stanford. The first speaker in an
interesting and instructive manner refered to
the lives of many prominent women whom
history was proud of because of the many
distinguished positions they had occupied and
of the public good they had rendered.
	The second speaker thought that while it
was but just to concede that man should lead
he being created first, that it was the right of
woman to follow close after in companionable
help, and dwelt largely upon woman's mental
endowments and capability exhibiting her fit-
ness to travel side by side with man in all his
walks and pursuits and enjoy in common all
the rights and privileges of intellectual life.
He did not feel as some men do, that in extend-
ing privilges to women leading to political,

[Column 2]

social, literary, scientific, and professional
preferment and usefulness, that it would
detract from the comforts of home and the
blessings of offspring. It is woman's nature and
destiny to inherit the elements of love, paternal
affection and the desire for home duty, princi-
ples which a true noble woman would not
neglect under any conditions to cultivate, any
more than the honorable husband and father
although he might be called to contribute of
his time, talents and influence for the benefit of
his state or nation.
	Appropriate remarks from the President
closed a meeting of much interest and enjoy-
ment.
	The meeting adjourned for three months.
			MARIAN S. WILCOX, Sec.

SALT LAKE CO.
	Minutes of the meeting of the W. S. A. of 
Salt Lake Co., held in the 13th Ward As-
sembly Rooms, May 19th 1891. Pres. E.
Howard in the chair. Prayer by Elizabeth
Mc'Farlane.
	Dr. Elvira S. Barney was appointed to act
as Sec. pro tem. Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	Elizabeth Price read from the compiled
laws of Utah, page 342. Subject, Distribu-
tion of property by Will, and Succession.
	Pres. Howard said that the women of Wyo-
ming had the right of suffrage, and when she
visited there advised them to be united in
voting. But she would also advise that women
here and everywhere study the subject of
politics and learn the position of both Demo-
cratic and Republican parties before express-
ing a desire to unite with either.
	S. M. Kimball, Pres. of the Ter. Ass'n., said
it was proper to make selections from the
Revised Laws of Utah and make a study of
them in our meetings, and thus educate our-
selves pertaining to the laws of our own Terri-
tory. Also thought it would be well to have
a library of our own to select from. Said
many felt the need of help in their homes.
Thought the establishment of an industrial
school would qualify girls for useful labor, but
it required a movement instead of talk only.
Suggested that the Association make a study
of the great political questions of national in-
terests that were now being agitated.
	Emily S. Richards, said she would like to
study up the political subjects and know more
about them before she could intelligently act.
Said Miss Anthony advised the women to have
some hobby as an incentive to action, and if
they had not one, to go and buy one. She re-
ferred to the Day Nursery that she had as a
hobby if she might call it so; and that the
full capacity of it was nineteen, but they never
had less than ten children and that homes were
always provided for them, and that she had a
long list of names of those that were willing to
furnish homes for the unfortunate. The
ladies of this Territory had been organized
for many years, and the women of the world
were being organized in working classes; she
thought that if there could be something done
perhaps in a different way from what we had
done. Our old ladies have been provided for
in the homes of their own kindred but our
population was increasing and there would be
a greater demand and if they could be located
where they could feel it was home, and have
society it would be a happy condition for them.
	Elizabeth Mc'Farlane spoke upon the subject
of taking care of the young girls and watching
over them; that there was a great power with
some men to influence them to go astray, and
all classes of men from the world had come
into our midst.
	Margaret Mitchell said she could not define
her position on the political question untill she
had made the subject of parties a study. Said


in the United States 30,000,000 women are
disfranchised; and that the government had
been in the hands of the few and the people
were ruled by the minority.
	Lillie Freeze urged upon the ladies to sub-
scribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT as it was
the only organ the Suffrage Associations had to
publish for them, and keep them posted on
these questions and it ought to be better sus-
tained.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said the subject of wills
had been a leading thought with her, and ad-
vised that the heads of every family should
have in writing a clear statement of the dis-
position of their effects in case they should be
taken away by death, which would save litiga-
tion, and that each member of a family should
be provided for, and not left to suffer at the
expense of another's luxury. She had in her
experience in life known of some sad condi-
tions through neglect of these things, said wo-
men could use their influence in this direction.
Different phases were presenting themselves in
the world's history, and in order to be equal to
and keep pace with these conditions it required
careful study, and great watchfulness.
	Emma Finch, the Cor. Sec. tendered her
resignation on account of absence from the
city.
	The meeting was adjourned until the third
Tuesday in the following month at the same
time and place.
		DR. E. S. BARNEY, Sec., pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S PROGRESS IN HIGHER
EDUCATION. 

BY HELEN L. WEBSTER.

	After giving a detailed account of the early
struggles of women to obtain even the rudi-
ments of education, the speaker said, "It took
two hundred and fifty years for New England
to realize that women have need of and are
capable of the highest development of mind."
The agitation of the subject of higher educa
tion, however, at last led to the formation of
the Boston High School. Two hundred and
eighty-six girls presented themselves as candi-
dates for admission as against ninety boys. The
authorities, however, were so amazed at the
eagerness of the girls to take up the higher
branches of learning, they closed the school
after it had been in existence eighteen months.
Said Miss Webster: "The eloquent absurdity
of this failure, and the increasing demands of
women worked hand in hand, and a quarter
of a century later Boston had a High School
for girls; another quarter of a century passed
and a Latin school was established to fit girls
for College. To fit girls for college! This clause
speaks the last and best words that we have
to say concerning the opportunities which have
been won for woman's higher education.
	"It reminds us of the opening of Vassar in
'65, of Smith and Wellesley in '75, of Bryn
Mawr in '85, of Barnard in '89, it reminds us
of the many colleges all over the land—Oberlin
heading the list—which have extended their
privileges to women.
	"In the West especially has the higher edu-
cation of women been well supported, both by
the governments of the separate States, and
by institutions that have been founded under
the auspices of private individuals, though
still in certain localities the old fight has to be
fought over again.
	"The spirit of the times says: 'Women need
equal culture of mind and heart with men,'
and the fact answers nearly to the spirit in the
Western States, where out of 212 institutions
165 are co educational; some of these were
founded originally for women, but have after-
wards extended their privileges on equal terms
to men.

[Column 2]

	"In the Southern States opportunities are
opening and standards are becoming higher,
The Woman's College of Baltimore, the co-
educational universities — Tulane in New
Orleans, Columbian in Washington, and the
Universities of Texas and Mississippi are the
hopeful signs of progress in the South. The
recent news that women are to be admitted to
the Johns Hopkins Medical School as soon as
its doors shall be opened sends a thrill of re-
joicing throughout the length and breadth of
our land. May the day not be far distant
when its academic department shall act upon
the same just principle!
	"Thus far we have spoken of woman's pro-
gress in education in America. In Germany
a book appears whose very existence is a proof
of progress—Helene Lange's 'Higher Educa-
tion of Women in Europe." Herein the
history of the higher education of women in
each of the countries of Europe is passed in
review. It begins with the movement in
England. From the opening of the Cambridge
University courses to women thirty years ago,
to their admission to the London University
examinations and the Cambridge tripos ex-
aminations in the beginning of the last decade
and finally to the founding of the Royal
Holloway College, which was opened in the
presence of the Queen of England five years
ago, the cause has advanced with strong and
steady steps.
	"Since 1866 France has made provision for
the higher education of women; one of our
own country-women, Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi,
was the first woman admitted to the medical
school in Paris.
	"Switzerland early opened the doors of her
universities to women, making neither reserve
nor concession on the ground of sex; Zurich
University has the honor of being the first in
this respect; then follow Geneva, Berne
Neuchatel, and finally report tells us that con-
servative Basel, has granted to one woman the
degree of Doctor of Philosophy.
	"Sweden follows in 1870. In 1875 Den-
mark grants to women the privilege of acquir-
ing all the degrees—except that of Doctor of
Divinity—that her only university gives.
	"Italy has from very early times permitted
women to attend the universities, both as
students and as professors. We need but call
to mind the Italian poet, musician, astronomer,
mathematician, and linguist, Elena Lucrezia
Coronaro, who received the Doctor's Degree
at the University of Padua, and the beautiful
and learned Novela d'Andrca, who sometimes
lectured in her father's stead at the University
of Bologna. The University of Bologna was
both ancient and celebrated. It was founded
in the early part of the fifth century and in
the thirteenth century its fame had become so
great that its students numbered about ten
thousand.
	"In the bloom of this brilliant period wo-
men were enrolled in the number of students
and professors; Bettisia Gozzidina, a Doctor of
Law, lectured there during the last ten years
of her life; Catalina and Novella Calderini
lectured on law a hundred years later. During
the following centuries women became re-
nowned in the various departments, including
mathematics and anatomical research. Thus
the distant past and the 'dark' Middle Ages
point their finger of reproach at the cold and
sluggish conservatism, not of phlegmatic Ger-
many alone, but of the free, enlightened, pro-
gressive America of the nineteenth century!
	"In 1875 St. Petersburg arranged university
courses for women.
	"The University of Amsterdam enrolled the
first woman student in 1880.
	"In 1882 Norway passed a law which autho-
rized admission of women to the degrees of
arts and of philosophy, and Miss Thoresen, the
first candidate, was not only allowed to enter, but

[Column 3]

was greeted by the students with an address of
welcome and congratulation.
	"Spain and Portugal have no law excluding
women from university privileges, while
Vienna and Liepzig tolerate them through the
courtesy or good nature of individual pro-
fessors, though they give them no recognition
or privilege of matriculation.
	"Do we look about us for signs of further
advance? They are at hand. Report tells us
that the new National University in Wash-
ington contemplates the admission of women
on the same conditions and with the same
privileges as men. The University of Glasgow
follows in the same path. The royal Uni-
versity of Ireland confers the degree of
Bachelor of Arts upon eleven women, and that
of Doctor of Laws upon several others. The
Universities of Montreal and Australia extend
a welcome to women students. A petition for
admittance to the University of Greece has
been signed by Greek women, and Rome be-
stirs herself in behalf of her girls.
	"Such, to-day are the facts which are the
foundation of our hope of future opportunity.
What to-day are our ideals, that are to be the
basis of future attainment.
	"One of the greatest needs of the future in
America is a higher standard of scholarship
a standard of scholarship which shall lead to
the seeking of knowledge for its own sake, for
the sake of that vision of truth which alone
can guide aright. We need, as a people, not
more ambition, but ambition more wisely di-
rected, not a greater amount of work, but a
better quality of it; not culture pursued as an
end, but as a means.
	"Among the leaders in the world of scientific
research let the woman of the future take her
place. This duty her new and larger oppor-
tunities impose upon her."
	After referring to the plan of university ex-
tension as presented by Mr. Richard S.
Moulton, of Cambridge, England, and to the
noble work of the college settlements, she
said:
	"Thus the coming years will find woman at
work at the top, at the bottom, and all the
way between. She will have her share in sup-
porting that system of education which Prof.
Huxley declares to be the only one worthy of
the name, 'that which shall create a great
educational ladder, with one end in the gutter
and the other in the university.'
	"We could not close this sketch of our
ideal future without expressing one more hope:
that the wisdom of the coming day may ad-
just things with such a perfect balance that the
scale in which woman's achievement is placed
may fall or rise according to the measure of its
worth, not according to prejudice or favor
based on the ground of sex. The past has
demanded for woman justice—not oppression;
the demand of the present and future is justice
still—not favor."


THE WIMODAUGHSIS PROPERTY.
We have made a deposit on the house and
lot numbered 1319 L. St. N. W. for Wimo-
daughsis and shall take possessson on the first
of November. The lot has been considered by
the board for some time and is very desirable
for our immediate purposes, being 29 feet front
by 164 feet deep to a 30 foot alley. The cost is
$13,000 and it is estimated that our first issue
of stock which is 25,000 would put on a hall
on the war of the present lot and pay for one
purchase. This would enable us to secure
rentals and good quarters for present purposes.
Then when we can do so we can put up a
handsome front which will be a credit to the
women of the country. An urgent appeal is
made to every one to send in their stock sub-
scriptions that the payments on the lot may be


made and improvements begun. The stock
is five dollars a share and is non-assessable and
full paid.
				E. M. GILLETT, Treasurer.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


INVENTED BY WOMEN.
Without Mheural Nisa the world would
never have had Cashmere shawls.
 Yao, the wife of the fourth Emperor of
China, bears the honor of having invented spin-
ning.
	Harriet Hosmer first introduced to the
world the permanent magnet as a motive
power.	
Miss Betsey Metcalf made, in 1798, the
first straw hat ever manufactured in this
country.		
The invention of the first submarine teles-
cope was made by Sarah B. Mather, of New
York.	
The exquisite perfumery called “Atyr of
Roses” was the product of Mheural Nisa’s in-
ventive genius.
	A patent mower and reaper was invented by
Elizabeth Smith, an enterprising woman of
New Jersey.
	Si-Lang-Chi is thought by the Chineese to
have discovered silk, and is called: “The god-
dess of silk-worms.”
Pamphile was a woman of Cos and the in-
ventress of silken gauze, her fabric being
known as “woven wind.”—Chicago News.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Norway, Maine, claims to have the first
woman road surveyor.
 Jenny Lind’s memoirs have just been pub-
lished in London. 
Mrs. Frank Leslie sailed for Southampton,
May 5, on the North German Lloyd steamship
Lahn.
	Mrs. Harrison and Mrs. Palmer are said to
be interested in the movement to have a child-
ren’s department in the World’s Fair.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony addressed the New
England Woman Suffrage Association, in
Tremont Temple, Monday evening May 25.
	Hon. John D. Long presided at the
Woman Suffrage Festival in Music Hall last
Wednesday evening, from 5 to 10 p. m.
	Miss Bessie H. Thomas, of Philadelphia
recently took the first prize at the Academy of
Fine  Arts in that city. She won it over both
women and men students.
	Mrs. Elizabeth M. Yates has made a tour
of forty lectures in Vermont, in the interests
of temperance and woman suffrage. She has
everywhere delighted her audiences.
	Madame Blavatsky, the well-known theo-
sophist of London, died in that city May 9.
aged sixty years. Her body was cremated at
Working.
	Grace Greenwood (Mrs. Lippincott) is
about to leave New York and make Wash-
ington her permanent residence. She is
afflicted with a cataract which causes partial
blindness, only to be relieved by an opera-
tion.
	The only woman on record who was the
mother of a Governor, the wife of a Governor,
the sister of a Governor, the niece of a
Governor and the aunt of a Governor was
Mrs. Richard Manning of South Carolina.
	The greatest novelty in dolls has been in-
vented in Nuremberg, the great German town


for dolls and playthings. A machine in the
doll causes it to move its hand and write neat
little letters on a slate or on paper. Whole
sentences can be written, to the great amuse-
ment of children.
	The Philadelphia branch of the Association
of Collegiate Alumnae recently discussed the
subject of physical culture. In regard to op-
portunities for teachers of physical culture it
was authoritatively said that among public
schools there is a small but growing demand
for teachers with special physical training; for
higher institutions and private gymnasiums
there is a demand for skilled teachers greater
than the supply. High salaries are offered,
and the opportunity for original and success-
ful work is great.


It is the surmounting of difficulties that
makes heroes.
	A wise and good man will turn examples
of all sorts to his own advantage. The good
he will make his patterns, and strive to equal
or excel them. The bad he will by all means
avoid.—Thomas A. Kempis.
	Surely happiness is reflective, like the light
of heaven; and every countenance bright with
smiles, and glowing with innocent enjoyment,
is a mirror transmitting to others the rays of
a supreme and ever shining benevolence.—
W. Irving.
	The world is a looking-glass and gives back
to every man the expression of his own face.
Frown at it and it will in turn look sourly
upon you; laugh at it and with it and it is a
jolly, kind companion; and so let all young
persons take choice.—Thackeray.


THE SADDENED HOME.
	It behooves all parents to set a good
example before the children entrusted in
their care, and to raise them up in the nurture
and admonition of the Lord. The writer is
now forty-one years old and during all those
years of her early life has not recalled one
single instance of pleasure that has not been
imbued with most bitter feelings, hence the
truthfulness of this poem deeply expressed
and felt in regard to home. It is useless to
dwell upon the disadvantage of an unpleasant
home. Suffice it to say however that children
brought up in a careful and painstaking way
will eventually make better men and women,
and therefore have unbounded respect for
father and mother and a stay in their declining
years.

How sad and how bleak, were the scenes of my childhood
How desolate and lonely, the days now long passed,
As oft I have roamed through the beautiful wildwood
To reflect upon sorrows deeply anchored and cast.

Our pleasures and comforts were ever so rarely,
The bleak winds of winter encompassed our home.
The sunshine of happiness would gleam through but
sparely
And glimmering but faintly would fade and be gone.

Our home was incumbered with sickness and anguish
Where roses had thorns that would pierce to the soul,
And blending with harshness seemed never to languish;
The memory of childhood reflects on the whole.

To only obliterate the sadness and sorrow,
From earliest childhood and youth that is gone;
To only remember is only to sorrow,
To torture the soul in remembrance of home.
Ella A. C. Gillam, A Friendly Gentile.
Eldorado, Utah.


INMEMORIAM.

Sister Christiana Christenson of Redmond, Sevier Co.


Utah, departed this life March 18th, 1891 and inasmuch
as she was a teacher, and a faithful co-ladorer in the Relief
Society we as sisters feel that, we owe to the memory of
our departed sister, that we should give expression to the
feelings of our hearts concerning some of the good works
of her life. Sister Christenson was forty-eight years of
age; she leaves a husband and seven children, five of them
to whom she was a step-mother. She was a kind, patient
wife and mother, and a true Latter day Saint, and will
be greatly missed in the family circle, as well as in the
Relief Society. She nobly filled her mission, and no
doubt has gone to that heavenly region, where there is no
sorrow and where friends never part.
	For her husband and her children we offer an earnest
prayer and extend heartfelt sympathy,and we say to them
be comforted, and prove worthy to join her in the kingdom
of God's glory.
		MATILDA PETERSON Pres. of R. S. Redmond.


MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a m. to l p. 
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED&ENLARGED. 

Mrs. M. IsaballaHorne,Prest.  Mrs. Mattie Nalsbitt-Thonias,Sup
[Column 1]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS,

123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp.City Hall,Salt Lake City

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House.
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.

AT	TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
				in
LACES,  RUCHES,  EMBRODERIES,
	FANS,  GLOVES,  PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS,  COLLARS, TIES
	And an elegant assortmenf of
		DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str
	DAVID JAMES & CO. 
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
		DAVID JAMES, Box 306.SALT LAKE CITY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 19.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1891.	NO. 24.


CONTENTS.

	Woman as Wife, Mother and Friend—Julia A.
Farnsworth. A Talk With Mothers—Isabella P.
Price. World's Columbian Exposition—Frances
Dickenson, Sec. Notes and News. University
of Deseret. Jottings—Minnie B. Jones. Miscel-
laneous. R. S. Reports—Deseret—Emery—Utah
Wasatch. Women as Police Matrons—Lillie
Devereux Blake. Address —Bertha Honore
Palmer. Items From Overton—Kate.
	Editorial:—Which Party Will Recognize
Women? Editorial Notes. Woman's Vote—
Mary Ann M. Pratt. In Mexico—S. T. Boice.
Poetry:—Among The Graves—L. M. Hew
lings. In Memoriam—Josephine Spencer. My
Love—Clara M. Saunders. A Mother's Wish—
Ruby Lamont. Lines—Ruth M. Fox.


AMONG THE GRAVES.

To-day I've walked among the graves,
	Rambled at will 'mid the dead,
Far o'er many a battle field,
	Where noble heroes fought and bled,
From broad Atlantic's rolling waves,
	To western slopes of setting sun.
From North to South these countless graves,
	Are now flower-enwreathed as one.
Silent they sleep beneath the sod.
	Ne'er more at roll-call will they come,
Hearts that beat true with freedom's fire,
	Are stilled, and lips for aye are dumb.
Our husbands, brothers, lovers, sons,
	True to their country's call went forth,
Thousands in grand communion poured,
	Their life-blood out upon the earth,
Think at what cost we roam in peace,
	O'er this broad land from sea to sea,
Beneath the starry banner's folds,
	Emblem of human liberty.
We flower wreath our country's flag
	And o'er the dearly blood-bought sod,
We strew them unrestrained and free,
	Where'er the foot of man hath trod.
Priceless blossoms of memory,
	With never dying wreath entwine,
Whose fragrance shall forever breathe,
	Adown the corridors of time.

				L. M. HEWLINGS.
Memorial Day, Atchison Kan.


IN MEMORIAM.

TO LUCY COBB IVINS.

Sore are those hearts which death's cold hand hath swept—
And yet not lost is that young life whose steps
Halted abruptly by the beaten way,
Leaving life's dusty labyrinths to stray
In paths lit by the beams of endless morn.
The soul in seeming from life's current borne
Hath ceased not from the rounds of effort, made
For life's best glory. In her hands hath stayed
The selfsame task earth held before her sight;—
And where she wrought in darkness now is light,
The law of compensation makes complete
All that seems waste or void, and she shall meet
Her life's appointed mission in some sphere
That yields a better vantage. She shall clear
From lives best loved on earth whatever cloud
Of sorrow or of evil yet may shroud
Through the long years of parting she shall keep
A ceaseless vigil—not for those who sleep—
Friends long since passed, nor for the alien dead,
Themselves redeemed from all life's doubt and dread—
But for the living kindred she shall bear
A sacred mission: given to her care


These hearts sore wounded,—they shall know in hours
Of sorrow and temptation, subtle powers
Playing upon their being's finer keys,
And waking chords of hidden harmonies;—
Invisible white fingers o'er each heart
Holding its thought from grief and sin apart.
Dim shores shall beckon holding one so loved—
And loss is gain when stricken hearts have proved
The problem that woos careless thoughts from earth
And given this first victory by the death
Of her sweet presence—faithfully she strives
To gather up the threads of those dear lives
Left desolate, and weave them into woof
Of perfect texture—as an endless proof
Of her life's rounded stature. In her hands
Ceaseless and patient ply the colored strands.
And whether faded with past years ef loss—
Worn thin, or broken by earth's daily cross—
Are taken up —and through the grace divine
Of love, and the meek ministries of prayer, shall twine
In harmony of being when at last
Life's jar and tumult are forever past.-JOSEPHlNE SPENCER.


[Column 1]

WOMAN AS WIFE, MOTHER AND
FRIEND.

	[An Address given by Julia A. Farnsworth
at the Commencement Exercises of the B. Y.
Academy, Provo City, May 22nd, 1891.]
	Yes, she is all this and far more, when she
occupies her true position, and fulfils her
destiny as God designed her to. Friends and
Fellow students: She is the capable guardian
of her sons and daughters, the safest, ablest
adviser and companion of her husband, the
competent instructor of her children, the liberal
giver of charities, and the sympathetie friend
of the sorrowing. She is the architect of house-
hold comfort, and the preserver of all that pro-
motes domestic sanctity and love, combined
with ever lasting confidence and success in the
home circle.
	The husband or father can build, or plan
the erection of cottage or mansion, but he can
never make its interior what it should be with-
out the co-operation of Wife, Mother or Friend.
God made man and woman equal; He
endowed them both similarly, yet there is a
great diversity in their organizations; one is
incomplete without the other. No home, nation
or community is what it should be, unless the
united influence and intelligence of both are
there. Man's and woman's strength, wisdom,
refinement and purity are requisite to the
vitality and advancement of society through
every walk in life. In educational circles,
woman is necessary; in religion she is constant;
in art and science gaining eminence; in poetry
and music she is capable; in ancient and
modern history she is conversant; in fact, there
is no place in civilization in which she is not
an able support, and wise assistant, when al-
lowed equal advantages with her brother.
	She gives tone to music in church; life and
beauty in the ball room; modesty and order on
the rail road or steamboat; reverential culture
on religious topics, modulation and heartfelt
thoughts when temperate or moral subjects
are introduced; patience and charity for the
faults of boys, or transgressions of way-ward
sons.
	Mothers never forget to pray, and teach
their children the power of the same. From
homes properly regulated, where order and
affectionate discipline are found, where father
and mother are one in principle, in faith, and
in integrity; here will our nation find her

[Column 2]

grandest statesmen, purest patriots, and
worthiest representatives of honesty, virtue
and truth. Nurtured by mothers, who regard
goodness of character and purity of soul as
intrinsic in value, as superior to all else com-
bined, here will our noblest heroes and most
honorable manhood find congenial soil.
Colleges and seminaries give finish, but home
culture, mothers and sisters influence—make,
mould, and firmly implant that which time or
distance can never efface. 'Tis here that life
and vigor is given to every good act and
thought, where, in childhood, every wrong or
improper tendency is firmly yet unhesitantingly
eradicated.
	A mother who is a good, wise and intelli-
gent woman may rest assured of an inheritance
in heaven and an acknowledgement of her
labors having been accepted in the great
Beyond, though in this life she may carry her
cross in seclusion, unaided by all except He
who watches over, and sees our every act.
	Young Ladies: We to-day hold a great deal
of power (although we are not allowed to vote
even if we were old enough). We are the
ones who shall make or mar the conduct, the
dsportment, the condition to be, in this organi-
zation, called the students of the B. Y. A.
One will exclaim! "But they are not all
ladies." I know this, but in school as at home
in religious, social and civil society, girls hold
or have an equal position with their brothers
in maintaining order and discipline. With
them to a greater degree, the character the
status of good breeding, intellectual culture
and refined dignity is held, the moral purity
and high standard of society depends more
largely on us, than our stronger brothers.
Young men who are true at heart, honest in
purpose, will seldom, if ever frequent places of
bad repute such as gambling or drinking halls,
if young ladies with whom they associate and
respect, discountenance, and in plain terms
disapprove these things, and by their decided
actions, show they will not tolerate and will
positively discard them as friends in the future
unless these practices are at once abandoned
forever. Therefore, girls let us prove ourselves
worthy of the trust and esteem of each other;
and of the high and noble calling our Eternal
Father intends us for. Our mission in life is
very important, and our advantages, legal
social and religious many.
	I will now close, but will tell my associates,
boys and girls, I love you dearly, and hope we
are friends that may always continue true.
God bless and protect our Professors and
Teachers. Fellow students, as we are on the
eve of a separation; some of us go to homes
at a distance, I trust we may all in future
prove worthy of the good instructions and
noble examples laid down for our benefit,
during the passed, short, pleasant school year.
May we be preserved and again reunited in-
the circle of a students association, when the
time shall have past for our vacation
Heaven help us to ever do and act aright,
thereby gain the good wishes and kind re
gards of all just people, is my sincere prayer


A TALK WITH MOTHERS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While on a visit some time ago among some
friends, the conversation turned on the rearing


[Column 1]﻿

of children. We believe that children ought
to be taught to honor and obey their parents
in all things; that is right, but never try to
make them fear those whom they should love,
honor and obey; we think love will come
spontaneous if there is any in them. We
think its the duty of a mother in Israel to look
after the spiritual as well as the temporal de-
velopment of her children and to impress upon
their youthful minds the importance and
virtue of Gospel truths as well as their other
duties. We think the most satisfactory way
of training them is, as soon as they can under-
stand, to teach them the laws of God and
nature, and the punishment for breaking those
laws; to be tempered with wisdom and love
and not by passion or cruelty; it is a much better
way to wait till passion is over before correct-
ing a child: we shall this way gain more rev-
erence and respect from them; parents must
know, or ought to, that they in their sphere
of action with the knowledge they have, are no
more perfect than their children are in theirs.
Parents need to be blest with a great deal of
patience and forbearance; mine were quite
strict but kind; we were not all our parents
desired we should be through our hoydenish
ways; we lived in a rural district and as soon
as spring came around, we must be off to the
woods to gather wild-woodland flowers, daffi-
dills, blue bells and other wild flowers, this of
itself vexed them, the writer thinks now that
there was a great deal of the Puritan stock in
them.
	Oh! those were Elysian days to the writer,
never to be forgotten; we should like to see
more of the qualities,kindness and forbearance
exhibited among some that call themselves
Latter-day Saints, towards their children, we
have seen children that were raised with
tyrannical parents, they have left home and
broke away from all parental restraint to pur-
sue a course of independent wickedness.
	What kind of homes are those where there
are no smiles of welcome, or encouragement,
homes of this kind may be habitations but
never home as homes should be. For one to
believe there is no place like home is a whole-
some partiality, but to laugh and scorn another
person's home is wrong and unbecoming, be-
cause it is not as one's own; no one need dis-
pair of having a good home of their own,
while there are so many rich blessings all
around us and if not, there are other blessings
that the humblest may find, yea the plainest
dwelling may become a paradise when adorned
with the treasures of peace and contentment in
them; these treasures are better than granduer
or gold a thousand fold,the writer knows this
is so.
	There was another matter spoken upon and
that was most of mothers or those that act in
the place of mothers, on mock or false delicacy
towards their daughters; we know a mother's
conduct ought to be exemplary at all times
before her children, but we think it best for
her to gain the confidence of daughters as they
grow up to womanhood, so that they will
come to her with their troubles, trials and
the pleasures of their youthful lives, if mothers
are so sensitive that they cannot teach their
daughters the laws of nature concerning them-
selves they ought not by any means to be left
to learn those things from their companions;
they may be led astray, as we have known
some to be, who have sought information this
way concerning themselves, that their own
mothers ought to have imparted unto them.
Those mothers that feel so very sensitive about
giving their daughters proper information con-
cerning the laws of nature ought to buy good
and proper books, that treat on those laws and
place them where their daughters will be sure
to find them, my word for it, it will come out
right, I have tried it. Mothers or those that
stand in the place of them, ought not if pos-

[Column 2]

sible to prevent it, to allow their daughters to
go into homes of their own without a pretty
good domestic education as well as a collegiate
one if they can obtain one; and not forgetting
at the same time to teach them the simple
laws of health, so that they may be prepared
in some degree to meet with sickness and those 
natural consequences which are part of every
woman's mission, and which inevitably comes
to every household; and above all let us teach
our sons and daughters to be virtuous and
chaste in their lives, some think girls ought to
have those properties more firmly established
than boys, I think differently, if our boys have
those qualities well cultivated there will not
be many girls lacking in virtue or chastity; and
let young men speak of all young women as
they would like to hear them speak of their
sisters; and the result would be a better state
of society, if mothers are too sensitive to teach
them the laws of chastity their fathers can, and
if not they can read themselves the sermons
of President Cannon and other Church
authorities that have been given from time to
time, they are very plain and forcible none
need go astray for lack of teaching, all may
maintain purity of character that will seek
help from their Father in heaven. Much
more might be said on this subject. Your
sister in the Gospel.
			ISABELLA P. PRICE.
	Mill Creek, June 3, 1891.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WORLD'S COLUMBIAN EXPOSITION.

			CHICAGO, May 19, 1891.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
		My Dear Madam:—
	Inclosed you will find your commission from
the Isabella Association, instructions in the
order to be followed, and a map of your con-
gressional District.
					Very truly,
			Frances Dickenson, Secretary.
DUTIES OF A VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE QUEEN
ISABELLA ASSOCIATION WITHIN THE
UNITED STATES.
	1. To ascertain the number of polling dis-
tricts within her Congressional District and
forward the same to national headquarters.
	NOTE: Every County Clerk keeps a record
of the number of polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts within his
County and the boundaries of each. In differ-
ent localities, polling districts are known as
townships, wards, parishes and precincts. In
some of the large cities the boundaries of the
polling districts are to be found in the office
of the Election Commissioner, printed in
pamphlet form or outlined on maps. These
political divisions are chosen to avoid over-
lapping of efforts. We believe this to be the
most systematic and economical method of
national organization for women in the interest
of any undertaking.
	2. To select four women within her district
who, with herself as Chairman, shall form the
Congressional Directory.
	3. To forward the names and addresses of
these officers with membership fees to national
headquarters that each may receive her com-
mission.
	4. To send a statement monthly to the
national headquarters of the progress of the
work in her district.
	NOTE: Membership certificates in books of
ten will be sent to the Vice-President on the
receipt of eight dollars; thus allowing twenty
per cent of the membership fees for the ex-
penses of the Congressional work.
	5. To countersign the commissions issued to
each Congressional Director, Enrollment Secre-
tary and members of the enrollment com-
mittee showing the official position of each.

[Column 2]

	6. To represent her Congressional District
during the sessions of the Isabella Congress.
	NOTE: The Congress Hall will be furnished
with a desk for each Congressional District and
foreign country represented in the membership
of the Association. The best thought within
each district is desired on every social and in-
dustrial problem on the program. For this
reason proxies will be allowed when in the
judgment of the Vice-President any question
can be better discussed by some other member
of her district.
DUTIES OF THE CONGRESSIONAL DIRECTORY.
	1. To select one woman in each polling dis-
trict to act as the Enrollment Secretary of the
Association.
	2. To send name and address of each En-
rollment Secretary with membership fee to
headquarters that she may receive her commis-
sion.
	3. To keep a record book with at least one
page devoted to each polling district and head-
ed with a map of said district showing its
boundary; the name and address of Enroll-
ment Secretary and the other members of the
enrollment committee and any other informa-
tion that may be needed from time to time.
DUTIES OF ENROLLMENT SECRETARY.
	1. To select four women within her polling
district who, with herself as Chairman, shall
form the Enrollment Committee of her dis-
strict.
	2. To forward the names and addresses of
these women with membership fees of the Vice-
President of the Association in her Con-
gressional District that each may receive her
commission,
	3. To report progress at least once a month
to the Vice-President.
DUTIES OF EACH ENROLLMENT COMMITTEE.
	1. To ascertain the names and addresses of
all women now members of the Association
within their district; to obtain more members
and to keep in a book this record of member-
ship within their polling district.
	2. To oganize one or more Queen Isabella
Circles to awaken an interest in the Columbian
Exposition of 1893; and especially to further
the objects of the Queen Isabella Association
in any way that may seem best and is en-
dorsed by the Vice-President.
	NOTE: In view of the growing intimacy of
our country with Mexico and South America,
the study of Spanish American history and
literature will prove beneficial and profitable.
The Lecture Bureau of the Association will
recommend when desired, lectures on World's
Fair topics.
	3. To establish an Enrollment headquarters
where the literature of the Association can be
found and where the written ballot of the
members can be deposited on any question, and
after the Fair on the disposal of the assets of
the Assocaition; the name, election of officers
and other questions concerning the coutinu-
ance of the Association.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The population of Alaska, as per corrected
returns, is 30,000.
	The cap and gown are paraphernalia
usually foreign to a Yale student, but this
year the graduating class will don that garb.
	Mrs. Jennie C. Croly, "Jennie June," has
been made honorary president for life of
Sorosis.
	Mrs. Nellie Blessing Eyster, president of the
Woman's Press Association of the Pacific
Coast, is a grand-niece of Barbara Frietchie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY LOVE.

BY CLARA M. SAUNDERS.

How do I love you? So well that your voice,
Tenderly accented, makes me rejoice;
Causes a dark, dreary day to look bright;
Floods all my being with waves of delight.

How do I love you? So well that your face,
Thoughtful, and earnest, and calm, has a place
Down in the depths, dearest one, of my heart,
Plainly engraven, to never depart.

Love you so fondly, so truly, so deep,
That a cold word makes me tremble and weep,
Love you so well that I see not your guile,
Basking content, in the light of your smile.

How do I love you? So well that my soul
Bows to the mandate of love's sweet control,
Feeling that ever your pain is my pain,
Your loss is my loss, and your gain my gain.

Love you so much that, if fallen quite low,
Swift to your side I would hasten and go,
Striving to raise you again to the height
Where you were noble and grand in my sight.

How do I love you? Our Father above
Only can measure the depth of my love;
Only His wisdom can e'er comprehend
What are my feelings toward you, oh! my friend.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	A MOTHER'S WISH.

I am thinking tonight of the future,
	Of a time that will soon be our own,
When the trials of life shall have ended
	And we'll live in God's sunlight alone.

When around us will be all the glory
	We've dreamed of and prayed for so long,
And within us will live all the gladness
	That falls upon God's holy throng.

And I think how we'll look upon earth-life,
	Its sickness, its troubles, its cares,
Thanking God if its aim were successful
	That we fell not within its deep snares.

How with sorrow we'll look upon weakness,
	How regretfully think upon wrong,
How with gladness we'll view acts of meekness
	And know how by pain we grew strong.

Will we weep that in sadness we bore them.
	Our darlings, our innocent lambs,
With a world full of darkness before them
	To be grasped by their dear, trusting hands?

Oh how with devoutest emotion,
	Will we thank the great Father of Love,
If united with us in devotion,
	We may clasp our dear children above.

Father grant that Thy glory and goodness
	May dwell in their hearts to the end,
Let Thy grace and Thy care be sufficient,
	Let Thy spirit be ever their Friend.

And as life, with its struggles advances,
	Oh, strengthen their hearts for the fray,
May Thy spirit which all good enhances,
	Give them strength and desire for their day!

Oh. how lovely will then be that future,
	That day of bright sunlight alone,
When united, in God's happy kingdom,
	We call the Eternal our own.

		RUBY LAMONT.


LINES.

	[Written to Sister Mary E. Kimball, on the presentation
of Whitney's Poems by the Fourteenth Ward Primary As-
sociation.]

Best of love and kindly greeting
	We the primary children bring
To our venerated sister,
	Also this, our offering.


Just a token of affection
	Which we hope will please you well,
And awake sweet recollections
	When its lines your heart shall swell.

If at any time with rudeness 
	We your gentle spirit grieve,
Or with thoughtless words or actions,
	We would ask you to forgive;
We appreciate your kindness 
	All your counsels fain would keep,
And we'll ask our God to bless you
	In our prayers before we sleep.

And we'll thank Him for His blessings,
	For such teachers, good and true,
That have set such grand examples
	For we, little folks as you,
For we know you have had trials,
	Drank from sorrow's bitter cup,
Oh may we have strength to clamber
	The rugged path you've traveled up.

May our Father guard and keep you,
	And your life may He prolong
Many years to teach true wisdom
	To the glad primary throng;
And when your earthly work is finished.
	And your Father calls you home
To rejoin your honored husband
	And to share with him his throne—

May it be our lot to meet you
	Sometime in that sunny land,
May we so live by your teachings
	We may swell the heavenly band;
Joy indeed shall crown your efforts,
	Mutual joy for us 'twill be;
Should you meet beyond death's portals
	Members of the Primary.

		Composed and read by RUTH M. FOX.
March 26th, 1891.


UNIVERSITY OF DESERET.

	The Annual Circular of the University of
Deseret for 1891—92 shows that the institu-
tion is at present in a prosperous condition.
The building is now more complete and com-
modious than at any other time in the past,
and the separate large and handsome structure
on the same grounds for the instruction of deaf
mutes, gives much larger opportunity to that
class of students, to whom special attention is
being paid, not only in studies, common and
higher branches, but in industrial pursuits
likewise,suitable for both boys and girls.
	The Territorial Fair of 1890 awarded a
diploma to the department of display of wood-
work by the boys, and a silver medal for the
sewing and fancy work done by the girls.
	The University itself was established early
in the history of this Territory, Feb. 1850, less
than three years after the arrival of the
pioneers. The first meeting of the Board of
Regents was on the 13th of March, 1850—pre-
sided over by Chancellor Orson Spencer.
	The names of the Faculty, Instructors, and
Officers represent men of ability, superior edu-
cation, attainments and influence and are a
guarantee for the excellence of the institution
in all its departments. Dr. John R. Park, the
President, has been connected with the Uni-
versity for a great number of years, and under
his management it has progressed wonderfully,
especially considering the financial struggles it
has gone through.
	There is not we believe a better school of its
kind West of the Rocky Mountains. From
the Normal department it has sent out its
teachers year after year to all parts of the
Territory. The very best teachers of languages
are always employed, as also in music,the law,
military science, and tactics, etc.
	The Museum is a valuable acquisition and
is well supplied for practical school purposes
and studies in the sciences. The Library and
Reading-room is another important feature of


the school. There are nearly ten thousand
volumes of standard and miscellaneous books,
and the reading room has regularly more than
seventy newspapers and periodicals. In look-
ing over the Annual there seems to be nothing
lacking; there is an art gallery, chemical
laboratory, in short everything desirable, and
a credit as a seat of learning that any State
might be proud to own.


JOTTINGS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Seeing in your last issue that the first of
June was to be celebrated as "children's day,"
I thought it would not be amiss to write a few
lines on the subject as we did not have any
May celebration; the officers of the Y. L. M.
I. Association concluded it would be good to
celebrate the birthday of President Brigham
Young, which we carried out accordingly,
and we had a very pleasant time. A short
programme was rendered, then dancing, and
ice cream was served which a couple of the
young ladies made themselves, while others
prepared the cake. I think the children all
enjoyed the day as well as the older ones.
We also have a Relief Society here which is
in good working order. We have no poor
amongst us, but we are not idle. It is not long
since we had a call made by the Stake Pres.
for offerings to the Deseret Hospital, which was
promptly responded to by the liberal donations
of bedding and other useful and needed articles.
We are very scattered for a distance of three
miles along Price River, at the north end of
Castle Valley; but we are not cut off from
the outside world entirely, for the railway
trains pass by our very doors several times
through the day.
	Hoping the time is not far distant when
some of the Sisters from head quarters will
pay us a visit, that we may receive instruc-
tions from the fountain head which I miss very
much since coming out to the new country.
It is quite a change from being in Provo but
we can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord wherever
we are. With kind regards to all the Sisters,
I remain your sister in the Gospel.
		MINNIE B. JONES.
	Spring Glen, near Price, June 8th, 1891.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	Happiness is like the statues of Isis, whose
vail no mortal ever raised.—Landon.
	The lightsome countenance of a friend
giveth such an inward decking to the house
where it lodgeth as proudest palaces have
cause to envy the gilding.—Sir P. Sidney.
	One principal point of good breeding is to
suit our behavior to the three several degrees
of men—our superiors, our equals, and those
below us.—Swift.
	There is in some houses an unconscious
atmosphere of domestic and social ozone which
brightens everybody; wealth cannot give it
nor can poverty take it away.—Miss Muloch.
	True generosity does not consist in obeying
every impulse of humanity, in following
blind passion for our guide, and impairing our
circumstances by present benefactions so as to
render us incapable of future ones.—Goldsmith.
	I find the great thing in this world is not
so much where we stand as in what direction
we are moving. To reach the port of heaven
we mnst sail sometimes with the wind and
sometimes against it; but we must sail and
not drift, nor lie at anchor.—Oliver Wendell
Holmes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts. No
reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JUNE 15, 1891.


[Column 1]﻿

WHICH PARTY WILL RECOGNIZE
WOMEN?

	There are many subjects of special interest to
be considered consequent upon the events that
are transpiring with this people; other phases of
the social, religious and political conditions are
presenting themselves and much new thought is
awakened thereby; things are undergoing a
change in the community, and it behooves each
one to be prepared for whatever is coming, and
to be able to judge for himself, or herself upon all
matters of vital importance.
	Particularly in the breaking up of the peoples'
party and dividing on party lines, should the
greatest wisdom be exercised, and a realizing
sense of the importance of such a step be taken
into careful consideration.
	One may say it will make very little difference
to women in this Territory as they have no vote;
but even though they have not, women are and
should be deeply and understandingly interested
in these matters, and in all others that concern the
welfare of humanity. The woman who has no
interest in this question now being widely agitated
and no thoughts upon the subject, is not alive to
her opportunities of doing good, or of helping
herself or others. It is a grand opening for the
discussion of these pertinent questions that per-
tain to woman's claims and her grievances.
	Two political parties are being formed from
the Peoples' Party, which of these two will in-
troduce into their platform a plank, or a resolu-
tion favoring woman suffrage? "What would be
the use, some say,considering Congress took the
suffrage away from the women of this Territory?"
There is no boundary set for men in their gallantry
towards those whom they are pleased to term the
weaker sex, and as a matter of courtesy to women
who have once held the elective franchise and
exercised it so judiciously that even those opposed
to it on general principles,could not find any fault
with the use they made of it,and after being robbed
of it for political purposes, the writer cannot pos-
sibly see, why these fellow citizens who are advo-
cating the rights of men and brothers should not
consider the rights of women, their sisters, and be
generous enough to accord in word at least some
political recognition, even if there is not any im
mediate prospect of its being made a reality. It
would show the good will of the particular party,
and women have some influence even without
votes, but we are free to confess, a great deal
more with votes.
	At a Convention, or Festival held in Boston,
Mass., recently Mrs. Lucy Stone or Mrs. Howe
in summoning up the political party under dis-
cussion, and by the bye we believe it was the
Republican party, made this assertion, if in the
event of its becoming the ruling or dominant
party it did not accord equal political rights to

[Column 2]

women, who had given it such support and
strength, it deserved to die an ignominous
death.
	Even in conservative England there have been
more privileges accorded to women than in the
United States, where so much is said and written
of freedom, and liberty, and equal rights. Miss
Balgarnie the delegate from various societies in
the kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland said,in
her speech at the National Council of Women
held in Washington last Winter, that,
	"We the women of Great Britain now possess
all the votes which men possess, except the Par-
liamentary vote. We have the right to vote at
seven elections, which deal with the school
boards, municipal government, local government
poor law government,—in fact we have a right to
declare what men shall spend the rates and taxes
which we have to contribute. Moreover we may
be elected to serve upon the school boards and a
large number of women serve in that capacity.
What is more the men urge us to do it. It is not
so many years ago that a representative of the
Men's Liberal Association (what is called the
Men's Liberal Four Hundred) did me the honor
to wait upon me and ask me to run with the men
as a candidate for the school board. I am glad
to say, that generally, men are welcoming the wo-
men in this respect. In the few places where
they do not, women possess sufficient voting
power to retain their own women candidates,
irrespective of the men."
	"We have lately obtained the vote for the
county councils, which are analagous to your
state and territorial governments."
	This is hopeful for England under a woman,
Queen Victoria. And what about America "the
land of the free and the home of the brave," of
which we sing and boast so much? Wyoming
leads the van, there equal rights for men and
women prevail? Utah ought to have had the
same privileges; the legislature passed the bill
allowing women to vote in the winter of 1870 and
the Governor signed it on the 7th of February.
Women voted for Hon. Daniel H. Wells for
Mayor on the 14th of February, 1870.
	Yet we find wherever suffrage for woman is
spoken of in public gatherings there are only a
very few who dare speak for Utah upon this
question. Now that a new political era has come
in the history of the Territory what is to be the
outlook for the recognition of women as citizens?
They pay their taxes as well as men and we have
never heard that women were ignorant in regard
to paying taxes; that is one of the privileges they
are permitted. They know how to earn money;
there are thousands of women in this Territory
engaged in various industries and professions, and
are actually self-supporting. We believe that the
majority of the Peoples' Party men, are in favor
of woman suffrage, and we have noticed that a
resolution in the Democratic platform says "We
are unalterably opposed to the disfranchisement
of any citizen except for crime, whereof he shall
have been duly convicted." That is very good
indeed, but it should be broad enough to apply to
women citizens as well as men. There is no
doubt a great future for Utah and in that day wo-
man will assuredly have equal political rights
with her brother man. And now is the time to
prepare for that event.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Pres. Jane S. Richards attended the Relief
Society Conference of Box Elder Stake held at
Brigham City, June 9th,of which we hope to have
a synopsis of minutes and proceedings to publish
next issue.
	Presidents Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W.
Smith, Counselors to Pres. Zina D. H. Young of
the Relief Society went to Grantsville to attend

[Column 2]

the Relief Society and Sisters Conferences of that
Stake, leaving this City Saturday morning, June
13, and are expect home to-day. We shall prob-
ably have a report of the Conferences in our next
issue. 
	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday June 19th. Meetings com-
mencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as usual. It is
desirable that there should be representatives
from each branch in the Stake, that suitable in-
struction and encouragement may be given and
that all may work together in harmony and be
mutually helpful to each other through the inter-
change of ideas and a correct understanding of
the general status and labors of the Society in
the interest of all concerned in its welfare. All
those interested in this benevolent Society are
invited to attend this Conference.
	The Primary Fair will open in the Social Hall
in this City on Wednesday, the 17th inst., under
the immediate direction of President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and
Lydia Ann Wells. The people should patronize
this Fair and show their appreciation of the efforts
of the children in making articles and in doing
such work as is suited to their years. As a people
we expect great things of the children and they
in turn certainly should receive encouragement
from parents and friends; otherwise they are
likely to become discouraged. Great efforts are
being made by those who have charge of the
Primary Associations in the various districts
and Stakes of Zion, and it is right and proper that
they should receive a recognitton of their labors,
by the people,especially those whose children are
under their care and instruction. We hope to 
see the Fair well patronized.
	A new book called "The Educator, CAUSE
and CURE of all DISEASES," has been handed into
this office recently by one of its authors, Mrs.
Conger, who is herself a regular physician and
who has in connection with her husband, also a
Dr., prepared this original work for the benefit of
the public. We have been looking over the book
during the past few days and find many excellent
hints and suggestions as well as plain every day
facts, and methods of handling patients and their
ailments with a view of making permanent cures.
There are many important truths told in an agree-
able and intelligent manner that will make a
deeper impression than if handled only scientifi-
cally, or in that crude hard way more common
among writers on these ponderous subjects. The
book is certainly very attractive, and every
family would do well to have a copy of it at hand
in the home-library. After reading it more care-
fully and thoroughly we may be able to say more
and give a better idea of its merits.
	Wednesday, May 27, there was a very pleasant
social gathering at the little new brick cottage of
Helen Mar Whitney on the corner of C. and 6th
Sts. in the 18th Ward of the City. There were
present the members of her immediate family, and
her brother Solomon Kimball and wife, also the
Bishop, Orson F. Whitney, (her eldest son) and
his Counselors, Robert Patrick and Wm. Barton
and their wives and Elder McDonald and wife,
and the writer. A sumptuous dinner had been
prepared by Sister Whitney's daughters and after
the repast was over, and the guests and family
had reassembled in the parlor, Bishop Whitney
dedicated the house in an eloquent and appropri-
ate prayer that echoed the sentiments of his
mother and we believe of all those who were
present as well as touching their hearts with its
earnestness. It is a beautiful idea to dedicate the
homes of the Saints to the Lord as dwelling
places of peace and contentment where His Holy
Spirit may be poured out in rich abundance, and
for the preservation of health and life, and where


angels may visit from time to time and hold
sweet communion. It is our earnest and heart-
felt prayer that Sister Whitney may live to enjoy
this comfortable home in the possession of health
and every blessing it is possible for her to receive
and partake of for her benefit.
	On Tuesday, June the 9th, a very happy party
 met by invitation at the residence of Bishop H.
B. Clawson and wife, for a double purpose,
to dedicate the new and handsome residence re-
cently erected on South Temple just East of
State Street and to celebrate the marriage of their
daughter Winnifred, to George Ellerbeck son of
Thomas and Emma Spence Ellerbeck of this
City. The house was very beautifully illuminated
for the occasion, and promptly at 6 p. m., after
the arrival of President Wilford Woodruff and
Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, and Hon. John T. Caine,
and some other special friends the Dedicatory
prayer was offered by Pres. Geo. Q Cannon, and
following that, the marriage ceremony was per-
formed by Bishop O. F. Whitney. The bride in
all the blushing loveliness of youth and innocence
beautiful in simple white and orange blossoms,
the bridegroom with proud and manly bearing
looking quite happy and satisfied, stood under a
canopy of the most exquisite flowers, while the
solemn service was pronounced which bound
them together as husband and wife. The wed-
ding reception proper then commenced, and
guests began to flow in until the house was
crowded. Refreshments were served and con-
gratulations and expressions of good feeling fol-
lowed by kisses etc., were continuous, for a time.
The presents were so numerous and elaborate
that it is not possible to mention them all, they
consisted of elegant furniture and furnishings,
silver, cutlery, china, Royal Worcester and other
varieties, cut-glass and so on. A diamond necklace
from the bridegroom, lamps, clocks, books and
many other things. The writer only wishes to
express for these new voyagers on the sea of
matrimony a pleasant and happy sail over all the
shoals and quicksands and a safe entrance into
the harbor of security, when life's voyage is over.
	Thursday evening, June 11th, we had the
pleasure and satisfaction of participating in a
pleasant reunion of friends and relatives at the
home of Mrs. Rachel Emma Simmons of this city
widow of the once popular actor in the bye-
gone days of the Salt Lake stage, Joseph F.
Simmons. There were about thirty people present,
besides a great number of beautiful grand-child-
ren. The dinner was a feast of good things, the
hostess having the happy faculty of preparing ap
petizing luxuries; the tables were handsomely
ornamented with lovely flowers, June roses of
every shade and hue, peonies and the fragrant
honey-suckle, but the most striking feature of all
was the handsome and goodly countenances of
the sons and daughters of the hostess and their
life companions. At the head of the table was
the eldest son, J. F. Simmons, now Counselor to
Bishop Romney of the 20th Ward, and at the
other end of the table, Fred Simmons, a most
examplary and strikingly handsome young man.
The daughters however are not lacking in per-
sonal interest and attractions and Sister Simmons
has every reason to be proud of her family. The
blessing was pronounced by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and here let it be said the Whitneys
were well represented in this gathering. During
the evening a letter was read from one of the sons
Arthur Simmons who is absent in Mexico, and
besides general and spirited conversation, there
was music and singing by members of the family.
Bishop O. F. Whitney sang "My own, my native
land," with guitar accompaniment, and James T.
Dunbar and his wife Louisa, the daughter of
Henrietta Simmons, sang a duet "Only Thee,"
which was highly appreciated. Mr. Dunbar also
sang afterward. There was instrumental music also

[Column 2]

by members of the family and some waltzing, etc.
but the greatest enjoyment was the meeting to-
gether of old friends and the sweet communion
and association of "Auld lang syne." Peace be
to the household and may the friendship of long
ago,still continue and be a part and portion of the
life to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

﻿WOMAN'S VOTE.

	Why women should have a voice in public
affairs! Women are taxed equal to men, they
are held responsible to the law the same, their
reasoning, perceptive and governing powers are
as effective as those of their brother man; a
widow can stand at the head of her household,
guide, control and create means to sustain her
family with better economy and keep them to-
gether better than a widower, for he is more help-
less with the entire care of a family without the
woman, than she is without the man.
	She is endowed with more fortitude, persever-
ance, temperance and sufferance. These qualifi-
cations in woman are nature's best gifts,fitting her
for man's equal in all the transactions and vicissi-
tudes of life. When side by side with him, her
perceptive intuition makes her for man, a wise
counselor who acts in concert with him, devising
plans, adopting means and ways, for his future
benefit.
	That never failing fountain of love for him and
their offspring growing out of those attributes re-
fined, made pliable and subtile; she is self-reliant
on her own ability and power of action. She
overcomes obstacles thrown in her way and sur-
mounts them all; this makes her capable to ac-
quiesce, conform, explain, predict and conjoin in
fellowship with her own sex, and the stronger
and less subdued element in man.
	It makes her befitting to fill the highest station
in life, and capable to decide questions that in-
volve her happiness and welfare. Without her
vote so many blanks remain. Questions of vital
interest are undecided and the best side of things
lies dormant as the one half of God's creations
are debared from taking part in the great drama
on her public stage. The one element that should
be retained is excluded. The coarser, boisterous
intemperate and overbearing "Might makes
right," rules.
	Fellow citizens how long shall this state of
things be? and woman be inactive to the great
benefit of mankind and their integral interests?
Detract from her, you do indeed detract from
him, as fate hath blended both in one.
	Genesis 1st ch. 26th vrs: "And God said let
us make man in our image, after our likeness."
And as earthly things are in the likeness of
heavenly things, we know our Heavenly Father is
a person, and knowing this we can worship Him
in spirit and in truth. All womankind should
have respect for her fellow man, for as she looks
upon him she sees the image of her Heavenly
Father reflective. Man has not lost his original
form as much as woman, he is not as much
governed by fashion in dress as she is, in that
which depresses the natural form. This is why
we read in Isaiah 3rd ch. that the daughters of
Zion wil be scourged. "Male and female created
He them." And as our poetess Eliza R. Snow
renders it,

"In the heavens are parents single.
	No the thought makes reason stare;
Truth is reason, truth eternal,
	Tells me I've a mother there."

	Then woman is made in the image of her
Heavenly Mother.
	28th vrs: "And God blessed them, and said
unto them, be fruitful, and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over
the fish of the sea, and over the fowls of the air,

[Column 2]

and over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth."
	29th vrs: "And God said I have given you
(not him), speaking to the  man and woman, all
things bearing seed upon all the face of the
earth."
	But Adam and Eve sinned and Adam was to
rule, Christ atoned for the sins of the world, and
that places woman on an equal with man, as at
the beginning. "To have dominion over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth," in con-
nection with her husband, or her fellow man.
		MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, June 8, 1891.


IN MEXICO.

	After leaving colony Diez we travel over a
beautiful country for about 60 miles until we come
to Casas Grande, here we find a nice, rich, fertile
valley, watered by the Casas Grande river which
is followed on both sides with a heavy growth of
timber, such as cotton wood, black walnut, willow
and other kinds; the soil is rich and productive
and by planting wheat in the fall it can be
harvested in time to raise a crop of corn on the
same land; sweet potatoes do well, as also pea
nuts; there are melons in abundance, grapes ripen
in July and it is a splendid country for raising
corn. There are many hundred acres of good
land in this vicinity that can be bought at rea-
sonable figures with good title and water rights
secured.
	Casas Grande is an old Mexican town, a part of
it in ruins from old age or caused by earth-quakes
which have been recent here. We have lived
neighbors to the Mexicans about a year, and
have thus far not much reason to complain,
finding them to be a much better people than they
were represented, we had often heard of their
having some traits of dishonesty about them, and
we think this is true to a certain extent, but do
not feel justified in saying it of them all, for we
have found some very respectable ladies and
gentlemen here. And we do not find them a
boisterous noisy community; although they are
not very industrious, they seem to have a desire
to learn, and there is an opening for the establish-
ment of industries here.
	It is our intention to begin a school soon, for
the purpose of teaching English, also to teach
knitting, spinning, etc., as soon as the necessary
books can be obtained. The natives are beginning
to admire our ways of living, and many express a
desire to learn of our religion, and are interested
in reading our books, take a peculiar intesest in
reading the Book of Mormon and seem to realize
that we are in possession of a doctrine superior
to theirs; for many of them can not help seeing
the deception of the Catholic priests. * * * But
it seems that as yet the time has not come to
preach the Gospel to them, but we believe when
it does come there will be many of the honest in
heart who will receive it.
	Our children are learning the Spanish language,
we have a little girl, two years old, who interests
the natives very much speaking their language
it being more simple and easier pronounced than
the English, she seems to prefer to speak it.
There are several families of Mexicans living in
Colony Juarez who belong to the Church, and are
very good, sincere Latter-day Saints, and seem to
enjoy life very much and are gathering around
them the comforts of life, and from outside ap-
pearances none could distinguish their homes
from others of the Saints. Juarez is a nice little
place situated between the hills. We never see it
until we come to the dug way which descends to
the valley below, making a beautiful sight to look
down on the nice little place, with its streets run-
ning at right angles, and the sidewalks lined with
shade trees, patches of lucerne, gardens and


orchards surround the quiet homes of the
Saints in this peaceful little place. A neat little
store owned by the community where can be
found a nice stock of goods for this country, and
quite cheap, adds to the convenience of the peo-
ple. There is a good adobe building for school
and meeting purposes which is always tolerably
well filled. The Saints seem to enjoy themselves
and feel that hard times are almost over in Mexico
and that a bright future awaits us here; and we
believe that we have been led here by the hand
of Providence to perform a great work which re-
mains to be done in the future.
		S. T. BOICE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	DESERET.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to give you a short sketch of the
reorganizing of our Relief Society of Deseret.
The wards being divided in, three, namely
Deseret, Hinckley and Oasis.
	On the 9th and 10th of May, Sister Elizabeth
Yates, Stake President of Relief Society,
Millard, came and organized a society in each
ward, holding meetings at Deseret on the 10th,
at 10 o'clock a. m., Pres. Yates presiding.
Meeting began in the usual manner. The
Sisters were called to select their President.
Sister Eliza Whicker was chosen, the same
President that presided before. She selected
for first counselor Eliza Moody; second,
Victoria Black. Marietta Webb was chosen
secretary, Alice Moody, assistant secretary,
Kate Allred, treasurer. We also received
some instructions from Pres. Yates and from
her second counselor L. Tompson.
	The Stake President and Counselors were
here and gave us some good advice.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. We
have worked together so long in Deseret as a
whole that we felt sad at being parted; how-
ever it was thought best as we live in such a
scattered condition. We will soon become
used to meeting separately and it is much
better for the teachers and those that live so
far. We have a society that has been alive
to its duties ever since it was organized.
	The Sisters have all worked together in
unison.
			MARIETTA WEBB, Sec.

EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference report of
Emery Stake held in Huntington, April 17,
1891: President Annie U. Larsen presiding.
Singing "Spirit of God come down," prayer by
Brother P. Johnson, singing, "Come, O thou
King of Kings." President Annie Larsen
then made a few opening remarks, advising
the secretaries to be prompt in sending the re-
ports of their wards, also spoke of her visit
through the settlements in the stake, the good
feeling prevailing. Reports of those present
were listened to with marked interest. Sister
Olsen, president of the Castle Dale Ward, felt
well in her labors with the sisters, ever ready
and willing to do her duty. Mrs. L. C. Avery
of Huntington, Mrs. Eunice Petty of Emery,
and Mrs. Alger of Cleveland each reported
their wards, all seemed to be doing well, and a
spirit of union and love in their midst. Stake
Counselor Ann Pulsifer had attened Salt Lake
conference, and gave some very interesting re-
marks of the good things she had heard spoken
of, and the powerful testimony of President
Woodruff. Counselor Mary E. Cox bore her
testimony to the Latter-day work. Brother
J. D. Chase spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters. Mrs. McNervin gave in the Lawrence
Ward report, which was good. Meeting ad-
journed until half past one, in the afternoon,
singing, benediction by Bishop Pulsifer.

[Column 2]

	Afternoon meeting: President Annie Larsen
presiding, singing, "With all my joys of heart
and tongue," prayer by D. Washburn, singing
"My God the spring of all my joys." Mrs.
Sarah Fulmer reported the Orangeville ward.
Bishop Oversen addressed the conference a
short time. Several sisters bore their testi-
mony to the Latter-day work, many good
things were said, and all felt the good spirit
that prevailed in our midst. Bishop Pulsifer
exhorted to continual faithfulness, and other
brethren who were present spoke. President
Annie Larsen then made a few closing remarks
and released Ann E. Seeley and Kathinka An-
derson from the positions as stake secretary
with a vote of thanks. The officers of the
stake were unanimously sustained as follows:
Annie U. Larsen president, Johanah E. Childs
as first counselor, Ann Pulsifer as second coun-
selor, M. J. Shipp secretary. Choir sang, "Lift
up your head,ye scattered Saints." Benediction
by Bishop Pulsifer.
			J. S. MCKEE, Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief
Society of the Stake, held May 29th, 1891, in
the meeting house, Provo City. Pres. Mary
John presiding, Counselors Emily G. Cluff
and Marilla Daniels also on the stand. Con-
ference opened by singing, "Once more we
come before our God." Prayer by Counselor
Marilla Daniels. Singing, "Arise O glorious
Zion." Minutes of former Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. John was grateful to see so many at
conference as it proves their faithfulness. I feel
the sisters are doing a good work, wished the
younger sisters would meet with us even if
they bring their children. The old will not
always be able to meet with us, and the re-
sponsibilities will rest with the young. Spoke
of the Hospital fund,it is our duty to help that
institution. Would like to hear from the
presidents of the different branches of the
Society throughout the country. After hear-
ing their reports, which were very satisfactory
and encouraging, conference adjourned till 2
p. m. Benediction by Sister Wilkins.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. On
the stand in addition to the presiding officers
of the Society, were Sisters S. M. Kimball and
Emily S. Richards of Salt Lake City.
	Conference opened with the usual exercises.
A few more reports were given in by the presi-
dents, after which Sister S. M. Kimball spoke
to the sisters for a short time, explained the
organization and position of the Relief Society;
was thankful for these organizations, when we
benefit others we benefit ourselves, our useful-
ness increases and we realize that we are
brothers and sisters, one grand brotherhood,
etc., we cannot gain knowledge and intelligence
without effort. Spoke on various subjects of
interest to the sisters.
	Sister Goodman spoke on the silk question;
did not like to see the interest dying out,
thought it would eventually be a source of pro-
fit to us, etc.
	Coun. Marilla Daniels felt to endorse what
Sister Goodman had said about silk; but it
would need unity of purpose to make it a
success. Let us try and interest young women
in coming to these meetings that they may
learn the workings of the society and see how
they are conducted, etc.
	Sister E. S. Richards felt pleased to be with
us, had always tried to meet with the Relief
Society, had enjoyed meeting with Sister Eliza
and Sister Zina in years gone by, this is the
place to get strength, I think that our women
are as bright and smart as any in the world,
we are called and set apart to fulfill various
duties in these organizations, I do not believe
the men have as many organizations as the

[Column 3]

Sisters, the world cannot understand us.
spoke of the W. C. T. U., associations, "the
Lord is working with those outside as well as
ourselves. Women are stealing a little time
from household cares for self-improvement,
we must spend some time in self-culture and
creep out from the toil that surrounds us, let
us devote our spare time to educating ourselves
instead of making lace and other fancy work
etc.
	Pres. John thought we were well paid for
coming to meeting,felt thankful to our visitors,
asked our Heavenly Father to bless us with
his Holy Spirit. Conference was adjourned
for three months. Singing, "The spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by S. M.
Kimball.
			C. DANIELS, Sec'y.

WASATCH STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
its Semi Annual Conference in the Stake
House at Heber,May 28, 1891, at 10:30 o'clock
a. m. Present on the stand, President Hatch
and Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop Henry
Clegg, and the Stake Presidency of the Relief
Society and representatives of the different
wards,also Sisters E. Howard and Lillie Freeze
of Salt Lake City. Pres. Emma Brown pre-
siding, singing by the choir, led by Brother
Roger Horrocks, "The morning breaks," prayer
by Bishop Henry Clegg, singing, "God spake
the word." The roll was called,22 officers be-
ing present; minutes of last Conference read
and accepted.
	Pres. Brown exhorted the sisters to be dili-
gent in attending conferences and also their
ward meetings.
	Heber West Ward was reported by Sister
C. Foreman, who said she realized blessing in
attending meeting and knew others would do
so if they would come.
	Sister Margaret Muir reported Heber East
Ward, said they had a good many enrolled,
some had a desire to come while others had
not, felt thankful for a testimony of this great
work.
	Sister Lillie Freeze said she felt a little
strange when she first came in, but, considered
as we are eventually to be united in one
great family it was good to become acquainted
with one another; things transpired sometimes
which caused us to feel cold towards our neigh-
bors; such feelings should not be entertained;
persons having feelings against their brethren
or sisters should not partake of the sacrament
before they had made things right. Spoke
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and some re-
marks he made when he organized this Society.
Exhorted the mothers to send their children to
the Primaries and Sunday Schools where
they could be taught the things of God.
	After singing "High on the mountain top,"
and prayer by Sister Mary Daybell,conference
adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session resumed at 2 o'clock with
the usual excercises of singing and prayer.
The Midway Ward was reported by Sister
Mary Guerney who stated that it was in a fair
condition. Sister Mary E. Cluff reported
Center Ward, said they were few in number,
but were earnest in doing good.
	Sister Mary Dabling in reporting Wallsburg
said some do not come once a year to meeting,
while others come often and those that came
brought a good spirit with them and they had
good meetings.
	Sister Mellisa Murdock reported Charleston,
relating a little of her experience when the
society was organized there. Woodland Ward
not reported.
	Sister E. Howard said it was the duty of
every virtuous woman in the wards to be mem-
bers of the Society, spoke of the signs of the
times, and the eventful year of 1891; spoke of


the many tests that would be brought to bear
against us as a people, and unless we had an
undying testimony within our hearts we would
not be able to stand the trials that would come
upon us. Asked how many of us were pre-
paring to become  queens and priestesses in the
Kingdom of our God. Showed the necessity
of mothers doing all they could for their
childrens' welfare spiritually as well as tem-
portally; in speaking of the Sacrament, said
how can we partake of it with feelings in our
hearts against our brethren and sisters,
thought if we did so we would eat and
drink condemnation to our souls. 
	Sister L. Freeze gave some good counsel and
exhorted all to diligence in the performance of
duties, and said the officers should be sus-
tained and their labors appreciated by those
for whom they labored. Advised counsel
meetings of the officers, quarterly or monthly,
thought such would be beneficial.
	President Hatch said it seemed to him that
the sisters were as good talkers as the men
and thought we had had a very enjoyable
time
	Sister Hannah Harbour was then set apart
as Stake Secretary by Counselor T. H. Giles
and President Hatch.
	Pres. Brown felt that we had all enjoyed
ourselves in meeting together and exhorted the
sisters to use their influence in getting others
to attend conferences and other meetings of
the Society. A vote of thanks was tendered
to Sisters Howard and Freeze and conference
then adjourned till the last Thursday in Sep-
tember to meet at Midway. Singing "Praise
to the man, etc." Benediction by Bishop N
C. Murdock.
	HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.

PRIMARY CONFERENCE.
	The Primary Conference  of Wasatch Stake
was held in the Stake House at Heber, May
29, 1891. Stake President of the P. A., Ann
Murdock presiding. There were present
President Hatch and several of the prominent
brethren, also Pres. Emma Brown of the Relief
Society and Sisters E. Howard and L. Freeze
of Salt Lake City, and a number of the parents
of the children. Meeting was opened at 10:30
a. m. by singing "Trust the children &c."
Prayer by Brother John Horrocks, singing
"I'm not too young, &c." Minutes of last
Conference read and accepted. Heber West,
and East and Midway wards were reported as
being in favorable condition; the other wards
are going to be reorganized at once. A very
interesting programme was rendered by the
children of the wards represented, after which
many interesting and instructive remarks were
made and much good counsel was given by
Sisters Howard and Freeze and a general good
time was enjoyed by all those who participated
in the exercises as well as those who were
present; one long to be remembered by the
children of Wasatch. Ever praying for the
peace and prosperity of Zion.
	I remain your Sister in the faith,
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMEN AS POLICE MATRONS.

BY LILLIE DEVEREUX BLAKE.

	[Delivered at Woman's National Council,
Washington, D. C.]
	It is more than twenty years since my atten-
tion was first attracted to this subject. In 1870
I was appointed one of a committee of three
to go and see the Superintendent of Police, of
New York, and try to get women appointed as
police matrons. We were received very politely
by him, but he insisted that there was no need
of such an innovation. We asked him if he

[Column 2]

had never known of an instance where it would
have been better to have had a woman in
charge of the station-house? At last he did
remember of an occasion when a young woman
was brought into the station-house by a police
captain. She could not speak, and the case
was entered in the blotter as "drunk and dis-
orderly." She was consigned to a cell and in
the morning was found dead with a dead babe
beside her.
	In 1881 a bill providing for the appointment
of police matrons was introduced into the New
York Legistlature. It passed in the house by
a unanimous vote, and in the senate by a large
majority; but the Governor withheld his sig-
nature. The Governor was elected by the men
of the State, and he didn't wish to offend his
constitutents. The Police Department from
the first opposed with all of their power the
effort to secure police matrons.
	In 1888 a bill, prepared by the Women's
Prison Association of New York, was passed
through both houses of legislature and received
the Governer's signature. It ran thus: "When
ever the Board of Appointment shall appropri-
ate money for the payment of salaries of police
matrons, these matrons shall be appointed."
	Under this bill police matrons have been
appointed in Buffalo, Rochester and other
towns in New York. But from that day to
this the Board of Appointment of New York
City has not appropriated the money.
	Two years ago, when the law was first past
I went down to see the Mayor and Comptroller
to urge this question upon them. They corres-
ponded with the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department, and in a
few days I received the following letter written
to them by the Police Department: "The
Board of Police has made no request for an
appropriation of salaries of police matrons, be-
cause, in the opinion of this Department the
appointement of such matrons is neither wise
nor expedient."
	Last fall a  bill was introduced by Geoge F.
Roesch, a Tammany Democrat, which proves
that some good thing can come from a
Tammany Democrat, and it will probably re-
ceive the votes of the Democrats. As the
other bills, have received the support of Re-
publicans, we have great reason to hope that
this will be passed by both branches of the
Legislature. We are just on the threshhold
of success, and here let me say that we do not
mean to find any fault with the policemen;
there are many noble and true hearts beating
under their blue coats. We know that they
are as kind as men can be in cases of distress,
but it is only seemly that women who are in
our station-houses night after night should have
the protection of women there, in the saddest
condition that women can reach—that of be-
ing homeless.
	In these station-houses are three classes, the
homeless, the criminals, and the innocent
alleged to be criminal, and all are in the hands
of men. However kind a man may be, you
know it is not fitting. The policeman embodies
force, and side by side with him should stand
a woman embodying mercy.
	[Since the delivery of the above address the
bill providing for the appointment of police
matrons has been passed by the New York
Legislature and received the signature of
Governor Hill.]


[Column 1]

ADDRESS.

MRS. BERTHA HONORE PALMER.

[At the Woman's Council, Washington, D. C.
	During the session in Chicago of the Board
of Lady Managers, of the World's Columbian
Commission, in Novemeber last, a telegram was
received from your Secretary inviting the

[Column 2]

﻿Board to send a delegate to this meeting of
the Women's Council. The Board did me the
honor to appoint me its representative, and I
came to listen and learn in this assembly of
Women of broad views and high ideals, and I
feel asured that the purposes of our Board will
be greatly furthered by our having been put
in sympathetic touch with the leaders of
thought in the various departments of woman's
work. I thank you heartily for the courtesy
so cordially extended and especially for being
allowed to interrupt for a few moments the
course of your interesting exercises to say a
few words about what the Board of Lady
Managers proposes to do at the Exposition.
A magnificent site has been assigned us and
$200,000 appropriated for the construction of
the Woman's Building, which will undoubtedly
be kept as a permanent memorial of woman's
work after the Fair is over, and in it all
woman's organizations and convocations will
find a home. This building is to be designed
by a woman, competitive sketches having al-
ready been advertised for from the women
architects of the country; three prizes of one
thousand, five hundred, and two hundred and
fifty dollars, respectively, being offered for the
best three designs. We hope by thus calling at-
tention to the work of women in architecture to
aid them to occupy atfield which naturally
belongs to them, that of domestic architecture,
for every man spoils many houses while he is
gradually being educated by the women for
whom he builds to know what is required in a
home.
	We shall try to provide in this building for
all possible wants of women, having in view a
Bureau of Information with interpreters
and guides for strangers,parlors and balconies
where ladies may rest and chat,an exhibitors,
club room, a model kitchen, where demonstra-
tion lessons may be given, we hope without
charge, a loan exhibit of Colonial, Old Dutch,
Scandinavian and other relics, recalling the
early history of our country and the various
nationalities from which we are sprung, and
also objects developed in the home by the
taste of woman. One wing of the building
will possibly be devoted to showing the Reform
and Charitable Organizations originated and
carried on by women, and the other to the
exhibit which will by sent by our Auxiliary
Associations formed through the instrumen-
tality of our foreign ministers in the countries
to which they are accredited, and bp means
of which we shall be enabled to indicate the
condition and attainments of women in every
part of the world. We shall also have an
Administration Room, Committee Rooms and
an Assembly Room for all lectures, congresses
and assemblies which may be desired by women.
In the main gallery there will probably be
special exhibits of the most brilliant achieve-
ments of woman's hand and brain; these will
doubtless be,in many cases, duplicates of objects
entered for competition in the general exhibit
under the regular classification, the duplicates
being placed in our building to emphasize the
fact that they are the work of women.
	In reading a list of the organizations
represented here, it occured to me that we
might obtain also a most unusual exhibit from
the Missionary Stations in the inaccessible and
unfrequented parts of the earth, and I beg
the ladies representing missionary societies to
realize that they may aid both themselves and
us by showing the life and work of women in
heathen countries. If a child-widow, for
instance, from a Zenanna could be brought
with her native dress and surroundings, and
the suffering and inhumanity to which she is
subjected shown, it would arouse such an
interest in the subject as years of talk would
not produce. The native weaving, pottery,
ornaments, costumes, household utensils, etc.,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


from these countries would also be of the
greatest interest and value.
	We are fortunate in thus being able to
present our plans and to ask nothing from the
ladies but their sympathic co-operation, and
an expression of their views as to how the
cause of woman may best be served; our build-
ing and its facilities being offered free of charge
to all the women of the country.
	For the first time in our history the mothers,
wives and daughters of America have been
permitted to assist in the management of an
important national enterprise, and have been
allowed the high but demoralizing privilege of
slipping their fingers into the national purse,
in order that they may prepare an object
lesson, showing the progress of women during
the century in which educational and other
privileges have been acorded her. We wish
to show that with the enlargment of her
opportunities, her sphere has extended and
broadened until she now works successfully in
almost every field heretofore given up ex-
clusively to man; that she can do many things
and do them all well, and that there are no
intellectual heights she cannot scale. Hers
are essentially the arts of peace and progress,
and her best work is shown in the reforms
she has had the courage and the ideality to
inaugurate against time-honored wrongs, both
legislative and social, and in the gradual
elevation of the standard of morality.
	We feel the necessity of showing this
beautiful influence and the advance which it
has caused, but are handicapped by the fact
that the most valuable part is spiritual, and
that it is difficult to show progress in abstract
things except by a mass of statistics, which be-
come significant, only when intelligently and
sympathetically read. Will you not aid us
with your experience and thought to show
woman's work as a beautiful whole, with its
animating spirit, and not as a mere mass of
material things? We wish the World's Fair
of 1893 to be memorable as a great exhibition,
greater than any which ever preceded it, but we
also wish its history to be a golden page in the
annals of woman's advancment.
	We urgently request, therefore, that each
organization represented here appoint a com-
mittee of five of its most able women to
consider the work we are trying to do for
our sex at the Fair, and to present to us at an
early date their suggestions and advice
as to how we may accomplish the great end
we have in view, and to inform us in what
manner their associations will be able to co-
operate with our Board in its work, and we
ask that they send their suggestions, applica-
tions for space, etc., to our headquarters in
Chicago, where they will be gladly received
and most carefully considered and acted
upon.
	The Board of Lady Managers, in recipro-
cation of the hospitatlity and fraternal feeling
shown it, has great pleasure in asking, that
when the members of this distinguished body
and the many associations here represented
visit the coming Exposition, as of course
they will, they at once make themselves known
to the representatives of our Board, who will
be glad to receive and welcome them in the
Woman's Building, where every convenience
and facility for their comfort will be provided.
The Board also most cordially and pressingly
invites this Council to hold its International
meeting in Chicago at the time of the
Columbian Exposition, when it will place at
the service of the ladies the assembly room in the
Woman's Building, and should that not prove
large enough, through our Congress Auxiliary,
the magnificent Auditorium can be secured
for the meeting of the International Council
of Women.


ITEMS FROM OVERTON.

DEAR EDITOR:
	Thinking that perhaps some of our friends
would like to know about our little village
away out in the southern part of Nevada, I
thought I would write a few lines to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We are enjoying
very cool weather for this time of year, have
had a few nice showers of rain which makes
things look more beautiful; men are busy
harvesting grain, you can hear the song of the
birds and the rattle of the machine in almost
every field of beautiful golden grain; we have
plenty of early vegetables; our little town is
in a beautiful valley as nice as any one could
wish to make a home in. We can raise al-
most anything that we put in the ground;
we enjoy pleasant winters, snow is a very rare
thing, I have lived here for ten years and
have seen snow once.
	We want more settlers to help build up the
place; we have good society, but we want more
people to help use the abundance of water we
have, then we will be more free from chills;
the health of the people is generally good; no
deseases of any kind bother us much our
warmest weather is the latter part of July and
August.
	I am always very much interested in the
EXPONENT and take pleasure in reading
the articles written by the Sisters; we are a
long way from any large settlement, but we
often go to St. George to Conference meetings.
Sister Susanna Johnson is President of our
Relief Society, which is a very good one
attended by all that are old enough to be
members, Sister Zephyr Nixon is President of
the Primary the children all take an active
part, and it is well attended; we hope to see
the day this valley will be more thickly settled
then of course we can have a more interesting
time. We cut five crops of hay and could cut
more but stock is turned loose; we have a good
cattle range on the Rio Virgin River close by,
we have a good market for hay and grain in the
Spring.
				Very Truly, 
								KATE.
June 3, 1891.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Died in Mill Creek, May the first 1891. Louisa Ruth
eldest daughter of Charles L. and Martha L. North, aged
five years and six months.
	She died of la grippe just one week after her father was
buried which was a sad blow to her mother.
	She was a member of the Primary Association. Was
bright and intelligent and was beloved by all her little play-
mates.
	"Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them
not for of such is the kingdom of the heaven."
									A FULLER,

	Sister Anne Christine Jensen, of the Manti South Ward,
died May 12th, 1891, at the age of fifty years, after a
lingering sickness of eight months. She was born in
Roberg, Hjorring Co., Denmark, March 29, 1841. She
was the oldest girl of her parents, and after the death o
her mother took a mother’s duty upon her shoulders to rear
her younger brothers and sisters. In the year 1861 she
visited the Baptist Society, but before joining any of them,
however, happened to hear an Elder of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, believed his teachings and was
baptized in the Winter of 1862 by Elder A. C. Neilson.
Sister Jensen emigrated in '63, married a man by the name
of Lindelow, whom she sustained with hard labor for eleven
years, being broken in spirit and nearly worn out bodily,
from whom she separated, according to the counsel of the
Priesthood of Plain City, where she then resided. Then
moved to Salt Lake City,and worked in the Blythe's Order
seven years, when it broke up, and left her destitute again.
But never tiring, began again, rented a room, and com-
menced carpet weaving, and by dililgent labor and
economy earned enough in a few years to buy a home in


Manti, which cost her about $500. Since 1881 she paid to 
the Temple $40 in cash, to tithing $165 besides donations
and fast offerings all of which she earned with her own
hands; performed the work for her dead relative and friends
who were to the number of 111 in the Manti Temple; Sister
Jensen refused every assistance during her ill health, and
worked most of the time, even when sick. She was
a marvelous example of industry, economy, firmness of
character, and faithfulness to all duties as a Latter-day
Saint; a faithful teacher in the R. S. of her Ward and a
worthy member of the Church.
	She died as she lived, a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint, looking forth to a glorious resurrection, which she so
well deserves.
	Resolved, that in the death of Sister Jensen, our Society
has lost a faithful teacher and member of our Ward, a
sister and a friend, and that our loss is her gain, in which
we feel to acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly Father.
							ANNA R. KELLER, Sec.


MISS KATE WELLS,
STUDIO.
One door north of Z. C. M. I.—Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays.—9 a.m. to 1 p.
m. 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
PHOTOGRAPHS COLORED & ENLARGED.
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
[column one]
WOMAN'S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
INSTITUTION.
[Column 2]
DRESS GOODS,
FANCY ARTICLES,
DRESS MAKING for
Ladies & Children,
DRESS GOODS and
TRIMMINGS,
BURIAL SUITS.
123 E. 1st SOUTH
Opp. City Hall, Salt Lake City
[End Columns]

R.K.THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES.
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES
And an elegant assortment ol
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Str

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORUM
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

