
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1876.	No. 1.


For the Exponent.
	ADDRESSED TO MRS. L. B. Y.
			BY REQUEST.

Lady, thou hast asked me to address thee
By the aid of my lov'd poetic lyre!
And humble though it be—and all too weak
To give the diapason of my soul,
Yet I bless—yes, yes, I bless the Giver,
Who has strung my soul with chords so sweet,
That to the mighty touch of nat[-]re they respond,
When love and kindness give the key note full.
Language is poor to demonstrate the heart,
And hence we often represent ourselves
Amiss, where we alone desire to be true;
But Saints see "eye to eye" and comprehend
That grand pulsation, "heart to heart"—and hence
Though poor my language, I will hope to give
The honest feelings of an honest heart.

For years I've known thy face, and musing gazed
Upon it as we gaze upon a star
Away in the blue ether of the summer night,
Or as a picture set for contemplation.

The "human face divine" has ever borne
A mighty charm for my poetic soul—
I love to sit and gaze, and read—and read—
And trace the character that's written there;
And thine was surely in my studio,
Its almost Grecian outline, its features,
Chiseled, classic, chaste and regular,
Such as sculptors choose for models, and to mould;
And the eye—that glorious orb that lights
The human face with fire divine—in thee
Bore calm and gentle rule o'er all the rest;
Such study, Lady, hast thou been to me.
I describe thy face as index of thy soul
Which simply shows the jewel finely set.
Where much is given, much requir'd will be,
And hence RESPONSIBILITY, the head,
The gifted head—humility will bow;
The soul is cognizant of its nobility,
And feels it bears upon its mortal brow
The seal and coronet of Deity!
And hence, the noble strive to grace their high
Descent with deeds that ne'er shall tarnish it;
Their great ambition is to be a Saint,
To bless their God for all He has bestowed,
And hold His gifts, as Stewards hold the wealth
Their master in their hands has placed,
To be accounted for with usury.

Sister, thou wert kind in thy expressions
To my humble self, saying thou did'st desire
We should mingle more, that we might comprehend
Each other better than in days that's past;
To which, most freely doth my heart respond;
I care not for the pompous crowd, all gay
With fashion's vain, interminable maze,
A friend's warm clasp, knowing their heart
A true and faithful heart, which is God's gift,
Is more to me than Croesus could bestow.
Lady, we will meet—and that you thought was pride
In me, I trust will vanish as the sun
Drinks up the morning dew from flow'r and free;
And that we may as two fond sisters be.
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 4th.


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
			A TESTIMONY.

	I have long felt it my duty to bear a tes-
timony with the rest of my sisters, and to
publish a written article in defense of the
principles in which we believe, in which
we have lived, and which we continually
advocate by faith and practice.
	I have been a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for over
thirty-six years; have passed through many
trials and persecutions with this people;
have been driven from and robbed of my
home from time to time, together with my
brethren and sisters, and have had my house
plundered by a wicked mob.

[Column 2]
	My husband has been shot at before my
eyes when he was carrying a flag of truce
and conducting two of the enemy's men in-
to their camp. At one time in the State of
Missouri three or four of a mob came into
my house, armed with swords, pistols and
bowie-knives, and demanded to know where
my husband was, and when I refused to be-
tray him into their hands they threatened
to blow out my brains, but finding I would
not comply, they threatened to set fire to
the house, but were prevented by some un-
seen influence. These and similar trials
have the Saints had to endure within the
boundaries of the United States govern-
ment, where freedom and liberty are the
watch-words. But amid all the persecutions
I have been called to pass through, I have
ever felt firm in the principles of my reli-
gion.
	I was compelled to leave my home in Far
West, Missouri, on the 13th of February,
when the snow was deep and the weather
exceedingly cold, and I was unable to sit
up, having been ill for some time from hard-
ship and suffering; I journeyed to Quincy
in that delicate state.
	After heaping upon us and our people
these gross indignities, then the cry is
raised that the women of Utah are in bond-
age; that they are not free to exercise their
own will and judgment; that they only sub-
mit to polygamy through compulsion, and
they arrogate to themselves the power to
undertake to release us from tyranny and
despotism.
	To Mr. Christiancy, and all those honorable
gentlemen who interest themselves so un-
necessarily in our welfare, we would say,
we do not stand in need of any interference
in our behalf; we are not held in bondage,
we are as free as it is possible for us to be
while we have rulers sent here from other
states, who know nothing of our wishes,
our desires, or our determinations to serve
God.
	The women of the Latter-day Saints live
in an element far above the troubles and
anxieties of the women of the world; they
seek the aid and assistance of the Holy
Spirit, and rely upon the arm of the Al-
mighty, trusting in His justice, and believ-
ing, with all their hearts, the promises of
celestial glory and eternal happiness, re-
vealed to this people through the prophets,
if they live in obedience to the require-
ments of that higher law, the law of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the prophet
Joseph.
	It is these promised blessings in the fu-
ture, to which we continually look forward,
that buoy us up under circumstances that,
viewed from a worldly standard, would be
wholly unendurable. For this we are will-
ing to make similar sacrifices to Abraham
when he offered up his only son, believing
and trusting in God that all would be well.
	We rejoice in the principles of plural
marriage, and would not have it otherwise
if we could. To us there is a nobility of
the highest type attainable on earth, coming
through the patriarchal order of marriage.
I, myself, have lived in it for thirty years,
and I believe I loved my husband truly and
devotedly, and was married to him expect-
ing to be his only wife so long as I should

[Column 3]
live; now he has a numerous family, and I
love them and feel a tenderness for them
which is strengthened as years pass by. I
rejoice in their society, in their welfare and
happiness; I feel the same pride in the
children of other wives that I feel in my
own. It is a sacred and holy relationship
instituted by God, and none but those whose
hearts are right before Him, and who desire
to live pure lives, will be able to abide in it.
The Lord said he would try the heart and
assuredly His words must be fulfilled. It
is useless te fight against the kingdom of
God.
	Women understand the principles of
their religion, and are as willing to die for
it as men are. Therefore, we pray you,
spare your (pretended) sympathy extended
to us, we do not need it. We have some-
thing far better than anything you can offer
us. Look to the wives and daughters of
the nation; deal honestly and honorably by
them, and leave us the free exercise of our
religion, which the glorious constitution of
our forefathers so wisely and nobly devised
to protect all.			SARAH D. RICH.
	Salt Lake City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	OF THE thirty-three thousand persons
employed in watch-making in Switzerland,
one-third are women.—Cottage Hearth.
	"THE NEW Republic" is the title of a
new monthly paper established in New
York by E. P. Miller, and others, to advo-
cate currency reform, Woman's Rights, and
other improvements.
	WE ARE informed that Mrs. Secretary
Belknap's name was attached to that re-
markable manifesto which prayed Congress,
a few years ago, to pay no heed to the de-
mands of honest women for their enfran-
chisement.—New Northwest.
	WOMEN WILL hereafter be admitted as
students by the University at Delaware,
Ohio. The Board of Trustees have "re-
solved that ladies, graduates of other
branches of learning, be admitted to the
regular college classes upon passing the re-
quired examinations.
	IN CALIFORNIA, among other women
physicians of the regular school in good
standing in the State Medical Society, are
C. B. Brown, M. D., Sarah E. Brown, M. D.,
M. E. Bucknell, M. D., of San Francisco;
Elise P. Stone, M. D., of Oakland, and E.
S. Meade, M. D., of San Jose.
	THE WOMEN'S Provident and Protective
League of London, have issued the first num-
ber of a little monthly paper entitled the
"Women's Union Journal. It chiefly consists
of reports of the League's movements, and
bears the nominal price of one penny.
	MANY of the female clerks at Washing-
ton once ranked with the aristocracy of the
land. Among many may be found widows
or daughters of army and navy officers of
the highest rank, daughters and grand-
daughters of former members of the Cabi-
net, Senators, Supreme Court Justices and
Presidents.


2		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society meetings are well at-
tended, that is, in comparison with what
they have been in times past; indeed, I
think there never was a time since our first
organization when the sisters have exhibit-
ed more energy and zeal to carry out the
counsel and instructions of the President
and Counselors than they do at the present
time. Pres. Rich takes a deep interest in
our Society, and we are often blessed with
his fatherly counsel and advice at our meet-
ings. We were favored with the presence
of Sister M. I. Horne at some of our meet-
ings, and I can truly say that I never en-
joyed myself better at any meeting that I
ever attended than when listening to her.
Her words were replete with good counsel
and instruction, which, if lived up to, would
be of great benefit to those who had the
pleasure of listening to her. I feel very
thankful that we have the privilege of hav-
ing our sisters visit us from the fountain
head. The members feel inspired with
new life and vigor, and a greater determi-
nation is manifest to persevere in every-
thing which is calculated to purify and enno-
ble our natures, that we may be worthy to
be classed with our sister societies through-
out the Territory. We desire to be one
with them in everything that is good and
useful.
	Sister Horne, while here, organized a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
which is now in a flourishing condition.
The young ladies are, one and all, very
much interested in the meetings, and show a
determination not to be behind in anything
which is calculated to make them worthy
Daughters of Zion. The minutes of their
organization will soon be forwarded by the
Secretary. I would advise all who have
not organized yet to speedily do so, for I
know they serve to exert a good influence
over the minds of our young people. Be-
fore they were organized here there was
scarcely a young girl attended our meetings,
notwithstanding a great influence was used
to prevail upon them to come. But now
what a difference! since they have a Socie-
ty of their own they show a desire to attend
our meetings, and to gain all the knowledge
and instruction which lies in their power,
to prepare them for a life of usefulness in
the kingdom of God.
	The young ladies got up a Leap Year
Party a short time since. Our new school
house was beautifully decorated for the oc-
casion with evergreens, pictures, mirrors,
flags and banners, all very tastefully ar-
ranged, and presented a very beautiful ap-
pearance. Everything was managed in the
best of order, and was said to be the best
party of the season. They have adopted
President Young's advice and round danc-
ing is abandoned; parties commence at two
and dismiss at ten, and they are all quite
reconciled to the change. At first it seemed
rather odd, but the desire to obey the in-
structions of our beloved President over-
came every other consideration. We have
an excellent Sunday School, with about one
hundred and twenty scholars in regular at-
tendance, also two good day schools.
	We have long, cold winters which are
very trying to some, but the people enjoy
excellent health, which in some measure
makes amends for the disadvantages which
they labor under in this cold climate,
and we have plenty of time in our long win-
ter evenings for mental culture, recreations
and social gatherings, which have been im-
proved to the utmost this winter. There

[Column 2]
have been some excellent lectures delivered
here, also some very good performances at
our theatre; in fact, there has been scarcely
an evening throughout the winter but that
our schoolhouse has been lighted, either for
meetings or amusements, of some kind, so
you see we manage to live and enjoy our-
selves, notwithstanding our proximity to
the North Pole.
	Praying the Lord to bless and aid you in
your labors, I remain your sister in the gos-
pel,
				SARAH M. POMEROY,
						Assis't Sec'y.
	Paris, Bear Lake Co., March 15, 1876.

	A report of a meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the 1st Ward, held February 3rd,
1876. There were present on the stand our
Bishop, Joseph Warburton, and one of his
Counselors, Alexander Steel; there was also
a good attendance of the sisters. Pres. Mrs.
M. G. Chase said, "I feel proud to see so
many of my sisters present this afternon; it
makes me feel encouraged, and it also shows
they are trying to live their religion. I
would exhort the sisters to live humble and
prayerful before the Lord, for the day has
come that we must live our religion or step
one side and let others take our places."
	She was followed by quite a number of
the sisters, who expressed their desires to
live their religion and use their influence to
build up the kingdom of God on the earth.
Much good counsel was given and a good
spirit prevailed. Bishop J. Warburton
spoke in a spirited manner, gave the sisters
some good counsel and exhorted them to
live their religion and attend to every duty
that was required of them, especially in
looking after the wants of the poor and
needy; advised them to carry out the coun-
sel given by authority and all would be well
with them. Elder A. Steel made some ex-
cellent remarks. In consequence of Mrs.
Julia Adams and Mrs. Sidney Thayne re-
signing the office of Counselors, because of
removing from the city, Pres. Mrs. M. G.
Chase chose for her Counselors Mrs. Mar-
garet Steel and Mrs. Elizabeth S. Higgs.
It was unanimously voted to sustain them
in that office and they were blessed and set
apart by the Bishop and his counselor. Clos-
ing prayer by Bishop J. Warburton.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of the EXPONENT, and for the welfare and
upbuilding of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel,
	MRS. MERIAM G. CHASE, Pres't.
	MRS. JANE E. VAN TASSELL, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER CO,
					APRIL 3rd, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We, the sisters of Deweyville, were or-
ganized into a branch of the Relief Society,
Aug. 6th, 1875, by Sister Eliza R. Snow Sis-
ter Harriet Snow and Pres. J. C. Dewey, as
follows:
	Mrs. Mary Dewey, President
	"	Mary Marble,	} Counselors.
	"	Amelia Saunders, }
	Mary E. Howard, Secretary.
	Mary Saunders, Assistant Secretary.
	Martha B. Holdaway, Treasurer.
	We had twenty members enrolled. We
meet Thursday afternoon every two weeks,
and enjoy a good degree of the Spirit of
the Lord. Our meetings are well attended,
considering the scattered position  of our lit-
tle settlement, extending ten miles North
and South. We also have a Retrenchment
Association a Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Association. We feel it a great
[Column 3]
privilege and blessing to have societies
where we can meet as a band of sisters and
speak to each other and strengthen each oth-
er in our most holy religion.
	We read a great deal from your excellent
paper and gain from it a great deal of infor-
mation. Our prayers and desires are with
you, together with all the societies-of-the
Saints, in helping to roll on the kingdom of
God.
	We remain your sisters in the church and
kingdom of God,
			MARY DEWEY, President,
		MARY E. HOWARD, Secretary.

			LEHI, May 15th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies of the Retrenchment
Association of this place held their first An-
nual Meeting April 29th, 1876. The meet-
ing was well attended and a good spirit
prevailed. After the usual exercises and
reading of the minutes, a number of the
young ladies expressed their feelings; es-
says were read and recitations given.
	Mrs. Coleman, President, and other offi-
cers and members of the Relief Society
were present. President Mrs. Coleman
spoke of the great privileges we enjoyed;
exhorted us to prepare ourselves to assist
in the great work to be accomplished in the
last days, to pray to the Lord for strength
and he would never forsake us. Mrs. Ann
Evans expressed her pleasure at the progress
the young ladies had made; exhorted us to
keep the word of wisdom in every sense.
Mrs. Davis said we should feel thankful for
the many privileges and blessings we enjoy.
Told us to seek for wisdom, that we might
lay a foundation for future usefulness. Mrs.
Standring said we should set an example
worthy of imitation; that we should be
tried and proven in every way, but if we
put our trust in the Lord, and called upon
His holy name, He would hear, answer, and
bless us. Exhorted us to honor ourselves
and our God, be firm to our integrity, and
retrench from everything wrong or dis-
pleasing in the sight of the Lord; prayed
that we might have wisdom to enable us to
do the will of the Lord. Mrs. Bushman
and Mrs. Gaddie also gave us some good ad-
vice.
	Our Society is prospering, a spirit of union
prevails. The young ladies take great in-
terest in the meetings, and seem desirous
to persevere and overcome all temptation.
			ORINDA DAVIS, President,
			SARAH TAYLOR, Secretary.


THE UNIVERSITY of Edinburgh in Scot-
land has received a collection of Persian,
Arabic and Sanscrit manuscripts. Among
them is a complete copy of the Hindoo epic
poem, "Mahabharata," in the form of a roll,
228 feet long and 5 1/2 inches wide, profusely
illustrated in colors and gold, representing
scenes described in the work. The writing
is very minute, there being 12 lines in every
inch. Another of the manuscripts is a
copy of the "Shah, Nameh" of Firdansi,
the most ancient poem in the modern Per-
sian language, illustrated with paintings
of Oriental scenes. The collection numbers
about 125 volumes, and contains many his-
torical works and firmans.


THERE is often in one kind word, one
look of sympathizing affection, or one small
act of disinterested love, more of real no-
bleness of spirit than in actions which have
rung in the ears, and found an echo in the
hearts of admiring thousands.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	3


A HUSBAND OF THE PERIOD.

Yes, love, I'm breakfasting quite late
	But then, you know, it's Sunday,
And we who work for six long days
	Deserve our comfort one day.
You're rather early home from church;
	I hope you liked the sermon.
That velvet cloak, dear, by the way,
	Looks charming with your ermine.

A chilly morning out of doors:
	I'm glad you didn't wake me/
(Oh, native cutting, mother-wit,
	Pray do not yet forsake me!
She heard me stumble up to bed
	At three o'clock—I'll swear it!)
Dark blue is just your color, dear;
	You always ought to wear it.

I've eaten very little? Yes,
	It's nearly time for dinner:
This cutlet, too, seems rather flat.
(The truth, as I'm a sinner!)
A bloodshot look about my eyes?
	My fingers in a flutter?
All fancy, love—I feel superb.
	(That nauseating butter!)

You waited up last night till twelve?
	For that, dear, I should scold you
Of monthly meetings at the club
	How often have I told you?
This waiting—had I not a key,
	Perhaps I shouldn't mind it;
But having one—By Jove, I took
	An hour, last night, to find it!

I left the hall door open? Who
	Insinuates that slander?
It's falsehood base and infamous,
	If you'll excuse my candor.
Why, love, you trust mere servants' talk
	I cannot well conjecture,
(She seats herself! The storm has burst!
	Now comes my curtain lecture.)


TEN YEARS INTO THE FUTURE.

	What numerous and varied changes will
show themselves in all our surroundings—
what a throng of new facts and faces, will
stare at us when the index on the dial
plate of time points to the closing figure of
the decennial period.
	The scenes of to-day. The dear familiar
scenes through which we have moved since
infancy, endeared to us by so many associa-
tions firmly linked together in the chain of
recollection. All, all must change, nor they
alone. We who view them will change,
and as we advance further into life there
are others behind to fill our places. Like
scenes in a panorama we glide from infancy
to old age. Ten years from hence—to-day
we are a crowd of boys and girls—then,
where and what will we be? Now we have
hopes and desires. Will we ever see them
fulfilled? Will our lives be successes or
failures? These are questions which natu-
rally arise in the minds of the thoughtful
youth of each sex at the beginning of ac-
tive life.
	Here is one of us—one of the boys—
bright, good-natured, witty and intelligent.
An able writer for one so young, and fond
of satire and humor as his writings testify.
His library is composed mostly of satrical
and humorous works, as Swift, Smollet,
and Dickens. His aim is to be an author
and if he lives he will be.
	In fancy I see him in the future, hard at
work in his library, surrounded by books
and papers gathering flowers from the gar-
den of the mind, transferring them to the
fields of literature to enrich the minds of
those who choose to pluck them.
	Another has a taste for literature but
studies with a different object. His desire
is to cultivate the soil, to become an agri-
culturist and utilize the scientific knowledge
he has attained for the successful operation
of his plans in this line of life.


Nothing will suit another but to edit a
paper, to take a stand in the ranks of the
journalistic army and combat with error, and
fight for the good of the human family.
	Here is one of a poetic nature, and has a
desire to leave to the world the gleanings
of his imagination to refine the rougher na-
tures of those who follow him, and whose
admiring praise and gratitude will perpet-
uate his name.
	One has a predilection for the dramatic
stage and the name of S[---]speare is to him
a synonym for all that is great and noble in
human nature.
	I recall to mind many others, some of
like tastes and others entirely different; but
all having some inherent ambitious ideas to
make a mark in the world worthy of com-
mendation.
	Boys, let us hope that our ambitions are
based upon high and intelligent principles,
that our motives are good, and that we may
have grace to make the most of our time
in the accomplishment of them.
	Let's take a start now, and perseveringly
labor and see who is furthest ahead in his
profession ten years from to-day.
						ANONYMOUS.
	May 22nd, 1876.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Harriet Hosmer, will personally
superintend the placing of her own statues
in the Woman's Pavilion, Philadelphia.
	ANNIE Louise Carey will sing at Bowdo-
in and Bates Commencements, and give
concerts at Boston in July; after which she
will sail again for Europe to fulfill an en-
gagement of one year in St. Petersburg.
	MRS. Secretary Robison is said to be one
of the most highly cultivated singers in
Washington. As a young girl her voice
was one of her chief attractions, and dur-
ing her married life she has applied herself
closely to the cultivation of this accomplish-
ment.
	MISS Blanche Tucker, the Chicago prima
donna, who recently made her debut in opera
in London; and Miss Clara C. Smart, who
made her first appearance in oratorio with
Mlle. Titiens at Boston, Mass. April 12th,
were both formerly of La Crosse, Wiscon-
sin.
	MRS. Caroline B. Winslow M. D. of Wash-
ington, D. C., editor of the Alpha, a paper
in the interest of moral education and so-
cial elevation, has established a Homoepath-
ic Pharmacy, and has a large medical prac-
tice in her profession. Does [-]ot this prove
that woman is capable of performing an im-
mense amount of real physical and mental
work?
	A LADY in Albany has wrought a mag-
nificient banner, which is said to be one of
the most handsome specimens of woman's
work in the Centennial Exposition. It is
seven feet in length and five in width and
worked throughout in a variety of shades
of silk and chenille. The design selected,
was the great seal of the United States,
adopted Jan. 20, 1782; and is said to be
faithfully reproduced with the needle.


FLORAL HINTS.

	IT is a decided mistake to suppose that
plants are unhealthful in sleeping apart-
ments or sitting rooms. Of course, if the
flowers exhale a strong perfume—such as
that of tuberoses, hyacinths and daphnes—


they make the air too odorous to be desirable
at night; but healthy, growing plants absorb
the carbonic acid in the atmosphere, and
keep it pure and agreeable. They are, in
fact, the best disinfectants that can be em-
ployed.
	ONE of the chief attractions to make a
home really beautiful and refined, and to
speak to the heart, is by means of flowers;
if one cannot have expensive plants, have
those that are simple and easily tended.
Flowers are pleasant to the eye and to the
sense, and inspire the most elevating emo-
tions. There are always happy thoughts
suggested by an association with beau-
tiful flowers. How pleasant it is when sad,
burdened with grief or sorrow, to find the
peace and satisfaction one may always expe-
rience by walking in the garden or grove
where the trees, the shrubs, vines, plants,
the tender sprays and blossoms seem to
soothe and cheer and speak a silent lan-
guage direct to the heart, something thor-
oughly preceptible but yet inexpresssble in
language.


THE LANGUAGE OF FLOWERS.

A Rose Leaf, I will not trouble you any
	more.
Balm of Gilead, May you be healed.
Basil, I hate you.
Balsam, I am impatient.
Blue bell, Don't bother me.
Candytuft, I am indifferent.
Currant oush, You may kiss me.
Clover, I wish you much joy.
Dandelion, You are a flirt.
Daisy, I will share your sentiments.
Dahlia' Your charms I cannot resist.
Fern, I am sincere.
Geranium Leaf, I am lonely.
Grass, Useful, but not very handsome.
Grass Pink, I wish to gain your affections.
Honeysuckle, I will make you happy.
Hollyhock, you are too sanguine.
Ivy, I can only be your friend, nothing
	more.
Iris, You will please answer this.
Juniper or Cedar, I will protect you.
Lucerne, May you live long and be happy.
Lilac, You are my first and only love.
Morning Glory, Love me.
Marigold, Jealousy: Be very careful.
Mignonette, I love you more for not being
	more handsome.
Nasturtium, I love another better than you.
Oleander, Beware! I watch your conduct.
Peach Blossom, I shall never love another
	as much as you.
Plum Branch, I am independent.
Pansy, Think of me often.
Peppermint, High esteem for you.
Rosebud: White, I am too young to marry.
Rose, Damask, I love, but am too bashful to
	tell you.
Rose, White, Silence! Do not speak of our
	love.
Snapdragon, You are made up of deceit.
Shrub, You shall have justice done you.
Sage, I esteem you highly.
Sweet pea, You are very fickle.
Tansy, I declare war against you.
Violet White, I am innocent.
Violet Blue, I will be faithful till death.
Water Cress, I resign your love—You are
	free.—Ex.


It has been discovered by a French savant that
the rising of cream is quicker, and its volume
greater, the nearer the temperature is to that of
freezing water; and that the yield of butter is
greater, and the skim milk; butter and cheese are
all of better quality under like conditions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil spaace, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JUNE 1, 1876.


WOMEN'S CENTENNIAL TERRI-
			TORIAL FAIR.

	This Fair is to be held in the Social Hall, a
few rods south of the Eagle Gate, and opened
on or before the first of July.
	The future welfare of Utah depends much on
the establishment and success of her home in-
dustries. This consideration is the motive pow-
er that has prompted toward this enterprise;
and it is hoped that all women of Utah, who
feel an interest in the prosperity of our Terri-
tory, will, for the promotion and encourage-
ment of self-sustaining industries, especially in
the department of womens' work, unite their
efforts to make the Fair a success. And as the
interest is a mutual one, assistance from our
brethren, should any of them please to extend
it, will be thankfully received and highly ap-
preciated.
	The Hall will be at our service on the 18th
of June, and the specimens of women's work
should be forwarded to E. R. Snow, Lion
House, as soon as practicable.

		ELIZA R. SNOW, President,
		MARY E. COOK,
					First Vice President,
		PRISCILLA M. STAINES,
				Second Vice President,
		LOUISA A. ASHBY,
							Secretary,
		CLARISSA YOUNG,
							Treasurer,
		EMMA WELLS,
		MINNIE HORNE,		Committee
		MAMIE JONES,

	Mrs. Zina D. Young, President of the Silk
Association, and the Presidents of all the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
City, with their Boards, constitute a sub-com-
mittee, to assist in relation to the Fair.


[Column 1]
		AN AGE OF GOSSIP.

	"I loathe that low vice, Curiosity,
	But if there's anything in which I shine,
	'Tis in arranging all my freinds' affairs,
	Not having, of my own, domestic cares."
										BYRON.

	These lines would apply admirably to many
people in the present day. Indeed this might,
with all propriety, be termed an age of gossip.
There seems to be an ardent desire prevalent,
to regulate the affairs of one's neighbors and
friends. Individual life is not exempt from
public notice. The newspapers partake of the
people, and the columns of personals and gos-
sip are gleaned first, and such periodicals as
contain most of this precious commodity have
the readiest sale. What some lady wore, how
it suited her style, how expensive it was, what
she did or said on a certain occasion: these and

[Column 2]
like topics form the most popular literature of
a large class of persons. Private life is [-]a[-]aded
before the public, to interest the world at large.
Tittle tattle, slander, and similar subjects, are
the stock in hand of a large majority, to be
had at wholesale; and apparently it is circulat-
ed too freely and extensively to become a dead
weight in the market.
	More especially is individual gossip, in regard
to all persons who fill public positions, in de-
mand. It is not enough to know they are ca-
pable of performing their work creditably, but
the person's private life must be held up to the
gaze of the world, and criticized and judged to
satisfy an insatiate curiosity. If there is any-
thing that Madame Grundy fails to discover,
then it is immediately construed into some-
thing mysterious or wrong. It is doubtful
whether mysteries will not soon cease to exist,
so anxious has the world become to get at the
bottom of everything. Proofs must be given
if heaven and earth and all the regions round
about are circumvented to substantiate mat-
ters.
	To enter upon a public career in this age is to
have your private life held up before the glare
of the eyes of the multitude.
	If one wants to set forth principles that will
benefit humanity, the world will immediately
demand the individual to submit to the ordeal
of public gossip. People are not satisfied with
principles of faith and action, they mu[-]t deal
with the lives and characters of persons. "It
is men, not measures."
	Why should the world care what one's do-
mestic associations are if they do not infringe
upon the rights of others? And how unjust to
require one's whole history to be made public
because they hold a position of honor, of use-
fulness or of trust. To be thus personal, is to
lose sight of reality, or goodness in principle
and action; and there is nothing gained by
the scrutiny to compensate for the loss.
	Every person, be they statesman, author, ar-
tist, no matter what profossion one follows or
what position one fills, has a right to some re-
serves; if one devotes time and talents to the
public good, is that not enough? But in this
day everything of a private nature is sought
after to satify sensational curiosity. It is ob-
noxious to persons of refined feeling. There
is something far better to occupy the time and
to discuss in common conversation, than the
goings and comings, the habits, the tastes, the
fancies, the inner life of individuals.
	If one only writes a few verses, smoothly
and clearly, that chance to have some merit
in them, immediately gossip sets about to hunt
up some individual vice or frailty to put in the
scale to outweigh the real worth.
	Scandal is, at present, popular, and if a check
is not put upon it, it is in danger of becoming
an overgrown weed, to ruin society, to weaken
and destroy confidence, to lower the character
of literature, and depreciate men and women.


[Column 1]
		HOME APPRECIATION.

	What words of encouragement and praise
are ever so sweet to the children as those which
fall from the mother's lips? Surely none be-
side. It is of the greatest importance that
mothers should understand and correctly esti-
mate the abilities with which their children
are endowed, that they may train the tender
minds in wisdom. For, as the modern world
is beginning to comprehend, a higher respon-
sibility rests upon mothers in regard to what
the world shall be in future, than upon any
other member of a family or of society.
What scene is more strikingly illustrative of
moral, intellectual and even physical beauty

[Column 2]
and worth, than that presented by the domes-
tic circle in which a mother holds her proper
place? The source of tenderness, the centre
of affection, the bond of social union, the um-
pire in all contention, the forwarder and reg-
ulator of each salutary plan, the general foun-
tain of cheerfulness, hope and consolation! To
such a mother it is given to clear up unjust
suspicion; to ward off the unmerited blow; to
defend the wounded spirit from the injury to
which it would sullenly submit; to encourage
the hopeless, when thrown back in competition
of talent; to point out to those who have been
defeated other pursuits in which they may yet
succeed; to stand between the timid and the
danger they dread; to think and act for and in
behalf of each and all, promising, hoping, be-
lieving that faults ignorantly or thoughtlessly
committed, will never be willingly perpetrat-
ed again, thus making peace with offended au-
thority. There can be no danger that the value
of such a mother may be over estimated.
	To the young wife and mother, how price-
less are those tokens of love and confidence,
too often charily given, which indicate that
her careful efforts to create and sustain home
happiness are noticed and appreciated! From
observation as well as by tradition we are led
to consider that young husbands are extremely
liable to forget, shortly after the waning of
the honey-moon, all about those pretty little
compliments with which they are ever so lav-
ish as lovers. It should not be so, and where
men are not blind to their own interests, they
invariably contrive to keep their memories re-
freshed on these subjects. When such a one,
who stands not in his own light, comes home
at evening, weary with the labors of the day,
he does not fail to bestow the pleased look and
merited words of encouragement wherever
there is an opportunity, even though he may
not find everything about the house in the ex-
act order that a more experienced housewife
might be able to maintain. After the evening
party, concert or mutual improvement meet-
ing where the young wife has contributed to
the entertainment, her song, reading or recita-
tion does not pass unnoticed by the husband.
If she has acquitted herself admirably, he
does not leave all the delicate encomiums for
others to whisper, but is as eager to let her
know that he appreciates her talents and ac-
complishments now, as he was in the days of
their engagement. As one congratulatory sen-
tence from his lips are worth more to her than
all that could be spoken by others, so should he
delight the more in speaking it. That sen-
tence is worth double to her now, what it was
in former times, when he, like all friends and
admirers, sought her favor rather than her
positive interest, and was liable to flatter when
the simple truth would have sufficed. And so
in proportion, should he be doubly sincere and
doubly tender in his expressions. If in jus-
tice he must sometimes offer criticisms which
are not so pleasant, he will do so in as manly
and courteous words as he would have used in
those other days when to have offended her
womanly pride or wounded her sensitive feel-
ings, would have caused him most painful re-
grets. Some one has written that "a happy
wife NEED not long to be cou[-]ted again." the
true woman who has been fairly won, and who
is well treated as a wife, WILL not wish to be
courted again.
	The kind good husband and father, certainly
holds the most honorable position that it is
possible for mortal man to occupy. His will
is the law of his household, a law which needs
no enforcement but is joyously complied with
by each one, as it ever tends to the happiness
of all. His superiority is proudly and lovingly


acknowledged by those who constitute his lit-
tle realm. His comfort and pleasure are natu-
rally first thought of and provided for, by all
save himself; and his affectionate thanks and 
reciprocal cheerfulness and attention to the
wants of the others, are ample rewards for all
the thought and care and labor expended for
him.
	Some very practical person, will be sure to
intimate that in writing the above, we have
been wasting time by drawing Utopian sketch-
es. We make ready for such remarks by an-
swering afore hand that such pictures need not
be simply ideal if men and women will only
take pains to make them real. Courting is
only more charming than married life, because
lovers curb their tempers, guard their tongues,
control their passions and seek by all the gen-
tle and loving powers of their better natures to
make themselves agreeable, their companion-
ship desirable; while husbands and wives cease
to do these things. Why forsake that better
life when it has once been entered upon? It is
but to continue love's most beautiful and sa-
cred duties for a lifetime instead of only for a few
short weeks or months.
					[-]. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	5


THE NEW VOLUME.

	This number ushers in the fifth volume of
the "WOMAN'S EXPONENT." On this occas-
ion (one of infinite interest to us) we would
tender our sincere thanks to all, who by their
patronage, influence, or correspondence help
to sustain the Woman's paper. The WOMEN
of Utah at the present time occupy an import-
ant position and should therefore be diligent
in availing themselves of every avenue open
to them for improvement in home-literature as
well as in every other department of home-
culture. Hoping that we may receive from
our numero[-]s friends and patrons the encour-
rgement in the future that has been accorded
us in the past, we dedicate the present volume
together with all the ability and power we
may be able to bring into requisition, to the
best interests of Zion at home and abroad.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. E. Davis, Salt Lake City, is agent for
the book entitled "Correspondence of Pales-
tine Tourists," for Cache, Morgan, Summit and
Salt Lake Counties.

	TO THE LADIES OF 17TH WARD RELIEF
	SOCIETY:

MRS. PACK, Dear Siste[-]:
	With heartfelt thankfulness and feelings of
gratitude for the kindness shown to our dear
mother, we beg to return our sincere thanks
to all the ladies of the Relief Society; their
kindness will never be forgotten by us as a 
family. My brother and sister join with me in
thanks.
	Believe me your sister in the Gospel of
Peace.
						C. A. WILLIAMS


EDUCATION.

	Who can portray the many advantages to be
derived from the cultivation of the intellectual
faculties? Education, when associated with
moral principles and actions will enlarge the
mind, and promote our happiness, by preparing
us for more exalted pursuits and pleasures. It
will enable us to express our ideas with clear-
ness and intelligence, and to form proper con-
ceptions of the attributes of our Maker.


It will cheer the hours of solitude and sor-
row, and enliven the period of rest and recrea-
tion. When the body is exhuasted with con-
tinued exertion, the mind may be invigorated
and inspired with the most pleasing emotions
by reading the writings of learned authors.
Knowledge, when once acquired will remain
with us and be a source of pleasure in every
condition in life, from youth to the latest peri-
od of our existence; but it cannot be obtained
without serious attention and application.
	Then let us improve our time, and store our
minds with wisdom striving to become thor-
oughly educated in every respect. The desire
to accumulate riches, seems to be the ruling
passion with the majority of the world, and to
obtain it, many will trample under foot every
social and moral obligation. But let us make
MERIT our standard of excellence, without any
regard as to whether the possessor is surround-
ed by wealth and affluence, or living in poverty
and obscurity.
								S. TIBBS.
	Mona, Juab Co.


[Column 1]
		LETTERS.

	ALPINE CITY, UTAH Co., May 8[-]h.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Having been for some time a careful reader
of our Woman's paper, I feel it my duty to ac-
knowledge my satisfaction with the same,
knowing that it contains much good informa-
tion and instruction for both old and young, if
only brought into practice, according to the
privileges granted us by our Heavenly Father.
One thing I regret and that is that I did not
subscribe for it in the commencement. I take
great pleasure in reading the correspondence
from different settlements, as it conveys to me
that spirit and feeling of oneness, that is so
highly to be prized in connection with the
great and glorious Latter day work. It is a
great satisfaction to know that we are co-work-
ers with each other in the cause of building up
the kingdom of God, and striving to work out
our own salvation, which ought to be the great
object of our lives, having taken upon our-
selves the name of Latter-day Saints. Per-
haps a few words about our little secluded set-
tlement would not be amiss; it is small, but
nevertheless the most of the people are alive to
their duties, and I feel safe in saying that we
do not lack good teachings and examples from
those that are placed over us.
	We have a Relief Society under the judic-
ious care and management of Mrs. Margaret Mc-
Cullough, and through her untiring efforts and
also the efforts of the sisters, it is steadily pro-
gressing and has proved a great blessing in
many respects; as our numbers are but small,
there are but few who need assistance in a tem-
poral point of view. We have also a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association which is
well attended and appreciated by the young
ladies. It was organized one year ago last
April by the President and Counselors of the Re-
lief Society; since then they have made the best
use of every available opportunity for improv-
ing their minds. We have also a Young Men's 
Association, who have been favored with a vis-
it from Bros. Hardy and Young, whose excel-
lent teachings have already proved a great ben-
efit. They have sown good seed on good ground
which will germinate and in due time bring
forth good fruit; for we have good young men
among us, as well as young ladies, in our little
isolated home, who if proper[-]y guided will be
able to do much good in bearing off this ki[-]g-
dom.
	In conclusion I beg to express my hope that
your paper may meet with the patronage it
deserves.						M. A.

[Column 2]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the annual meeting, held on the 25th of 
April, at the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Salt Lake City, the Seventh Annual
Report of the Relief Society of that ward was
read.
	The names of the present officers are as fol-
lows, viz.

	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, President,
	"	Bathsheba W. Smith,	} Counselors.
	"	Lydia Ann Wells,		}
	"	Elizabeth H. Goddard Secretary,
	"	Emmeline B. Wells, Assist. Sec'y.
	"Mrs. Relief Atwood, Treasurer.

	The balance of last Reports and Receipts by
Teachers during the past year amounting in
cash to................................ $ [-]9 17
In sundries amounting to .			182 80
Disbursed to sick and
	needy...........................		81 07	120 25
Leaving a balance in
	Treasury of................. .	8 10	62 55
Donated by Sisters to St.
	George Temple.............	3[-] 50
Temple  Clothes etc. to
	Lamanites.......................	37 75
Credit to the Sisters for 
	work ........ ..................		18 65
Cash invested with inter-
	est, amounting to........	473 06.

	Articles made by the Society during the year
too numerous to mention in detail, consisting
of bedding, suits of clothes for burial and oth-
er purposes, ladies dresses and under-clothing,
aprons, caps, stockings etc; also men's shirts,
under-clothing, socks, etc.
	President Mrs. R. Grant expressed a wish
that we use our surplus means in assisting to
build the Temple, realizing the necessity of
employing our time and ability as much as
possible in that direction.
	Bishop Woolley made some excellent re-
marks, expressed his satisfaction with the ex-
ertions of the Sisters; felt that the burden rest-
ed upon the few.  Gave some good advice to the
sisters and hoped we would be one with the
brethren in forwarding the work on the Tem-
ple.
	There were some of our good sisters present
by invitation whom we would have been
pleased to have heard from, but meeting was
adjourned early on account of the funeral of
Bro. Charles A. Long; where most wished to 
attend.
				E. H. GODDARD, Sec'y.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	IT is a remarkable fact that every day in
the week is observed by some nation for the
public celebration of religious services.
Sunday is devoted by the Christians, Mon-
day by the Greeks, Tuesday by the Persians,
Wednesday by the Assyrians, Thursday by
the Egyptians, Friday by the Turks, Satur-
day by the Jews.
	THE London Pall Mall Gazette, speaking
of the American girl in England, says:—
Like the wind, she goeth where she listeth;
but every man knoweth whence she com-
eth. She arouses the hostility of English
matrons the moment she sets foot on British
soil. Few of them are aware that she has
been purposely trained to self-reliance and
self-assertion, like her brother, from infan-
cy. Such a training shows itself in her
manner, which grates as harshly on British
feelings as her voice too often does on Brit-
ish ears.


6	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"THE NEW CENTURY,"
			FOR WOMAN.

			—1776—1876—
	INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION

			WOMEN'S DEPARTMENT.

	The Women's Executive Committee pro-
pose to publish, on the opening of the Ex-
position, a WEEKLY PAPER, to be devoted
to the Industrial interests of women. All
departments of women's work, as represent-
ed in the Exposition, or as noted in corres-
pondence from abroad and at home, will
come under consideration. All means for
advancing the prosperity and extending the
opportunities of women-workers are open
for suggestion and discussion in our columns.
	Attention will be especially given to the
new departments in trades and handicrafts,
in artistic work, in education, in the scien-
tific and learned professions upon which
women are entering; and correspondence
is requested from women in such vocations.
The results of experience, in new and pre-
viously unworked fields, and the statement
of pecuniary profits derived therefrom, will
be of positive value to other workers, and
are respectfully solicited.
	Advertisements and cards are requested
from women in business. Those who have
patented articles for sale, are requested to
send descriptions of them to this office.
	Advertisements of general interest will
also be received. As this paper is published
in the Woman's Department, within the
Exposition Grounds, and will have a wide
circulation among American and other vis-
itors, its advantages as an advertising me-
dium are evident.
	Correspondence, communications, and
subscriptions by mail, will be received at
the office of "THE NEW CENTURY," WO-
MAN'S DEPARTMENT, CENTENNIAL GROUNDS
PHILADELPHIA. City subscriptions, and
all matter for advertising department, must
be sent to Chairman of Publishing Com-
mittee, Woman's Centennial Department,
903 Walnut St.
	Subscription price, $2.00, in advance, for
six months. 
					E. D. GILLESPIE,
					Chairman Ex. Com.


[Column 1]
	EDUCATION OF GIRLS IN EGYPT.

	After visiting the boys' schools I went on
to the girls' schools, which are now an in-
stitution of exceptional importance in
Egypt. Women have hitherto, under the
Moslem rule, led a veiled, secluded, useless,
ignorant life in the harem. Here and there
European governesses have been intro-
duced, but the cases are so exceedingly rare
that it may be broadly stated that up to two
years ago women were not educated in
Egypt, and, consequently, national educa-
tion wholly wanted the true foundation of
all teaching—the mother's lessons to her
children. But two years ago one of the
Khedive's wives, a woman in advance of
her country, determined to found and en-
dow a school for her sex in Cairo. An an-
cient palace was utilized, a staff of teachers
organized, dormitories arranged, class-rooms
and play-ground provided, and the Cairo
public invited to send their daughters to be
taught, fed, lodged and clothed free of
charge. At first the invitation met with no
response. Even eighteen days before the
day named for the opening of the school
there was not a single name entered. The
authorities were in despair. The project
seemed hopelessly in advance of public

[Column 2]
opinion. It was seriously proposed to draft
in a number of fonndling children from the
hospital, so that the school should not be
wholly without scholars. But on the eigh-
teenth day came an Arab mother with her
daughter. Three days later a batch of sev-
enteen arrived, "et apres cela," said my in-
formant, "elles sont arrivees comme une
avalanche," The school would only contain
300, and on the opening day 400 had to be
rejected. Since then the applications have
never ceased, and there are now over 900
waiting acceptance. A second school has
been opened, a third is in process of erec-
tion, and numerously-signed petitions for
similar institutions have come from the
large towns in the interior; in fact, popular
prejudice is completely routed.
	The instruction given is such as is calcu-
lated to enable a woman to become the capa-
ble mistress of her household. Twenty-four
hours a week are given to intellectual train-
ing, the rest are devoted to instruction in
needlework, cooking, washing, and the pro-
per management of a house. The training
is for five years. Every year there is a
grand lottery for the sale of all the needle-
work, and the proceeds are put by to make
the nest-egg for the dowry.
	A pleasant, smiling young Frenchwoman,
the directress, received us. The schools
are in a fine old Arab house, built in two
stories, round a quadrangle, with large and
lofty rooms, and a fountain and garden to
look upon. We first saw the girls at needle-
work, from plain needlework up through
the various stages of crochet, double stitch,
and other mysteries, to exquisite lacework
and Turkish embroidery. There were about
a hundred sitting together. They were all
dressed in a plain, brown cotton, loose gown,
fastened by a leather band round the waist.
Their faces were unveiled, and they wore
their hair in plaits or falling loose down the
back, but always fastened by a blue silk
ribbon. All had ornaments—necklaces
or bracelets or earrings or rings, but no ob-
trusive adornment caught my eye. Their
boots were Europea[-], and they were all sit-
ting on benches in European fashion—the
Turkish cross-legged style being forbidden.
	There were various races—Circassian, Nu-
bian, Egyptian, Levantine, and even French
—of very different classes, from Pasha's
daughters to girls of no rank whatever—all
religions, Mohommedan, Copt, Jew, and
Christian. There were negro slaves—thir-
ty-eight all together—rescued from bond-
age, and being now trained with a view es-
pecially to entering domestic service. From
the sewing class we went to the reading,
writing and language classes (Arabic, Turk-
ish and French). In all, the quickness of
apprehension and the rapidity of progress
was remarkable, by the report of the teach-
ers, and as far as I could test this statement
I found it true. "My girls learn even more
quickly than Arab boys," said the direct-
ress. I heard the fable of the wolf, the fox
and lamb dictated in Arabic, and it was
written for the most part without error by
the girls in Turkish. I examined one brown-
faced, woolly headed little girl of eleven in
geography. She only knew Africa. But
she gave me the names of the departments
of Egypt, and pointed out on the map Cairo,
Alexandria, Port Said, Suez, Assouan, Dar-
fur, Abyssinia, Madagascar, Zanzibar, Mo-
rocco, Senegambia, and Tunis. I then
asked her how she would go to Tunis. "By
the desert, on a camel." "Is there no other
way?" "Yes, by the sea." "How would
you get to the sea?" "By the railway"
(which the Arabs call "baboor" a corruption
of the Italian "vapore"). "Is there no
other way than the railway?" "Yes; by

[Column 3]
the river, or a camel." "Why would you
prefer the baboor?" "Because it is quick-
est." All this was said without hesitation
and with a broad grin. We saw washing,
ironing and cooking in other parts of the
buildings; there is a capital bath, and the
bed-rooms, fitted with neat little iron bed-
steads, looked clean, airy and comfortable.
We wound up our inspection with the
Egyptian national anthem, performed by a
small pupil on the piano, who had only
learned music three months.
	Education is in its infancy in Egypt. But
what I have described is the germ of a good
system, which year by year is gradually
supplanting the old schools. Two things
are essential—normal schools and plenty of
funds.—London Times.


SPLINTERS.

				GENERAL.
	The first Presbyterian Church in Arizona
Ter. has just been organized at Tuscon......
The inhabitants of Greeley, Colorado, have
built a $30,000 school-house, by contribu-
tions of $10 apiece......The "New York
World" has been sold by Morton Marble, to
William Henry Hurlbut......Thirty thou-
sand troops including three cavalry regi-
ments, are under orders to sail for Cuba on
the first of September......Thomas Jeffer-
son's favorite grand daughter died recently
in Boston—Coral is coming into fashion
again......A very destructive hailstorm took
place in Morristown, N. J., May 22d......
Lord Derby, Secretary of State for foreign
affairs, has sent an answer to Secretary
Fish's letter in regard to the Winslow Case

				PERSONAL.

	Lord Lytton's last poem is entitled
"King Poppy"......Miss Emma Abbot has
just made her debut in London in opera,
which was highly favorable, the applause
was very great......Tom Moore's original
manuscript of Lalla Rookh, with several of
his autograph letters are to be offered for sale
in London soon......Madame Gullandt, a
French lady residing at Rome, has present-
ed a portrait of Washington, wrought in
mosaic, to the city of Philadelphia.....Gen.
Spinner has been investing in real estate in
Florida.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dr. Ferrier has written of late some very im-
portant things in regard to sleeplessness, which it
would be well to reflect and act upon. In sleep,
(says this author) a large proportion of blood flows
from the heart to the brain, and the increase or
diminution of the amount is in proportion to the
amount of excitement or quiet. Any exertion of
the brain, such as deep thought increases the flow
of blood to the brain, and while that continues
this organ is excited and the body suffers from
want of sleep or rest. Anything which tends to
promote circulation of blood in the brain such as
worry or anxiety tends to sleeplessness, any cause
that tends to diminish this flow of blood induces
sleep. The best things to promote sleep are
warmth, darkness and monotony of soumd, be-
cause in these there is no excitement. This phys-
ician, like many others, thinks eight hours sleep
positively necessary every night for an adult, to
restore the organization after the wear and tear to
which it is daily subjected. He also says the
more a person exercises their brain, the greater
the necessity to recuperate, for every act of
thought entails a certain loss or consumption of
brain subst[---].


VICTOR HUGO calls the Nineteenth Cen-
tury "the Century of women."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	7


[Column 1]
	NANCIE AMELIA WOODBURY
				PRIEST.

	Author of "Over the River," "Shall we knew
			each other there?"

	How many hearts have been touched by
the pathos and beauty of the familiar poem,
"Over the river they beckon to me!" Al-
though these lines are known and cherished
as household words; in thousands of homes,
where the English language is spoken, and,
though they have awakened a chord of
sympathy in so many sorrowing hearts, yet
hardly any body knows anything of the
author, who, like many others of the world's
choicest spirits, lived and died in poverty
and obscurity, not even understood and ap-
preciated by those who knew her best.
	It was my good fortune last summer,
while lingering among the beautiful hills of
New England, to pass a few hours in the
lovely and picturesque village of Hinsdale,
N. H., where these lines were written. I
visited the cottage where she lived, a 
small, but neat, white cottage, overlooking
the beautiful Ashuelot river, that foams and
frets as it rushes, in headlong haste, over
the rough rocks and stones that impede its
progress; and, as I looked at the dark grove
of pines beyond, that seemed to stand in
calm unruffled peace, ever pointing up-
wards, I thought how naturally, while look-
ing at these, as she must have done, so of-
ten, she would think of the peace beyond
the river, and I could better understand the
image in her mind when she wrote:

	"Over the river, they becken to me,
	Loved ones who've crossed to the further side,
	The gleam of their snowy, robes I see,
	But their voices are lost in the dashing tide."

	This cottage is now occupied by an aunt
of Nancie's, by marriage, but she could tell
me little about her, except to point out to
me the factory, a little way up the river,
where she used to work, and thither I di-
rected my steps.
	It was a paper mill, and her work was us-
ually folding paper. From the windows of
the mill the same view presented itself as
from the cottage, and there, as one who
worked with her, told me, she sat down one
day upon a pile of rags and wrote this poem.
	It seems she wrote a great deal, but
many of her poems were never offered for
publication and others, had only a limited
circulation. I am sure many will be glad
to read the following, "Shall we know each
other there?" which, it seems to me, gives
us so good a picture of the inner unknown
life and heart of the author.

		When we meet in fie[-]ds Elysian,
			Freed from this world's pain and care,
		Shall we, with our spirit-vision,
			See and know each other there?
		Can it be that death will sever
			All life's dearest, holiest ties?
		Do we look farewell forever,
			When we close these mortal eyes?
		Shall we, in their angel plumage,
			Know the loved of many years,
		Lips that smiled, when we were happy,
			Eyes that wept for all our tears?
		Ah! how drear would be e'en Heaven,
			Did not hope, with glances bright,
		Whisper that the hearts now riven,
			In that world shall reunite.
		We know the lambs are tended.
			When they come from pastures chill,
		Bleating to the fold for shelter
			From the bare and frosty hill,	
		By the ribbon, red or azure,
			That we tied long months before;
		And we left the gate with pleasure.
			To receive them home once more.
		So shall they who've gone before us,
			Ope' for us the gate of life,
		Kiss away our fears and trembling,
			Put on us the robe of white,
		Lead us through the pastures vernal,
			By the feet of angels trod,

[Column 2]
		To the stream of life eternal,
			Flowing from the throne of God.

	To show how little she was understood or
appreciated by those around her, I will detail
part of a conversation I had with one who
worked with her at the paper mill.
	I am told you knew Miss Priest, author
of "Over the River," &c.
	"Yes, I knew Nancy Priest well, I work-
ed with her in the mill a long time."
	"Do you know whether she was born at
Hinsdale?"
	"She was born in Massachusetts, but her
father and mother moved to Hinsdale,
when she was a young girl."
	Do you know her age?
	"No, I think she must have been over
thirty, when she died, that was three or 
four years ago."
	Have you any picture of her?
	"Yes, I have one, but she was very
homely."
	At my request she brought it, and I saw,
in a poorly executed photograph, a face
that showed deep intense feeling and sen-
sitive nature with longings for a higher
spiritual and intellectual life. Her hair
seemed to be a mass of luxuriant soft brown
curls, her eyes dark and expressive, the
mouth rather large, and though only show-
ing to the eye of the physiognomist a warm
heart and strong attachments, I concludde
it was this feature of the lower part of her 
face that had condemned her in the eyes of
her friend. The face was in no wise dis-
pleasing to me, and, while looking at it with
interest, her quondam friend remarked,
"She was a very odd girl; not a great favor-
ite." 
	How so? I asked.
	"Well, in the first place she was what I 
should call lazy. Her father and mother
were poor; but, instead of working hard to
try to earn something to help them I don't
believe she earned much more than enough
to pay her board. When she worked
in the mill with me, I have often seen her
stop work for an hour or more at a time,
and sit down some where and read or
write."
	Do they allow operatives to stop when
they choose?
	"Why, yes, she wasn't working by the
day, or week, but was paid for the amount
of work she did."
	Was she not paid for her writings?
	"No, I don't think she ever had a cent for
any of them." 
	Yet some of them were published in
many papers?
	"Yes, they were copied and recopied
everywhere, the few that she published."
	Why was she not a favorite?
	"Oh, she had a very singular disposition.
She never seemed to care much about the
other girls. She was one who had a few
friends, that she was strongly attached to,
and she did not seem to care much for any-
body else; and then she was apt to be quick
and take offence if the girls laughed at
her.
	Sensitive, I suppose.
	"Yes, very, I always got along well with
her though," and here the speaker kindly
showed me some lines of poetry addressed
to herself by Miss Priest, full of affection.
She also showed me an unpublished poem
of a humorous character, descriptive of her
adventures by railway upon a certain oc-
casion. These were signed, "Nancie."
	"She had a great deal of fun about her,"
remarked her friend, "but she would not
like me to show you these, for she did not
think anything of them herself. She had
almost enough written to make a book, and
then one day she took a sudden fit, and

[Column 3]
burned them all up. "Nancie's mother used
to write to, but I don't think she ever had
anything printed."
	One day a letter was received from a lady
who said, that, after the death of a beloved
daughter, she had acidentily read the poem,
"Over the River," and was touched by it,
that she had made enquiries, and, at last
succeeded in finding the name and address
of the author. She said she had learned
that she had long been desirous of obtain-
ing a better education, and she now invited
her cordially to come and take the place of
her daughter, offering her, her love and
every advantage that money could buy.
	Nancie read the letter with a full heart.
At first it seemed to her that the desires of
her heart were to be granted, and that her
mind might feast to its content upon the
treasures of knowledge for which it had
longed. But, as she turned suddenly, she
saw her own face reflected in a small mirror
opposite. A sudden shadow fell over the
bright animated face, and she exclaimed,
"Oh, when they saw me, they would be dis-
appointed. They could not love me. I should
never take their daughter's place. No, I 
will stay." And so, with a sad heart she
took up the burden of her life again, think-
ing only, "It might have been."
	A few more years of her weary factory
life, and then her parents removed to Mass-
achusetts, where she soon married, and, in
the course of a few years, became the moth-
er of two fine boys; but during her confine-
ment at the birth of a third child, her hus-
band failing to procure suitable help her
two little boys were taken very ill. Her
true mother's heart could not endure their
suffering. Her own pain and weakness
were forgotten, and, rising from her bed,
she ministered to their wants, with that
tenderness and love that only a mother can
give. They recovered, but at the expense
of the life of their mother and her infant.
These sons, I am told, are still living, and
are promising boys. Their father has mar-
ried again.
	Thus ended the earthly life of one, who
knew few friends, few joys, who had but
little of the love and light, for which she
longed, whose life was almost a perpetual
struggle and weariness. Coarse associates
laughed at what they called her homely
face, crushed and wounded her sensitive
spirit with taunts and jeers, and, when she
sought a little time to feed her starving
soul with intellectual food, she was scout-
ed as lazy. Thus was she despised and ha-
ted for the very traits, that, under more
favorable circumstances, would have pro-
cured for her love and praise. There is some-
thing extremely touching in the glimpses we
are able to obtain of the life of this gifted but
poor and lonely girl. No wonder her heart
and hopes looked forward so eargely and
constantly to that brighter world, of which
she thought and wrote so much.
	It sometimes seems mysterious to us,
that minds and hearts, fitted, either by na-
tive genius, or superior cultivation, to do
great good in the world around them, should
live and die in obscurity, fettered by cir-
cumstances, and thus prevented from using
those gifts; but our minds are too little to
understand God's plan. We only know
that He is perfect love, and "What we
know not now we shall know hereafter."
After all, this life is but the beginning.
Nothing in the Divine economy is ever
lost. He sows the good seed here and bu-
ries it deep in darkness, but to bring it
forth again in due time, enriched and wa-
tered with tears and trials, to expand and
ripen to a glorious perfection in the sum-
mer land of our hopes. Ex.


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE AWKWARD AGE.

	A wise and sweet woman suggests, as a sover-
eign remedy for the uncomfortableness of what
we are wont to call the awkward age in boys and
girls—that time when they are too large to feel
like children, and not quite sure enough of them-
selves to feel like adults—that we should always
treat the smallest children with the courtesy and
consideration of grown-up people, and then they
will never feel at a loss as to their reception, thus
quite escaping the uncomfortable "awkward age."
There are few things more important in the right
development of a human creature than self-respect.
But how is a child to learn to respect itself if it
sees that it is alone in the sentiment—that by no
one else is it respected? More harm is perhaps
done children by snubbing than by weak indul-
gence. We have all seen homes where the slight-
est expression of a child's idea on any point un-
der discussion was greeted with—"Who asked
you what you thought?" or with some sarcasm,
such as—"Ah, now we shall have the matter set-
tled—Miss Experience is freeing her mind." It
is so difficult to hit the right meaning. We do
not want our children to be troublesome to visitors
—grown-up people do uot want to pause in their
talk to listen to the unconsidered opinions of a
child of thirteen—but what if we tried the ex-
periment of respectful attention for awhile?
Would not the young folks cease talking until they
had something to say, quite as surely if they saw
they were listened to with attention, as if they
felt that their voices were but beating the air?


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A GERMAN paper called the "Fortschritt,"
is pubiished weekly in New York city. It
is edited by a very clever and energetic
German lady, Anna Metz Bylond.
	IF you don't want your wife to bother
you every day with the remark, "Don't for-
get that worsted," just mention to her the
pretty girl who tends the worsted counter
where you got the last.
	"YOU didn't laugh at my stupidity before
we were married; you always said I was a
"duck of a lover," grumbled a complaining
husband. "Yes, that's so," replied the
wife, "and a duck of a lover is almost sure
to make a goose of a husband."
	MRS. Attorney-General Pierrepont wears
pale lemon-colored silk under 'illusion' dot-
ted with small snow-flakes of gold," says a
fashion writer. Society at the capital seems
to have been all illusion of late years, and
flakes of gold dazzling dishonestly have
carried sorrow and shame over the whole
country.
	A CLERGYMAN who was recently discours-
ing upon the alarming increase of intem-
perance astonished his audience by exclaim-
ing: "A young man in my neighborhood
died very suddenly last Sunday while I
was preaching the Gospel in a beastly state
of intoxication." Moral—clergyman should
study grammer.


FLOWERS.

	LIFE, according to an Arabic proverb, is
composed of two parts—that which is past,
a dream; and that which is to come, a wish.
	THAT man is a coward who shapes his
course of action by his fears; and he alone 
is a man of real courage who dares to do
right.
	HAVE the courage to cut the most agree-
able acquaintance you have when you are
convinced he lacks principle; a friend should
bear with a friend's infirmities but not with
his vices.


INDIFFERENCE AT HOME:—Ingratitude
and indifference sometimes mar the char-
acter of men. A husband returns from his
business at evening. During his absence,
and throughout the live long day, the wife
has been busy with mind and hands prepar-
ing some little surprise, some unexpected
pleasure to make his home more attractive
than ever. He enters, seemingly sees no
more of what has been done to please him
than if he were a blind man, and has noth-
ing more to say than if he were dumb.
Many a loving wife has borne in her heart
an abiding sorrow, day after day, from caus-
es like this, until, in process of time, the
fire and enthusiasm of her original nature
have burned out, and mutual indifference
spreads its pall over the household.


[Column 1]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the T[---]et and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Hou[-]ekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best [--]owing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City. 

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School [-]rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C.R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST, TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
					Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House 

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
		doors below Walker House, and examine our
			goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
				take pleasure in making to order, such
					brushes as we have not on hand.
  						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
	MITCHELL & JAMES,
Tinners, Gas, Water & Steam Fitters
			    AGENTS FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	     Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, Mitchell & James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		 Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	TO THE LADIES!
			TAYLOR & CUTLER
Have just received a large stock of SPRING GOODS of   
	all kinds, NEW STYLES PRINTS, FANCY DRESS
		GOODS, LADIES' NECK TIES, and a full stock
		 of DRY GOODS, GROCERIES, &c., which we 
				are selling very cheap. 

				THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
			O[-]
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.
Specially in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.
			H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
              AND
	BABY CARRIAGES! 
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1876.		No. 2.


TRUE FRIENDSHIP

True friendship is the diamond of the mind
The Jewel that enriches all that find.
Deep in the heart, transparent and so fair,
The best within us shines reflected there.
Not always do we know its priceless worth
When first we find it 'mid the dross of earth.
Search 'neath the surface—polish it, and lo!
The hidden gem sends back the answering glow.
If gold can buy it, 'tis not worth the name—
True friendship rests upon no sordid claim.
A friendship doubted is a friendship lost—
Guard well the jewel, at whatever cost.
For of all the gifts the gods may to us send,
Methinks the dearest is a loving friend.
											H. P.


AT EVENING.

How softly fall the evening shadows pale,
	Golden and purple sunsets blend and fade:
Night robes earth quietly with mantling veil,
	And peace and rest the gentle hour pervade.
Great nature soothing with her potent pow'r,
	Breathes to the "world-worn heart" her sympathy;
And 'mid the tranquil of such spell-bound hour
	The mem'ries of the past steal tenderly.
Athwart the scene the moon with golden trail,
	As erst, with pitying glance and mellow'd light,
Sweeps through the empty space with steady sail,
	And floods with beauty the enchanted night.
It is the hour for sweet and tender thought,
	And whisperings of the life that is to be
And Faith and Trust with holy impulse fraught,
	Speak to the soul in nature's poetry.
Unconscious of ourselves we yield to sleep
	And bright-robed beings round our couches stray,
In sacred stillness holy vigils keep,
	And night assumes the sceptre of her sway.
											EMILE.
June 11th, 1876.
					E.B. Wells


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
		THE TRUE MOTHER.

	The TRUE mother is a type in minature
of her own Great Father. It may appear a
bold assertion but when we realize her
character as it has been exhibited under all
the phases, circumstances, tests and trials,
it will be seen that the assertion is truth,
allowing that there must be an immense
disparity. The developed life of the moth-
er has never been traced upon any page, or
laid bare to any human eye, it is the "un-
written philosophy" of this sublunary state
of existence. No doubt it IS traced in all
its Divinity, in all its sublime endurance,
its self-abnegation, its eternal love, beauty,
devotion, yes, and in all its agonies—often
its crucifixion of the heart and brain upon
an immortal tablet; there, no doubt is traced
"the Martyrdom of Maternity." But all
mortal martyrdom has its encompassing
joys, its glories, and its honor. So is the
mother rewarded. Her love is her pro-
pelling power and her exceeding great re-
ward—it is the moving principle of every
thought and action, nothing can destroy it.
Cold neglect, harsh treatment, non-appreci-
ation, disobedience, ingratitude; these
wound, bruise, break, but cannot erase it.
Misfortune may befall her child, it may be-
come depraved and disgraced; all others
may despise and forsake, but there is ever
one whose heart is aching with its load of
woe and agony, whose tears are falling,
whose knees are bending, and whose heart
is sending up prayers that must be heard
even within the "Inner Temple of the King

[Column 2]
of the Universe;" whose arms cling stronger
even amid the ruins of her once cherished
hopes, her soaring ambition for the upward
progress of that being who is indeed "bone
of her bone and flesh of her flesh," and
whose spirit even is twin with hers in their
mysterious relationship! Note her noise-
less unsleeping watchfulness—yes that
which none but an Omniscent eye can weigh
and measure, her care to provide for every
want in infancy and childhood; to minister
to every necessity, feeding the body with
wholesome food, and mind with mental
sustenance, its heart and brain with love,
strength and endurance, day by day and
year by year; and when the trial of reproof
comes how she mourns in her inmost soul,
what violence does she not inflict upon her
own feelings—nothing but strong princi-
ple enables her to set aside her tender love,
and take the place of judge and inflictor;
but she dare not pass over an offense, which,
if indulged may create a growing power,
that may enroll her child as the coil of a
serpent and poison even the springs of life,
like the destroying Upas! Here comes the
trial, like her Savior, she goes away and
weeps, and prays for strength to do her
duty, that self-reproach may never sting
her. The child knows nothing of her sor-
row, the wringing of her heart, probably
thinks her harsh, unjust, unkind, almost
feels for the time to dislike her; but the
TRUE mother rises in the dignity of mater-
nity, and persists in her judicious sover-
eignty. Under the control and govern-
ment of SUCH a mother, law merges into
Order; peace and love are the Elements of
her kingdom, and she is the Planet Star of
that Orbit. Her children grow up under
her sweet influence, they go out into the
world, and carry it always with them, and
when in after life they organize homes for
themselves, it is still there, for it is woven
into the very woof of their life, it becomes
a part of their system; the children of such
a mother. "Rise up and call her blessed, her
husband also, and he praiseth her."
					HANNAH T. KING
S. L. City, May '76.


VISITING CARDS.

	In the practice of turning card corners,
the upper left hand corner denotes "visite,"
and is used for an ordinary call. the upper
right hand corner turned down means "fe-
licitation," and is a visit of congratulation;
the lower left hand corner "conge," repre-
sents a farewell call, and the lower right
hand corner "condolence," expresses a de-
sire to sympathize with bereavement. The
rule most generally understood is the turn-
ing of one end of the card, which denotes a
wish to see the ladies of the family.


NOT long ago in a court in Toronto, a wit-
ness was under examination in a a case of
debt. The Judge asked him, "what is your
occupation?" The witness did not seem to
understand the meaning of the word "occu-
pation" and answered with "eh?" The
Judge varied his question: "what do you do
for a living?" Witness replied, "Oh my
wife's a dressmaker."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE DEBATE of Woman Suffrage in Par-
liament in England, has relatively far great-
er importance than any Congressional vote
here, because the decision of Parliament
must decide the question for the whole
kingdom, and in this country it is distribu-
ted and decided by Legislatures in the dif-
ferent states. This Bill is not only for Suf-
frage but to extend to such women as vote
in municipal elections, the right also to vote
for members of Parliament. Mr. John
Bright's speech in Parliament on this Bill
has called forth criticism from all persons
interested in the subject, and the Woman's
Journal says, "There is many a humble
home in England and America, where his
picture heretofore honored, will henceforth
be turned to the wall. Since Webster's 7th
of March speech there has been no down-
fall so conspicuous; and Whittier's grand
poem of "Ichabod," seems its only fitting
lament. The liberal press of England and
Scotland are profuse in their criticisms,
many of them very cutting and pointed.
There are many things which tend to prove
that public sentiment is with the extension
of Woman's Suffrage." One thing particu-
larly encouraging to those who are anxious
the Bill should pass, is that one half of the
minority are new members. It is not to be
supposed because the Bill has been rejected
that it will never pass. "In the Parliament
of 1841, Mr. Charles Pelham Villiers, asked
again and again that the Corn Laws might
be repealed, and over and over again the
House of Commons rejected the proposi-
tion. But in the year 1846 the same House
of Commons that had refused to listen to
him, passed a measure repealing the Corn
Laws." Mr Forsyth in his speech in the
house, moving the second reading of the
Bill said there had been no single meeting
against the principle of the Bill, but on the
contrary in favor of it crowded meetings
had been held in every large town in Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland, and resolutions
by large majorities in favor of the Bill have
been enthusiastically adopted.

	THE WOMAN'S meeting in Boston closed
its session in May to open again in Novem-
ber. This association has for its object
more particularly "the unfolding of the aes-
thetic and spiritual elements of human na-
ture, than the mere literary and scientific,
though these are by no means ignored."
Reading the last sentence reminds us forci-
bly that these meetings of the Boston wo-
men are very similar to the organizations of
the women of Utah, the chief aim and ob-
ject of which is the higher cultivation of
the spiritual nature, though the physical,
moral and mental elements are not lost
sight of.


AN old detective at Troy says: "If I de-
sired to train my son for a detective, I
would first make him a newspaper reporter,
that beyond any other business is the busi-
ness that makes stupid men smart, ordinary
men able, and capable men brilliant; and
what an experienced reporter cannot detect
is not worth detecting."


10					WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	Meeting of the Senior and Junior Re-
trenchment Association held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
May 27th, was one of an exceptionally in-
teresting nature. Prest. Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Counselors E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young, S. M.
Kimball, and E. Howard each addressed
the meeting, being seemingly inspired to
speak of the subjects which are adapted to
the present time, the building of the tem-
ple, the coming fair, home-industries silk
manufacture etc.
	Meeting of the same Association at the
same place Sat. June 10, was largely attend-
ed, and not only were the minutes of the
young ladies specially interesting, but each
person who spoke seemed to dwell with in-
terest on the topics most appropriate to the
occasion. A great deal of business was al-
so transacted relative to the Territorial Fair
now in contemplation, which will be held
in the Old Constitution Buildings, Main
Street, instead of the Social Hall, as was
previously anticipated, and will be opened
on Thursday July 6th.

			MORONI, May 10th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Retrenchment Association here was
organized on the 17th of June, 1875, with
Mrs. Hannah Cloward, President, and Mrs.
Anna Swenson and Miss Artie Draper,
Counselors; Miss Annie Irons, Secretary,
and Miss Ellen Munson, Assistant Secretary.
	Bishop G. W. Bradley and Counselors met
with the sisters of the Relief Society to or-
ganize the Retrenchment Association—they
gave us good counsel. Our Society is in a
flourishing condition, and we are trying to
do all in our power to aid in rolling on the
great work of the Latter-days. I think we
all should feel interested in the woman's
paper and help to sustain it. With sincere
feelings and best of wishes for your future
success, I remain
			Respectfully,
					ANNIE IRONS, Sec'y.

			VIRGIN CITY, May 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to the counsel of Sister Eliza
R. Snow, the young sisters of Virgin City
have lately been organized into a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association under
the guardianship of the Relief Society.
On the second day of March, 1876, the
young sisters were called together, and were
organized with the following officers:
	Mrs. Mary Ellen Steele, President,
	"	Gabriella Willis,		}
	"	Elizabeth Campbell,	} Counselors
	Miss Wealthy Richards,	}
	"	Medora Owens,		}
	"	Lucinda Stratton, Secretary.
	"	Eleanor Jepson, Assistant Secretary.
	We meet together once a week, and we
are pleased that our members are very
punctual to attend meetings. There are
about thirty families here, and we have
thirty-two members already belonging to
our Association. We are pleased to say
that our Association is in a very prosperous
condition. The principal objects of our
meetings are to cultivate the minds and
talents of the young Daughters of Zion.
We cannot say that we ought to retrench
from following the foolish fashions of the
world; we have no such vices, styles and
fashions in our quiet little town, as abound
in large towns and cities. We are gratified
with the rapid progress of our young sisters
since the organization of our Association.

[Column 2]
We have acted upon the advice of Presi-
dent Brigham Young and have ceased all
round dancing, and close our parties at ten
o'clock. We have a more punctual attend-
ance at our Sabbath School, and we are con-
stantly striving to qualify ourselves as be-
cometh the daughters of Zion. Our advice
to the young sisters everywhere would be
to cease following the vain fashions of the
world, and attire themselves neatly and
with becoming simplicity; cultivate refine-
ment of manner and person, and strive to
have the Spirit of God for guidance.
	We remain as ever, your sisters in the
Gospel,
				LUCINDA STRATTON,
				ELEANOR JEPSON,
							Secretaries.

		TOKERVILLE, April 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a flourishing con-
dition; I can truly say our associations have
united us together. Although we have
not much means we are rich in spirit, blest
with health, kind hearts and willing hands,
that are ready to help build up the kingdom
of God. We received a visit from Sister E.
S. Barney last November; she gave us very
good instruction, but her visit was short.
Our young ladies have not yet been organ-
ized as a Retrenchment Society; I think if
they would read the EXPONENT and see
the good feeling that prevails among the
young sisters that belong to those associa-
tions they would not be at all backward, but
would wish for an organization. Our young
people manifest a good spirit in attending
Sabbath meetings and Sunday School. Our
Relief Society was re-organized January
15, 1876, with the following named officers:
	Elizabeth Kleinman, President.
	Mary Forsythe,	} Counselors.
	Ann Savage,		}
	Sarah A. Spilsbury, Secretary.
	Adelaide Savage, Treasurer.
	May God bless the EXPONENT and all
those who are interested in its welfare, is
our earnest desire. Hoping I may say
something at another time that will be of
more interest to your readers,
			Yours respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary.

	BEAVER CITY, UTAH, May 31st, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since the organization of the Relief So-
ciety in this place, January 11th, 1868, we
have donated as follows:
	To the poor,..................	$ 2,	263 75.
	 " St. George Temple,...		506 70.
	 " Perpetual Emigration
		Fund,................			  87 10.
	 " Bell for Public Meet-
		ing House,............		  88 00.
	 " Sunday School,..........		  39 40.
		Total..................		    2. 984 95.

	We have a house and lot worth $2,200 00.
The house is well furnished, and we have a
carpet, chairs, table, stove, clock, etc.  We
also have $100 00 in the Co-operative Store,
and there is now in the treasury:

	Cash,.................................		$21 25
	Clothing, etc.,.....................		  36 15
		Total,............................		  57 40

	We hold meetings once a month, and
sewing circles once every two weeks; both
are tolerably well attended.
		Very Respectfully,
				LUCINDA HOUD, Prest.
			   MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	To Cure Hoarseness.—When the voice is lost,
as is sometimes the case, from the effects of a
cold, a simple, pleasant remedy is furnished by
beating up the white of one egg, adding the juice
of one lemon, and sweetening with white sugar to
the taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time.
It has been known to effectually cure the ailment.
	Lemonade for Scarlet Fever.—An eminent phys-
ician of a Western city, says he has cured ninety-
nine out of every hundred cases of scarlet fever
by giving the patient warm lemonade with gum
arabic dissolved in it. A cloth wrung out in hot
water and laid upon the stomach should be re-
moved as rapidly as it becomes cool.
	Remedy for Earache.—There is scarcely any
ache to which children are subject, so bad to bear
and difficult to cure, as earache. But there is a
remedy, never known to fail. Take a bit of cot-
ton batting, put upon it a pinch of black pepper,
gather it up, tie it, dip in sweet oil and insert in
the ear. Put a flannel bandage over the head to
keep it warm. It will give immediate relief.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A correspondent of the
Boston Journal writes that he has used the follow-
ing remedy for diptheria in a great many hard
cases, and in not one has it failed to effect a cure.
It is as follows:—Procure some pitch tar—not gas
tar—put a little on a hot iron, invert a tunnel over
the smoke, and let the patient inhale as much as
he can without strangling, for a few minutes five
or six times a day. During the intervals let the
patient have small pieces of ice to keep as near
the roots of the tongue as possible.
	Another Remedy in Diptheria:—Dr. Hopkins,
in the Physician and Pharmacist, strongly urges
the employment of acid tannate or iron as a local
remedy in diptheria. It may be prepared, he
says, by the addition of one ounce of the muria-
ted tincture of iron to one of a strong solution of
tannin, and applied by means of a brush to the
diseased throat, or elsewhere as the case may be;
or, what is perhaps a still b[-]tter way, apply the
muriated tincture of iron in full strength to the
diseased part with a brush, wait a few moments,
then apply the solution of tannin in the same way,
thus forming a union of the two at the point of
disease, having the advantage of chemical action,
if there be any. On examination a few hours af-
ter, the line of demarcation will be seen distinctly
drawn by the discoloration of the diseased tissue,
showing the exact extent of the disease, the very
thing desired; with a tendency to separation, which
will go on rapidly, if the system be properly
treated with a nourishing diet and tonic and stim-
ulating remedies. Dr. Hopkins regards this rem-
edy as "above all others."


HOW IT IS DONE: "We know the pub-
lic is down upon us" remarked the old milk-
man, as he dipped out the desired quart
from one of his big cans; "but the public is
mistaken. In the fust place we put in a
leetle water—only a bit to make up for
shrinkage. It goes to the big dealers, and
they aint a bit keerful when they git to
pouring in water. They sells it to the re-
tailers, and they put in chalk with one
hand and water with the other, and they
are thinking of politics and git too much.
The servant gal goes after milk for the fam-
ily and drinks a third of it, and she puts
in water to make up the measure; and, you
see, when the family gets it the taste ain't
there, and they goes for us poor old men
who hasn't a dishonest hair in our heads.
That's the way, Mister—gee up, there, Ho-
mer!"
	WHY is a bald head like Paradise? Be-
cause it is a bright shining place, where
there is neither parting nor dying.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.			11


For the EXPONENT
THE FACES OF DREAMLAND.

	O, faces fair and beautiful,
		That come to me in dreams at night,
	Crown'd with radiance softly glowing
		From the land of life and light;
	Are you watching o'er me kindly,
		Do you love to think of me—
	Of the days of joyous childhood,
		When our hearts beat happily?

	Now death's river rolls between us,
		You have safely crossed it o'er;
	Are you blest with true perfection
		Dwelling on that heavenly shore?
	Your faces glow with dazzling splendor
		When they beam on me at night,
	Methinks you're waiting fondly for me
		And my hopes are fair and bright.

	Oft you've kissed me in my slumbers
		With affection true and deep;
	O, the rapture when you're near me,
		But we cannot always sleep;
	Soon there coimes the sad awakening
		Then your loss seems doubly great—
	When will this life hard and dreary,
		End at heaven's bright pearly gate?

	When on my dying bed I lay
		Will you be there to think of me,
	And gently take me by the hand
		When my spirit shall be free?
	O, the love of those who've left us
		Never wearies or grows cold,
	They are near us, watching, waiting
		To welcome us to Father's fold.
								LYDIA D. ALDER.
S. L. City, May 10, 1876.


[Column 1]
		OVERWORKED WOMEN.

		"Man's work is e'en from sun to sun,
		But woman's work is never done."

	Ah, it is an old saying, old almost I know,
as our native hills; but so very true, as a
whole, so wise in its timing, so pretty the
rhyming that it may well act as sponsor to
all past dissertations on the subject. I said
as a whole, for though the great mass of
mankind do not expect or wish to work,
only from sun to sun—and we give them
full credit for knowing that it is only dire
misfortune in the end if they do—it unfor-
tunately happens there are many who by
force of circumstances, feel either obliged
to do so, to satisfy the needs of the hour, or
relying too confidently on their present
stock of endurance, stretch it, gutta percha
like, thus encroaching upon the principal,
instead of being satisfied with the sure and
all-sufficient interest. But the laws of na-
ture not to be defied, are as exacting in the
one case as the other; the penalty for in-
fringement on their domain the same.
	Now that we have settled the one, let us
go back to the ninety and nine wise men,
who almost literally work from sun to sun.
What shall we say of them? What is nec-
essary or best to say? Only this, what we
have already said: They are wise men in
this regard and shall reap the result of their
wisdom, just as surely as the sower of tares
shall reap tares again, You will think I
have wandered from my subject, or what is
more likely still, have not touched upon it
at all; but, believe me, I have not forgotten
that just above, and woven in with my old-
time rhyme, is Woman's name. Believe me
also, that her cause, inasmuch as it may
seem in jeopardy, is too near to my heart to
be lost sight of for any length of time.

To those who most do need should most be, given:
Though sometimes oak and tiny flower alike are light-
	ning riven.

Just so sure as it is the exceptional man
who works beyond the going down of the
sun, just so sure is it the exceptional wo-
man who does not.
	All through our alleged liberty-loving
New England, our women household toil-

[Column 2]
ers are numbered by the thousands, and,
though all who have charge in any way of
such households come within the scope of
my remarks, more nearly and more in sor-
row goes out my pity for those who have
such charges, with little, and so very often
no help at all. For the very reason that
this is so common a thing, Woman herself,
both the worker and the looker-on, fail to
give due importance either to the thing it-
self, or its dreadful results.
	Because we say 'housework,' do we
mean everything that can possibly be done
beneath the roof? for let me tell you that
the trades comprised under this head, are
almost numberless. For instance, here is
Master Tommy. Mamma is expected, not
only to keep Master Tommy's hair in proper
trim, knit his socks and black his shoes, but
to make every garment worn by him, from
those same shoes to the cropped hair, and
finally put on the crowning finish in the
shape of a hat on his unruly head. Allow-
ing for patches and darns innumerable, is it
not plain that this service alone must take
quite a slice from the time needed for what
should be considered household proper?
But supposing, as is often the case, there is 
also a Jack and Philip and Ned to be done
unto likewise? Then too, a Sally and Fan-
ny and Jane and yet the so-called house-
hold work at the end of it all?
	You think my picture preposterous per-
haps, and so it should be, and so it is, but
none the less "for a' that" it is true and—
yes, dear reader, right here you must allow
me to say, that as at present conducted in
the thousands of households scattered all
over our land, and in the face of the appar-
ently nonending wonder that housework
should be considered unpopular, if there is
one kind of labor more than another which
is unthanked, unappreciated drudgery, it
is this same so-called, housework. All oth-
er faces may be joyous that the morning,
noon, or evening rest has come, may lift
their grateful thoughts to him who made it,
for Saturday night with its sweet anticipa-
tions of a blessed Sabbath's rest. Where,
oh, where, is the seventh day's freedom from
toil for the weary housekeeper?
	That many men work seemingly to the
extent of their powers of endurance, such
a number of hours per day is true. Equal-
ly true is it, that the wives of many such
men after working the same, in point of
time and quantity, still work on, three
hours in addition to his, and sometimes,
(not always let us hope with the bitterest
bit of sarcastic insult for reward) their sup-
port is granted them in condescending char-
ity and magnanimity.
	You think I have spoken bitterly perhaps;
I know I have spoken truthfully.
	Neither, if you please, plead the light-
ness of Woman's work compared with
Man's. Her work is in accordance with her
physical strength, quite as hard as it is for
him, whilst the planning and plotting of
her almost innumerable tasks tax her brain
power to its utmost.
	Women go into the open air too little.
When they do go, it comes, after a time,
as cares accumulate, to be on some errand
where haste is indispensable, consequently
it is no rest, but only added tiredness.
	There is little or no time for mental im-
provement, less even for the recreation,
both physical and mental, so necessary to
all conditions of life. If, in consequence of
failing health this is taken notice of, she
may be urged, aye, even lectured at odd
times, to go out; but somehow the one
thing needful is apt to be overlooked. The
drift of care and toil is not lessened. No
one proposes to sacrifice one superfluous

[Column 3]
want, and experience has taught her well
that if they are all attended to there is no
time left for out-door exercises.
	What wonder, in view of this method,
that our race is dwindling and degenerating?
What wonder even that the overworked
mothers tremble at the advent of a woman
child?
	Do not ask me that formula, if you please.
—how did our fore-mothers do thus and
so? I do not like to think of those strong
fresh-lived women of the long ago. The
contrast betwixt them and now is too great.
While the history of the past has handed
down to us ample proof of the nobleness in-
cidental to their time and day, and while we
glory in the knowledge thereof, the living
history of to-day is furnishing with equal
fidelity, the result of their comparative ig-
norance and inexperience. It is indisputa-
bly with this that we have most largely to
deal. Had those dear, old fore-mother's
understood the laws of re-action, as well as
they seemed to recognize a necessity for al-
ways constant action, our lines, I think, had
been cast in pleasanter places. As it is, a
weakened generation is before us. Shall
we then professing enlightenment, as we
do fail to profit thereby? Nay, let us bear
it perpetually in mind, that we too are fore-
mothers of the yet to be. Let us ask can-
didly, and earnestly, one of the other, "Is
there any surer way of blessing our children
than by providing that their mothers be
blessed before them?" Aye, let us look well
at this question which has come up before
us, and thank God that it is not remediless;
for aside from the drunkenness of our na-
tion, no wrong in existence calls more
loudly for amendment, than this same
hausehold slavery of women,
				MARY J. RICHARDSON.
	Lebanon, N. H.—Ex.


ARABIAN MEN AND WOMEN.

	The Arabs are generally handsome, with
pale, oval faces, aquiline noses, and large,
dark eyes. They have rather an effemi-
nate appearance. Their dress is almost in-
describable. They wear a sort of loose,
baggy, pantaloons, fastened at the waist by
a sash coming down nearly to the knees, be-
low which the entire leg and foot are bare.
Some wear sandals. Their heads are cov-
ered with a turban, and when walking about
free from work, they wear a long flowing
cloak with a hood, which is thrown not un-
gracefully over the shoulders. The fabric
from which it is made being originally of
white woolen or worsted, but is innocent of
recent washings and uncertain in color as
worn. The women when seen outdoors, are
attired in a large white robe reaching below
the knees, full white trousers fastened at
the ankle, and slippers. Their heads and
faces are covered excepting their eyes.
They are possessed with a reasonable share
of coquetry. So far as I have seen I do not
think them as good-looking as the men.—
N. Y. Express.


"I THOUGHT you were born on the 1st of
April," said a husband to his lovely wife,
who had mentioned the 21st as her birth-
day. "Most people would think so from
the choice I made of a husband," she re-
plied.
	RETICENCE: If you don't know what
everybody else knows, you had better hold
your tongue; and if you know something
that everybody else knows, you had better
hold your tongue also; at the same time, if
you know something that nobody else
knows, keep it to yourself.


12		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1876.


THE TIMES.

	In the present epoch of the world's history
may be recorded, that now and then, at almost
regular intervals, a decided lull seems to
have o'erspread the earth and its inhabitants.
Rumors of great disasters by sea and by land
are hushed; the hand of death is stayed; busi-
ness is be-calmed; even the voice of conten-
tion is for the instant quieted. At such a mo-
ment, if the wheel of Time does not itself be-
come clogged, there seems to be a kink, a pause
in the windings of the great chain of events.
How long the calm will last, or what results
will follow, the Allwise Ruler can alone define.
Even to the inspired among men, it is not
given to comprehend the exact time of day, or
what change will be next in order, succeeding
the silence of such an hour. But, the Lord
does not slumber, neither should His people.
The Saints have been warned of approaching
dangers, and forewarned against slothfulness
and procrastination.
	Let not a momentary subsidence decoy any
into the belief that the reign of peace has com-
menced. The heavy storm is always preceded
by a calm, and the longer the clouds are in
gathering, the more to be dreaded is the com-
ing tempest. Have we oil in our vessels, and
are our lamps trimmed?


WHAT IS DUTY?

	This one simple phrase, insignificant as it
seems, comprises much of happiness or sorrow
according to the interpretation given to it. To
fulfill all the obligations of life from childhood
upward is synonomous with duty, but can one
always be sure what is the first duty? An emi-
nent writer of the present day in answering
this question says; "It is to fulfill the claims
of the day;" but evidently there are a variety
of claims, or things which demand attention;
and there must be some relative decision
WHICH is the highest duty.
	In these days there is much said about the
wife's duty, the husband's duty, and one's duty
to society and to the public; it appears that per-
sons are often undecided in regard to the high-
est duty. There are those who are easily
guided by another's ideas of duty, such peo-
ple certainly lose sight of their own individ-
uality. Every rational being should endeavor
to comprehend for themselves wherein their
individual duty lies, and cultivate all the fac-
ulties God has imparted to them, for when
called to account for the sins of commission or
omission, what can it avail to admit another
pointed out the line of duty, and without call-
ing in the aid of the forces lying dormant in


the soul, submitted to the blind leading of an-
other, and thus proved false to the integrity
which it is due to every human being to main-
tain.
	The remark is frequently made "I know
my duty," yet how careless and indifferent
many are in the discharge of trifling duties, as
they are termed; but after all is it not these
minute details that make up the great sum of
existence here?
	If persons understood the relative duties per-
taining to the variety of circumstances inci-
dent to life and performed those duties care-
fully, then none would swerve from the path
of rectitude, and perfection would be the ulti-
mate result, but to choose between good and
evil, if it were easy to make the distinction,
would reflect little credit, though one chose
the better part; but to discern the true amid
falsity, to make the knowledge of duty one's
study is a sublime work; all duties are not
pleasant in their nature; some very brilliant
writers have said the fulfillment of duty
brings with it a sublime joy; there are certain-
ly many such instances, but while "darkness
covers the earth and gross darkness the minds
of the people" and there is no infallible guide
to duty, what remains? To do all the good
we can, to trust in God for the event, to learn
how to submit one's self to God, to perform
the mission He has assigned, is the height of
sublimity. To do one's duty independent of
the prevailing influences is indicative of true
nobility of character, and is the truest self-
denial.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE R. S. Reports from several places,
also other correspondence we are compelled to
lay over for want of space; but we intend to
publish them as soon as practicable. As our pa-
per is small and only issued semi monthly, we
have to be governed accordingly.
	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM Young and the party
with him, left St. George, Monday, June 12,
to meet the Arizona Party President D. H.
Wells, Elder Brigham Young Jr., and the oth-
ers who expected to arrive at Kanab, Thursday
(June 15) on their route homeward. President
Young's health has very much improved dur-
ing his absence. The accident to President
Wells and the brethren who were with him in
the boat when it sunk in the Colorado river,
would seem another strong testimony of the
interposition of Divine Providence in behalf of
His servants. This people should not forget
to acknowledge the goodness of God to them
in this peculiar incident, although at the sac-
rifice of one life. In the midst of circumstan-
ces such as this, one can but exclaim with him
of old; "Truly O God Thy ways are marvel-
lous and past finding out."
	WE HAVE received recently pleasant calls
from many of the strangers who have visited
Salt Lake City; persons of cultivation, polish
and refinement. Some editors and corres-
pondents of different papers, who seemed to
think our EXPONENT a very creditable Wo-
man's paper, although not approving of some
of the principles we advocate. To persons
expressing themselves thus, we invariably
make the same answer. We endeavor to ad-
vocate the principles in which we believe, and
practice what we teach; to express the opin-
ions of the women of Utah in regard to Wo-
man's capacity sphere of duty and use-
fulness, as regards not only temporal but spir-
itual salvation.


1876, Fourth of July; 1876, the Great Cen-
tennial Day, there will be a Ladies' Centenni-
al Excursion to Haight's Grove, Lake Side.
Trains leave this city at 8 o'clock a. m., re-
turn at 7 p. m. Tickets $1,00.
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Str[-]ck,	}	Committee.
		Miss L. Davis.	}


SLANDER.

	The subject of slander has been touched up-
on a great many times in our Relief Society
meetings in this place, and the baneful effects
of it have been vividly portrayed where the
people allow this spirit to get footing amongst
them. What is more bitter or poisoning in
its venom than the tongue of the habitual
slanderer? It is no respector of persons, but
hurls its venom on all alike; and wo to the
person that comes within the circle of its in-
fluence. If a story should happen to come to
the ears of one of this class concerning any
person or persons, that would be any way prej-
udicial to their character, it is grabbed at as
eagerly as a fish would grab at a bait, and
without pausing to see whether there was the
least foundation to the report, spread far and
wide with the quickest possible dispatch, nor
rests until every person within reach is well
posted with all the particulars and enough add-
ed to make it appear plausible, and all of
course swallowed eagerly by the majority of
people, without reflecting, perhaps it is not
true; and if inquiry should be made as to the
source of nine-tenths of the stories that are set
afloat by the vile slanderer, they originated in
nothing at all.
	Should we dear sisters encourage such a spir-
it among us? The Lord forbid. When a tale
is told concerning a person, that would be an
injury to them, let us not spread or repeat it,
until we are sure whether it has come from a
reliable source. If this course had always been


adopted, what untold misery and suffering
would have been saved to many innocent
hearts who have languished and pined beneath
the frowns and jeers of those who were per-
haps far beneath them in every virtue and
moral principle, that helps to constitute a good
reliable character. "Let those who are with-
out sin, cast the first stone," were the words
of our blessed Saviour, and what a happy
world it would be if we would all follow these
teachings. It is a duty we owe to our God, and
our fellow creatures; to encourage every good
principle, and put our foot on that which has
an evil tendency.
	That the Lord will help us to do so, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
								SARAH.
Pa[-]is, Bear Lake Co., Apr. 1st, 1876.


For the Exponent.
				PRAYER.

	What a sweet word is prayer; it fills one's
heart with such a sweet rest, and sooths and
comforts as only prayer can. How many mean-
ings has prayer? Comfort for the weary, the
broken-hearted and those in distress; it means
forgiveness of sins for the sinful and repentant,
with a better life ever after. When we feel
dispirited and think there is nothing on earth
worth living for, when our friends prove false
to us, when we meet with every disappoint-
ment that can befall human beings, when we
see our dear ones taken from us, and almost
think that God has forgotten us, and that He
has laid His chastening hand too heavy upon
us, and that our cross is more than we can
bear; then comes the sweet thought of prayer,
stealing into our hearts like the whispering of
an angel; then we can feel the soothing influ-
ence of that High and Holy One who has said
"Come unto me all you who are heavy-laden,
and I will give you rest." And verily He will
do so, for has He not said, "Heaven and earth
may pass away, but my word endureth for-
ever." Do we pray enough? We should al-
ways have a prayer in out hearts. "Pray al-
ways lest ye enters into temptation." And if
we ever feel that the way of life is thorny, and
we all know that there is more shadow than
sunshine here, let us lift up our voices to Him
who has said, "Ask and ye shall receive" and
we will find sweet consolation in prayer. The
sweetest words to me I ever read were these:
"Lord teach us how to pray."
									JUNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		13


PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., IDAHO TER,
						May 21st '76.
EDITORY EXPONENT:
	Although we have had a hard winter and a
cold backward spring, we are still alive to the
interests and welfare of the kingdom of God.
	We were yesterday called upon to part with
our much respected and esteemed Sister Mary
Humphreys. She has been an invalid for sev-
eral years, and great sufferer. Her funeral ser-
vices took place to-day, President C. C. Rich
delivered the funeral sermon.
	Our Society meetings are good, and the sis-
ters seem to take a lively interest in doing
what they can towards helping to build up
Zion.
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associa-
tion is progressing finely, Prest. Rich often
meets with them, and seems to take great in-
terest in their advancement; always giving
good counsel and encouraging them to dili-
gence.
	Although our climate is rugged and cold, we
are blessed with health; there is little or no
sickness at this time. The grain is beginning
to make its appearance out of the ground; but
never mind, we have our spring time up here,
if it is in July.
	Your paper is read with great interest, and
duly appreciated; I always feel when I take it
up to read, as though I cannot lay it down un-
til I have read every item in it. You have
my best wishes for your progress and welfare.
			Yours Truly,
						EMELINE G. RICH


ARE WE REALLY LATTER-DAY
			SAINTS?

	The question is often asked, are you a
Latter-day Saint? We answer yes. But
do we fully realize the word Latter-day
Saint, do we live in such a manner that we
can say with sincerity that we are living
our religion to the best of our understand-
ing? I think we do not. We do not real-
ize as we should the blessings and privileges
that we enjoy, and we cannot comprehend
the glory that is in store for those who
truly live their religion according to the
plan laid down by our Savior. We are all
children of the same Father, and we can all
claim the blessings that He has promised
His children if we will walk in the paths
that He has assigned for us, and follow in
His footsteps. All have a certain amount of
work to perform, and of trials to endure,
and we must be tested by our own exertions
and experience. If we do not live up to
the light and knowledge which is given us
we must suffer the consequence in the day
of judgment. We cannot throw our sins
and wickedness upon the shoulders of oth-


ers. Each one must answer for themselves
we are not all gifted with the same amount
of intelligence, but we all have our own;
agency to act upon, and should be capable
of comprehending right from wrong. We
should improve our time instead of spend-
ing it in idleness and frivolity. We may
think we have plenty of time here upon the
earth, but remember we have none to lose,
and if each of us will live our religion as
true Latter-day Saints we will be prepared
for the coming of the Messiah; but if we
will allow our minds to become darkened,
we will be cast out from His presence; then
we will wish that we had improved the op-
portunities that were before us, and had
lived nearer our Heavenly Father; but it
will be too late then. Now is the time that
we must do right and live our religion. If
we always lived as we should there would
be no need of Retrenchment, but we think
more of following the fashions of the world
than we do of our religion, hence these
meetings were organized for our good, to
help us to a spiritual education, and if we
come here with a firm determination to put
into practice the teachings which we re-
ceive from time to time; and strive to pre-
pare ourselves to live lives of usefulness,
we will derive much benefit.
	The most of us have been taught from
our infancy, that Mormonism was true; and
we have believed it, because our parents
have taught us so; but now we are old
enough and it is necessary that we should
have a testimony for ourselves. If we have
doubts at any time, we should seek the
Lord in prayer and ask him to enlighten
our understanding, and if we ask Him in
faith and humility He will assuredly give
us His holy spirit to enlighten our minds;
and we will have a living testimony with-
in us.						A. S.


For the EXPONENT.
				CHARITY.

	I wish to write some of my thoughts on
charity at the same time, I feel how incapa-
ble I am of doing it justice. It is said
"true charity thinketh no evil and is ever
kind." Charity like mercy, "droppeth like
the gentle rain from heaven, upon the place
beneath, and is twice blest, it blesseth Him
that gives and him that takes. It is
mightiest in the mightiest, it becomes
the throned monarch better than his crown."
I am afraid we do not have true charity at
all times. It does not consist merely in re-
lieving the immediate wants of the poor
and suffering and bestowing our means
with a liberal hand. This is only a part of
our duty. We may be charitable to the rich
as well as to the poor. Our funds often do
not permit us doing deeds of charity, but
we can all cultivate charity in our feelings
towards all mankind; and even had we
wealth to bestow, it would perchance be
scorned by some who would no doubt appre-
ciate words of sympathy and love from us
as priceless boons. We should be very care-
ful not to judge each other harshly, and be-
cause some one does what we think is not
quite right, say they have a bad heart and
their motives are evil. Remember that
God is the great Judge of all His children,
and His judgment is far superior to ours;
for His is righteous judgment. If we
know our friends are doing wrong we should
try with all our might to win them from
their evil ways, yet not speak much of their
faults to others unless it be to guard them
from error. Show a reverence for the aged
and never presume to speak lightly of them,
or ridicule their looks or actions, lest God


in justice should mete out the same to us
when we grow old. How pure and noble
we would be if we thought no evil, and how
much happier our lives and those of our
fellow beings would become. It is a good
rule not to speak anything of a person
which we would not like them to hear; if
we can say no good let us speak no evil;
and especially let us not suffer ourselves to
speak evil of those our Heavenly Father,
has chosen to lead us here upon the earth;
if we reverence the holy priesthood, we
prove our devotion to our Eternal Father
to whom we owe all earthly happiness.
Then let us cultivate and express true char-
ity in every thought and act of life.
				MARY STUART.
Hyde Park, June 2, '76.


SPLINTERS.

				FOREIGN.
	Queen Victoria's new title of Empress of
India, meets with approval in Russia......
The King of Dahomey has been fined by
the British government for permitting the
slave trade in his dominions......The Pope
has replied to King Alfonzo's letter, thank-
ing him for the same, but wishing to avoid
discussion, and that Spain need fear noth-
ing from the new constitution......Advices
from Rio Grande City report Gen. Diaz
as retreating, suffering from scarcity of wa-
ter; and desertion of daily occurrence......
Ninety members of the House of Commons
have signed a memorial, asking the release
of the Fenian prisoners.


FLORAL HINTS.

	PELARGONIUMS for winter should be cut
as early as June, and the new leaves pinch-
ed off for a few weeks before potting. You
may regret this treatment at first but they
will reward you with steady bloom.
	FOR Heliotropes which you design for
winter blooming keep them pinched off
during the summer months, then pot them
in September, and they will grow large and
bloom profusely; give them plenty of sun-
shine, and all the water they can absorb.
	PRIMROSES are best kept in the shade
during the summer, part of the time in a
cold frame, with brush on the sash to shade
them. In the winter put them in the sun-
niest spot possible; then they will grow and
bloom all winter, requiring very little wa-
ter.
	WHEN house plants are troubled with in-
sects, set the plant on the floor, place a
small fire-shovel near it with a live coal
from the fire on it, then sprinkle some fine
tobacco on the coal, cover both plant and
shovel with a large cloth and give it a good
smoking. When sufficiently smoked wash
it with warm suds, then in clear water.
	HOGA Carnosa: This plant is a native of
the forests of tropical Asia, where it is
partly parisitical, its roots penetrating the
bark of the trees that support it; we can
only give less water for rest, as it will not
bear a low temperature. It is easily rooted
by wrapping a branch in moss, and keep-
ing it moist until the adventitous roots are
an inch or so long when it may be cut off
and potted.


NOTE FOR DARWIN; In time the mul-
berry tree becomes a silk-gown and a silk-
gown becomes a woman.
	WHEN is a fowl's neck like a bell? When
it is rung for dinner.


141		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				AMBITION.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	         "Longing sublime and aspirations high."
	These few words will find a ready re-
sponse in the hearts of thousands. There
are few people surely but that have some-
times felt an undefinable if not a definite
longing to do something noble to attain to
some position worthy of merit, or respect,
if not  admiration. This inherent princi-
ple in human nature is a spark of divinity,
and properly exercised and controlled is
certainly a quality which would admit of the
highest cultivation. It is a human plant
and should have abundant care in the train-
ing; left wild, it would be an uncouth, ill-
shapen overgrowth, entirely unadapted to
human intelligences, but hedging it about
with graceful and appropriate shrubbery
and foliage and giving it the support of
some lofty and reliable object, it may devel-
op into something grand and sublime.
	Ambition may be compared to the lofty
heights of the stupendous mountains,
which look so grand in the distance, which
enchant and dazzle the beholder with the
golden and purple haze, and attract by
their bewildering splendor, and viewing
them with romantic imaginings one fancies
how easy would be the ascent, and fixing
the attention perhaps upon some specified
point, bend every energy to gain the al-
luring height. Perchance it seemed very
near at first, very easy of access and the
ambitious climber, thought a firm resolve
and determination to: persevere were guar-
antees of sure success, and all would be
smooth upon the route. Alas for the fal-
lacy of human schemes! The golden haze
that surrounded the desired point shed a
soft and glimmering glamour over the in-
tervening distance, and hid from sight all
questionable objects, and with light heart
and undoubting faith, the aspirant presses
forward, and ere long encounters hedges,
thorns, thistles, and sharp rocks to be pass-
ed over, and sometimes wounds are inflict-
ed by them, where the surface looked
smooth and flattering.
	Who could have thought, when the dis-
tance seemed so easy to determine, it would
take so much weary travel over rough
roads, and through deep mire, across wide
yawning chasms, and winding intricate
paths, and through narrow ravines, where an
incautious step would obstruct all future
progress in the desired route? Often upon
the weary pilgrimage do the tired feet al-
most miss their firm hold stumbling and fal-
tering for want of strength to perform the
laborious journey, advancing so immeasura-
bly slow that the courage slackens, and
doubts arise of the strength of endurance
to reach the goal.
	Whether climbing to gain the point for
honor, for popularity or wealth, or with
some more noble purpose in view, there are
similar difficulties to encounter; and after
having traveled far and long, and perhaps
wearied with the arduous struggle, the
mountains loom up as far in the distance as
at first, and no wonder that the many diffi-
culties to be overcome seem unendurable,
for it wants something like super-human
strength to conquer every obstacle.
	If there were not a "happy valley" here
and there scattered along the route where
one might rest and recruit and mingling
with kindred associations become renewed
and invigorated, none could ever have the
fortitude to scale the high mountains; but
these inspire the traveler with increased
vigor to advance, and now and then in the

[Column 2]
desert are fresh bubbling springs of living
water, that cool the parched lips, and with
which to lave the heated brows.
	Occasionally a real friend crosses the way
and the hearty welcome, the true encour-
agement, the prompt aid, so much needed
to cheer, to inspire and revive the waning
courage, is given in such sincerity that one
cannot but feel an infinite sense of grati-
tude and a more ardent desire to reach the
pinnacle for which they started.
	It is commendable to seek some perma-
nent good for the general welfare of the
human family. How insignificant and nar-
row to a noble mind is that person who is
so self-absorbed as to utterly ignore another's
progress, or pass their endeavors by with
scorn, or indifference, sometimes without
even according the civility of a recogni-
tion of heroism, courage or merit. How
encouraging to the weary traveler is the
friendly word the cheery smile, the hospit-
able welcome upon the dreary way. "Such
is life," pursue whatever path you may, you
tread the common earth, travel where oth-
ers have trod; the hills are rough alike for
all, it is common dust, and mire and herb-
age, and even should one reach the beauti-
ful mountain, would it possess the charm it
held out in anticipation? Would there be
rest and peace, or would one look back at
the beautiful valley below, where they
stood as boy or girl, with yearning heart
and admiring eyes, gazing forward into the
distance eager to join the chase for some
lofty ambition?
	S. L. City, May 23, 1876.


LEARN TO BE USEFUL.

	Boys, when you come into the house for
your meals, and find the dinner or supper not
quite ready, and your mother or sister hurry-
ing around heated and tired, instead of stand-
ing about in the way, leaning against the
sink, or tilting back in your chair against
the buttery door, I would advise you to
take hold and help the women folks. At
first, maybe, you won't see any way you
can help them, unless you were brought up
to work occasionally in the house. Try and
experiment to-morrow. Come in a few mo-
ments before dinner time, and watch the
steps your mother takes in putting the fin-
ishing touches to the meal. See her lift the
heavy kettle of potatoes from the stove,
and, holding it with a great effort at nearly
arm's length, carry it to the sink, and then
lift it up again to drain off the water. Cer-
tainly you could do that for her. You can
take the pot of meat or beans from the oven,
and thus save much of her strength; you
can set the chairs, and run down cellar for
the butter or bread; you can glance over
the table, and see if a knife or spoon has
been misplaced in dishing up the dinner,
and if so, quietly replace it. Wouldn't this
be a better way, than, after the family are
all comfortably settled at the table, lo loudly
announce, "Maam my knife and fork's gone
—guess you mean for me to eat with my
fingers to-day:" and then mother has to
spring up, no matter how stiff and tired she
may feel, and run to the cupboard and bring
her great boy his knife. When you notice
that the vinegar cruet, the pepper; or salt
box; or any dish has been forgotten, rise up
quietly and get the same, before your moth-
er has a chance to. See if she can't sit in
peace at meal time, and not be continually
getting up for articles. Things will be for-
gotten in the best regulated families.—Prac-
tical Farmer.


WHAT keeps lent the longest and best?
Money.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PRATTVILLE, SEVIER Co., Apr. 8, '76.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often thought I would like to tell
my sisters a little of my experience in the
UNITED ORDER, with which we have been
associated for two years, and what the prin-
ciple teaches us. It teaches us faith and in-
stead of worrying for every little necessity,
we simply ask our Father in Heaven, for
He knows the desires of our hearts, and
the way always opens so that we need not
suffer; for if we have given all our worldly
goods for the upbuilding of His Kingdom,
and spend our time and talents for the same;
we can have implicit faith that the Lord
will care for us.
	It teaches us economy, and we try to
make things last as long as possible, for
every little helps roll on the work; with
economy comes industry; unless we are very
industrious and careful we cannot keep
things in good repair and in order; for we
feel the Lord is displeased with us if we
are wasteful. It teaches us contentment,
(yet we sometimes hear complaints; but we
feel to do what is required of us, and leave
the rest in the hands of the Lord. We try
to observe the Word of Wisdom, knowing
that unless we do so we cannot realize the
promised blessings.
	We also learn obedience, for it is by be-
ing obedient that we expect to be exalted.
But dear Sisters you must not think we
have no trials, for we have many, but with
the help of God we will try to overcome
them all, and perfect ourselves as we pro-
gress. It is also a great pleasure to think
that we are raising our children under such
a good influence, they will, in time know
nothing else, and to live any other way will
seem strange to them. We are endeavor-
ing to observe the rules of the U. O. which
we know will improve any people who will
do so.
	I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
								H. L.


KEEPING PIANOS IN ORDER:—A musi-
cal journal says that there is not attention
enough paid to pianos to keep them in good
tune. It asserts that a piano should be
tuned at least four times in the year by an
experienced tuner. If you allow it to go
too long without tuning, it usually be-
comes flat, and troubles a tuner to get it
to stay at tuning pitch, especially in the
country. Never place the instrument
against an outside wall, or in a cold damp
room, particularly in a country house.
There is no greater enemy to a piano than
damp. Close the instrument immediately
after you practice; by leaving it open, dust
fixes on the sound-board and corrodes the
movements, and if in a damp room the
strings soon rust. Should the piano stand
near or opposite to a window, guard it, if
possible, against being opened, especially
on a wet or damp day; and when the sun is
on the window, draw the blind down.
Avoid putting metallic or other articles on
or in the piano; such things frequently
cause unpleasant vibrations, and sometimes
injure the instrument. The more even the
temperature of the room, the better the in-
strument will remain in tune.


A teaspoonful of black pepper put into the first
water in which gray or buff linen is washed will
keep it from spotting. It will also keep the col-
ors of black and colored cambrics and muslins
from running.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		15


[Column 1]
		WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE.

	"Recently a public meeting in favor
of women's suffrage was held in St.
George's Hall, Langham plaee, Mr. Russel
Gurney, M. P., the Recorder of London,
presiding. The hall was quite full, and
among those on the platform were Miss
Becker, Miss Sturge, Miss Frances Power
Cobbe and Miss Tod."
	The chairman, after congratulating the
audience upon so large a meeting, after a
temporary discouragement in the House of
Commons, went on to enumerate some of
the items contained in the Bill which had
just recently been rejected. He thought the
Bill corrected the injustice which existed
and he argued that he could not see consist-
ency in allowing one landholder or a person
occupying house No. 13, and paying rates,
for that house, being allowed to vote, and a
person occupying No. 14, and bearing the
same burdens, not being allowed to vote
merely because there was a difference of
sex in the two occupants. He denied that
if women voted they would be enti-
tled to the right of sitting in Parliament,
any more than clergymen who had votes,
but had been prevented for more than a
century from sitting in Parliament. He
could not see why women should not have
their views represented: they could not al-
ways take the same view of questions as
men. He alluded to the complaints coming
mostly from wives, sisters, and daughters;
the subject of the injustice done to younger
sons was also brought up, that the eldest
sons carried off all the property, yet young-
er sons were not excluded from the fran-
chise.
	Miss Becker rose to propose the first reso-
lution as follows:—"That this meeting
hereby records its approval of the assimila-
tions of the conditions of the Parliamen-
tary, to those of the Municipal franchise in
so far as regards the disabilities of sex, and
pledges itself to support the principle by
every constitutional means." Before speak-
ing to it, however, she wished to read the
following letter:—
			"39, Sloane-street, May 13.
	"Madam,—I regret that I cannot comply
with your request in attending the meeting
at St. George's Hall. You must not on that
account, however, infer that I am unfriend-
ly to its object, I have voted in its favor on
more than one occasion, and doubtless I
shall do so again. It may be, as some think,
that no great advantage at this time would
accrue to the country by extending the
electoral suffrage, but I cannot see any prin-
ciple or consistency in withholding it, es-
pecially from those whose cause you are
pleading. The Legislature has conferred
the right on women of voting for their mu-
nicipal representatives, of voting for, (and,
indeed, acting as) Poor Law Guardians, and
the same with regard to School Boards, and
they have always been entitled to fill cer-
tain parochial offices, and it is never alleged
that in the discharge of these duties they
have acted less worthily than men. In
most respects, their rights as owners of
property are concurrent with those of men.
They can inherit peerages, and, as we know
to our satisfaction, they can occupy the
Throne. I cannot see, therefore, on what
ground it is that they can reasonably be said
to be disqualified from determining upon
the claims of candidates who seek to repre-
sent their interests in Parliament, especi-
under the peaceful condition in which they
would now record their votes.
	"As far as I am acquainted with the ob-
jections usually alleged, I am bound to say

[Column 2]
that they appear to be those which have al-
ways been offered whenever fresh extension
of liberty to the subject has been proposed,
and which in former years I have myself
heard urged against personal freedom in
the Colonies, religious liberty in this coun-
try, the enfranchisement of the working
classes, and against the abolition of every
monoply (political or commercial) whenever
it has been assailed. We have seen, how-
ever, with what little success resistance up-
on these great matters has of late years been
attended, and with what satisfaction the
results of past changes are now regarded by
the country. You, then, have little reason
to feel discouragement at the present posi-
tion of your cause. You have only to per-
severe, making it clear to the public that
your claim is just and possible to be enfore-
ed—and that political rights are now with-
held where there is intelligence and capaci-
ty to use them wisely and where the posses-
sion of them would afford protection and
benefit to those who demand them.
	"With great respect, dear Madam, I re-
main your obedient servant,
					C. P. VILLIERS.

	"To Miss Lydia Becker."

	She said no one would suppose for a mo-
ment that an adverse vote from the House
of Commons would convince any woman
who made this claim as a matter of justice
that the claim was unjust. Not all the elo-
quence of all the most eloquent ment who
ever lived could persuade an intelligent,
patriotic woman, that she had no right to
vote, if she possessed the legal qualifica-
tions, no more than it could persuade her
that she had no right to be educated if she
could pay the fees, or to sit down to dinner
if she could pay the bill. (Cheers.) She de-
manded no more than was contained in the
Bill introduced by Mr. Forsyth, and she
thought they were entitled to that.
	Mr. Cowen, M. P., supported the resolu-
tions, remarking that although they might
not be successful for years, their cause
would in the end triumph. Women's Suf-
frage would be sure to favor peace, econ-
omy and temperance. (Hear, hear.)
	Miss Cobbe said, indirectly the giving of
the vote to women, would make even bru-
tal men have more respect for them, etc.

	She believed that the granting of suffrage
to women was no less expedient for men
than it was just for women, and that it
would redound to the happiness, virtue and
honor of the country.
	After a few words from Mr. Hinde Pal-
mer in support of the resolution, an amend-
ment was proposed declaring that it was ex-
pedient and wise to allow the law to remain
as it is; but it was lost, and the original res-
olution carried by a large majority.
	Miss Sturge moved the second resolution
as follows:—"That this meeting hereby ex-
presses its earnest thanks to Mr. Forsyth,
Mr. Jacob Bright, Dr. Ward, Mr. Fawcett, Sir
Robert Anstruther, and Sir Charles Legard
for introducing and supporting the Women's
Disabilities Removal Bill; also to the 161
Members of Commons who voted or paired
in its favor in the division on the second
reading of the measure on the 26 of April,
1876, and respectfully requests Mr. Forsyth
and his coadjutors to take steps for the re-in-
troduction of the Bill at an early period next
session."
	Mr. O'Shaughnessy, M. P., seconded the
motion, which was supported by Miss Tod,
and carried.
	The chairman was thanked for presiding,
and the meeting broke up."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To whiten unbleached Valencicnnes lace, lay
on a cloth and cover with magnesia or baby pow-
der, leaving it over night. Blow off the dust and
repeat if need be.
	Clean cashmere lace by dipping or rinsing it in
gasoline, being careful not to rub it so as to get
the meshes and figures out of place. Dry it out of
doors, then lay it on a cloth in good form, and
place between the leaves of a book to press.
	Potato Balls for Breakfast.—To three cups of
cold mashed potatoes add one cup of sweet cream,
a little salt and two well-beaten eggs. Mould in-
to little balls; put on a baking-pan, and set in the
oven until done a delicate brown, or, if preferred,
fry in boiling lard.
	To Make Attar of Roses.—Gather the flowers
of some of the most fragrant sorts, but the com-
mon Blush or other June roses are the best. Put
the petals in a cask, or stone jar, with sufficient
water to cover them. Then put the vessel out of
doors where the sun will keep it warm. In a
week or ten days the oil may be seen on the surface,
and may be removed by the aid of a piece of cot-
ton.
	To clean kid gloves. Lay your glove in a
long, flat-bottomed dish, like a common vegetable
dish, and cover it with the gasoline; rub soiled spots
with a clean white rag, squeeze, not wring with
your hand, as dry as you can, lay it on a clean old
muslin, take one corner of the muslin and rub the
fingers and thomb out smooth, rub soiled spots if
any remain, inflate by blowing into it, then pin on
a cloth out-of-doors to dry. The process should
be gone through with quickly, as the glove is in-
jured by remaining in the liquid; not more than
ten minutes being occupied in cleaning the pair of
gloves. This will be found excellent economy.


LORD DERBY TO THE BOYS.

	In his speech to the Liverpool lads Lord
Derby said:—"You live in an age of inquiry,
of doubt, of mental restlessness, when more
than ever men are unwilling to accept tra-
ditional solutions to the great mysteries
which surround our life and when many
brains are bewildered, and many hearts
are made to ache by the vain effort to solve
problems impenetrable to human reason.
You cannot escape the common destiny.
Those of you who reflect—and I hope they
will be many—will inevitably have times of
mental perplexity when the very purpose
of existence seems obscure and doubtful;
when traditions appear to fail, and reason is
baffled and when men ask in bewilderment,
'What does it all mean?' I am not here to
deal with these high matters; it is not my
duty, nor is this the place. Only so much
I tell you—I believe that there are ideas
implanted in us which, in a sound mind, no
merely intellectual disturbance will long af-
fect, and of which, in the deepest darkness,
we may always, if we will, keep hold. Right
and wrong, honor, duty, and country benev-
olence towards men and responsibility to-
ward the unseen Power by which human
actions are guided and controlled—these
are not idle phrases. In all countries and
ages they have retained their meaning.
They are realities which correspond with
the deepest wants and feelings of our na-
ture, and no man will feel himself utterly
cast down who can say in his heart what
the wisest and best of the human race have
proclaimed in the whole tenor of their lives.
Whether I am happy or unhappy is not my
chief affair; what first and most concerns
me is to find my work in life, to recognize
it and to do it."—Ex.


16		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	To be borrowed without giving security.
Trouble.
	DEEP THINKERS: Visitors in a mine
wondering if they will get out alive.
	MARRIAGE is described by a French cynic
as a tiresome book with a very fine preface.
	WHY should every man wear a watch
when he travels in a desert? Because
every watch has a spring in it.
	THERE is no special style for engraving
engagement rings. A spider's web with a
fly in it, has been suggested as a pretty de-
vice.
	THE momentous question: Augustus; 'well
Emily, do you love me or do you not?" Em-
ily: "Well, if I say I don't I shall have to
return your present!"
	"THAT's what I call a finished sermon,"
remarked a man as he was coming out
of church. "Yes, finished at last," rejoined
his neighbor, "though I began to think it
never would be."
	A SEVERE RETORT: Soon after Lord
Sidney's elevation to the Peerage, he hap-
pened to observe in company, that authors
were very often ridiculous in the titles they
gave. "That," said a poet who was pres-
ent, "is an error from which even kings are
not exempt."
	A RECENT advertisement contained the
following startling information. "If the
gentleman who keeps the stove store with
a red head will return the umbrella of a
young lady with whalebone ribs and an
ivory handle, to the slate-roofed grocer's
store, he will hear of something to his ad-
vantage, as the same is the gift of a de-
ceased mother now no more with the name
engraved upon it.
	THE VARIETY OF DISEASES: "Disease is
very various" said Mrs. Partington, as she
returned from the street in company with
Dr. Bolus. "The Dr. tells me that poor old
Mrs. Hare has got two buckles on her lungs.
It is dreadful to think of, I declare. The
disease is so various. One day we hear of
people's dying with hermitage of the lungs;
another day of the brown creatures. Here
they tell us of the elementary canal being
out of order, and then about tonsors of the
throat. Here we hear of the neuology in
the head, there of embargo. On one side
of us we hear of men being killed by get-
ting a pound of tough beef in the sarcoph-
agus, and another kills himself by discover-
ing his jocular vein. Things change so that I
declare I don't know how to subscribe for
any disease now-a-days. New names and
new nostrils take the place of the old, and
I might as well throw my herb-bag away.


ACTOR AND ACTRESS.

	"Bad women on the stage. The private
character of an actress is a fit matter for pub-
lic criticism. Her reputation belongs to those
who support her. If it be pure she cannot
but be proud to have it known. If it be im-
pure, it is a matter of right it should be
published, that the public may not be de-
ceived. The noble sentiments of a play lose
all intention in the mouth of a notoriously
wicked person."—Exchange.
	The private character of an actor is a fit
matter for public criticism. His reputation
b[-]l[-]ngs to those who support him. If it be
pure he cannot but be proud to have it
known. If it be impure, it is a matter of
right it should be published, that the pub-


lic may not be deceived. The noble senti-
ments of a play lose all intention in the
mouth of a notoriously wicked person.
	Woman has borne the brunt of criticism
long enough alone. A bad man has never
been condemned and cast out and crushed
to the earth, as has a bad woman who can-
not have been worse than he, and who is
often enough, God knows! more sinned
against than sinning. It is not man, nor
law, nor society alone, that so harshly judg-
es, and rigorously manages this inquisitori-
al punishment, but Woman, she it is who
has helped make it so fearful a thing to be
a Woman!
	Can this fair Pharisee tell us why the man
sinner is more worthy of respectful place and
treatment than the female sinner? We
cannot discover wherein he is more deserv-
ing than she. We desire to be just in cur
judgment, meting out only honest measure,
and so, while we would crush none to the
earth, whatever their sin, we would exalt
none who had not shown repentance, and
thereby unfitness for renewed confidence and
favor.
					WOMAN'S JOURNAL.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES,
	(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
              Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 30[-], Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guara[-]tee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School [-]rizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to	C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah. 

					Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
  Flowers, &c.
		Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps. Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
Call at the Store of the U.0. 14th WARD, [-]our
doors below Walker House, and examine our
goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
take pleasure in making to order, such
brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indespensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BAR[-]OOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of 
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her 
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and 
price.				17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CL[-]CK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and K[-]t at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
        They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
		BUTTER and EGGS,
				F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
		       OF 
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		     AND
	GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET. 

H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES! 
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1876.		No. 3.


ANSWER TO WHAT ARE WE MEN TO DO, BY R. W.
	EASTERBROOKS, EXPONENT, APRIL 15TH, 1876.

It seems, gentle sir, you are somewhat afraid,
Your strong-minded sisters may step from their sphere
And some of your precious MEN'S RIGHTS may invade?
	(Excuse me a moment to wipe off this tear!)
Yo[-] fear their activity given full sway
Would really monopolize industries all?
You flatter them, sir, in so happy a way,
I bow you my thanks in behalf of them all.
You'd gladly exchange work if only you could;
(Exceptional man, if you mean what you say!
I ne'er knew another admit that he would:)
	But babies need feminine mothers you say.
Quite true—bless the babies!—they really do need
Those same "female mothers," fond, patient, and true,
To nourish and cherish, and all their wants heed;
But, though this is much, is it all that we do?

You speak of the babes with the satisfied air
Of one who has cited the catalogue through;
But the leisure for study, were they our sole care,
	Might lift us in intellect ALMOST to you.
'Tis thus that our labors have always been scorned!
The "little" admitted which gives them their breath.
Men smile at the burdens so patiently borne,
Though we know their weight often crushes to death.

Seant praise and less pay have resolved us at last
To try some emploments man claims for his own:
We lik[-] them; they pay us; the time being past
	To tremble at shadows, the barriers thrown
Around us by man we will scale or pull down,
Denying his right to prescribe every "sphere,"
To say, after fixing our limits all round,
"My sphere is unbounded, but yours is just here."

But since "God has fixed" that the children are ours,
(Though man claims them his—yes and his all alone.)
We gladly and proudly will pluck the sweet flowers
	Transplanted to earth from the foot of His throne.
And if you scorn the needle, the washboard and broom,
As m[-]ch as is probable—being a man—
If 'mong the world's workers you cannot find room,
I then would suggest—not advise, mind—this plan:

You shall sit in the shade—I will plant you a tree—
Fold your hands, shut your eyes, hang your feet on a chair.
And, lighting the soothing and odorous weed,
	Puff blue, balmy clouds on the plain; common air,
And while those poor "fem[-]les" who would have their
	way,
In pursuit of their work hurry breathlessly past,
Half open your eyes and with gentleness say—
"Thank heaven I've found out my true sphere at last."
								Lu Dalton.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
			WHICH WAY?

	As we enter upon the rugged pathway of
life, glowing with health and anticipation,
what a strange and bewildering panorama
is spread out before us; and, as we near the
gateway of active life, our youthful minds
seem almost dazed, and we feel scarcely ca-
pable of comprehending the meaning of the
different sights and sounds with which we
are surrounded. As we advance, the first
thing which attracts our attention, because
it strangely contrasts with the dazzling
splendor on either side, is a straight, nar-
row path, reaching far beyond human sight,
away; far away into the future, as it were.
This path seems to be a lonely, dreary one;
no allurements to attract the few weary,
patient-looking pedestrians who are travel-
ing its thorny course. O, cruel, cruel thorns!
Not only do they wound the weary, worn
feet, but they pierce the already aching
heart; aye! pierce it until drops of blood
are wrung out, drop, and are drank greedily
by the rank, bitter weeds growing beneath.
And still, after many weary travelers have

[Column 2]
endured all this, it seems to make the path
but very little more passable, or less thorny
and dreary to the more youthful feet that
yet may enter its wearisome track.

		"O heartless weeds! who suck life's sap
		From buds so pure and friendless!"

	As we stand almost spellbound, gazing at
the peculiar sight before us, we notice these
careworn travelers stooping, ever and anon,
to pick up what appear to be small, lustre-
less brown stones or pebbles; and we pit-
eously exclaim—"Oh, why do they stop to
gather them! See how the thorns lacerate
the poor, bleeding arms and hands, and
deepen the furrows on the pallid brow."
The sight seems to almost sicken us, and we
turn our gaze to the brighter and more beau-
tiful side of the pict[-]re.
	Here, all seems fascinating and enchant-
ing. The road is broad and verdant, cool,
shady bowers are ever open, ready to wel-
come the traveler passing that way. Halls
of pleasure, brilliantly illuminated, from
which thrilling music floats forth and is car-
ried away on the balmy air, attract our at-
tention, and we hear the bursts of revelry
and song from the gay company within; we
see fair damsels gliding hither and thither
in their foamy vestments, while the gallant
knights look stately and grand as they hover
around them, in their more sombre array of
faultless black and spotless white. Every-
thing is enchanting and alluring here, as
we gaze upon the broad, green road,
thronged with pleasure-seeking crowds;
and we hear familiar voices calling for more
to come and participate in the festival.
	After being permitted to gaze upon these
strange, bewildering sights for a short
period, we advance still farther, and enter
the great gateway, which denotes the be-
ginning of these different paths. Here we
stand irresolute, knowing not whither to go
or what course to pursue. While we are
thus pondering in our minds, a guide ap-
pears, who points out to us the narrow, thor-
ny path. "That," says he, "is the path of
duty, which, if faithfully trodden, will
bring its own great reward; and those small
brown pebbles which now appear lustreless
and worthless, are jewels beyond all price,
obtained only by learning the hard, sad LES-
SONS OF LIFE. Under their rough exterior
glows a 'hidden light' which will shine
brilliantly and illuminate thy crown in the
Great Hereafter, when thou hast conquered
and reached the end beyond (pointing along
the thorny path) This," pointing to the
broad, verdant road, "is the path of pleas-
ure, and many there are who walk therein.
But listen. Thou canst not stop to indulge
in any of their festivities or banquets; not
even to rest thy weary limbs in one of their
flower-wreathed bowers, lest the trumpet
soundeth, and the golden gate be closed ere
thou reachest the end beyond; for thou on-
ly hast time allotted unto thee to reach it in
due season if thou keepest steadily onward,
swerving not to the right hand or the left;
and thy glory shall be according to the jew-
els and treasures thou hast gathered and
laid up to present to the keeper of the Gate
of Paradise beyond"—pointing to the thor-
ny path—"Now go thy way and choose for
thyself."
	Now we enter the thorny path, hopeful

[Column 3]
and courageous, glowing with valor and ex-
pectation, feeling determined to conquer
and reach the Golden Gate in due season,
and obtain the glories that await us in the
Paradise beyond. But Oh! as we advance,
how the cruel thorns lacerate us, and pierce
our hearts to the very core. How weary
we are growing, stooping ever and anon to
pick up the little lustreless stones. We
longingly gaze at the flower-wreathed bow-
ers on either side, and the seductive sound
of splashing fountains greet our ear, while
the sweet perfume of lovely flowers is waft-
ed to us on the light zephyr, and we seem
wooed for a few brief moments from the
thoughts of our thorny surroundings. Then
we murmur—why can't we rest our weary
limbs just a little while in the shady bow-
ers, and bathe our fevered brows in the cool
waters of the fountain. We hear familiar
voices calling "Come, hie thee away to the
pastures of pleasure," and we stand irreso-
lute, thinking only how easy it would be to
step across the narrow line that divides the
two paths, and join in the revelry of the
wild, joyous throng. But hark! We hear
the voice of the guide whispering—"Only
time, only time, if thou keepest steadily
onward, swerving not to the right hand or
to the left—to reach the great gate ere the
trumpet soundeth and it be closed against
thee, then thou wilt have to enter another
way, and be content with a lesser glory.
A look of stern determination crosses our
countenance, and we step resolutely onward,
heedless of the allurements and temptations
on either side; saying that by the help of
heaven we WILL CONQUER.
	How many of us, dear friends, are in the
narrow path, the line of duty, and how
long will we continue in it; and shall we
be sufficiently strong to endure the heat of
the day, the poisoning of the bitter, rank
weeds, and the piercing of the sharp, cruel
thorns? Or shall we step aside and mingle
with the giddy throng, and become drunk-
en with the momentary pleasures of this
world, which, remember, Oh, REMEMBER,
are of a surety but momentary compared
with the everlasting joy to be obtained when
the victory for which we are striving has
been attained and we have passed through
the Golden Gate into the Paradise beyond?
Who can tell? But let us remember that—

	"Pleasures are like poppies spread,
	You seize the flower—its bloom is shed;
	Or like the snow-flake in the river,
	A moment white—then lost forever;
		Or like borealus race,
	That f[--]t ere you can find their place,
											ZOE.


THE WOMAN'S Pavilion at the Centen-
nial Exhibition has been said by many who
have visited Philadelphia since the grand
opening, to contain some of the most charm-
ing varieties of specimens, and to be the
most tastefully and artistically arranged of
any building upon the grounds. From the
Royal Family of England were received
several productions of elegant home work-
manship; twenty-six etchings by the Queen;
table napkins of her own spinning; delicate
embroidery, and drawings of flowers by her
daughters.


18		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday, June 24,
1876, was one of intense interest, and was
very largely attended. After the custom-
ary exercises and reading of minutes by the
young lady secretaries, President Mrs. M.
I. Horne addressed the assembly in earnest
and impressive language. Counselor E. R.
Snow then spoke, mostly concerning the
Territorial Fair now about to open; she un-
derstood that some people had received the
impression that articles brought were a
donation; this was not so; they had told
every one from the first that unless speci-
mens were ticketed for sale, every article
would be returned to its owner, and no sac-
rifice made whatever, etc. Counselor Mrs.
B. W. Smith then related a few items in re-
gard to her recent visit to Fillmore, etc.
Counselor E. R. Snow then introduced to
the assemblage Mrs. Woodruff, recently
from the East, who then addressed the
meeting, relating some of her experiences
among the different tribes of Indians where
she had labored as a missionary, teacher,
etc., during five years; she showed some
pictures of Indian chiefs with whom she
was acquainted, which were strikingly ex-
pressive of the peculiar characteristics of
these descendants of the Aborigines. She
is a lady of education and culture, and has
become thoroughly interested in this partic-
ular work, which is one of the most noble
and most necessary to be accomplished to
fulfil this dispensation. Elder Lemon, who
was present, then spoke to the ladies and
reviewed some parts of his life and travels,
which were particularly adapted to the sub-
ject before the meeting; the Indians, the
Book of Mormon, the proof of its truth etc.;
spoke of his coming among this people a
stranger as Mrs. Woodruff had now come;
of the welcome given him on all sides
wherever he had traveled through the set-
tlements of the Saints.

REPORT OF ANNUAL MEETING OF RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION HELD IN THE
FIRST WARD SCHOOL HOUSE, MAY 10, 1876.

	After singing, prayer, and reading of
minutes, President Mrs. Sarah Graham,
arose and expressed herself pleased to see
so many sisters from other wards, said that
it would be the wish of all to hear from
them. They would dispense with the usual
exercises of selections, essays, &c. She
then presented to the congregation Miss
Eliza R. Snow, who proceeded to address
them upon the progress of these organiza-
tions, the cause of it, and the ultimate re-
sults, if they followed out the instructions
given them and persevered in the path
open to them; spoke of the trials and temp-
tations that beset the pathway of the saints,
of the great power of evil spirits, and of
the diligence and faithfulness necessary to
preserve them from such evil influences;
made some remarks upon punctuality,
which she considered one of the essentials
to accomplish any good work; spoke of the
necessity of building temples, as there were
many ordinances belonging to the priest-
hood which could not be attended to out-
side of a temple. She reminded the sisters
how the Relief Society commenced with a
few carpet rags, a little wool, and so on;
now they had spread and grown strong; she
had this spring received reports from 111
branches in this Territory, and they had
disbursed for charitable purposes, gathering
the poor, &c., over $93,400. In addition,
there were many good works done that

[Column 2]
could not be reported. She looked forward
with hope and joy to the time when the
saints would become a mighty phalanx to
prevail against the powers of darkness.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young then addressed the
meeting upon the silk culture and its ad-
vantages, the lack of machinery, &c.; and
touched upon the subject of Celestial Mar-
riage; and the need of activity, lest we fall
asleep and slumber when the Bridegroom
cometh.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Martha Young,
Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Mrs. Sarah Wheeler, Mrs. Sarah Graham,
each of them addressed the meeting upon
those subjects of most importance to the
sisters in helping to advance the interests
of the saints.
Mrs. Agnes Campbell and Mrs. Mary Muss-
er counselors, Misses Sarah Smith and
Mary Ann Adams Secretaries, bore their
testimonies in an impressive and humble
manner, full of faith and sincerity.
	After the closing exercises, a large num-
ber of the sisters repaired to the residence
of Mrs. M. A. Musser, where there was a
delicate and tasteful repast prepared by the
members of the Association.
This society is one of the most active and
prosperous in the city.

			FAIRVIEW, May 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation in Fairview, was organized August
7th, 1875, with the following officers:
MISS MARY JONES, President,
"	LEVEE T. TERRY,			}
"	JULIA SANDERSON,		}
"	SELINA STEWART,		} Counselors.
MRS. R[-]BECCA TERRY,		}
MISS TRYPHENA COX,			}
" 	ELLEN ALRED,			}
MISS MARGARET ANDERSON,	} Secretaries
"	ELISE TUCKER,			}
	We enjoy ourselves at our meetings,
which we hold once a week. We have
girls from 10 years of age and over and
all get up and speak. The younger girls
seem to take more interest in our meetings
than the older ones. We remained under
the above organization until our beloved
president was called on the Arizona mission.
It was with the greatest regret that we
parted with her, but she had a greater mis-
sion to fulfil.
	We were re-organized Feb. 13, 1876, with
the following officers;
	MRS. JULIA RIGBY, President,
MISS NANCY SANDERS,		}
"	TRYPHENA COX,			} Counselors,
"	SELINA STEWART,		}
"	LEVEE TERRY,			}
MISS MARGARET ANDERSON,	} Secretary,
"	ELISE TUCKER,			}
	We take the EXPONENT in our society
this year, and it is a great help to us, and is
read with much interest. We are pleased
to hear from other associations, and thought
perhaps you would like to hear from us.
We are sometimes visited by some of the
members of the Relief Society, and they
always give us good instructions. We have
formed no Resolutions as yet, but all are
striving to do right; and I hope and pray
that all the Retrenchment Associations will
accomplish the end for which they were or-
ganized:
		I remain
			Your Sister in the Gospel,
					TRYPHENA COX.

[Column 3]
				MANTI, May 16th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The following is the report of the Manti
Relief Society for the year ending Feb. 4,
1876:
	Total Receipts,........................$ 	193 00
	Disbursed to the poor and for pub-
		lic improvements,................  165 87

	Remaining,..............................$	27 92
	This we have invested in the Ladies'
Co-operative store of Manti.
					A. L. Cox, Secretary.

		SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co.,
						May 23, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Retrenchment Society for Young La-
dies was organized in this place by M. A.
P. Hyde, President of the Relief Society,
and her counselors, on the 3rd of December
1874, with the following officers:—
MISS ANNENA LARSEN, President,
"	GEORGIANA CRISP,	}
"	JULIETTE BIRDIC,		}
"	MARGARET JUALISEN,	} Counselors,
"	OLIVE ALLRED,		}
"	EMMA ADLER,		}
"	ANNA LARSEN,		}
"	FIDELIA KOFFORD, Secretary,
"	OLIVE ALLRED, Assistant Secretary,
MRS. MARIA BUCHANA, Treasurer.
	We hold our meetings regularly, and speak
of the things pertaining to the work in
which we are engaged. We desire to over-
come everything that would prevent us
from gaining eternal life in the kingdom of
our God. Our President is an amiable
young lady, who is trying, together with
her counselors, to honor her calling. There
are sixty-three members of the society, and
all manifest a good spirit when they meet
together. We read pieces from the EXPO-
NENT in almost every meeting, and by so
doing, we feel much edified; and we wish
it success, and the blessing of God to attend
it, and all institutions of improvement.
				P. E. KOFFORD.
						Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A DISPATCH from Alexandria says a quar-
rel has arisen between the Khedive and the
new Turkish Government, in consequence
of which the Khedive has been ordered to
proceed to Constantinople. He will arrive
there shortly with his family.
	TWELVE HUNDRED lodges of the Sioux
are reported as moving to meet General
Crook.
	THE PRINCE of Wales visit to India, it
is thought, will be likely to create some
very important reforms, judging by Mr.
Conway's letter to London. The Prince
gave $1,000 to the local charities of Calcutta.
He also succeeded in relaxing, in some de-
gree, the restrictions placed upon women in
that country.


MISS ANNA OLIVER, of New York, at the
commencement of the Boston University,
received the degree of B. D. (Bachelor of
Divinity). Miss Oliver is the first woman
in America who has ever attained that de-
gree.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


For the EXPONENT.
PRAYER FOR THE EMIGRANTS.

	O God our Father and our King,
		We humbly bow to thee
	In prayer, that thou wilt bless thy Saints,
		Upon the boundless sea.
	And, as they cross the desert plains,
		Where red men fearless roam,
	Be thou with them e'en there, to guide
		Thy children safely home.

	Should enemies of light and truth
		Conspire to work them harm,
	Do thou, O Father, guard and shield
		Them with they Mighty arm.
	May they rejoice, like Israel's sons,
		Who once from bondage fled:
	But not like them, depart from thee,
		Their true and living Head.

	Inspire their leaders with the zeal
		Which fired Moses' breast;
	That they may lead the Saints in peace
		Unto their land of rest.
	O God, our Father and our king!
		Now, we have bowed to thee,
	We know that thou wilt guard and bless
		Thy Saints, on land or sea.
										UKA.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			MANIT, SANPETE Co.,
					June 10th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In a late article, it was asked, among other
things, "Why do women dress so elaborate-
ly?" Men's admiration, undoubtedly, has
something to do with it, and it is right that
it should be so. It is woman's God-given
prerogative to please, to CHARM, if you will;
herein lies her great power for good or evil,
and every right minded woman should do
her utmost to avail herself of every means in
her power to exercise this grand prerogative.
In dress as well as everything else. But I
would ask, Do our modern belles and women
of society do so for the admiration of man
alone? In nine-tenths instances the crea-
tion of envy, jealousy, and other kindred
passions in their rival sisters has as much
and more to do with it. In nine cases out
of ten a man is incapable of judging or ap-
preciating a modern woman's elaborate
toilet. It is certainly not he, but woman
who insists upon the genuineness of laces
diamonds, etc., and who is so often detecting
flaws in a rival's toilet.
	Undoubtedly it is true that ever since
Adam accused Eve in the Garden of Eden,
men have been laying the blame of every
great social wrong, in which both partici-
pated, on woman. And with a certain de-
gree of justice, for I hold that the relation-
ship between the two sexes is such as to ad-
mit of no distinction in such cases; and we
should be willing to take our share of the
blame. Men and women usually influence
each other, and, except in cases of trouble
or calamity, man's relation to woman is such
as to call forth the gentle rather than the
rigorous side of his character; his emotions
rather than his intellect; his weakness, than
his strength. And ours it should be to
guard against folly. It is needless to cite
instances in proof of this; each one of us
will readily call to mind instances in our
own experience, and history will furnish
others, of men, GREAT men, men of strong
character and exhibiting practical common
sense in all the walks of life, who neverthe-
less became imbecile and acted like fools in
cases where women were concerned. Let
us whom God has gifted with intuition al-
most prophetic, and quickness of percep-
tion and insight that shames the slower
reasoning powers of men, let us stand firm
if man does fall. Let us not quarrel with

[Column 2]
men like school-children accusing each
other of "having done it." God knows we
all have need of His infinite mercy.
	The acknowledged influence we have
hitherto, silently and in secret, for good and
bad, wielded in the affairs of men, let us,
as a united sisterhood, strive to increase;
and, still "seeking to please," wield it open-
ly and for good only. Let us commence
the reform by arousing the noblest instincts
and impulses among our sisters everywhere,
by inaugurating a new era of simplicity
and modesty, by moulding public oponion
so that it will interdict, and taboo as vulgar,
the extravagance that is complained of. Let
us commence at home by precept and ex-
ample, and eschew these useless recrimina-
tions. Let our actions, henceforth, speak
louder than words.
		WILHELMINA CHRISTAFFERSON.

				MANIT, May 18, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading the favorable reports of the
Relief Societies from different parts of the
Territory, I have been led to reflect, that of
all women on earth, we have the most rea-
son to be thankful. When I contrast our past
history with the present; my gratitude is
greater than I can express; and I think it
will be a blessing to us in years to come, to
keep before our children the privations and
hardships we have endured, instead of en-
couraging them in the fashions and vanities
of the world.
	I have not forgotten the sorrows of Nau-
voo, or the martyrdom of our beloved Pro-
phet and Patriarch. Yes, I saw their man-
gled bodies, and the grief of that sorrow
stricken people, which was too deep for ut-
terance. And then were we left unmolest-
ed? No. We were compelled to leave our
homes, and travel we knew not whither.
But we were hopeful and cheerful, for we
knew that the mantle of our beloved Pro-
phet had fallen upon President Brigham
Young, and in the midst of all our trials,
our trust was in God.
	Yes, I think it well to keep in remem-
brance the past history of the church, that
the rising generation may realize what we
have had to endure to obtain the blessings we
now enjoy.
	I will close by saying to my young sisters,
Do not get lifted up in pride, and follow
after the fashions of those who are not of
us, and remember that the blessings are due
to us only in accordance with our faithful-
ness and obedience to the requirements of
our Heavanly Father.
	Wishing you continued success and pros-
perity, I remain your sister in the gospel.
				REBECCA WAREHAM.

			ST. GEORGE, June 7th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In endeavoring to write this letter, the
little piece entitled "An Ode to My Son"
occurs to my mind. I do not suppose that a
mother ever existed that has not had the
same trouble when raising a family of small
children, unless, indeed, she is wealthy, and
can send her children into a nursery, and
instruct a servant to take entire charge of
them. But I dare say that such women, in
this Territory, are as few and far between
as angels' visits. And just to point these
remarks, here comes Mary with the baby,
said baby informing us as loudly as possible
that if his mamma does not instantly take
him into her arms, there will be a slight

[Column 3]
disurbance in this otherwise peaceful fam-
ily!
	There! I have at last set him down, to-
gether with almost every dish and spoon in
the house; perhaps I shall be able to write
a few more lines, I hope so, at least.
	I suppose you heard through the papers,
of the Conference, so I will try to speak of
some things that will be new and interest-
ing.
	Some two weeks ago Brothers M. Young
and M. Hardy visited the Young Men's and
Young Ladies' joint meeting, and addressed
them in very able and timely language.
They urged the young people to go ahead
in the good work they had undertaken, and
instructed them concerning their duties as
brethren and sisters in the church, and ex-
horted them to improve every opportunity
of improving themselves, and gaining useful
knowledge.
	Two weeks after this the Young Ladies'
regular meeting convened, which I attended.
The President, Miss Libbie Snow, is in
every way adapted to the position she holds,
being very quiet and steady, and simple in
her dress. She is old enough to realize her
responsibility, and is really one of the most
popular young ladies in this city. She spoke
to the girls about obedience, and encour-
aged them to take an interest in their meet-
ings. She referred to the subject of prayer,
and instructed the girls at some length up-
on their duties in this respect.
	There were some beautiful selections
read, and two most excellent essays read on
Faith and on Duty to Parents. Both of them
showing thought and study.
	The different members bore their testimo-
ny, and the President appointed the meet-
ings for every Thursday at 4 o'clock, instead
of every other Saturday at 2.
	The Society has but recently been organ-
ized, consequently, the girls do not yet rea-
lize its consequence as they will at a future
time. Still, they all have a good spirit,
and are willing to obey counsel.
	I would like to speak of the noble Tem-
ple, but I don't think I will have space in
this letter, and will reserve that subject for
a future time.
	Allow me to remember myself to all my
dear friends in Salt Lake City, and more
especially to Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. Young.
	I will write again soon, if I can interest
your readers.
					Yours, &c.,
							S. Y. D.


THE NEWS of the death of Madame Du-
devaunt has been telegraphed to America.
This lady is well known as an author and
novelist under the "nom de plume of "George
Sand." She was born in the castle of No-
hant, and there also she spent the last years
of her truly eventful life. The "Woman's
Journal" says—"France has had no woman
since Madame de Stael who will compare
with her, and in the higher realm of intel-
lectual creation the latter is superior to the
former." "As a writer, she stands foremost
among the few leading women of the
world." The "New York Tribune" in speak-
ing of her says—"Her style was as superior
to that of Madame de Stael, as beautiful,
breathing life is to sculptured marble. Here-
in she surpasses the only living woman wor-
thy to be placed beside her.—George Elliot.
						In the field of in-
tellectual exertion and achievement, she
did a man's task, and her legacy to "the
world is all the more valuable because she
did it in a woman's way."


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS. 		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
[-]1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1876.


[Column 1]
		THE CENTENNIAL YEAR OF
				AMERICA.

	It is scarcely possible to take up a newspa-
per, periodical, etc., but contain some indica-
tion, notice or announcement in regard to the
Centennial of America.
	If we should fail to notice it editorially, we
undoubtedly should be looked upon as out of
style; or heretic; this in itself may be of very
little consequence, but after all, one likes to be
in keeping with their surroundings, and not
too far removed from their cotemporaries in
matters national, political and general. Thus
it follows that we, too, must express our opin-
ion concerning the Grand Centennial year, es-
pecially as judging the future by the past, we
shall not be likely to enjoy another opportu-
nity.
	If our opinion were of the slightest weight, we
would not hesitate to launch forth in words
expressive of our intense regret that one hun-
dred years of glorious freedom and liberty had
virtually boasted so much, and accomplished
so little towards equality of rights and true
principles of government.
	Where is the equality of rights and privil-
eges which the Constitution (so wisely framed,
by the noble patriots of American Indepen-
dence) guarantees to all who take shelter under
its broad folds.
	The speech of Miss Phebe Cozens at the St.
Louis Convention was well-timed and appro-
priately worded. It is a history in itself,
touching and eloquent; the echo of the voices
of the noblest women in America, asking only
for their own legitimate heritage, bequeathed
through the blood of their ancestry.
	We glory in the heroism and true nobility
that enables women to stand up in defense of
their sex in the face of opposition, ridicule,
and of the great tyrant CUSTOM.
	It is woman herself who hinders the pro-
gress of her own cause in a great degree.
Afraid of losing favor with man, and so in
many instances exchanges for it her self-res-
pect, yes, barters it for a mess of pottage, un-
savory and uncertain.
	A lady friend of ours remarked to us recently
that she was quite willing her individuality
should be swallowed up in that of her husband!
How many have found too late, alas! this idol-
worship only an idle farce, when the husband's
honor, character and self-respect were all
merged into the demon of the grog-shop. Then
indeed she stands sadly in need of all the indi-
viduality she can call into action, as well as all
the force of character it is possible to cultivate,
after her affections have been slighted and
spurned. Better to teach the daughters of the
nation tIe power of self-protection than to in-
stil into their young and tender minds

[Column 2]
the power of fascination through the influence
of personal charms, of face, dress or manners.
	Let them shine by the intelligence of their
own minds and not by that reflected from man.
Let woman be qualified to stand alone if neces-
sary, and then if she become a wife or mother,
she can act with wisdom and judgment; and if
her path be in smooth and quiet places; she is
none the less womanly because of her innate
powers. But should her lot be cast in rough
and thorny paths. how great her need of
strength from within and without to endure.
Remember there are many lonely walks in life,
and it is necessary to be well armed with cour-
age and fortitude.
	We are no doubt wandering from our subject,
but ere we close, we will offer a prayer in be-
half of the women of America: May they ere
long be qualified to fill the highest positions of
honor and trust in the Cabinet of the Nation
and may they wield a sceptre of power by the
distinction of true merit and legitimate and
undisputed right, and not through the influ-
ence of their charms or attractions.


[Column 1]
CELEBRATION OF PREST. B. YOUNG'S
		BIRTHDAY AT ST. GEORGE.

	At five o'clock the morning of June 1, 1876,
the anniversary of the birth of President
Young in 1801. the String Band serenaded the
President; this was the first intimation he had
that the day was remembered; indeed the en-
tire proceedings were a complete surprise, and
he remarked jocosely to his family that he
thought he was "away down in Dixie" where
no one would think of his birthday and it would
pass over quietly. He was reminded that if he
wished to go where there was no one that loved
him and desired to manifest it, he must retire
alone into a howling wilderness.
	At 10 o'clock the St. George Choir, under the
direction of J. McFarland, visited the Presi-
dent at his house, and saluted him, first with an
invocation by Joseph Orton, "O Lord thy ser-
vants bless, &c.," followed by "All Hail Our
Noble Chieftain," &., composed for the occa-
sion by Mrs. A. Randall, and "God Bless Thy
Chosen Seer," by C. L. Walker.
	The President saluted them with gr[-]te[-]ul
thanks as he shook hands with each one cor-
dially.
	At 12 o'clock he attended the fast meeting in
the large, new Tabernacle; a very large con-
gregation were assembled, and after the busi-
ness of the day was transacted, Bro. McDonald
informed President Young that a number of
congratulatory pieces had been written in hon-
or of the day, and requested Bro. Bleak to read
them to the assembly.
	There were toasts by Bro. and Sister Wind-
ser, acrostic by Bro. Granger, verses by Mrs.
Emily Spencer, Mrs. Martha Bigelow and the
little Misses Bigelow. Mrs. Susie Dunford then
read toasts written by Mrs. L. B. Young, and
an address composed by herself for the Special
Occasion.
	President Young was quite overcome, and
could not altogether restrain his feelings. He
arose and expressed his great pleasure and sin-
cere thanks to all for the expression of good
feeling manifested to him. He was filled with
the Holy Ghost, and spoke with great power
and fervor.
	At the close of the meeting, upon driving
home he was met at the door by twelve young
misses dressed in white and bedecked with
flowers, they strewed his path with roses as he
stepped from the carriage, and sang the beau-
tiful and appropriate song composed for the oc-
casion, "On this thy Natal Day," &c. This

[Column 2]
seemed to affect him deeply, he could scarcely
command himself sufficiently to express his
thanks.
	At his own house an elegant repast was
served, and from there he proceeded by invita-
tion to the house of Elder McDonald, where
all the brethren of this vicinity, over seventy,
were ready to receive and congratulate him.
Cake and wine were served, and the band
again serenaded him.
	The evening was spent in social converse
with his own family.
	The day was a charming one, and all the in-
cidents were those calculated to leave pleasant
impressions upon the minds and hearts of the
participants. Mrs. L. B. Young was the ori-
ginator and prime moving power of the cele-
bration. Everything was in perfect order and
harmony; a feeling of unity and a good spirit
pervaded the whole affair.
							SALAOME.
	ST. GEORGE, June 1, 1876.
	We were not able to publish the en-
tire communication, as it arrived too late,
our columns being already nearly full. The
poems have been printed in St. George, and the
"Utah Pomologist" will probably contain fuller
particulars.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THIS EVENING, July 1st, there will be an en-
tertainment in the Social Hall, consisting of
some of the choicest musical talent of the
young people of this city. There will be a
variety of exquisite songs, with recitations, se-
lect readings, guitar and flute duets, to con-
clude with the Melodrama of Robert Macaire.
It is designed to be a unique affeir. In times
past musical and dramatic home-talent in Salt
Lake City was something to be proud of; and
there is no reason why it should not be of the
same character now. We would like to see
our young people excel in every department of
artistic taste and skill.
	MISS M. E. COOK'S Graded School closed its
yearly term for the summer vacation, Friday
afternoon, June 16. The exercises consisted of
select readings, declamations, dialogues, songs,
piano solos, etc. There were quite a [-]umber of
visitors present, who were agreeably entertain-
ed, everything having been managed for the oc-
casion with special care and attention, and the
most perfect order prevailing. Miss Cook and
the young lady teachers associated with her in
this institution, are thorough and earnest
workers in the cause of education, and deserve
the sincere approbation of all who are inter-
ested in promoting the education of the young
and rising generation. On Monday, July 3d,
Miss M. E. Cook will re-open for a summer
term of five weeks, to accommodate pupils
from the country and others who are desirous
of pursuing their studies without cessation.
		1776, FOURTH OF JULY, 1876,
	Being the great Centennial Day, there will
be a "Ladies' Centennial Exc[---] to
Haights Grove, Lake Side; on that day; leav-
ing Salt Lake City at 8 o'clock a. m., returning
at 7 p. m.
	Speeches, singing, dancing, blind man's buff,
bathing, and other games will be the order of
of ths day.
	Dinner and supper can be obtained at the
grove.
	Tickets $1.00 can be obtained at Co-op.,
Dwyers, Jennings', Teasdel's, and at all the
Ward Stores, and of
		Mrs. E. Davis,	}
		"	S. Strock,	}	Committee:
		Miss. L. Davis,	}


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		21


THE FAIR.

	IN Honor of the memorable Fourth of July,
					177,
the glorious Birthday of our Nation, the
Women's Centennial Fair will open on the
Fourth of July,.
					1876,
at 12. m., in the "OLD CONSTITUTION'
Building a few doors south of C. R. Savage's
Art Gallery.
	It will probably continue four weeks open-
ing at 10 a. m., and closing at 8 p. m.

			PRICES OF ADMISSION.

	For adults,............................................25 cts.
	Children under 12,...............................10 cts.
	Except Saturdays, when each admission will
	be 10 cents.
						E. R. Snow, Prest.
						L. A. ASHBY, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

			Dr. Levi Richards.

	The mortal career of this well known and be-
loved Elder in Israel, terminated Sunday, June
18, 1876. His physical organization had been
gradually sinking for some months, but a se-
vere cold. taken a few days previous to his
death, was regarded as the immediate cause.
	Deceased was the fourth son of Joseph and
Rhoda Richards, and was born April 14, 1799,
at Hopkinton, Massachusetts. He was raised
a farmer; but led by his natural genius and in-
clinations, early in life he turned his attention
to other pursuits, and acquired an extensive
knowledge and skill as a mechanician, scien-
tist and physician. For almost forty years he
has been an active and useful member of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and has filled different positions of honor and
trust, with discretion and ability. The perse-
cutions and trials to which the Saints have
been subjugated, he endured with remarkable
calmness and fortitude. He was naturally
humble, retiring and unobtrusive.

	Not to the swift, nor even to the strong,
		The race, the battle, victory belong;
	But unto such as thee, most honored friend,
	Who fill their missions faithful to the end.
		No brilliant, e[-]logistic wreath for thee,
	Thy noble, blameless life hath need of none:
		Henceforth from earthly care and suffering free,
	A glorious crown and mansion thou hast won.
		We mourn thy loss, for thou wert very dear,
	Thy counsel wise, all thy instructions pure;
		May our life records as thine own be clear,
	And our inheritance like thine be sure.

		MRS. PATIENCE HAMPTON.

	We, the sisters of the Sixteenth Ward Re-
lief Society, have been deprived of our highly
esteemed President, Mrs. Patience Hampton,
by death; and while we feel the loss, we ac-
knowledge the hand of God, and feel that our
loss was her infinite gain.
	During the four years she has presided over
us she has honored her office and calling. She
was a most hospitable woman, a true friend to
the poor, and by her example proved to her
sisters and to her family that she was a true
Saint. Her cares and her labors were more
than her frail nature could endure longer, and
she became depressed in spirits and wished to
go to rest. In her last hours she bore a faith-
ful testimony to her family and friends that
she knew that her Redeemer lived; and she de-
sired to go and dwell with her loved ones who
had gone before to the Paradise of God.
	Patience Hampton, deceased, beloved wife
of Benjamin Hampton, was born Sep. 15, 1815,


Gloster Co., New Jersey; she was baptized in-
to the Church of Latter-day Saints by Elder
Elan Warton, in March, 1847, at Philadelphia,
Penn; died June 1st, 1876, at Salt Lake City.
She leaves numerous friends and acquaintan-
ces, who will miss her genial presence among
them, and will not readily forget her wise and
judicious counsel and generous beneficence.
								COM.


For the EXPONENT
			BEAUTIFUL SPOTS.

	Different individuals have different ideas
about the beautiful, and perhaps the scenery
upon which I am now gazing with admiration
would scarcely be considered worth passing no-
tice to eyes accustomed to grander and more
beautiful specimens of nature's works. But
to me it is a charming spot. Wooed, as it
were, from the cares and worries of busy city
life, and enchanted with the sights and sounds
with which I am surrounded, I hallow the spot,
and will ever hold its remembrance sacred in
the years to come.
	I am now standing upon the bluffs overlook-
ing the little settlement of Easton; with its
many fields of grain and its appearance of
peace and plenty, it makes us feel to thank
the great Giver of Good. Turning my eyes to
the East, I notice Weber Canon, with its tall,
snow-capped mountains towering up on each
side. From this canon flows the Weber River,
which cannot be described as a great silver
snake winding its way through the valley, for
it is more of a raging, rushing torrent, foaming
and fretting in its course. I now turn my eyes
to the north, where I faintly hear the tinkling
of bells; there I see many herds browsing up-
on the herbage, while all around me the birds
are caroling joyously, and the hum of thou-
sands of insects falls drowsily upon my ear.
Sol's resplendent rays coming down with in-
creased force reminds me that the hour of mid-
day is drawing nigh, and I slowly wend my
way towards the homestead. Ah! what is this?
A tiny bird's nest with three little nestlings
in it. How wonderfully constructed!—
			"It was my admiration
	To view the structure of that little work—
	A bird's nest. Mark it well, within, without,
	No tool had he that wrought; no knife to cut,
	No glue to join; his little beak was all,
	And yet how neatly finished!"
								HURDIS.
	This spot will always be endeared to me, on
account of the peaceful repose I have had here.
There "are none to make afraid," and one can
take some dear old volume and enjoy the grate-
ful repose offered by one of nature's own bow-
ers, or roam over the grassy hills and gather
garlands of wildw[-]od roses, lovely white lilies,
and daisies. Thus the spot seems beautiful to
me, and I am happy, truly happy for a time.
								POSEY.


MY DEAR OLD MAID.

	I hope you do not object to the construc-
tion of the above appellation: "it suits my
fancy well."
	So you are employed in school-teaching.
Very good. There is no higher, nobler pur-
suit, in my estimation, than that of training
and aiding the mind of youth. Permit me
to inform you that a goodly portion of my
time is also occupied in the same direction;
and that I know something about the diffi-
culties that [---]t you in your attempts to
write.
	I have no means of judging your exact
age, but I feel fully persuaded that I am in
advance of you in years. For this reason,


I take the liberty of dropping a few hints
just here, in regard to teaching, which I
hope will prove acceptable. Very likely
you might give me many good ideas in re-
turn, gleaned from your own experience,
which would be very valuable.
	In the first place, (you will think I am
finding fault with you perhaps, but I assure
you it is all in good will and good nature,)
never cuff or pull a child's ears. If he is
so careless as to tread on your toes, and you
feel that you must retaliate, better do so
(not too harshly) in the same manner. He
may have no corns, or he may have on such
coarse cowhide shoes that your weight on
one of them would make little impression;
still, the simple act will be longer remem-
bered, and the lesson better enforced there-
by; than anything in the distressing and
positively injurious ear-punishing process
could effect.
	Some young teachers, especially women,
make too hard work of their business; fret
because they cannot compel unwilling
scholars to learn, because they cannot crowd
into the brains of the willing ones as much
as they would like in a certain length of
time, and many such things. Thus they
are apt to make both themselves and their
pupils unhappy. I hope that you are not
one of this kind. I always think that a
good, patient school-teacher would make an
agreeable and considerate husband or wife;
I should never choose, for a life companion,
a teacher who was not a favorite with the
children—if I knew it—would you?
	It affords me pleasure to be able to assure
you that your opinions concerning poetry
and the poets, so far as you have acquainted
me with them, correspond with my
own perfectly. I do not comprehend the
necessity, if there is any, for a poem or ro-
mance to ever terminate sadly.
	For a fair representation of nameless
cases in society of the present age, I con-
sider "Petroleum V. Nasby's" "Hannah
Jane" a rich production; what do you
think of it?
	I don't know but those women Editors
will think this article too lengthy, and clip
it unless I cut it short myself.
	Hoping for another favor from your pen
ere long, and—if I may venture so far—
trusting that at some future day I may have
the pleasure of your personal acquaintance,
I am with much respect,
							Yours,
								HAL.


FLOWERS.

	THE PEBBLES in our path weary us, and
make us footsore more than the rocks, which
require only a bold effort to surmount.
	TAKE ALL sorrow out of life, and you
take away all richness and depth and ten-
derness. Sorrow is the furnace that melts
selfish hearts together in love.
	THE MOST important lesson in life is to
know how to be happy with our own home,
our own comforts, and to share our affections
with those of our own household, not to re-
fine away happiness by thinking that that
which is good might be better.
	THERE ARE none living who do not, in a
greater or less degree, have an influence
over the happiness of others. The sense of
contributing to the pleasure of others aug-
ments our own happiness. Unselfishness,
Christian charity, and loving kindness are
sunbeams of the soul.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co.,
	June 12th, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	It is my intention to send a report of our
affairs at least once a year, so that we may
not be lost entirely to the public.
	The society of this place held their
Eighth Annual Meeting on Wednesday,
June 7th, 1876. Bishop John W. Hess,
Elders Thomas Groves and Jonathan Holmes
were present at the meeting, and after hear-
ing the financial statement read, spoke en-
couragingly to the sisters. Bishop Hess
said he saw but very little in the papers
about the society at Farmington, but felt
they were not behind their sister societies,
and were improving slowly but surely. His
remarks were mostly on what had been done
by the society; the good results, &c.; men-
tioning the making of silk and setting out
mulberry trees, In my last report I said
we had persons here who were competent
to make silk. Since then, Sisters Lucinda
Robinson and Nancy Clark, have spun some
silk thread, and Brother Hadfield has woven
it into handkerchiefs, and they are now pre-
paring a piece of silk for dresses. I cannot
describe my feelings when I saw the first
skein of silk made here; but I thought that
anything could be accomplished if the peo-
ple only had the will, and would make the
effort. Our President, Mrs Holmes, and
her counselors, mean the silk business shall
be a success if their energy and labor can
bring it about. They spent days last fall in
getting a mulberry orchard of over one
hundred trees set out on a piece of ground
given to the society by Brother Grover for
that purpose. Many do not know the in-
conveniences Pres't Holmes has had to work
under, living as she does about two miles
out of town, but she has a husband, accord-
ing to her statement, who has never re-
fused to harness his team and either bring
her himself, or send some one with her
when she wishes to come to a meeting or
on other business.
	Our millinery establishment is in a flour-
ishing condition.
	Judging the spirit of the sisters by the
increase of the number who take the EX-
PONENT this year, I should say it was good.
	We have lately been called upon to part
with a dear friend by death. Sister Betsey
Steed, who died May 12th, 1876, after an
illness of about two months. She had been
a faithful teacher in the society for a num-
ber of years, also a member of the Farming-
ton choir. She was a good friend to the
sick and poor, and will be missed by many.
She left one child, a boy 14 years old, and a
husband, who is on a mission to Australia.
The funeral sermon was preached by Elder
Joseph F. Smith, and in his remarks he
spoke very pointedly upon the SEALING
POWER, and I think none who heard him
could pass his words by without reflecting
upon them seriously.
	Your sister, &c.,
		AURELIA S. ROGERS.

PAYSON, May 30, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
8th annual meeting May 24th. On the
stand were President Jane Simons, her
counselors Mrs. Agnes Douglas and Mrs.
Mary Moore, Bishops Tanner and Halliday.
Several visitors, by invitation, from Santa-
quin, Goshen and Salem, represented their
Relief Societies.
	Home Industry was well represented.

[COLUMN 2]

	Brothers Barry Wild, I. M. Coombs, J.
Forsgreen, J. L. Townsend, Bishop Tanner
and Bishop Halliday applauded the sisters
for their talent and ingenuity; the needle
and straw work, it was thought, could not
be excelled. All acknowledged there was
talent in Payson.
	There were different kinds of fancy work,
knitted, netted, and crochet tidies, bed-
spreads, crochet and woven, besides ele-
gant quilts. A beautiful specimen of pen-
manship, by J. L. Townsend, also an eagle
and other birds preserved by him.
	Brother Townsend desired an interest in
the sisters' prayers, as he left Payson for
St. George the following morning, being
called upon to assist the carpenters on the
Temple.
	The Annual Report was read by the sec-
retary, which showed that we had received
during the year $131.51, and disbursed
$156.63.
	A piece composed by Mrs Anna Taylor
was read by President Jane Simons. A
piece by Mrs. Jennie Cowan and one by
Mrs. Rebecca Daniels were read by the sec-
retary.
	A good spirit prevails. We have good
meetings, and good faithful sisters in our
midst, who are always ready to be one with
our President and her counselors. In our
meetings the sisters often thank God that
they are privileged to live in this day; real-
izing that a great and important time is
near; hoping to keep humble and prayerful
that we may endure and be numbered
with the faithful. We realize the truth of
Brother Hallidays words, that Eliza R.
Snow's instructions were true, that our mis-
sion was not only to administer to the poor,
but strive to save souls.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor
among us; we pray for its success, and may
God bless and aid you ln your labors.
	Your sister in the gospel,
		M. A. HARDY.


[COLUMN 1]

A HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.

	The opponents of Woman Suffrage often
assert that the movement makes no progress,
because it is defeated year after year in Par-
liament and Congress and State Legisla-
ture. Even friends of Woman Suffrage
sometimes express disappointment at the
continued postponement of their hopes.
But the true grandeur of our work becomes
apparent when we consider the startling
facts contained in the synopsis of a recent
Monday Lecture by Rev. Joseph Cook, en-
titled "The Future of America," which we
reprint in another column. However long
the triumph of Woman Suffrage may be
postponed, our work of leavening the pub-
lic sentiments of America will have been
of priceless value, a work timely, beneficient,
indispensable, and providential.
	Mr. Cook proves, by a series of scientific
propositions, that this continent is capable
of sustaining a larger population than all
the rest of the world combined; that the
growth of population follows a law whichwill give us in the year 2000, one hundred
million inhabitants, in 2300, eight hundred
millions, in 2500, thirty-two hundred mil-
lions. In other words, that within six cen-
turies, America will contain twice as many
inhabitants as the whole world now con-
tains.
	Six centuries ago, William Wallace and
Robert Bruce were vindicating Scottish
Independence. Magna Charta, granted a
century before, had been solemnly confirm-
ed by King Edward. The House of Haps-
burg was already on the throne of Austria.

[COLUMN 2]

The temporal supremacy of the Pope had
been already successfully defied. "Then it
was," says Macaulay, "that the great Eng-
lish people was formed; that the national
character began to exhibit those peculiari-
ties which it has ever since retained. Then
first appeared with distinctness that Consti-
tution, which has ever since, through all
changes, preserved its identity; that Con-
stitution of which all other free Constitu-
tions in the world are copies, and which,
in spite of some defects, deserves to be re-
garded as the best under which any great
society has ever yet existed during many
ages. Then it was that the House of Com-
mons, the archetype of all the representa-
tive assemblies which now meet, either in
the Old or New World, held its first sittings.
Then it was that the common law rose to
the dignity of a science, and rapidly became
a not unworthy rival of the Imperial juris-
prudence. Then it was that the courage of
the sailors who manned the rude barks of
the Cinque Ports first made the flag of Eng-
land terrible on the seas. Then it was that
the most ancient colleges that still exist at
both the great national seats of learning
were founded. Then was formed that lan-
guage, less musical, indeed, than the lan-
guages of the South, but in force, in rich-
ness, in aptitude for all the highest purposes
of the poet, the philosopher, and the orator,
inferior to that of Greece alone. Then, too,
appeared the first faint dawn of that noble
literature, the most splendid and the most
durable of the many glories of England."
	Thus we stand—we of the present gener-
ation—half way between the birth of Anglo-
Saxon political life, and its Continental de-
velopment in a population of three thou-
sand millions. Six centuries ago, Magna
Charta was wrested from the Barons by the
King. To-day, we see the application of its
principles to one half of the people—all
men sovereigns; all women subjects. This
is the result of six centuries of ceaseless agi-
tation. Would it be surprising, if six cen-
turies more were required to complete the
work? Would it be discouraging, if the
less muscular arm of Woman, battling with
the greed and selfishness and animalism of
the existing aristocracy of sex, was as slow
in achieving her political emancipation as
that of her brother has been? The little
army of women and men who struggle to-
day for equal rights of women, are the pio-
neers of the generations yet to come. Abby
Kelly Foster and Lucretia Mott and Sarah
Grimke and L. Maria Child, six centuries
hence, will be regarded as the Wallace and
Bruce and Joan of Arc, of six centuries ago,
are regarded by the men and women of to-
day.	Not that I anticipate a fight of six centu-
ries for Woman Suffrage. Progress is cumu-
lative. The circle, as it widens, sweeps
over larger and larger areas. It is only 400
years since the printing press was invented.
It is less than two centuries since the news-
paper came into being. It is less than a
century since the railroad and the steam-
boat were invented! It is less than thirty
years since the telegraph came into exist-
ence. The modern world of industry and
masculine co-operation is the work of the
closing century. It is the product of Man-
hood suffrage. Let a nobler world of Edu-
cation, Temperance, Purity, and Peace be
the creation of the coming century. It will
be the product of Impartial Suffrage, of
the equal co-operation of men and women.
	H. B. B.—Ex.


Carrots should be cleaned by being brushed in
water: scraping causes them to lose their flavor.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

ALICE AND PHOBE CAERY.

A FRAGMENT

*	*	*	Alice bore, through life,
the scar left by an early attachment to
which her lover had proved false.
	To Phebe, a love deep enough to have
culminated in marriage came only late in
life, when she found the tendrils of her af-
fections which had wound about the dear old
home so interlaced with those of Alice, that
she could not transplant her own without up-
rooting her sister's. She put aside the bright
dream unfalteringly, and Alice never knew
what it cost her.
	The closing scenes of these lives are full
of pathos. Alice, spent with toil, surren-
dered life with clinging reluctance, and
Phebe, though she struggled bravely to
keep cheerfully on in the work which was
now all her own, could not live without the
strength and affection on which she had al-
ways leaned. By force of circumstances,
Phebe was deprived, in her last days, of
the presence of those nearest and dearest.
Long the center of a brilliant circle, in the
extreme hour, she asked, with touching ap-
peal, "Where are my friends?" Yet their
love had not failed her, and tenderly it fol-
lows her to their new home beyond the
grave.
	Only a biographer at once so gifted and
so loving as Mrs. Ames could have answered
so well the public desire for a record of the
lives of these two noble women.
	As a ballad writer Alice excelled, but if
the poetry of either is written for posterity
it seems to us to be that of Pheobe. In
vigor of conception, depth of passion and
power of dramatic expression, she was much
superior to Alice, while she was not less en-
dowed with tenderness. We would quote,
if we had space, "A Dying Hymn," "A Sure
Witness," "A Woman's Conclusions," and
"Nearer Home." The latter seems worthy
a permanent place in our hymnology.
	As less familiar, and as Pheobe's word to
those she left, we quote:

	Putting Off the Armor.

"Why weep ye for the falling
	Of the transient twilight gloom?
I am weary of the journey,
	And have come in sight of home.

"I can see a white procession
	Sweep melodiously along,
And I would not have your mourning
	Drown the sweetness of their song.

"The battle strife is ended;
	I have scaled the hindering wall,
And am putting off the armor
	Of the soldier—that is all!

"Would you hide me from my pleasures?
	Would you hold me from my rest?
From my serving and my waiting
	I am called to be a guest!

"Of its heavy, hurtful burdens
	Now my spirit is released;
I am done with fasts and scourges,
	And am bidden to the feast.

"While you see the sun descending
	While you lose me in the night,
Lo, the heavenly morn is breaking,
	And my soul is in the light.

"I from faith to sight am rising,
	While in depths of doubt you sink:
'Tis the glory that divides us,
	Not the darkness as you think.

"Then lift up your drooping eyelids,
	And take heart of better cheer;
'Tis the cloud of coming spirits
	Makes the shadows that ye fear.

"Oh, they come to bear me upward
	To the mansion of the sky,
And to change as I am changing
	Is to live and not to die;

[COLUMN 2]

"Is to leave the pain, the sickness,
	And the smiting of the rod,
And to dwell among the angels.
	In the city of our God."

M.F.E.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		CANTON, FULTON Co., Ill.,
					May 31st, 1865.
DEAR BROTHER AND SISTER:
	Your very welcome letter bearing date of
May 19th reached me all safe yesterday
I was pleased to learn that you were all
well, and that Dora is a "fond mother."
	It seems, from the storms you have been
having, that times and seasons are begin-
ing to change in that part of the country.
	You say Hela says he may be home before
the year is out, and you wish to know if I
can say the same, "I may be," but
that is as near as I know about it. I intend
to stay until I am released to come home;
when that will be I cannot say, but I can
assure you that when the word comes I will
try and be prepared. I should like very
well, if the Lord is willing, to return home
this fall, and it would be an unspeakable
pleasure to me to be permitted to eat my
next Christmas dinner with the family at
mother's, as in "days of yore," but be that
as it may, I will try and content myself un-
til I am released; and I hope and pray that
the Lord will direct me and bless me with
His Holy Spirit, that I may grow in grace
and the knowledge of the truth, and gain
wisdom and understanding, that I may be
able to honor my priesthood and calling, and
be instrumental in the hands of God
in spreading the seeds of righteousness
among the honest where it will be cherished
and bring forth good fruit.
	I will now speak of my travels. On the
8th inst. I left St. Louis. in company with
Elders D. M. Stuart and Jos. G. Young, on
board the steamer "Northwestern," bound
for Keokuk, Iowa. We had a delightful
sail up the Missouri River, a distance of
208 miles. The scenery on the way is beau-
tiful! The river is high, and each bank is
thickly covered with timber, the trees are
all out in leaf, and there are numerous is-
lands also covered with heavy green foliage.
To appreciate this beautiful scenery, a per-
son should arise and go out on deck before
the sun is up, on a clear morning, when the
surface of the water is as smooth as glass,
with hardly a ripple to be seen. I think I
never saw anything so grand in all my life.
	The steamer was a large, well finished
and splendidly furnished one. We lived
like princes while on the boat, it was very
similar indeed to hotel life.
	We arrived at Keokuk on the evening of
the 19th, where we found Brother J. F.
Wells awaiting us, the next morning Bro.
Wells went to Carthage, and we took train
for Montrose, which is opposite Nauvoo;
visited Nauvoo that day; in the evening
Bro. Joseph G. Young left us for Council
Bluffs, Iowa, there to join Bro. James A.
Little, and to labor with him.
	Sunday 21st, Bro. Stuart and I held a
meeting in Nauvoo; this was the first that
has been held there by Utah Elders since
our people left there. We had good atten-
tion, and the people wished us to hold other
meetings. We stayed around that part of
the country until last Monday, held a meet-
ing in Montrose Tuesday evening 23rd, had
a crowded house and good attention; the
Sunday School Choir sang for us. At Nau-
voo we found friends who were very hos-
pitable, and we were well entertained. We

[Column 2]
visited Emma Smith, now Mrs. Bidamon,
and took dinner at her place.
	Father's house is standing in good order,
and is occupied by a Catholic priest, who
showed us through the house, and made
me a present of a picture of the house and
a church that is built on the lot. Many
other houses that were built by our people
are still standing in good condition.
	Last Sunday we held a good meeting at
Nauvoo in the City Hall. At the close of
the meeting we sang "All are Talking of
Utah," which highly delighted the people.
	To me Nauvoo is the nicest site for a city
that I ever saw, but it is about the dullest
place in the country now; it seems that
there is a curse resting upon it.
	I rowed a boat across the River the other
day. It is about two miles wide at that
point.
	Monday we visited Carthage, and were
shown through the old jail, where the Pro-
phet Joseph and his brother Hyrum were
martyred, saw the place in the door where
the bullet went through that killed Hyrum,
and other marks that still remain as me-
mentoes of the horrible deed. From Car-
tharge we took train to Canton, where we
found Bros. Wells and Williams awaiting
our arrival at the depot; they conducted us
to the house of the latter, where we are en-
tertained very hospitably by his intelligent
family.
	Canton is a nice place. We will remain
in this region until Sunday next, holding
meetings and visiting the Saints in this
branch, then we will make our way down
to St. Lous.
			Yours ever,
				MATHONI WOOD PRATT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This letter is from the fifteenth son of
Parley P. Pratt, deceased, and as I read it I
was reminded of the EXPONENT, and
thought that the contents might interest its
many readers.
	Some years ago when this lad was a daily
listener to my instructions, I told him he
was then qualifying himself for a mission-
ary, like unto his father; and with what
pleasure I have watched him developing
into manhood and nobility.
	How pleasant it is for a teacher to see the
results of her arduous labors as she mingles
in the society she has helped to form!
	That germ implanted by the teacher in
the heart of her pupil, is reflected like the
dew shed upon the foliage; it is refreshed
and beautified, and lends its enchantment
to the eye of the beholder.
	Then, my fellow laborers, do not be dis-
couraged, but continue in assisting to im-
plant the germ of true usefulness in the
hearts and heads of the rising generation,
and you will reap your reward, for seed
sown upon good ground will increase an
hundred fold.
							I'LL TRY.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. MARY LIVERMORE, after her lec-
turing tour through California, returned to
her home in Boston, rested only three days,
then proceeded to Philadelphia, to take
part in the great Convention of the Tem-
perance Women of America. The Woman's
Journal" says of her—"There is not one
man in a thousand, even of those who
are accustomed to public life, who could do
the work and endure the fatigue which this
lady has endured during the past seven
years. In view of such an example, the
question of woman's comparative physical
and mental ability for severe and protracted
labor is not only proved, but demonstrated."


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN AND WINES.

	Of the worst foes woman has ever had to
encounter, wine stands at the head. The
appetite for strong drink in man has spoiled
the lives of more women—ruined more
hopes for them, scattered more fortunes for
them, brought to them more shame, sorrow
and hardship—than any other evil that
lives. The country numbers tens of thou-
sands—nay, hundreds of thousands—of wo-
men who are widows to-day, and sit in
hopeless weeds, because their husbands have
been slain by strong drink.
	There are hundreds of thousands of homes
scattered all over the land, in which women
live lives of torture, going between all the
changes of suffering that lie between fear
and despair, because those whom they love,
love wine better than the women they have
sworn to love. There are women by the
thousands who dread to hear at the door
the step that once thrilled them with pleas-
ure, because that step has learned to reel
under the influence of the seductive poi-
son.
	There are women groaning with pain,
while we write these words, from bruises
and brutalities inflicted by husbands made
mad by drink.
There can be no exaggeration in any state-
ment made in regard to this matter, because
no human imagination can create anything
worse than the truth, and no pen is capable
of portraying the truth. The sorrows and
horrors of a mother with a drunken son,
are asnear the realization of hell as can be
reached in this world at least.
	The shame, the indignation, the sorrow,
the sense of disgrace for herself and for her
children, the poverty—and not unfrequent-
ly the beggary, the fear and not the act of
violence, the lingering, life long struggle,
and despair of countless women with drunk-
en husbands, are enough to make all women
curse wine, and engage unitedly to oppose
it everywhere as the worst enemy to their
sex.
	Woman, there are some things that you
can do, and this is one; you can make drink
unpopular and disgraceful among the young.
You can utterly discountenance drinking in
your own house, and you can hold in sus-
picion every young man who touches the
cup. You know that no young man who
drinks can safely be intrusted with the hap-
piness of any woman, and he is an unfit as
man can be for woman's society. Have this
understood: that every young man who
drinks is socially proscribed. Bring up your
children to regard drinking as not only dan-
gerous but disgraceful. Place temptation in
no man's way. If men will make beasts of
themselves, let them do it in other society
than yours.
	Recognize the living, terrible fact that
wine has always been, and is to-day, the
curse of your sex; that it steals the hearts
of men away from you, that it dries up your
prosperity, that it endangers your safety,
that it can only bring you evil. If social
custom compels you to present wine at your
feasts, rebel against it, and make social cus-
tom bow in the interests of virtue and pur-
ity. The matter is very much in your own
hands. The women of the country, in what
is called poiite society, can do more to make
the nation temperate than all the legislators
and tumultuous reformers that are strug-
gling and blundering in their efforts to this
end.—[Dr. Holland in Scribner's for Janu-
ary.]


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Light Dumplings.—To every cup of cold water
needed to make as much dough as is desired, put-


one tablespoonful of cream-tartar and half a table
spoonful of soda, then stir in instantly enough
flour to make it a little thicker than biscuits; cut
out and boil them twenty minutes.
	Cheap Puddings.—Take a small quantity of
flour, mix in it a little baking powder and a little
suet chopped fine, flavor with a little fruit of any
kind, a little sugar to sweeten, and wet [-]p with
milk, or one egg added; boil in a cloth, or a tin for
one half hour.
	Polish.—A new compound for polishing and
cleaning metal is composed of 1 ounce carbonate
of ammonia dissolved in four oz. of water; mix
with 16 oz. of Paris white; moisten a sponge, dip
lightly in the powd[-]r, r[-]b lightly over the surface
of the metal, aft[-]rwards dust off the powder and
it will leave a brilliant lustre.
	Quick Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk on
ten tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, let them
stand ten minutes, then add the yelks of four eggs
well beaten, six tablespoonfuls of sugar and two
of butter; season with lemon extract: stir well,
add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth,
pour the mixture into a buttered pudding dish, and
bake rapidly; make wine sauce, or eat with cream
and sugar.


[Column 1]
	DAVID JAMES,
		(Sucecssor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, David James, Box 3[--], Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE.
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

				Now Receiving at
	TEASDEL'S
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	[---] Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.
		Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and C[-]ps, Boots
			and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices
	the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality. and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. [--]th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
		goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of 
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER, *
	TOILET SOAP. (Highly Perfamed;)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1[-]64.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple street
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing,
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

				THE KIND OF 
BOOTS AND SHOES,
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER. Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
				them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER AND EGGS,
						F. GOSS, Supt.

		EVERY DESCRIPTION
				OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.
	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

			H. E. PHELPS,
				29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE!
	SPING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feather's, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1876.		No. 4


LITTLE BY LITTLE.

	"Little by little," the torrent said,
	As it swept along its narrow bed,
		Chafing in wrath and pride.
	"Little by little" and "day by day,"
	And with every wave it bore away
	A grain of sand from the banks which lay
		Like granite walls on either side.

	It came again, and the rushing tide
	Covered the valley far and wide,
		For the mighty banks were gone.
	A grain at a time they were swept away;
	And now the fields and meadows lay
		Under the waves, for the work was done.

	"Little by little," the tempter said,
	As a dark and cunning snare he spread
		For the young, unwary feet.
	"Little by little" and "day by day"
	I'll tempt the careless soul astray,
	Into the broad and flowery way,
		Until the ruin is made complete.

	"Little by little," sure and slow,
	We fashion our future of bliss or woe
		As the present passes away.
	Our feet are climbing the stairway bright,
	Up to the regions of endless light,
	Or gliding downward into the night;
		"Little by little" and "day by day."
SELECTED.


PERSONAL BEAUTY.

	If the admirers of the brunette tell you
seriously that there is no expression in the
blonde, that she fails to wear well, that her
beauty is of the shallow type, which can be
taken in and digested at half a glance,
while the brunette grows and grows upon
you like a star in heaven, on the other hand,
the lovers of the blonde have exhausted
poetry and language in her praise, and pro-
test quite as savagely that she is the most
perfect specimen of womanly beauty, It is
all a matter of taste, however, since "beau-
ty is a joy forever," whether it be of the
nut-brown maid, or of Fair Ellinor. Was
it not the "fair haired Helen" who lighted
fools the way to dusty death? Have not
both blonde and brunette swayed the world
by turns? If the first is too colorless and
indefinite to please you, may not the second
be too decided in tone to charm another?
We are fond of saying beauty is only skin-
deep—perhaps as a gentle consolation to
those who have none—while in truth it is
bred in the bone with those who lay any
positive claim to it. You may rob such a
one of the cheek's red marvel, of the eye's
lustre, and point crows' feet upon the face,
and yet the bony structure will repeat the
story. Landor tells us that extreme beauty
is expressionless; and may it not be that
nature, having lavished color, form, and
harmony upon one, reserves expression for
the inharmonious, colorless faces, and so
keeps the balance good? For expression is
always the highest, the most durable form
of loveliness, something with which Time
cannot trifle, which improves with age, be-
side which fine features and vivid tints are
ineffectual and insignificant. In the mean-
time it is evident how great a factor beauty
is, when a dimple can work mischief, when
a pair of sparkling eyes are worth more to
their owner than a fortune, when a coral lip
carries conviction, and a rosy cheek is a
passport to favor and to good society. All


our prejudices are at the service of beauty
at first sight; we are apt to think it an ex-
ponent of the inward spirit, the soul shin-
ing through, or overflowing into visible
form; and we experience an almost personal
disappointment when we find that the man-
ners and thoughts do not correspond to the
face. Beauty is indeed at times something
utterly independent of symmetrical fea-
tures, clear complexion, and liquid eyes; "a
divine improvisation," which happens to
some people whom we are in the habit of
calling plain, and develops their possibili-
ties; something that seems to be the radi-
ations of happy thoughts, of a lofty mind.
And do not the countenances of those we
love always wear a charm that transcends
actual beauty, be the eyes luminous or
faded, the nose retrousse or aquiline, the
hair golden or gray?


WOMEN OF THE PAST.

	There was a time when women of rank
and affluence were not thought degraded
by dressing the fatted calf and baking cakes
upon the hearth; when with their pitcher
upon their shoulder, they went to the well
to draw water for their flocks; and when
even royalty knew how to appreciate the
virtues of her who sought wool and flax,
and wrought willingly with her hands;
who laid her hands to the spindle and to
the distaff: who made fine linen and sold it,
and delivered girdles to the merchant;
who looked well to the ways of her house-
hold and ate not the bread of idleness. But
time has wrought a change in the circum-
stances and habits of women of the present
age, though there are many of all ranks
who are not less usefully employed than
were the matrons of ancient times; many
to whom it may be said, "Give them of the
fruit of their doings, and let their own
works praise them in the gates."
	Happy the woman in whom education
has united with natural talent to form so
important a character and fill so high a place
as that of the mistress of a family.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A CHART of the moon six feet in diameter
is soon to be issued in lithograph in Berlin.
The original chart was drawn by Dr.
Scmhidt, Director of the Astronomical Ob-
servatory at Athens, and is the result of
thirty years' labor. Thirty astronomical
observations were in some instances requir-
ed to complete a small fraction of the chart.
The Prussian government purchased the
drawing for $10,000.
	THE GREAT Spanish orator Emilio Caste-
lar, accompanied by Dr. Alberto De Abnis-
quita and Jose Guarandi, will arrive in this
country to visit the Centennial Exposition
about the end of this month, as representa-
tives of the Spanish press. Castelar has
promised to deliver an oration in Philadel-
phia to his countrymen.
	SECRETARY SEWARD began an auto-biog-
raphy but stopped at 1834. His son, Fred-
eric W. Seward, has completed the work


by giving a full account of his father's life
after that time. The book will probably
possess great historical interest, and will be
published this summer.
	THE "WOMAN'S Hotel," in New York,
designed by Mr. A. T. Stewart for the ac-
commodation of working-girls, is rapidly
approaching completion, and will probably
be ready for occupancy early next spring.
The building has five hundred rooms, which
will be neatly furnished and supplied with
gas and steam heat. It is the intention to
have good meals furnished at cost prices,
that is about fifteen cents apiece.


HOW TO MAKE MISCHIEF.

	Keep your eye on your neighbors. Take
care of them. Do not let them stir without
watching. They may do something wrong
if you do. To be sure you never knew them
to do anything very bad, but it may be on
your account if they have not. Perhaps if
it had not been for your kind care they
might have disgraced themselves long ago.
Therefore do not relax any effort to keep
them where they ought to be. Never mind
your own business that will take care of it-
self. There is a man passing along; he is
looking over the fence; be suspicious of 
him; perhaps he contemplates stealing some
of these dark nights, there is no knowing
what queer fancies may have got into his
head.
	If you find any symptoms of any one pass-
ing out of the path of duty, tell every one
else what you see and be particular to see a
great many. It is a good way to circulate
such things, though it may not benefit
yourself or any one else particularly. Do
keep something going—silence is a dread-
ful thing though it is said there was silence
in heaven for half an hour—do not let such
a thing occur on earth—it would be too
much for this mundane sphere.
	If after all your watchful care you cannot
see anything out of the way in any one, you
may be sure it is not because they have not
done anything bad; perhaps in an unguard-
ed moment you lost sight of them; throw
out hints that they are no better than they
should be, that you should not wonder if
people found out what they were after a lit-
tle while, then they may not hold their
heads so high. Keep it going, and some
one else may take the hint, and begin to
help you along after a while; then there
will be music, and everything will work
like a charm.


BUILDING CHARACTER.—There is a
structure which everybody, young and old,
is building, each one for himself. It is
called Character, and in it every act of life
is a stone. If, day by day, we be careful
to build our lives with pure, noble, upright
deeds, at the end will stand a fair temple,
honored by God and man. But, as one leak
will sink a ship, and one flaw break a chain,
so one mean, dishonorable, untruthful act
or word will forever leave its impress and
work its influence on our characters. Then
let the several deeds unite to form a day,
and, one by one, the days grow into noble
years, and the years, as they slowly pass,
will raise at last a beautiful edifice, endur-
ing forever to our praise.


26		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, July 8th, was of a most interesting
character. Counselor Mrs. Zina D. Young
presided in the absence of President Mrs.
M. I. Horne. Counselor Mrs. Zina D.
Young and Counselor Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, Mrs. Presinda Kimball, Mrs. E. S.
Barney and Mrs. Dunkinson each addressed
the meeting for a few minutes in succession,
also Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington.
The subjects were HOME INDUSTRY, the silk
culture, the spirit of the present day, wo-
man's work, &c. Some other sisters bore
their testimony. The sisters seem alive in
the things pertaining to the kingdom of
God.

			GUNNISON, June 7, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a very prosperous
condition. There is a good, genial, united
feeling among the members. The sisters
appointed to visit as teachers bring in ex-
cellent reports from their wards at our
monthly meetings, of good feelings and a
general tendency to improve among a large
majority of the sisters.
	Our President, Sister Sarah Copley, is a
Latter-day Saint, full of integrity; her ex-
ample and teachings cannot fail to have a
good effect upon those that are preparing
themselves for the great events with which
the future is fraught.
	Our Y. L. R. A. is making steady, though
perhaps slow, progress. The question
given at each meeting, to be answered at
the next, is answered by the girls very in-
telligently, throwing a good deal of true
life, light and interest into our meetings.
Our good girls are gradually overcoming
their excess of bashfulness and lack of con-
fidence, substituting intelligence and true
worth.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				HELENA MADSEN.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE Co., June 5, 1876.
	Minutes of a meeting held by the Presi-
dent, Counselors and Teachers of the Clark-
ston Relief Society, for the purpose of or-
ganizing a Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association.
	Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
President Ma[-]y Griffin and Counselor Ann
Smith spoke at some length, giving the
young people some very interesting and
instructive counsel. The Retrenchment
Association was then organized, with the
following officers:
	Miss Thurza Smith, President.
	"	Henrietta Smith,	}
	"	Merinda Homer,	}	Counselors.
	"	Stena Rasmusen,	}
	"	Lizzie Godfrey,	}
	"	Mary A. Homer, Secretary.
	Mrs. Martha Griffin, Treasurer.
	These officers were all unanimously ac-
cepted.
	Sister Grover then made a few excellent
remarks. Benediction by Sister Keep.
				MARY A. HOMER,
						Secretary.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., May 29, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held a meeting on the 28th of April,
in connection with the Retrenchment So-
ciety. Our Bishop and Counselors attended
our meeting and gave good instruction.
Bishop Bradley said that we had a great
work to do and a very short time allotted us

[Column 2]
to work out our salvation. The world know
that there is something the matter, but
they do not know that the Lord is going to
set up his kingdom on the earth, and some
of the Latter-day Saints do not realize it;
he thought the sisters had done exceedingly
well, as money is very scarce in this part.
Brothers Swenson, Hardy and Christiansen
gave good instruction to the young sisters;
said they ought to be very careful in their
choice of husbands, or they may be carried
away from the right path.
	Our Society was organized January, 1868.
Donations in all to January, 1876:
	To Emigration........................  $165.24
	To the Poor............................... 480.00
	To the Temple.......................... 125.40
	To help the missionaries........    65.00
				Total...................  835.64
Besides owning shares in the Co-op. Insti-
tution.
	Our meetings are well attended, we take
great interest in them; we meet every two
weeks and bear our testimony of the latter-
day work. We are thankful that we hear
the words, through a prophet, of salvation,
exaltation and eternal life. Jesus has said,
"I am the Good Shepherd, I know my
sheep; a stranger they will not follow, but
will flee from him." It is our earnest de-
sire to oppose every evil influence that comes
in contact with the Holy Priesthood of
God, and show by our walk and conduct
that we have received from our Father in
heaven that Holy Spirit that will guide us
into all truth.
	With an earnest desire for the success of
the EXPONENT, I remain
			Yours truly,
						JANE BAILEY.

			SPRING CITY, June 6, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reading the reports of the different So-
cieties we take great pleasure. They
plainly show the good efforts of the sisters
in almost every city or town of the saints.
Ours is a quiet little place, almost shut out
from the world, and yet we enjoy the Spirit
of the Lord.
	We held our annual meeting May 4th, it
being eight years since our society was or-
ganized. Our yearly report plainly showed
that the poor were not neglected; we have
some poor and old people who need atten-
tion, and we have some very good teachers
who strive to do their best in looking after
the needy. Our President, Mrs. M. A. P.
Hyde; is striving to her utmost, never ceas-
ing, for the benefit and advancement of the
good work in which she is engaged. We
had a party on the fifth, it being Sister
Hyde's birthday; the teachers thought they
would make a dinner for her. There were
quite a number gathered, and all enjoyed
themselves well. Sisters Wareham, Castoc,
and Cristaffersen were present from Manti.
They expressed their happiness at meeting
with the sisters, and finding everything so
pleasing; said they knew Mrs. Hyde to be
well worthy of our best affections. Presi-
dent Orson Hyde was present; he enjoyed
himself well and gave some good instruc-
tions, and was well pleased with the society;
encouraged us to go ahead, and referred to
the way government was working, that
robbery and fraud were increasing in nearly
all ranks of society, until an honest man
scarcely knew where to go to find peace and
safety.
	Bishop Olsen was also present; he spoke
and encouraged the sisters much and blessed
them for their noble efforts. We feel sure
that truth will yet prevail, for the Lord has
said it would, and it cannot fail whether we

[Column 3]
stand true and firm or not; but I hope we
will all be able to stand the great day of
proving, which has come and is coming
every day, and it is for us to watch our-
selves that we do not fall, but that we prove
faithful to the last, and put off all worldly
vanity and foolish pride, and to do our
Heavenly Father's will, that we may suc-
cessfully invoke His blessings on us, and
not provoke His wrath.
	Wishing your paper the best success and
the blessings of God to attend you in your
good efforts, I remain
			Yours truly,
						P.E. BENSON
							Secretary.

			SMITHFIELD, CACHE Co.,
						June 6, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual meeting May 12th,
which was well attended, the sisters feeling
well and much interested in the welfare of
the Society. The Treasurer's report was
read and the financial account was found to
be in a prosperous condition; we have dis-
bursed during the past year $97.58 in help-
ing the poor, educating children, assisting
Emigration and temple funds; having now
funds in the hands of the Treasurer amount-
ing to $322.97. We are maki[-]g prepara-
tions to build a house for a store, and a
large room attached for meetings. Bishop
Roskelly gives the sisters all the encour-
agment in his power, and I believe we
shall be able to accomplish the object con-
templated, namely, a good house for the
use of the society.
		Yours in the Gospel,
				JANE S. COLEMAN,
							Secretary.

			KANOSH CITY,  May 28, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are not a very large community, but
as we read so many encouraging letters in
the Exponent, it seems to inspire us to
emerge from our obscurity and "let our
light shine."
	Our Relief Society is small, compared
with many, but there is a good spirit pre-
vailing among the sisters, and all seem
willing to assist in pushing forward this
glorious work. We hold meetings once
every fortnight, working meetings and tes-
timony meetings alternately, and although
we seem to progress slowly, yet I trust
surely.
	Our President, Sister Adelie Kimball,
is very zealous aad persevering, and we all
like her very much.
	It cheers us to read so many encouraging
letters in the EXPONENT, from the different
settlements, and it is clearly evident that a
good spirit is manifesting itself among our
sisters in their different fields of labor, and
that all are striving to assist in building up
the kingdom of God, which kingdom is to
be established, nevermore to be thrown
down.
	Praying that the blessing of God may at-
tend the earnest endeavors of all who strive
to live their religion, believe me to remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					ADELAIDE TRIPPETT,
								Secretary.


VANDERBILT University, at Nashville,
Tennessee, has received another gift from
Commodore Vanderbilt of $500,000. The
sum total given by him to that institution
is $1,000,000.
	OF the 16 University Races, Harvard has
won 9, Yale 3, and other colleges 4.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
	OUR NATIVE LAND.

Let gifted poets sing of lands
	All bathed in tropic splendor,
Where Nature's overflowing hands
	Unasked, her hoards surrender;
Of radiant mornings, fervid noons, 
	And gorgeous eves declining;
Of nights illumed by silver moons
	O'ef placid waters shining.

Of sunlight on the laden vine,
	Of spicy breezes blowing;
Of fig and olive, blushing wine,
	And tropic Flora glowing:
Of bloody deeds, by voice of fame
	Rung through the sounding ages;
Where, fired by mad ambition's flame,
	Man in red war eugages.

Where few, elate in stony pride,
	Enslave the toiling many;
Where pallid want walks side by side
	With overflowing plenty;
Where noble men are those whose names
	Are crowued with titles sounding,
Regardless whether holy aims
	Are in their souls abounding.

My song shall celebrate the west—
	So famed in song and story—
Where freedom's eagle plumes his crest
	To win new heights of glory;
Where kingly mountains rear their heads,
	Their snowy chaplets wearing—
Bright streams run down their rocky beds,
	A rich abundance bearing

Here industry, a regnant queen,
	Has subjects brave and loyal;
Here, far and near, their works are seen
	In aspect truly royal.
Her lightning tongues, her steam-sped wheels,
	Her temples reared to learning,
Her busy marts, her fertile fields,
	Her tireless spindles turning.

Her villages that gem the plain,
	Her furnaces, red glowing,
Her stately ships that skim the main,
	Forever coming, going,—
These are the jewels in the crown
	Her noble brow adorning;
Her songs of peace shall ever drown
	War-bugles' dreadful warning.

This land is praised in ringing song
	By noble sons and daughters;
Who dwell her rugged hills among,
	And by her rushing waters;
Who poured their patriotic blood
	To rear her Constittuion,
Which gaurds the lovely sisterhood
	Of states which form the nation.

Here each who will may rise above
	Humanities dread level:
In deeds of moral worth and love
	The noblest spirits revel.
No chains of birth can fetter souls
	Whose wings are formed for soaring;
Each sovereign will his life controls,
	Without chill fear before him.

Then Heaven bless this happy land!
	The youngest of the nations--
Where native Worth's own stainless hand
	Adjusts our proper stations.
The past behind us glows with light,
	The future's smiles are cheering,
Free man's whole horizen is bright,
	And woman's sky is clearing.
LU DALTON.


For the EXPONENT.
	THE STAGE.

	Among the many prevailing modes of
education with which the present age is fa-
miliar, there is none which exercises great-
er control over the attention and sympathies
of the student than the dramatic stage.
	It is not merely a platform of boards, with
appurtenances of pasteboard and gilt. It is
not an idle show to attract people, for the
purpose of spending time and money fool-
ishly.
	It is not erected, as some think, to sus-
tain the weight of clowns who make others
foolishly happy by making themselves fool
ishly miserable—far from it.


To the eye of the intelligent auditor the
stage presents a more noble and engaging
spectacle—One from which a moral can be
deduced and a lesson learned, by all who
konw how to observe, reason and reflect.
To such, the rude carpets and paintings,
the colored and gilded canvas and paste-
board, become the paraphernalia of the
world in miniature.
	The shifting scenes, living events, the
actors in costume—beings such as we might
appear in different ages of the world. The
whole, a mirror where the varied passions
and actions of ourselves are reflected back
to us from the faces and forms of the devo-
tees of "Thespis."
	Remarkable coincidences of stage incident
and everyday life often occur, and we not
unfrequently witness a feature in a drama
that startles us with its similarity to cir-
cumstances immediately around us.
	Who can say that the scenes of love, duty,
virtue, madness, misery, and death, when
enacted by persons of genius on the stage,
are not faithful copies of incidents which
come under our daily observation? In this
lies the great benefit conferred by the stage
and its relations; for even as Hamlet used
the play as the thing "wherein to catch the
conscience of the king"—so can we by faith-
ful observation and study, school our own
natures, relinquish our vanities and follies,
despise vice and resist its temptations, pro-
mote our virtues, and copy the examples of
good which are thus forced upon our notice
by this reflective medium—this mirror of
life in all its phases.	THESPIS.


A FEW THOUGHTS ON OBEDIENCE.

	Obedience is a principle which we should
learn to observe, for without it we can never
be happy in this world, nor in the world to
come. Think what an immense amount of
confusion would be the result where obedi-
ence did not exist. Without it we would
have no spring, summer, autumn or winter
upon which we could depend, for if the
earth did not obey the law of God which
He has given, its movements could not be
relied upon, and wIth all the planets which
fill the heavens with such glory. By this
principle of obedience order is maintained
throughout the universe, amid all the crea-
tions of our God. Man alone, of all the
creations of our Father, exhibits disobedi-
ence and fails to observe the laws which his
Creator has given unto him.
	From the beginning of this Church until
the present, the men and women who have
been obedient to the counsel of God's ser-
vants have always been the most favored.
Our heavenly Father requires something
more of us than to be merely obedient to a
commandment when He gives it to us. He
desires us to strive to do good of ourselves,
without waiting to be commanded to do so.
When we look around and see who the men
are in this Church who have been most
blessed, they are those who have been the
most obedient, who have striven with the
greatest zeal to do good, and every one in
this Church should make it his or her chief
delight to be obedient, and should anxious-
ly engage in every good work possible; for
the power is in us if we live for it, for there
are great promises made to those who are
obedient.				ANNIE REEVES.
	CENTREVILLE, DAVIS Co.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Ryland, who lately presented the
town of Birmingham, England, with the 
Cannon Hill Park, has just given forty acres

[Column 2]
of land at Small Heath, valued at $150,000'
for the formation of another park.
	MISS Kellogg will sing at the commence-
ment of Bowdoin College, Aug. 2, and will
receive in remuneration $500, free of all
expenses.
	MRS. Scott Siddons, now in New South
Wales, wrote to a friend in San Francisco,
that a remarkably handsome Fiji Islander
took a very great fancy to her, and wanted
to buy her of Mr. Scott Siddons, offering in
exchange six bunches of bananas.
	MISS Anna Dickenson has just completed
another new play. She has taken for her
plot and ground work the fortune of a Jew-
ess in different countries—England, France,
Germany, Russia and the United States.
It is said to possess merit and is particular-
ly noticeable for the strength with which
the principal characters are drawn. Miss
Dickenson intends playing the Jewess.
	MRS. Agnes Abbott Houghton delivered
an oration in Bath, Maine, on May 30th, at
the occasion of decorating the soldiers'
graves. She is the wife of a Universalist
minister.
	MISS Alison, who has charge of the Wo-
man's Pavilion at the Centennial Exhibition
at Philadelphia, speaks of the occupation of
running engines as a regular business for
women, as less tedious than almost any of
the usual vocations adopted by them:
she says an engine requires far less atten-
tion than any woman gives daily to a child.
She herself from a child was very fond of
machinery, nor do we think this an excep-
tional case; there are many women who de-
light in mechanism, and who have skill
and tact in that direction if they would
cultivate it; but thinking it out of woman's
sphere, confine themselves to work wholly
distasteful and unadapted to them.
	QUEEN Victoria, it is said, crosses the
Dee at this season almost daily. She uses
an open carriage, a wagonette or low pony
phaeton. No fuss attends her on these oc-
casions; an outrider a little in advance of
the carriage clears the road, and she passes
on quietly, nodding and smiling to those
who chance to meet her. The Queen and
her ladies frequently picnic in the woods,
or on the hillside. Materials to make a fire,
and cooking utensils, are taken in the car-
riage; tea made on the greensward and
handed round in rustic fashion without
any ceremony. The Queen's seat is often
on the stump of a tree, or any other casual
resting-place that is convenient.
	MRS. E. C. Stanton, Miss S. B. Anthony
and Mrs. M. J. Gage have opened parlors at
1431 Chestnut St., Phil., as their head-quar-
ters during the Centennial. They announce
a grand Mass Meeting for the 19th and 20th
of July, those days being the twenty-eighth
anniversary of one of the first Woman's
Rights Conventions ever held.
	MRS. Julia Sumner Hastings, a sister of
the late Charles Summer, and the last sur-
viving member of his direct family, died at
White Ranch, Marin Co., Cal., on Monday,
May 29th, 1876.
	MISS Minnie Hauck, a young lady singer,
has attained the position of a highly dis-
tinguished artist within a few years. Dur-
ing her tour on the continent of Europe
she was a great favorite, especially in Ger-
many and Hungary.


WHICH letter in the alphabet is the most
useful to a deaf lady? A; it will make her 
hear.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

PERVERTED AMBITION.

	It appears that children are born with the
propensity to over-estimate their abilities in
some form, and that this propensity develops
faster than any other.
	A sensible woman writer, years ago, cau-
tioned mothers and nursemaids against the im-
propriety of allowing young children to stand
or walk too long a time without resting. She
said that children at all delicate should not be
permitted to walk long at a time, but that
short efforts with intervening repose should be
the order of the nursery. When the bones
are in the least soft, it is incredible how much
mischief may be done by keeping the limbs
much on the stretch, or allowing them to sup-
port the trunk long at a time. Even healthy
children of two or three years of age, have be-
come indisposed by walking about a mile
without even being hurried.
	It is clearly evident that but few children
come into this world wanting a disposition to
see and do everything that can be seen or done.
The little feet are always inclined to be mov-
ing, long before the possibility of standing up-
on them becomes a distinct idea; while the
tiny fingers always in motion, and the won-
dering eyes always endeavoring to search out
some new curiosity, leave no room for doubting
that nature endows the human species with a
desire for knowledge and exertion. Alas! that
this sublime desire should in so many instan-
ces become so early perverted!
	How often astonishment is expressed by
parents that their sons or their daughters who,
in infancy and early childhood were so active
and full of life, exhibit, a few years later, such
a lack of energy, and are comparatively dull,
torpid, positively "lazy!" Some cause must be
assigned for such results; and if the subject
were thoroughly canvassed, it would, in all
probability, be ascertained in nearly every case,
that the individual had been allowed to exer-
cise too much while yet a child, when effort
should have been restrained rather than en-
couraged. In many instances children are
urged and required by thoughtless parents or
guardians to do more even, than childish am-
bition would incline them to accomplish. And
it is reasonable to suppose that no estimate
can be formed of the injuries which are liable
to be thus inflicted.
	Another great wrong is frequently done to
children by compelling them to do the very
work they most dislike, instead of encourag-
ing the natural inclination, and allowing them
the privilege of doing work in which they
would be most likely to excel.
	People caannot at all times control circum-
stances, and these evils cannot always be avert-
ed. But mothers need not, and should not call

[COLUMN 2]

their fast-growing girls idle or lazy, because
of the inertia they are sure to feel and must
indulge more or less. And fathers, doubtless,
do less good than harm, by making their
young sons blush to hear what wonderful days'
works they were in the habit of performing
when about the same age that their boys are
now. These same fathers would be more ca-
pable men to-day, if in youth they had kept a
portion of their strength in reserve instead of
exhausting the whole ere it had time to ma-
ture.
	If boys and girls must waste their energies,
however, it is far better that they waste them
in useful labor than in unprofitable pleasure.
Yet there are more young girls in these days,
who destroy their health by dancing and frolic-
ing too much, than there are who injure them-
selves with overwork. They should be taught
the folly of such a course, and, if possible,
brought to realize the danger without entailing
the actual consequences.
	Too few of our middle-aged women have the
freshness and vital strength which, with prop-
er use, they should retain, even when they are
grown old and are ripening for another sphere
of action. If the natural strength and vigor
of womanhood has not been dwarfed, or dead-
ened before marriage, it is most likely destroyed
in the early years of matrimony, by injudicious
measures, which, though often deemed neces-
sary, might in most cases be avoided. "Young
wives and mothers are too proud and too am-
bitious," says a woman of experience; "they
want to do every thing themselves, and be es-
teemed model housekeepers, when in fact they
are not through with the alphabet." The de-
sire of a young wife to have all things kept in
order about her home is perfectly right, and a
rule which should as far as possible be kept in-
violate. But still it is better to sacrifice a lit-
tle ambitious pride than for a mother to risk
her health and that of her offspring.
	Young men, and old ones too, in all parts of
the civilized world, and in all occupations,
may daily be seen exhibiting the same weak-
ness which characterizes the child just learn-
ing to walk—the propensity to overreach, to
accomplish more in some direction than the
Lord has given them ability to do. When
financial ruin comes, the cry is raised' "wo-
man's extravagance has wrought this evil!"
whereas it is merely the result of perverted am-
bition.
	That men and women walk side by side in
this path cannot be denied. And for the
heavier portion of blame to be shoved upon
the weaker vessel is perfectly natural to fallen
humanity, though most unjust.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
				HOME AFFAIRS.

	NORMAL INSTITUTE.—At the Deseret Uni-
versity at 10 o'clock a. m:, Aug. 7th, the Teach-
ers' Normal Institute will open its session of 
two weeks, under the Presidency of Dr. J. R.
Park. The object is to discuss the best meth-
ods of instruction, and many talented teachers
will take part in it, giving their services.
	The Institute is free, and arrangements have
been made greatly reducing some attendant
expenses, railroad fare, etc;
	Theory and practice of teaching, Prof. L. F.
Monch;
	Reading, Prof. Chas. Davis;
	Arithmetic, Prof. T. B. Lewis;
	Geography, Prof. Chas. Wright;
	English Grammar, Prof. W. H. Rager;
	Orthography, Prof. Milton H. Hardy;
	Penmanship and Bookkeeping, Prof. F. M.
Bishop;

[Column 2]
	History and Natural Science, Prof. Karl G.
Maeser;
	Music, Prof. George Careless;
	Drawing, Geo. M. Ottinger;
	Object Lessons, Miss Ida I. Cook;
	Elocution, J. L. Rawlins
	This Institute affords excellent opportunities-
for instruction for persons who wish to become
proficient as teachers, and opportunities for
attainment and advancement like this, should
be improved by all who can possibly avail
themselves of them.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair now
open in the Old Constitution Buildings, is cer-
tainly a suceess in the exhibition of ladies' in-
dustrial home work. Very elegant and artis-
tic specimens of wax fruit and flowers, artificial
flowers for trimmings of all varieties and shades,
almost innumerable varieties of ornamental
and useful articles, for adding to the beauty
and comfort of home are there in profusion.
One of the chief features of the fair is the silk
word in all its various forms and stages of pro-
duction, from the egg to the cocoon, and from
them to the article reeled, spun and woven.
	Competent judges of manufactured lace, as-
sert the pillow, Eeru and Honiton lace on ex-
hibition there, that is equal in worth to manu-
factured elsewhere. There are many varieties
of articles too numerous to mention in detail.
The Fair possesses many attractions for stran-
gers and visitors, who can thus form some
idea of what Utah is doing. The ladies who
attend spare no pains in describing the articles
they have for sale or for show, and the price
of admission is only 10 ctc., which is so very
small that every person can assuredly visit it
and see the products and the handiwork of the
women of Utah.
	THE FOURTH of July in this Centennial year
of American Independence was enthusiastic-
ally celebrated in various parts of Utah. Can-
nons fire-works, processions, music, speeches
and all the appointments necessary to make a
great noise and great display were provided for
this joyful occassion, in most of the towns and
settlements. Ogden was the chief point. Our
space will not admit of details, evere one who
desired to participate in the enjoyments of the
glorious Fourth have had ample opportunity.
	SURPRISE PARTY.—On Wednesday, July
12th, a social party of ladies of this city went 
to Cottonwood, to celebrate the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, The
day was a fine one, and everything passed off
pleasantly. This lady is a charming hostess,
and one of those genial, genuine, whole-souled
women who attract and draw around them
hosts of friends.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	If agreeable, please insert the following in
the EXPONENT.
	Some little time ago I sent a photograph of
President Young to a friend of ours in Eng-
land, and I extract a portion of the letter I got
back upon it.
		HANNAH T. KING.
	"I was agreeably surprised and pleased when
I saw the beautiful photograph of your Presi-
dent. Of the many pictures, caricatures rath-
er, I had seen of him, they tended to give the
very opposite impression of the man, and left
a sort of prejudice. Here is his veritable shad-
ow, sent from the spot where he resides, and 
through your hands! Do I believe in it? I
think I do indeed. It took me wholly by sur-
prise; I always had him in my mind—an en-
tirely different sort of face to this, which is
really a pleasure to look at; and the more I


look at it the better I like it! I have shown it
to many, and shall show it to more; all ex-
claim—"A different man to what I should have
thought!" or "to what he is represented both
in writing and in pictures!" all expressed
something in this style, and all said "It is a
fine face," or, "a good face," or, "a handsome
face.,' I say it is a splendid face and expres-
sion, and no person possessing the slightest
taste could pronounce it otherwise than good
and striking, dignified and genial. If there is
not a good heart beneath, the face is a lie! I
do thank you for it, I shall value it beyond
price, and I shall show it to those who con-
demn without knowing, who believe without
enquiring. It shall give the lie to many, or I
am much mistaken. I thank you for it very
heartily; next to your own none could please
me more."
	Another extract from same letter:—"You
say 'the photograph is a life-like likeness of
the most extraordinary man of the age;' I
agree with you; he is, to my mind, THE most
extraordinary man of the time, and of the age.
I have already told you what I think about it;
I am greatly interested in it, I admire it; I love
to show it to my friends and hear their re-
marks; I am proud of it, because you are my
friend and are intimate with him; he is your
chief and you believe in, and follow; he is the
abused of the abused. This photograph has
taken away all the prejudice I might once have
had, and tells me he is not the man he is rep-
resented to be so grossly. One has only to look
on that fine face to feel, to believe, that he is
belied beyond credence. It will indeed be
treasured by me and proudly shown to all.
Again, I thank you for it."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	29


ANNUAL MEETING DESERET
			SILK ASSOCIATION.

	One year ago to-day, June 15th, 1876, the
above named association was organized with-
out capital, yet, by the blessing of God upon
the diligence and perseverance of those who
labored, and the means appropriated by dona-
tion from different persons in the community,
the Society has been able to pay for nearly all
the cocoons that were for sale in the Territory.
Seventy lbs of cocoons have been disposed of
for reeling; fourteen lbs have been donated to
the Society.
	Seventeen silk pocket handkerchiefs, (a very
good article) have been woven, and twenty-
five yards more of the same material are now
in the loom; a sample silk stocking has been
knit on the Lamb's knitting machine; three
pounds of silk have been made into sewing
silk, floss and twist; this twist is for sale at the
Z. C. M. I. Some of the silk has been woven
into pillow lace. Some of the cocoons have
spoiled by moths and millers soiling them.
By referring to Mr. Piper's remarks in the
Deseret News, and carefully observing, these
difficulties may be obviated.
	A few large cocooneries will not [--] as benefi-
cial to the community as if farmers in general
would devote a portion of land to raising mul-
berry trees, which would give employment to
aged people and children, and would be a source
of wealth, as well as to promote industry.
	Utah is as good a climate for silk culture as
any in the world; samples of silk were taken
from Utah, by Elder Paul Schettler, to France
and Italy, and by competent judges there were
pronounced of the best quality. It now re-
quires quantity before machinery can be made
practicable, meantime, stockings, sewing-silk,
floss, &c., can be manufactured for home use.
	Although few in numbers, as yet, we hope
to see this enterprise prosper, as also all others


that will benefit the community. Hoping that
it may increase in interest each succeeding
year.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President Deseret Silk Association.
	June 15th, 1876.
	The Deseret Silk Association met per ad-
journment, City Hall, Tuesday evening, July
11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. After
the meeting had been opened by prayer, and
the minutes of the last meeting read and ac-
cepted, Mrs. Young made a few remarks upon
the business, the success, etc. Bro. A. M.
Musser then gave some of his views in regard
to the course to be pursued; said he had 2,000
mulberry trees that were doing well; he an-
ticipated great results. Bro. Smith from Boun-
tiful, a silk weaver, spoke mostly upon the get-
ting of machinery; said it would be very little
expense to procure sufficient. Sister Smith
also made some excellent remarks. The silk
businesss is progressing slowly but effectually.
Some of the finest cocoons are now ready for
use. Miss M. A. Rockwood spoke of having
commenced to learn the silk reeling; she be-
gan about two months ago, and intended mak-
ing herself proficient in the silk work; was
pleased with the occupation. There is now a
very fair prospect for some real benefit to ac-
crue from the manufacture of silk in Utah, al-
though there must necessarily be time to bring
about any great purpose.
	ZINA D. YOUNG,
		President.


SPLINTERS.

			FOREIGN.
	An Art and Industrial Exhibition for
North Wales is to be held at Wrexham......
A Shakespeare Memorial Theatre and Pic-
ture Gallery are to be built in Stratford......
Mr. Spurgeon it is said will visit America
next Autumn...The Emperor has given 3,000
marks towards a monument for Luther in
Eisleben, his native town......In Shetland
the ministers are expected to be as hardy
as ponies and to live almost as cheap..........
Mrs. Craik, the author of "John Halifax,
Gentleman," is erecting a drinking fountain
near her residence in Kent with the addi-
tion of penny loaves and a money-box......
Twenty-four women burned to death in a
carpet manufactory in Ayr, Scotland, on
the 16th of June......Australia will exhibit
ninety-three varieties of apples at the Cen-
tennial Exhibition at Philadelphia......The
Emperor William of Germany when trav-
elling is unwilling to receive any distin-
guishing marks of attention.

				GENERAL.
	The new Masonic Hall, Buffalo, was ded-
icated June 24th with imposing ceremonies
......A new air line to Boston, by way of
New Haven, Middletown and Willimantic
Conn., will soon be completed......Dr. Le-
Moyne of Washington, Penn., has construct-
ed a furnace for the purpose of cremation
......John Neal, poet and author, died re-
cently at Portland, Maine, at the age of 83
......Prof. Botta of New York has been ap-
pointed by the Italian government commis-
sioner to the Exhibition at Philadelphia
......A terrible tornado in central Iowa on
Tuesday evening July 5th, great destruction
of life and property, one whole village
swept away—devastation dreadful......The
Emperor of Brazil made a speech in New
York on the 10th inst......Excessive heat in
New York, Washington and Philadelphia;
many deaths from sun-stroke......The He-
brews in the United States are preparing to
found a college in Cincinnatti......A large


number of buildings struck by lightning and
some people killed in New England......Six
companies of U. S. Infantry from Cincinnat-
ti gone to reinforce the army now operating
against the Indians......Postmaster Jewell
has resigned at President Grant's request.


For the EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have just come home from Sunday
School; I have fed my silk-worms, attend-
to some other domestic duties, and now
I want to say a few words to the mothers.
	I am a teacher in the Sunday School,
where I take my six children when they
are well, and they are usually blest with
good health, for which I feel grateful; but
sometimes when they are not very well
through the week they seem to get better
for Sunday. I think mothers do not take
the interest in this great privilege they
ought; they might do many more things
than they do to help in the good work.
Mothers have a very important mission to
fill in this generation.
	Our children, even here in Zion, are
growing up without a knowledge of the
Gospel in a great measure; and parents are
to blame in many instances. We must
teach our children the word of the Lord,
and pratcise it ourselves, or we shall be held
accountable at the last day. I am interest
ed in the things of the kingdom of God,and
I would like to see every one working faith-
fully with their best ability.
	How can we sit down with our hands
folded and say all is well, and think we
are going to be saved in the Celestial king-
dom? The Lord says—"Serve me with all
thy might, mind and strength, and pray
without ceasing."
	I think woman has so much to do and to
learn that she has no time to spend on tri-
fles; but as wife and mother to be up and
doing. We must learn what we came here
for; assuredly it was not to waste time in
vanity and folly. We must learn of the
things of God and practise true principles.
If woman is to be a companion, a counselor
to man, and he attains to thrones, principal-
ities and powers, the wife to be his equal
and stand by his side, what a vast work lies
before her to perform; it is said one is not
without the other in the Lord.
	Sisters, we must train our children in the
right way, that they may be an honor to us;
let us gain wisdom and get understanding,
that we may teach our children in the ways
of the Lord. I realize it is the mother that
makes the man; then how great the respon-
sibility of mothers, to instil into the minds
of their children truth, honesty and virtue.
I believe there are many noble spirits ruined
through tne weakness and indulgence of
parents. They smile and flatter the child
in doing wrong when it is little, because it
is too young to correct, and when it grows
bigger it is too large and old and knows
more than its parents; then comes the fruits
of what they have sown. Let every one
learn not to smile or encourage wrong even
in a child.	M. A. W.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE Italians bring up from the bottom of
the Mediterranean yearly 150,000 pounds
of coral worth $1,150,000.
	The engine that furnishes steam at the
Centennial weighs 800 tons.
	THERE are 662 miles of water pipes in
the city of Philadelphia, and 72 drinking
fountains.


30		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		MARRIAGE AND WIVES.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		Wedded love is founded on esteem,
		Which the fair merits of the heart engage;
		For those are charms which never can decay.
		But time, which gives new whiteness to the swan,
		Improves its lustre.
								FENTON,
	It has become proverbial now that there
are not as many marriages as there
used to be. Looking about for reasons,
many unjust and illogical conclusions are
drawn. The reason most generally assigned
by men is that a wife in this day is too ex-
pensive an article to keep. "It costs so
much to support a wife, that is the reason
young men don't marry," and the mother
is blamed in most instances because she has
indulged her daughter, or has not sufficient-
ly impressed upon her mind the prepara-
tions for housekeeping, or the subject of
domestic economy. Fathers very seldom
come in for any share of the blame, no matter
how much they have petted or neglected the
daughter's true interests, it is her mother
that has not taught her properly, that has
failed in some particular to do her whole
duty, this is the verdict.
	Allow me to say, with all due deference
to men, that if they would regard women
as rational beings, and not encourage, by
precept or example, the idea that fragility
and weakness were womanly and fascinat-
ing qualities, that woman's charms were
enhanced by her very dependence, that her
sweetness consisted in her incapacity to
stand alone, to do battle with the world in-
dependently; in short, that her reliance up-
on a stronger nature was an absolute neces-
sity, it would tend to make women better
and nobler. If such is really the case, then
she is not a perfectly developed woman,
and would, under any circumstances, be in-
capable of standing alone. To be sure one
must be well balanced within and without
to be capable of acting under the various
circumstances of life wisely, but as a wife
and mother is there not just as much need
of wisdom? Do not men in thousands of
instances look to the wife for courage, for
strength of purpose to assist them in the
vicissitudes of life? Failures in business,
which occur so frequently, are borne with
far greater heroism by women than men,
usually speaking.
	Do not farmers (for instance) expect their
wives to do all the general housework,
make butter, milk cows, etc., with very lit-
tle hired help, while they perhaps keep sev-
eral hired hands which these same wives
must cook for etc.; and perhaps they have
a family of little children who require con-
stant care and attention, sometimes keep-
ing them awake all the night, sick and rest-
less. Do men realize that these burdens
press heavily?
Surely the woman who can so systematize
her work as to keep the machinery of the
household running on smoothly and quiet-
ly from day to day, and year to year, and
wear a pleasant countenance, be always neat
and tidy in her own appearance is indeed a
marvel. It requires a vast amount of patience,
care, prudence and forethought to accomplish
woman's household labor.
	There are very few men, comparatively
speaking, who are competent to judge by a
woman's dress or housekeeping whether
she is extravagant or not. There are many
women who have a faculty of making old
things look stylish and almost new, who
seem to possess the good tact and perfect
taste to make all that is around them

[Column 2]
harmonize, to soften and tone down that
which would otherwise be glaring and un-
pleasant to the sight. Yet how few men
comprehend these little trifles that make
up so much of the sum of domestic happi-
ness.
	How many wives there are whose sole
motive seems to be to please their husband
and their God, and of those who make duty
their chief aim and study how many fail
to win one word of commendation from the
husbands who have promised to love and
cherish them.
	And is it not necessary for them to be
self-reliant if they must live self-contained
lives? Then the best education for woman
as well as man, is that which develops all
the faculties and powers God has given
them. Let each one of either sex take a
reasonable view of life from an enlightened
stand-point, and he or she will enter into
the marriage relations not from impulse,
or under the impression that they are going
to wed an angel, but a rational human
being, with tastes and desires and feelings
like others. Find out the intrinsic value of
the soul of the one you would wed, the
fineness of the web and woof. Do not mar-
ry for a fine face or a fine form, nor for any
foolish idea about affinities; for all these
will vanish when the toils and hardships of
life come upon you, but if there is a genu-
ine fountain of truth and virtue and moral
integrity to supply the place of beauty and
wealth and show, you will be well provided
in any emergency. A man or woman who
does not love another because he or she is
poor, does not love at all, they are not capa-
ble of loving. There must be some inher-
ent goodness of heart where there is true
affection. Marriage under all circumstan-
ces and for both parties interested requires
self-denial; and selfishness seems to be the
ruling spirit of the age.


NO SECRETS.

	The moment a girl has a secret from her
mother, or has received a letter she dare
not let her mother read, or has a friend of
whom her mother does not know, she is in
danger. A secret is not a good thing for a
girl to have. The fewer secrets that lie in
the hearts of women at any age, the better.
It is almost a test of purity. She who has
none of her own is best and happiest.
	In girlhood, hide nothing from your
mother; do nothing that, if discovered by
your father, would make you blush. When
you are married, never, never, never con-
ceal anything from your husband. Never
allow yourself to write a letter that he may
not know all about, or to receive one that
you are not quite willing he should read.
Have no mysteries whatever. Tell those
who are about you where you go and what
you do. Those who have the right to know,
I mean, of course.
	A little secretiveness has set many a scan-
dal afloat; and much as is said about women
who tell too much, they are much better off
than women who tell too little. A man
may be reticent and lie under no suspicion;
not so a woman.
	The girl who frankly says to her mother:
"I have been there. I met so and so. Such
and such remarks were made, and this or
that was done," will be certain of receiving
good advice and sympathy. If all was
right, no fault will be found. If the moth-
er knows out of her greater experience
that something was improper, or unsuitable,
she will, if she is a good mother, kindly
advise against its repetition.
	It is only when mothers discover that
their girls are hiding things from them that


they rebuke or scold. Innocent faults are
always pardoned by a kind parent.
	You may not know, girls, just what is
right—just what is wrong yet. You can't
be blamed for making little mistakes, but
you will never do anything very wrong if
from the first you have no secrets from your
mother.
				MARY KYLE DALLAS.
	—N. Y. Ledger.


FLOWERS.

	The smallest hair casts its shadow.
	A GOOD smile is the sunshine of wisdom.
    —Hosea Ballou.
	No man was ever scolded out of his sins.
    —Cowper.
	A JUDICIOUS silence is always better than
truth spoken without charity.—De Sales.
	THE most difficult thing in life is to know
yourself.—Thales.
	THE greatest truths are the simplest, and
so are the greatest men.—Hare.
	THE greatest good fortune is that which
amends our imperfections, and balances our
faults.
	REMEMBRANCE is the only paradise out
of which we cannot be driven away.—Rich-
ter.
	IN character, in manner, in style, in all
things the supreme excellence is simplicity.
—Longfellow.
	LOVE of truth shows itself in discovering
and appreciating what is good wherever it
may exist.
	OUR Lord has written the promise of the
resurrection, not in the Bible alone; but in
every leaf in springtime.
	TO have a respect for ourselves, guides
our morals; and to have a deference for
others, governs our manners.—Sterne.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life, are caused by us standing in
our own light.
	EVERYTHING is pernicious that emanci-
pates our intellect without at the same time
strengthening our self-control.
	WE cannot conquer fate and necessity,
yet we can yield to them in such a manner
as to be greater than if we could.
	I THINK the first virtue is to restrain the
tongue; he approaches nearest to the gods
who knows how to be silent, even though
he is right.
	SKEPTICISM has never founded empires,
established principles or changed the
world's heart. The great doers in history
have always been men of faith.—Chapin.
	FAITH is a domestic and private capital;
there are public savings banks and relief
funds, out of which individuals receive as-
sistance in times of scarcity; but here the
believer himself silently draws his interest.


An exacting temper is one against which
to guard both one's own heart and the na-
ture of those who are under our control and
influence. To give and to allow, to suffer
and to bear, are graces more to the purpose
of a noble life than cold, exacting selfish-
ness which MUST HAVE, let who will go
WITHOUT; which will not YIELD, let who
will BREAK. It is a disastrous quality
wherewith to go through the world; for it
receives as much pain as it inflicts, and cre-
ates the discomfort it deprecates.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			CLARKSTON, CACHE Co.,
						May 21, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, the sisters of Clarkston, would
like to mingle our voices with the rest of
our sisters, as we are engaged in the same
great work of helping to build up the king-
dom of God in the last days. The Relief
Society of this place was re-organized on
the 12th of January, 1875.
	Sister Mary Griffin is our President, and
Sisters Ann Keep and Sarah Jane Carbine
her Counselors, Jane Godfrey, Secretary,
Theophine Griffiths, Treasurer. We have
our meetings semi-monthly. Since our re-
organization we have done what good we
could in assisting the poor, the widow
and the orphan, and also in translat-
ing the Book of Mormon into the Spanish
language. Our settlement is small, but the
sisters in general seem to be willing to do
all the good they can; we have a good pres-
ident, full of integrity, always on hand to
lead out in any and every enterprise for the
upbuilding of the kingdom of God.
	Yours in the cause of truth,
						JANE GODFREY.

				SANTAQUIN, May 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	As it is seldom that this place is represent-
ed through your columns, I thought I would
write and let you know what we are doing
here in this part of the Lord's vineyard. I
think that the most of the people here are
trying to live their religion and serve God.
Our Sabbath meetings are well attended.
Our Relief Society is doing well under the
Presidency of Sister E. G. Stickney. On
Monday, the 22nd inst., our Bishop and
twelve of the most prominent ladies of San-
taquin, including the president and counsel-
ors of the Relief Society, president of the
Young Ladies, Improvement Association,
and other officers of both societies went
down to Spring Lake and organized a branch
Relief Society in that place; it being too far
for sisters with small families to attend the
meetings here. By unanimous vote the fol-
lowing named sisters were appointed and
set apart as officers at Spring Lake under
the presidency of Santaquin: Mrs. Eliza-
beth Broadbent President, Mrs. Melissa
Babbit and Sarah A. Jonson Counselors, Mrs.
Delcenia Babbit Secretary, and Mrs. Mar-
garet Spanihowr Treasurer. President
Stickney read the instructions Miss E. R.
Snow published in the "Deseret News" of
April 23rd, 1868. The Bishop gave the sis-
ters a great deal of very good and valuable
instruction.
	I can say that our Young Ladies' Improve-
ment Association is doing well; our young
ladies are improving rapidly; we hold our
meetings once a week, which are generally
very interesting. We have a weekly man-
uscript paper which is composed entirely of
original compositions, which is read every
meeting by some of our young ladies; the
name of the paper is "Our Young Ladies'
Thoughts." We have had no work done in
our meetings until lately, but now we are
making a quilt for the benefit of the Temple,
and as soon as that is finished we intend to
make some other things for the same pur-
pose, for we desire to do all we can to for-
ward the work of the Lord.
	Our young people have not indulged in
round dancing this past winter, and all our
parties, since we heard the instructions of
President Young, have been dismissed at
10 o'clock, and all seem satisfied with it.
	The EXPONENT is read with great inter-

[Column 2]
est in all our meetings; we feel we could
not do without it, and wish it every suc-
cess.			Ann J. STICKNEY,
					Sec'y Y. L. I. A.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	A Providence girl's expressive descrip-
tion of the Centennial show:
		Philadelphia, June, 1876.
	Dear mother:—Oh! Oh!! Oh!!! Oh!!!!
O-o-o-o-o-o-h!!!!!
	Your affectionate daughter,
		MARY.
	SCOTCH SAYINGS.—A doar plaat wi a mon's
name on's a vaary good thing, but a dinner
plaat wi a mon's dinner on's a better.
	"SILENCE in the court-room there,"
thundered a police magistrate; "the Court
has already committed four prisoners with-
out being able to hear a word of their testi-
mony.
	THE hog may not be thoroughly posted
in arithmetic, but when you come to square
root he is there—the hog is.
	Who is the straightest man mentioned in
the Bible? Joseph; because Pharaoh made
a ruler of him.
	A DOCTOR'S wife, who attempted to move
her husband by tears, was answered thus;
"Ann, tears are useless; I have analyzed
them; they contain a little phosphate of
lime, some chlorate of sodium, and that's
all."
	"SAM, what do you suppose is the reason
that the sun goes towards the south in the
winter?" "Well, I dunno, massa, 'less he
no stand de climate of norf, and so am
bliged to go to de souf where he speriences
warmer longitude."
	A "PERSONAL" in a New York daily a
short time ago stated that, "If John Brown,
formerly of Philadelphia, will call at No.
— Bank Street, he will hear something to
his advantage." John Brown called; there
was about two hundred and fifty of him—
and he has been calling at the rate of forty-
seven per day ever since the personal ap-
peared.
	THE jealous man is always hunting for
something he doesn't expect to find, and
after he has found it, he is mad because he
has. He is always happy just in proportion
as he is miserable.


PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I intended to write something of our So-
ciety business the next time, but I feel so
little in the humor of writing that I scarcely
know where to comm[--]ce.  The principal
item of interest at present is the Arfzona
mission. The bishop said we had an op-
portunity of helping the missionaries to
an outfit. We accordingly worked with
our sincere good will, and provided what
we could for the family that was called from
our ward. There was a party made for the
Arizona boys, as a farewell compliment, and
we thought it was all over.
	The young man who was sent from the
Second ward had started a few days before,
but his team being weak and his heart per-
haps weaker, he returned to attend the
farewell ball. He waited on a young lady
who, it is said, he had been casting a wish-
full eye towards. I suppose he found the
ball a success; he succeeded at any rate in
persuading the young lady to cast her lot
with his and try the Arizona mission.
	As she belonged in our ward, we took an


interest in fitting her out and supplied her
needs as well as we could. Nine days from
the time he tried his fate he started on his
way rejoicing, with a stronger team and
a braver heart, with a loving wife and the
best wishes of true friends, that their jour-
ney through life might not all be so rough
as at the beginning. If I was a novelist it
would furnish the plot for an interesting
story; but, as it is, I can only give you the
circumstance, which was very interesting
to us at the time, I can assure you.
	Our Society had been for some time talk-
ing of making a ball, and after our mission-
ary labors were over we turned our atten-
tion to that. Wishing to carry out the
President's counsel, we issued our tickets
for the next Friday at two p. m. We met
accordingly at Academy Hall. The ball
was opened by prayer, and while a portion
were dancing, a committee appointed for
the purpose laid the table in the lower part
of the hall, which was abundantly large,
arranging the picnic as it was brought in.
At four o'clock we partook of a very nice
supper, after which the tables were cleared,
the hall filled with dancers, and all went
merry as a marriage bell. At ten o'clock
our Bishop offered a prayer and dismissed
us. It was a very enjoyable affair, and the
best of order and good feelings prevailed.
	A few days later we were called to part
with a beloved sister, Mrs. Harriet Roberts,
relict of the late Horace Roberts of Provo.
She was a kind mother, a faithful saint, and
an active member of our society; she be-
longed to the board of appraisal. She died
after a protracted illness, beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her.
		No costly monument shall mark
		The place where thou art sleeping,
		But angel bands and loving hearts,
		Their silent watch are keeping.
								MARY.
Provo, June 3, 1876.


PRAYER.

	Prayer is one of the most beautiful sub-
jectf that can be spoken of, or written up-
on; it is the only medium through which
we can hold communion with God, the only
true source from which we can receive
comfort and consolation. When our minds
are darkened, troubled, clouded or depressed,
in all our sorrows and afflictions, we can go
before our Father in heaven, in faith and
humility of heart, and have the assurance
that He will hear and answer our prayers.
Jesus, when teaching his disciples to pray,
told them to use simple words, and he
charged them not to make vain repetitions,
like the heathen, and above all not to make
long prayers like the Pharisees, who think
to be heard for their much speaking. We
read in the Bible that Hezekiah, after he
had received the message of death, through
prayer had his days lengthened fifteen years.
And many other instances are mentioned
in the Bible of prayer being answered; and
in our daily life we can see wherein our
prayers have been answered to the very let-
ter. What is there more pleasing than to see
a little child scarcely able to articulate the
words, kneeling by its mother's knee, lisp-
ing a little prayer which she has taught it,
asking God to "bless papa and mamma,"
&c.? Or what will cause a parent's heart
to rejoice more, than to peep into the cham-
ber of their son or daughter of riper years,
and to find them, before retiring, upon their
knees, thanking God for his past blessings,
and asking him to preserve them through
the night and unto the end of their days.
And we feel sure their prayers will be heard
by Him who heareth in secret and reward-
eth openly.


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE LITTLE ORPHAN,

	As I bent myself to tuck the bed-clothes
more closely over an orphan child, a thrill
passed through my mind—do it well, for
you do it for another whose hands are fold-
ed to return to her mother dust. Speak
kindly, for those lips are sealed, and that
heart beats not who would wish you so to
do; that precious mother lives in the sun-
shine of God, for she was a Saint. The
father, far away and weary, is perhaps
wrapped in the arms of sleep; he too is
dead to the wants of the little ones. I stand
alone to act for them both. May God give
me wisdom to do it well. I looked at the
lone one sleeping and thought: You too are
dead at this moment to all sorrow! Absent
father! Departed mother! I live—precious
moment—striving to do all things well, and
tuck carefully the frail wrappings of the
bed-covering, but take care to place gently
but firmly the garments of charity and
kindness around the orphan, for his soul
will live, when earthly wrappings are no
more needed.
					DIANTHA BAKER.
	S. L. CITY, May 1, 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Ventilation.—Many people do not understand
how essential perfect ventilation is to refreshing
sleep. The best method is to leave a window par-
tially open. If it is raised a little at the bottom
and let down even half an inch at the top it makes
a material difference.
	Inability to Sleep.—This is something which
should be guarded against by every possible
means. It is one of the significant indications of
nervous irritability or mental excitement, and may
at any time, without positive warning, result in
the form of uncontrolable violence.
Care of the Feet.—Great care should be taken to
keep the feet thoroughly clean. Some people
talk a great deal about cold feet and vica versa, but
seem to reflect but little upon their cleanliness.
There is no portion of the body that requires more
care in this respect than the feet. The soles of the
feet contain large pores that both absorb and repel
fetid matter to a greater or less extent. The feet
should always be washed every day and the stock-
ings changed, if they are only aired and sunned
and then worn again. The old fashioned practice
of making children put their stockings in their
shoes at night, because it is orderly and tidy, is an
unhealthy one, as, is putting one's night clothes
under the pillows; instead of this, put them where
the air and sun will penetrate them.
	The Pulse.—Every person should be able to
ascertain the state of the pulse in health, and then
to compare it with the pulse when ailing, would
give some correct idea of the condition of the pa-
tient. Every mother in particular should under-
stand the [-]pulse of her children, as there are in-
stances where children are born with a peculiarly
slow or fast pulse, which of course would be neces-
sary to consider when there was any ailment. Or-
dinarily, according to some of the most authentic
calculations, an infant's pulse is 140 beats a min-
ute, a child of seven years about 70, declining to
60 at fourscore. At 60 if the pulse always ex-
ceeds 70 there is a disease of some part of the sys-
tem, or fever or inflammation. In consumption
the pulse is quick.


IVY FOR looking glasses: Have a little
flower-pot with earth, or a glass with water,
hang it at the back of the glass and plant
in it a slip of ivy. When the branches grow
they can be trained around the frame in
such a way as to entirely hide the source,
and decorate the frame in any way desired.


[Column 1]
	DAVID JAMES,
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
	Address, David-James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

				Now Receiving, at
	TEASDEL'S,
	The first arrival of Spring Styles, Prints, Dress Goods,
Flowers, &c.
	Ladies will please call, as good attention to low
prices, and full assortment on hand.
S. P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

	E. AUERBACH & BRO
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers In
			Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the Old Fashioned House.

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four 
	doors below Walker House, and examine our 
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
							Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
		Manufacturers of
ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
		JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director.
Addres	R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box 1064.		Salt Lake City.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price. 				17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

		THE KIND OF
	BOOTS AND SHOES
EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN’S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

EVERY DESCRIPTION
			OF
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
		AND
GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

		H. E. PHELPS,
			2[-] EAST TEMPLE STREET.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


BABIES' LEGS.—Bow-legs and knock-
knees are among the common deformities of
humanity; it is generally supposed these
results are in consequence of the child
having been put upon its feet too soon. An
eminent physician in Massachusetts thinks
differently; he attributes bow-legs to the
habit some babies delight in of rubbing the
sole of one foot against that of the other;
he says he has noticed some babies go to
sleep with the soles of their feet pressed to-
gether, it is particularly when their feet
are naked that they enjoy this; they sel-
dom attempt it when in socks or shoes; the
remedy, then, is to keep the baby's soles
covered. Knock-knees the doctor ascribes
to the childish habit of sleeping on the side
with one knee tucked into the hollow be-
hind the other; he says he has found that
where one leg has been bowed in more than
another, the child has always slept on one
side and the upper member has been the
one deformed. The preventive would be
to pad the inside of the knees so as to keep
them apart, and let the limbs grow freely
their own way.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1876.	NO. 5.


ST. GEORGE TEMPLE.

Hail! a Temple stands erected
	On that consecrated land,
By the man of God selected
	And by him devised and plann'd.

		    CHORUS

	Saints and angels shout Hosannah,
		"Peace on earth good will to men"
	Hear the message of salvation,
		Christ will come on earth again.

See the mighty angel flying
	With the message to declare,
Fear your God and give Him glory--
	For His judgment now prepare.

	Chorus.

See the fig tree's leaves are budding;
	Know this token–summer's nigh–
Hear the word which God hath spoken
	The day of vengeance draweth nigh.

Hark! the watchman's loudly calling,
	Awake ye saints! awake prepare!
Trim your lamps and keep them burning
	You have oil but not to spare.

Clothe you with the wedding garment
	Come unto the feast prepared;
You have listened to the warning,
	Now you'll have the great reward.

Jesus comes in power and glory,
	Comes to wed His ready Bride,
Robed in white and wreathed in glory;
	No more to be crucified.

WILMIETH EAST.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	A BOOK entitled "Woman Created an
Image of God," is now being published by
Miss Aasta Hausteen, who is an enthusias-
tic worker for woman's rights in Norway.
She is a daughter of the celebrated Prof.
Hausteen.
	MRS. Emma Malloy of Indiana deliver-
ed an eloquent and spirited address to a
numerous assembly of people in New Era
Hall, 176 Tremont Street, Boston on July
4th, at the convention of the Suffolk County
Good Templars.
	HARRIET Martineau, an English writer
of great celebrity and whose works have
had an extensive circulation in America,
died at her own home in England, the first
week in July last, at the age of seventy-
four. She was a powerful writer, and was
often spoken of as masculine in her vigor
of intellect, and clearness of perception.
She was in the strictest sense of the word
a woman of superior mind and attainments.
	MRS. M. A. Ford, an author and poet,
who died recently, has been spoken of in
terms of the highest praise, as a woman
possessing many loveable and aimable
qualities and attractions. She was one who
labored assiduously for the elevation of her
sex. She wrote under the "nom de plume of
"Una," and has been highly complimented
by Longfellow, who is by most people "con-
sidered an authority.


HE who thinks he has enough of the Holy
Spirit will quickly find himself vanquished
by the evil spirit.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AN INGENIOUS specimen of woman's 
work at the Exposition is from Peru. It is
a bust of President Grant, made of the fin-
est wire, so fine that at first sight it has the 
appearance of velvet. It is said to be eas-
ily recoguized, although not at all flatter-
ing.
	"THE NEW Century for Woman" places
the names George Sand and George Elliot
as the two women who have achieved the
honor of placing the novel at the head of
dramatic art; not Scott, or Dickens, or 
Thackery, or Bulwer.
	ONE of the most notable of woman's 
works in art is the marble statue of Samuel
Adams, modeled and carved by Miss Whit-
ney of Boston. It has been on exhibition
at the Boston Athenaum for some time, and
by the best judges pronounced a wonderful
achievement. It was designed for the Cap-
itol at Washington. It is said to be "full of
character and expression, simple and manly
in attitude; and with the expression of
great beauty of thought and feeling."
	THERE IS an Italian lady now residing at
Rome, Madame Maraini, who is said to be
a sculptor of wonderful genius and talent, and
also of most striking originality in her ideas
and conceptions. In her studio among the
many specimens, portraits, busts, statuettes,
etc. a most magnificent life-sized figure of
Sappho. It represents her standing upright,
leaning back again against a bit of rock, the
head a little inclined forward, in the expres-
sion of the features, and about the eyes and
mouth a look of despair. The right arm
and hand from which the drapery is thrown
gracefully back, is pressed close to her breast
as if to still the tumultuous beating of her
agonized heart. It represents her just at
the moment she is about to take the fatal
leap from the Leucadian rock. A lady cor-
respondent writing from Rome to the Bos-
ton "Journal" says: "It is the most ex-
pressive piece of sculpture I have ever
seen." It is to be regretted that it was not
sent to the Philadelphia Exhibition. It is
to go to the Salon Exposition at Paris, and
it is expected will receive either a gold
medal or honorable mention. The lady's 
husband is editor of the most popular news-
paper in Rome, "Il Diretto.'


MISCELLANEOUS.

	BIRDS of some species are very long-
lived; of these are the eagle, raven, swan
and parrot. "An eagle kept in Vienna died
after a confinement of one hundred and
fourteen years." An ancient oak in Shel-
bourne, still known as the raven tree, is be-
lieved to have been the residence of the
same pairs of ravens for more than ninety
years. Swans upon the river Thames have
been known to survive a hundred and fifty
years or more. It is certified upon good
authority that there can be no mistake in
this since they are annually marked by
Vintner's Company, under whose keeping
they have been for more than five centur-
ies.
	ANCESTRY OF THE PEN:—The most an-


cient method of writing was upon bricks'
tiles, oyster-shells, stones, ivory, bark and
leaves of trees, and no doubt it is from the
latter that the term, "leaves of a book" is
derived. Copper and brass plates were in
use very early. A bill of foefiment on
copper, was some years since discovered in
India, bearing date one hundred years B.
C. Wooden and leather tablets were used
and the papyrus; about the eighth century
the papyrus was superseded by parchment.
Paper is of the greatest antiquity among
the Chinese: The first paper-mill in Eng-
land was built in 1586, by a German at
Dartford, in Kent. In1713, Thomas Wal-
kins, a stationer, brought paper making to
something nearer perfection. The first pen
we have any knowledge of, was the stylus,
a kind of iron bodkin, which the Romans
forbade the use of because of its frequent
and often fatal use in quarrels; afterwards
it was make of bone; subsequently reeds,
pointed and split, were used, something
after the style of the pens of our day.


FLORAL HINTS.

	A WRITER in the "Ladies Floral Cabi-
net" describes how to make what is termed
a Hanging Garden.—Take a large white
sponge and sew it full of canary, grass,
hemp, rice and other seeds; then place it in
a shallow dish and keep a little water con-
stantly in the dish, and the sponge will ab-
sorb the moisture, and in about a week the
seeds will begin to sprout. When they
have grown a little the sponge can be hung
up in a window where the sun can get at
it by means of a cord or two. Soon it will
become a mass of green foliage which is al-
ways pretty to look at. Wet the sponge
every day by pouring water lightly upon it,
and if it absorbs much water and becomes
dry during the day wet it with warm water.
	FLOWERS FOR WINDOWS: Plants should
be placed where they can have the greatest
amount of sunlight possible. East and south 
windows are the best although west win-
dows will do: too many plants should not
be crowded into one window. The pots
need to be turned every few days. Fresh
air should be given them every day that
is mild enough, by opening the doors or let-
ting down the windows from the top. If
there is much dust arising from sweeping
carpets or other causes they will need fre-
quent showering with warm water. It is
best to shower them on cloudy days; if
plants are sprinkled with the sun shining
upon them it has a tendency to injure the
leaves. The evening is a good time to
shower them; the soil in the pot should be
stirred every time the plant has a thorough
watering; for this purpose a stiff hair-pin
is a very good thing. The best plan to have
good healthy window plants for winter, is to
have new plants started from slips during
the summer, or those that have been kept
in pots. If any of the cuttings wilt, cover
them with a glass tumbler or lamp-chimney;
as fast as the slips take root transplant them
into two or three inch pots; keep them
shaded from four days to a week. Cuttings
can be rooted this way during the summer
and autumn and you can have fine plants
for winter.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association, held in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
July 22nd, was one of increased interest,
and plainly indicated the zeal and enthusi-
asm of the sisters in promoting the HOME
INDUSTRIES.
	Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff presided,
President Mrs. M. I. Horne not being able
to attend on account of ill-health. After
the usual opening exercises and reading of
minutes of the young secretaries from the
several wards represented, Counselor Zina
D. Young gave a synopsis of her journey
recently taken into the country, reported
the success of the silk culture in the places
she had visited, and the energy and mag-
nanimity manifested by the sisters to pro-
gress and develop in all the different depart-
ments of home manufacture. Counselors
Mrs. E. Howard and Mrs. P. Woodruff
spoke with considerable power and earnest-
ness, exhorting the sisters to use great wis-
dom in all their movements. Mrs. E. S.
Barney bore a strong testimony to the gos-
pel, and several other sisters arose and ex-
pressed their views and feelings. All was
in perfect order and harmony.

HARRISBURG, July 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, with the rest of our sisters, would
like to represent ourselves and our interests
in the columns of the Woman's paper.
Health and peace prevail in our little settle-
ment nestled among the hills here away in
Southern Utah. This beautiful country—
the land of the vine and the fig tree—where
we can enjoy the blessings of God's best
gifts to man, "health, peace and compe-
tence," and the principles of the Everlast-
ing Gospel.
	We have a Relief Society organized here
and we meet twice a month; we have been
able to add our mite in helping to erect the
St. George Temple, and hope yet to do more.
The sisters of this place have established a
Co-operative store, and we hope to make it
a decided success.
	There has also recently been organized a
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation. All our institutions are doing well
at present, which is a source of great satis-
faction to all interested in the progress of
the latter-day work.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
value it highly. Ever praying for your in-
terest and for the spread of truth, we re-
main,
	Your friend and sister,
		ELLEN C. FULLER.

BLOOMINGTON, BEAR LAKE CO.,
	July 14, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	Our Relief Society is prospering under
the untiring zeal of our President L. Green-
holst; we number about sixty, and I believe
a great amount of good has been done by
the sisters in this place in the past year; we
hope to be able to build a good house the
coming summer, that we may hold
our meetings whenever we wish, we
have a good attendance at our meetings,
and the sisters, many of them, feel a deep
interest in doing all in their power to help
on this good work by their faith, prayers
and also by their means; we are sometimes
favored by a visit from Pres. Rich, also
Bishop Budge, who feel a deep interest in

[COLUMN 2]

the Society, and we receive much valuable
instruction and advice from them; we were
also favored with a visit from Sister M. I.
Horne while she was visiting in Bear Lake
Valley, and I believe all who heard her
speak felt blessed and instructed, and deter-
mined to do better in the future than they
had in the past.
	Sister Horne while here organized a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
which is now in good condition; our young
ladies seem to feel a great interest in their
meetings which they hold every two weeks
under the presidency of Sister Hester Dunn;
their meetings are well attended; our young
sisters are not ashamed to pray and speak,
and they feel determined to do all in their
power to forward the cause of the kingdom
of God.
	We had a good time on the Fourth of
July; our Sunday School children had a
nice Entertainment given by the President
of our Society and the Teachers of the Sun-
day School; the Bloomington band played
and the children sang some beautiful songs;
received prizes and were served with suit-
able refreshments; run races, and finished
with a dance in the evening.
	ELIZABETH LONG,
		Secretary.

GOSHEN, UTAH, CO., June 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the Annual meeting of the
Relief Society on the first of June, in the
School House of this place.
	There were present on the stand Bishop
William Price, the president of the teach-
ers, and other brethren, also the choir led
by Elder James Jenkins.
	The house was lined with quilts and or-
namental work done by the Sisters of the
Society.
	Names of the present officers:
	Mrs. Mary Johnson,	President,
	"	Eleson Gurley,
	"	Mary Dodds,			Counselors.
	" 	Louisa Taylor,		Secretary,
	"	Christina Higginson, Treasurer.
	After the usual exercises and reading of
minutes, the following report of the year
ending May 31st, was read by the Secre-
tary.
	Donations received....................	$140 18
	Disbursed to sick and needy...... 	94 39
	Clothes for Lamanites................	23 88
	Cash invested in Co-op store,
and Provo Factory..............................	150 55
	Cash in Treasury........................	51 00
	Property on hand, consisting
of quilts, socks, burial clothes
and other articles................................ 	110 25
	Our meeting was excellent and a good
spirit prevailed, there was a large attend-
ance. President Mary Johnson remarked,
she was pleased to see the willingness of
the sisters to sustain HOME INDUSTRIES.
Prayed the Lord to bless each member of
the society that they might have a spirit of
oneness; she desired the bishop and breth-
ren present to give their views regarding
the house we anticipate building this year.
	Bishop Price spoke very encouragingly;
thought the members of the society were
making every effort to aid the sick and
needy; was pleased to see their determin-
ation to have a house of their own, said it
would not only prove a comfort to use, but
the Lord would also bless us in our under-
taking. Said the Sisters were a great help
to the Priesthood. He also spoke of the in-
fluence of WOMAN for good, and he felt to
bless the society and all its members.
	Each of the brethren followed in good

[COLUMN 3]

and instructive remarks. All felt well and
seemed to enjoy the spirit of the Gospel of
the Latter Days.
	Ever your Sister, &c.
		LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to inform you of the condition of
affairs touching the progress of our Society.
I have had opportunities not only in public
but in private to familiarize myself with
the spiritual condition of its members, and
I must confess that the evidences are many
that their hands and hearts are in the great
work of reformation, manifesting on all oc-
casions a disposition and willingness to up-
hold and sustain by kind words and com-
mendable deeds, our highly esteemed and
worthy President Sister Margarette Ran-
dall whose untiring efforts to promote not
only the interests of the Society but the
general good of the kingdom of God, are
too well known to need comment. Suffice
it to say that at our annual meeting of re-
cent date, and largely attended, a spirit of
devotion to the cause which we have es-
poused seemed to pervade the assembly;
and some able, timely, and interesting re-
marks by Brother N. T. Porter added new
fuel to the spiritual conflagration already
kindled in the souls of all convened.
	With these hasty remarks, still praying
for the present and ultimate success of your
valuable paper, and the general good of
humanity; I subscribe myself your Sister
in the Gospel.
	CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.
		Centreville, July 1st, 1875.

NEPHI CITY, July 16, 1876.
EDITOR'S EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting on the 24th
of June; it was a good time for us as we
were able to meet in our own Society
House for the first time; it is not entirely
finished, yet we feel greatly blessed in hav-
ing it so near completed that we can be
comfortable in it.
	A few of the brethren and many of the
sisters were present, and all seemed to feel
well and enjoy the spirit of their religion.
	Our Bishop, Joel Grover, made the dedi-
catory prayer, and after the opening of the
meeting a report was read of our donations
and disbursements which showed that we
have been gaining a little.
	All the brethren present congratulated us
on having done so good a work in so short
a time, and with so little monied means.
We have a real economist for a president or
we could not have accomplished it.
	Our Society is still alive to the interests
of the kingdom and we are willing to lend
a helping hand to the poor and needy, and
give a word of comfort to those that are
cast down; and our President and Counsel-
ors are ever on the watchtower for the in-
terests of all.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome guest to all
who can command the means to take it in
this place; many express regret when the
sisters ask them to subscribe and they
really have not the means to do so.
	Hoping for better times, I remain as ever,
your Sister in the Gospel of Peace.
				A. L. BIGLER, Sec'y.


EVERY noble-crown is, and on earth ever
will be, a crown of thorns. In a valiant
suffering for others, not in a slothful mak-
ing others suffer for us, did nobleness ever
lie.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		35


WHERE THE OLD FRIENDS MEET.

Affectionately inscribed to Mrs. Flizabeth Howard on her
	birthday, by her friend EMILY H. WOODMANSEE

		Cheering as the green oasis,
			Is this social treat,
		Pleasant in our recollection
		Is this place of our affection,
	 		Where the old friends meet.

		Dearer still the old friends' faces
			All so true and sweet;
		Like some loved, continued story
		Is the very lanscape glory,
			Where the old friends meet.

		Friends that in the pleasant sunshine,
			Friends that in the shade,
		With unselfish, loving kindness,
		And a hearty, willing mindness,
			Lent us timely aid.

		Friends like these who can forget them.
			Tho' seas rolled between?
		Recollection answers Never!
		Memory shall repeat forever
			What their love has been.

		But no gulf is now between us,
			Face to face we greet,
		One by one each hand is shaken,
		Nothing seems at all forsaken,
			Where the old friends meet.

		Gratefully my heart desireth
			Shall desire for aye,
		That of joy, our kind host's measure,
		May be equal to the pleasure,
			Felt by us to-day.

		Many years, may yet your birthday.
			Be with joy replete.
		Till old age—all ripe and hoary–
		Crowns you with a fitting glory,
			Where the old friends meet.
July 12, 1876.


TO MY FRIEND MRS. HOWARD, ON
		HER BIRTHDAY.

	Again your natal day awakes my lyre,
		And bids me sing
	A song of genuine friendship unto thee,
		Which here I bring.

	The harp within my heart of thousand strings
		Is tuned for thee!
	The dispason clear and full rings out
		To you from me.

	How many years have fled since first we met,
		In thrilling scenes!
	And memory indellby has left
		Her waking dreams!

	The vision yet in all these years fades not,
		I see as clear
	All that then I saw—all I then beheld.
		As tho' 'twere near.

	Since then the sea of life has o'er us rolled,
		Wave upon wave;
	But through God's help we've stemmed the rolling tide,
		HE stood to save.

	Yes, let it go—the stream of life flows on
		With noiseless roll,
	And day by day, and night by night, we do approach
		The final goal!

	But from the subject that I had in hand
		I have digressed—
	To wish you all that's good on this bright day,
		To wish yon blessed

	With all your heart desires, is what I wish;
		I full well know 
	You nothing crave but that a Saint may ask
		Or God bestow.

	Then be you blessed my sister ever kind,
		And with pure health;
	For health of body, and a mind that's sound;
		Is untold wealth.

	And if some wish above all others dwells within
		That heart of thine,
	Then may kind Heaven that boon on you bestow.
		So prays my rhyme.

							HANNAH T. KING.


A WEDDING TRIP.—Stumbling over the
bride's train.﻿


For the Exponent.
				TO HAL.

	And you are a school-teacher! you have
my sympathy, if you are indeed one of
that patiently suffering and imposed-upon
class, who plod steadily on, year after year,
and endure the whips and scorn of an out-
rageous fortune." But even this is better
than to fly to others that we know not of."
	But what could lead you to think that
you are older than I am, I can't imagine.
	You must be anti-quated, indeed! or are
you uncle-quated?
	Now don't presume to dictate to your
grandmother. Older than I indeed! I flat-
ter myself that there are few teachers in
this vicinity who possess a more profound
and extensive stock of information on the
subject of tea. (abbreviation of teaching,)
t[-]an I do.
	On the wall, just opposite to me, I see this
motto: "Be not wise in thine own eyes."
I read it with complacency, knowing that it
cannot apply to me. And now as an illus-
tration of the vast experience I have had, I
will just give you a piece of advice, which,
if you will follow you will find of great ben-
efit in every-day, practical work in the
school-room.
	For example: Two of your pupils come
to you with an apple—or some other edible,
perhaps a fine spring onion—each declaring
that it is his very own.
	Now how are you to decide the question
of which it belongs to? It is simply an im-
possibility. It may belong to both. Under
these trying circumstances, assume your
most severe and dignified manner, look
them steadily in the eye at the same time,
calmly take the disputed property and eat
it yourself. Then in a stern voice bid your
pupils return to their books. This will in-
spire confidence on their part, in your supe-
rior wisdom. They will at once see the jus-
tice of your action, and will undoubtedly
retire subdued to tears by this impartial
act of yours, and spend the rest of the day
in vain regrets for the lost apple. I am
sorry to say I have never read "Hannah
Jane." Judging from what I have read of
"Nasby's" writings it is rather on the con-
cise order like the "Widow Bedott's.
	You remember the poetry she made eu-
logizing the deacon, while she was sitting
under the spreading branches of an old
tree, and repeated them loud enough to be
heard by the deacon who was sitting on the
other side of the tree, preparing his ser-
mon for the coming sabbath. But of course
she didn't know it.
	Of course it is amusing to read such poe-
try, but one could scarcely become so
deeply engrossed in it as to become obliv-
ious to all mundane affairs.
	But really, it is almost too sultry to-day
to express an opinion on any subject. In
fact it fatigues me to write, so I shall short-
en this article, (it is slightly mixed, but all
owing to this extremely disagreeable weath-
er) by dropping part of my long name, and
sign myself, simply—
						OLD MAID.
	P. S. Although I have not the mascu-
line failing of curiosity, I should really like
to see you, just for fun.
[handwritten] Augusta Winters	O.M.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		MILL CREEK WARD, July 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	Mill Creek Ward Relief Society is in a
flourishing condition and under the guid-


ance of the Bishop of the Ward, Reuben
Miller. Mrs. Mary McAllister, President,
Sisters Elizabeth Park and Ann Morgan,
Counselors, Sister Elizabeth Carlyle, Secre-
tary, Sister Orice Miller, Treasurer. Our
President is a woman that is alive to her
duty at all times, in looking after the wants
of the poor and needy; the Society owns a
good meeting house well furnished and car-
peted, and withal, very comfortable.
	I believe the meetings to be productive
of much good, and edifying to the sisters
who attend them; there are some of the
sisters who have been baptized for their
dead and they rejoice in the great and
glorious principles that have been revealed
in these the latter days; how great, grand
and noble the work of God is.
	Oh, let us try and be faithful and do our
part; we can help much. We want salva-
tion, and with the help of Israel's God we
will persevere by walking in the fear of the
Lord. Our enemies are assiduous in their
labors; they make a bugbear of Polygamy,
and I believe "a gnat would choke them
while a camel would ne'er be felt."
	I think if our would-be-friends would
look at home they would need to blush for
shame, instead of coming among this peo-
ple to reform them.
	The song of Polygamy has been sung so
much that it has become quite stale; some-
thing new by way of variety would be a
change. There is one thing they have got
to learn yet, and that is, "two are better than
one, and a three-fold cord is not quickly
broken." We do not believe that Polygamy
detracts from a woman's sphere, we can but
believe that it is Monogamy that degrades
her in this generation; we believe in Wo-
man's Rights, and it is her right to have a
husband and a home; we think there are
not many women that would refuse this
heaven-born gift; but it is truth we are
seeking, it is truth we love for itself alone
and truth we intend to follow. She needs
no breastworks to shield herself behind, but
proudly stands upon her own merits.

	"Oh! say what is truth, 'tis the fairest gem
	To which mortals or gods can aspire;
	And priceless the value of truth will be
	When the proud monarch's costliest diadem
	Is counted but dross and refuse."

				Respectfully,
									I. P. W.


WOMAN'S WOUNDED AFFECTIONS.

	Washington Irving wrote:—"As the
dove will clap its wings to its side and cov-
er and conceal the arrow that is prey-
ing on its vitals, so it is the nature of
woman to hide from the world the
pangs of wounded affection. With her the
desire of the heart has failed. The great
charm of existence is at an end. She neg-
lects all the cheerful exercises that gladden
the spirits, quicken the pulse and send the
tide of life in healthful currents through
the veins. Her rest is broken; the sweet
refreshment of sleep is poisoned by melan-
choly dreams; "dry sorrow drinks her
blood," until her feeble frame sinks under
the last external assailant. Look for her af-
ter a while and you find friendship weeping
over her untimely grave wondering that
one who but lately glowed with all the ra-
diance of health and beauty should now be
brought down to "darkness and the worm."
You will be told of some wintry chill,
some slight indisposition that laid her low
but no one knows the mental malady that
previously sapped her strength and made
her so easy a prey to the spoiler."


36		WOMAN'S EXPONENT

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1876,


HOME HAPPINESS.

	There are some sweet words which never be-
come hackneyed, however much they may be
used; and HOME is one of them. "Home!"
"Our home!" But how do we understand the
term? Should the habitation in which jar-
ring, unkind expressions are common, where
love and confidence and tender sympathies are
wanting, be known by that sacred name? We
must admit that the dear word is too often thus
profaned. But as we take it, home means a
place of enduring cheer. A place of rest, of
quiet repose for the care-worn and weary. A
place of social freedom and gladness which
can never be found outside the hallowed pre-
cincts, in the cold, carless world.
	It is not perfect home if the strength and
vigor of manhood, with its protecting, furnish-
ing care be wanting; or if the calm, pure in-
fluence of womanly grace and gentleness be
not there; or lacking the sweet music of child-
ren's voices. But all these powers must be de-
lightfully and harmoniously blended to make
a home complete.
	Then there are certain individual character-
istics to be possessed by each member of a fam-
ily, and certain household rules to be observed,
which combine to make home what it should
be, really the dearest, brightest, happiest
place on earth. Among the very first princi-
ples to be inculcated, should be strict honesty
and industry. Where these two important
items are justly regarded, it is strange if all
the other pleasing virtues do not shine forth
with their proper lustre. Honesty and indus-
try are surely the founders of cheerfulness and
of order; they have much to do in a general
way, with temperance and with all the devo-
tional emotions. The enjoyment of all real
pleasure depends greatly upon the possession
and use of these principles.
	No bread is so sweet as that which is earned
by honest industry, no sleep so refreshing
as that won by the same blessed medium.
The boy who is sent to a "free school" and has
no concern about the finding of board and
clothes, can never prize the blessings of an ed-
ucation so fully as the one who pays the world
for all he receives of it by his own honest
labor. Says a great philosopher of the present
age, "we have a nation of thieves and murder-
ers. And why is this? Is it the man who is
raised a farmer that becomes a thief and a
murderer? No! Is it the one who has been
raised a mechanic or a mason? No! Such
men can find honest employment by which to
earn a living. But those who are sent to 'free
schools," and are then turned out upon the world
knowing nothing of work or how to sustain
themselves honestly, are the men who enter


into intrigues and commit crimes as a means
of obtaining a livlehood."
	Such statements as the above could not be
truly made of our nation had the homes
of the United States, for the past cen-
tury, exhibited the respect and honor which
should be shown to the great principles of hon-
esty and industry. The home of the truly in-
dustrious is generally the home of true happi-
ness, and such should be the home of every
Latter-day Saint.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


A WORD TO THE WISE IS
			SUFFICIENT.

	There are some convenient places for listening
to gossip, where you may have to near it if you
are pleased or otherwise, and all present can
put their own construction upon it, and make
of it perhaps a pretty heavy investment in
newspaper columns; it is strange that people
should forget when they are in certain public
places that there is anybody there except
themselves, those in whom they are interested,
or to whom they are addressing their conver-
sation. They will tell all their family affairs,
their neighbors affairs, and in fact, you can
hear almost anything about yourself or your
friends in street cars, or railroad cars etc; And
afterwards when somebody writes it and makes
a mountain out of the mole hill—these very
persons lift up their hands in astonishment
and wonder how they got the leading items.
That people talk too much is a very common
saying; certainly they should be careful how
they talk, but there is one other important
consideration and that is WHERE THEY TALK.
	We were on the point of asking a lady the
other day whether she imagined herself trav-
eling in her own family carriage, so freely did
she proclaim her domestic troubles and those
of her: neighbors to the occupants of the street
car.
	The opinions of people are various and it is
scarcely to be expected that a class of persons
gathered from different parts of the communi-
ty, and previously from different parts of the
world, and from all classes of society, should
draw the same, or even similar inferences
from a casual conversation. Then there is
in the organization, of perhaps a majority of
people at the present day a proneness to ex-
aggeration, and all these things considered is
it any wonder that people's private affairs are
often made public, and so re-constructed and
highly colored as to assume an altogether un-
familiar bearing? People who profess to live
conscientiously and to be guided by the spirit
of truth should certainly try to check any
spirit or influence of evil, and live in a differ-
ent element. And if people will talk scandal
or gossip let such understand they can have it
all to themselves.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ELISE M. Shipp. who has been East
recently, studying in the Woman's Medical Col-
lege in Philadelphia, has opened a series of
lectures to the medical class of ladies in this
city, who have been engaged in the study of
medicine and obstetrics for some time. Dr. S.
B. Young has taken great pains in lecturing to
this class for a long time. He has labored with
a great deal of zeal and perseverance to give
them all the information possible in courses of
lectures. They commence every Saturday
morning at ten o'clock at the Office of Wo-
man's Exponent. Mrs. Shipp's lectures will
be given immediately after, from eleven to

[Column 2]
twelve. To all the sisters who are seeking
information in this branch of science, a gener-
al invitation is given.
	We publish below a brief synopsis of Mrs.
Shipp's Introductory lecture.
	She opens her lecture by soliciting the
leniency of those to whom she is speaking in
consideration of her inexperience, but is most
anxious if she possesses any knowledge which
will benefit them to aid them in the pursuit
they have undertaken and help to lighten their
tasks, if she can do this effectually, then she
will have gained her object. After speaking
at some length on the subject of medicine and
the qualifications necessary for the attainment
of any proficiency in the science, she says, "es-
pecially with us as a people there should be no
such word as 'fail," for in addition to the nat-
ural capabilities of mind, we have to aid us
faith and the spirit of revelation." She then
points out a few of the necessary pre-requisites
to the successful student of medicine.
	First a natural love for the profession, both
theoretically and practically.
	Second, a strong will and firm determina-
tion of purpose that no common obstacle can
hinder.
	Third, The nerves should be strong, with
power to control the emotional nature.
	Fourth, The physical system in the highest
state of healthful perfection.
	Fifth, Suitable text-books.
	Sixth, Competent teachers.
	Seventh, Clinical advantages.
	Eighth, Undisturbed time.
	These are only a few she thinks, yet they are
the most essential. Love for the profession,
she places at the head of the list, believing it
to be of the greatest importance, knowing that
love for any object or pursuit, is the best incen-
tive for earnest work and application. She
points out the many attractions the study pre-
sents to those who desire to gain truth and
light and to feast their own souls, and then
adds that to benefit and bless our fellow crea-
tures, is the greatest and grandest aim
of mortals; that in God's kingdom there
should be no thought of self-aggrandizement,
but the welfare of His people.
	She advises those who enter upon this or any
other field of labor to fortify themselves
against all interference and discouraging influ-
ences, and after saying many plain and excel-
lent things with regard to this, she says: "that
with a resolute will and faith in God, none can
surpass the women of Utah whom the world
pities so supremely." She has said so many
good things that it is hard work to cull out the
main points, but we have not space to publish
more than these few items, but will add her
closing remarks.
	"The teacher in any phase of life, assumes
great responsibility, for it is no small undertak-
ing to attempt to express ideas in the most for-
cible manner and present them to others in
that light which will soonest illuminate their
minds. Especially is it so when our inter-
views are limited to one a week. It has been a
subject of much thought and reflection with
me, how and what to give you that will prove
most beneficial; I desire to give you ideas thatwill prove the greatest practical benefit. The
long, hard names in Anatomy, in fact the dull
abstract ideas in any branch given as mere
facts only, with which to tax the memory
will prove of very little utility in your pres-
ent circumstances.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After spending many days at the great Cen-
tenial Exhibition in Philadelphia, of course
admiring the dif[--]rent specimens of the inven-


tive genius of ages, I was much surprised on
visining the Centennial Exhibition on Main
St. Salt Lake City, to find very many articles
comparing favorably with the best specimens
on exhibiiion at Philadelphia, though formed
out of the elements here in Utah. I have not
time to describe one of a hundred of these
truly fine and finished specimens of Utah in-
dustry, but would recommend any one doubt-
ing the comparison to go and see.
						W. O. CLARK.
	Ogden, July 17, 1876.
	"THE LIFE of Brigham Young, or Utah and
Her Founders," by E. W. Tullidge, is now com-
pleted and it is expected it will be for sale this
present month. We have had the pleasure
(through the courtesy of the author) to peruse
many of the proof sheets, and we believe it
to be a work that will counteract much of the 
prejudice now existing in regard to this peo-
ple. "One story is good, until another is told"
is an old adage, and Mr. Tullidge: has plainly
delineated the other side of the dark represen-
tations now extant concerning this people.
To those who really want to know the truth
we would recommend its perusal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	37


OBITUARIES.

				TOOELE CITY, July 27th, 1876.
	SISTER REBECCA DEW, wife of Elder Thomas
Dew, departed this life the 24th of June, 1876.
She was born Feb. 15th, 1812, in Wiltshire,
England, was first baptized in 1843, emigrated
to Nauvoo in the spring of 1844, and was driv
en out of Nauvoo with the rest of the Saints in
1846; she was faithful and patient in all
the trials she was called to pass through.
In 1852 she removed to Tooele, where she re-
sided until her death. She suffered many years
with a cancer in her breast, and for the last ten
months was confined more or less to her room.
She lived and died in full faith of the Gospel.
Sister Drew was second counselor in our Relief
Society, and rejoiced very much in the society
of the Saints and the principles of the gospel.
She was always on hand in every duty or en-
terprise necessary for the building up of the
kingdom of God. A large procession of the
members of the Relief Society followed the re-
mains to the cemetery. and in accordance with
her request, that beautiful hymn of Miss E. R.
Snow's' "Oh My Father," was sung over the
grave, and she was laid away in peace to await
the morning of the resurrection.
									COM.


HARRIET McEVER, born on the Isle of Mott,
Lake Champlain, State of Vermont, Sept. 3d,
1809; was married in 1828 to Horace Roberts in
the State of Illinois. Was baptized into the
Church of Latter-day Saints in 1838 with her
husband. They joined the Saints at Nauvoo,
1839, where they lived until their expulsion.
She came with them through all their subse-
quent journeyings. She came to Utah in 1850,
and settled in Provo, was one of the first set-
tlers. She passed through many trials. Indian
wars, grasshopper wars, and all the privations
attendant on the early settlement of this
country.	Her husband died Dec. 25, 1858, af-
ter an illness of nearly three years. She rais-
ed nine children, six of whom are now living.
	She died Feb. 27th, 1876, after an illness of
fourteen months, with tumor in the stomach.
	She was a woman of iutelligence and good
judgment, loved and respected by all who
knew her, a kind friend and faithful wife and
mother, charitable and upright in all her in-


tercourse, ever ready to minister to the sick,
or comfort the sorrowing. She was humble in
prosperity and uncomplaining in adversity.
She died in full faith of the Gospel and in
hopes of a glorious resurrection.
							M. J. T.
	Provo, July 11th, 1876.

	AT OXFORD, Oneida Co., Idaho, Julia,
daughter of Martha Eliza, and Benjamin
Boice, died May 11th, 1876, of consumption,
aged 16 years, 1 month, and two days. Her
sister, Alnora Eliza, died June 11th, 1876, of
the same disease, aged 8 years and 28 days.
	Their mother died of consumption three
years prior to their death.
							M. A. BOICE.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAD a very pleasant call on Saturday
last from Mrs. A. J. Dunniway, Editor of
the "New North West," Portland, Oregon;
this lady has been well known to the public
for some years as a lecturer, an author, and
an editor. She is on her way to Philadel-
phia to deliver a centennial address at the
Woman's Convention, on taxation without
representation.


THE CELEBRATION JUBILEE.

	The Twenty-Fourth of July, 1876, the
anniversary of the day on which the pio-
neers entered this valley, was celebrated at
the New Tabernacle by the citizens of this
city. The audience was immense, number-
ing, it was thought, between nine and ten
thousand people. The Sunday School chil-
dren, probably about four thousand, occu-
pied the central part of the building. The
opening prayer was offered by Elder John
Taylor. Prof. C. J. Thomas led the singing
by the children, who sang first, "In our
lovely Deseret." Elder Orson Pratt was
the first speaker: he gave a historical sketch
of the entrance of the pioneers into this
valley in 1847. John G. Midgley delivered
an appropriate address, mentioning the
many hardships of the first pioneers of the
country, of the progress which had been
made, of the duties of this generation born
and reared under these circumstances; of
the evil influences to be avoided by the
young, and the responsibility which must
eventually rest upon them. While Mr.
Midgley was speaking, President Brigham
Young, the Chief of the pioneers and the
honored and esteemed leader of the Latter-
day Saints, entered the Tabernacle, and
after listening for some time to the music
and singing, he arose and addressed the con-
gregation in an affecting and eloquent man-
ner. At the conclusion he blessed the peo-
ple in the name of Jesus Christ, and by the
authority of the right and privilege assigned
him by the Holy Priesthood. The entire
proceedings were characteristic of the occa-
sion, and those who arranged the affair in
so short a time deserve the thanks of the
community.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

PARIS, BEAR LAKE CO., IDAHO,
	June 11th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Paris was organized Feb. 19th,
1876, by Mrs. M. I. Horne. The officers
are as follows:

[COLUMN 2]

	Mrs. Deseret Rich, President,
	"	Caroline Humphreys,
	"	Harriet Williams,
	"	Adaline Passey,		Counselors.
	"	Anna Mowry,
	Miss Caddie Rich,
	"	Phebe Rich,
	"	Ursulia Pomeroy, Secretary.
	We hold our meetings once in three
weeks; they are always well attended, and
a good spirit prevails; all the young ladies
take a lively interest in the society. We
select pieces from the EXPONENT and other
good papers and books and read them which
proves to be a great benefit to us all. The
sisters of the Relief Society meet with us
occasionally, also President Rich and Bishop
Budge, they give counsel and advice which
is very encouraging. I really think that
most of the young ladies take more pleas-
ure in attending their Retrenchment meet-
ings than they do when attending balls or
theatres. For the past winter round-danc-
ing has been entirely abandoned in this
place; they had been favorite dances with
the young folks, it was hard for them to give
them up entirely at first; but the knowl-
edge that we were obeying counsel amply
repaid us for any regrets we might have
felt.
	We shall always remember Sister Horne
with respect and gratitude for her kind in-
structions and good advice while here, for
she truly had the interest and welfare of
the young at heart. The EXPONENT has
the best wishes of our society for its suc-
cess.
	URSULIA POMEROY, Sec'y.

	Eighth Annual Meeting of Sixteenth
Ward Relief Society.
	Sixteenth Ward School Rooms, S. L.
City, June 15, 1876. Meeting opened by
singing Arise O glorious Zion—Prayer by
Bishop F. G. Kesler. Singing, The Spirit
of God—Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. Annual report as fol-
lows; beginning June 15, 1875, ending June
15th 1876:
Cash received............................. $ 106 75
Mdse. and produce.....................	69 75
Disbursements to poor, cash......	61 75
Mdse. and produce.....................	57 25
	Many good instructions were given and
Dianna Reid was ordained President of the
Society as we had been called to part with
our former President by death. Benedic-
tion by Geo. C. Riser.
	The ladies of the Relief Society had pre-
pared a splendid supper, and the young
ladies of the Retrenchment Association
waited on the tables; over one hundred par-
took of the supper, and it was indeed a
feast of spiritual as well as temporal food.
	Donated by the Society commencing June
15, 1868, ending June 15, 1876, $2000,47,-
95.
	PRESENDIA L. KIMBALL.
		Sec'y.
	Since our Annual Meeting we have had
a Widow's Party at the Sixteenth Ward
School Rooms; we gathered all the widows
in the ward and had a pleasant interview.
Bishop Kesler addressed us and we would
his words were written, for they were in-
deed like jewels. After we had partaken of
refreshments and all had been bountifully
supplied we scattered our picnic among the
poor of the ward, there were many baskets
full and it was a day of rejoicing for all
We were indeed much blessed in coming
together, and felt we were mutually bene-
fitted by each other's society.
	M. R. THOMPSON.


38		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

		SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES,
			AUSTRALIA, May 27th, 1876.
MRS. EMMELINE WELLS:
		MY DEAR FRIEND AND SISTER.
	Your welcome and very interesting let-
ter of Feb. 19th came to hand on the 6th
inst., but not in time for me to reply by re-
turn mail, as the mail steamer for San Fran-
cisco left Sydney the same day.
	I tender you many thanks for your kind
token of remembrance to me in this dis-
tant land where amid strangers "my pil-
grim feet now roam," and where I am dil-
igently laboring to dispel the sable clouds
of ignorance, bigotry, superstition and er-
ror from the minds of a people who seem to
be fettered in the galling chains of Priest-
craft, and who, judging from my stand-
point, are living without light, liberty or
God. From what I had read, and pre-
viously heard of Australia, I had formed a
very favorable opinion of the people, the
climate, the productions and the general
character and resources of these colonies,
and when the S. S. Colima entered the Syd-
ney harbor, which, I believe is acknowl-
edged to be the finest—(except one—in the
world,) I felt that nothing which I had ever
read or heard of Australia, had been exagg-
erated or in the least overdrawn.
	It was on the evening of Dec. 25th, the
sea during the day had been unusually
rough, and the steamer had been rolling and
plunging amoug the huge billows at a fear-
ful rate, so much so, indeed, as to awaken
within me such kind and benevolent feel-
ings towards all animated things in gener-
al, and towards the inhabitants of the
ocean in particular, that I gave them every
morsel of my Christmas dinner, and tried
hard to get up my boots to throw over-
board. Under these circumstances we
passed the "Light-house," situated on the
perpendicular rocks at the entrance of
Port Jackson, about eight miles from Syd-
ney. After passing "Heads," as these
rocks are denominated, and on entering the
bay the sea suddenly became calm, the ves-
sel ceased to roll, and everything around
seemed transformed as if by magic, to the
most peaceful tranquility, and heavenly se-
renity; the gentle zephyrs like angels of
peace, laden with sweetest fragrance, from
Oleander and Orange groves, came out to
meet us, as if to congratulate us upon our
safe arrival, and bid us welcome to the
spicy shores of Australia. And as the beau-
tiful "Colima," like a great white swan,
glided majestically up this lovely bay, and
the bright lights gleamed from the villages,
which lay nestled among the hills on either
side, and coupled with this enchanting
scenery, the cheering thought, that my
wearisome, unpleasant, and monotonous
journey from San Francisco, over the great
Pacific Ocean, was at an end, and that with-
in a few hours, I should once more, set my
feet on "Terra Firma," presented to my mind
the most bewitchingly beautiful, and lovely
picture that I had ever before contempla-
ted; and my soul was filled with love and
admiration for Sydney, and for several hours
of that night, I felt as the Queen of Sheba
must have felt, when visiting and behold-
ing the greatness and glory of Solomon. I
really felt that the half had not been told of
this beautiful and wonderful country, But
every picture hath its light and shade,
"sunshine and shadow" are the characteris-
tics of this life, and I have always endeav-
or to look at the bright side of every pic-
ture for I experience more pleasure in look-

[Column 2]
ing at the silver lining of the clouds than
in contemplating the dark shadows beyond
that lovely lining; hence, my favorable im-
pressions relative to Australia. But a few
weeks residence in Sydney, changed very
materially my ideas of these colonies.
	The country suffered during seven or
eight months of the past year, from a most
blighting and destructive drouth, very lit-
tle rain having fallen during that period,
consequently, so far as the vegetable pro-
ductions of the country are concerned I saw
everything at a great disadvantage, and for
this I am inclined to make due and full al-
lowance; but I have looked, and still look,
but in vain, for the bright side of the
lovely Sydney picture I fancied, before
treading on Australian soil; for if there be
but little good, I would like to find that
little, and in the language of the Poet—
"Speak of all the best I can," and in jus-
tice to the colony of New South Wales, I
will say that I have seen many things here
to admire. The safe and beautiful Harbor,
the Post Office and many other fine build-
ings, the Public Parks, the Botanical Gar-
dens, the free Public Library and Reading
Rooms, and the excellent condition of the
public roads, are all worthy of commenda-
tion. Many tropical fruits and flowers at-
tain here (in ordinary seasons) great perfec-
tion, and I have found some kind, intelligent
and hospitable people in and around Syd-
ney. The women here as a general rule, are
superior to the men both in looks and intel-
lectual development and culture. There
are many handsome and intelligent women
in Sydney, but I cannot fully agree with
what is frequently said of them, "that for
superior beauty and accomplishments, they
are pre-eminent."
	Now a few words in relation to the dark
shadows which I am compelled to see, not-
withstanding my natural inclination to look
on the other side. The "soocial status" of
the citizens of this city, I cannot but re-
gard as most deplorable; drunkenness pre-
vails to an alarming degree, and what makes
this debasing practice doubly dangerous
and demoralizing, is the fact, that women
as well as men, are addicted to it. I have
seen more drunken women in one day in
Sydney than I ever saw in Salt Lake City,
during my residence there of twenty-one
years. Nearly every corner house in this
city, is a liquor saloon, where spirituous and
fermented liquors are retailed; and the ven-
ders of this destructive beverage, in nearly
all cases are women, and the wages of a
"Bar-maid" are generally graded or regula-
ted, by her personal beauty or attractions;
the finest looking girls, demand and re-
ceive the highest wages. Domestic infelic-
ity here is the rule, and peaceful, happy
homes the exception. Wife beating, is a
common practice among the "lords of crea-
tion" in this land; many men (in form,) in-
dulge in this elevating practice with as lit-
tle compunctions of conscience apparently,
as an intelligent father would gently chide
his child with words of admonition and
counsel.
	Such is the state of Sydney morals, and
society, and yet, they will prate about Utah
and the Mormons, and Priests and people
will roll their eyes, and lift their hands in
holy horror, while contemplating the awful
oppression and galling slavery of the wo-
men of Salt Lake City; whose condition in
reality, and temporal blessings compared
with the women of Sydney, are as light to
darkness, or as heaven to hell, to say noth-
ing of the hopes of a glorious resurrection,
eternal unions beyond the grave, and ever-
lasting glory and exaltation in the pres-

[Column 3]
ence of God our heavenly and eternal Fa-
ther.
	God bless you my dear Sister, and aid
you in your laudable efforts to disseminate
through the medium of the EXPONENT
those principles and doctrines, which when
understood and observed, will redeem men
and women from the thraldom of sin and
oppression, will banish evil, the bane of
society, from the human heart, will enable
God's children dwelling on the earth to at-
tain to the highest type of manhood and
womanhood, and will usher in that happy
day, when one law will bind all nations,
kindred, tongues and people, and that law
will be the law of universal Brotherhood,
then will the earth be prepared for Jesus
our elder brother and Savior, whose right it
is to come and reign King of Nations as
He now reigns King of Saints.
	I am as ever, your friend and brother, in
the Gospel of Peace,
						ISAAC GROO,
	P. S. Remember me kindly and in love
to your family and inquiring friends, and
accept my sincere thanks for the EXPO-
NENT.
							I. G.


A MOTHER'S LESSON TO YOUNG
LADIES UPON DRESS.

	The rich dress and costly ornaments that
become maturer life, and ceremonious par-
ties in large cities, are unsuited to the very
young, who need no such "foreign aid."
Some persons toil early and late and strain
every nerve, to procure an expensive gar-
ment, and think, that once arrayed in it,
they will look as well as some richer neigh-
bor, whose style of dress they wish to im-
itate; but they forget, that if it does not ac-
cord with their general style of living, if it
is out of harmony with other things, it will
so strike everybody, and this want of fit-
ness will prevent it looking well on them.
Let a true sense of propriety of the fitness
of things regulate all your habits of living
and dressing; and it will produce such a
beautiful harmony and consistency of char-
acter, as will throw a charm around you
that all will feel, though few may compre-
hend. Always consider well whether the
articles of dress which you wish to pur-
chase are suited to your age, your condi-
tion, your means; the climate, to the par-
ticular use to which you mean to put them;
and then let the principles of good taste
keep you from the extremes of the fashion,
and regulate the form, so as to combine util-
ity and beauty, while the known rules of
harmony in colors save you from shocking
the eye of the artist with incongruous mix-
tures.
	The agreeable effect that all wish to pro-
duce in the eyes of others, depends much
more on just, proportions in the parts, thus
forming a pleasing whole, than on little or-
namental additions, which, though pretty
in themselves, add nothing to the general
effect. Thus in making a pelisse, it is all-
important that the cape should be of the
right size and shape, to agree well with the
sleeves and back, and that the collar should
be well proportioned to the cape; but it mat-
ters very little whether it have one or two
rouleaus of satin or velvet around it, or
whether it have none; and so it is with a
thousand other little particulars, which take
much time in the making and add much to
the expense, without really adding any-
thing to the general good appearance. It is
a happy thing for the diffusion of good
taste, that it may, in many things, be cul-
tivated without any pecuniary expense. The


[COLUMN 1]

price of colored muslin or printed calico, is
the same whether the figure be pretty or
ugly; the ribbon that is tastefully disposed
upon the bonnet, costs no more than the
one that is ill arranged. The shawl is the
same in value whether it is dragged round
the shoulders like an Indian's blanket, or
worn in graceful folds. It costs no more to
buy colors that harmonize than those that
do not. Indeed, true taste will generally
be found on the side of economy, because
simplicity is;—the first cost is thus lessen-
ed, and garments that are really well shap-
ed, are longer in favor. The exercise of
good taste, therefore, need not be consider-
ed the privilege of the few; it may regulate
the toilet of her who earns what she ex-
pends upon it, as well as for her whose bills
are paid by a rich father; the more it is
studies the more good sense and simplicity
will be consulted, because these are includ-
ed in the principles of true taste.
	Whilst taste may be made to regulate the
dress of all, even of the working classes,
wealth, unaccompanied by it, cannot com-
mand its beautiful results. Your clothes
may be ordered of the best dressmaker, and
everything you wear may be of the most
costly materials, and in the latest Paris
fashion; and yet you may spoil your appear-
ance by your manner of putting them on,
and by wearing those articles together
which do not accord. The most expensive
dresses at a ball are seldom those that pro-
duce the best effect; and nothing so effect-
ually defeats its object, as an excess of or-
nament. Some persons seem to have an
inherent love of finery, and seem to cling
to it pertinaciously, even when their under-
standings are convinced that it is repug-
nant to the feelings of refined minds, and
that it is a trait common to all barbarous
tribes: they cannot reason upon their pref-
erences—they can only say, that what oth-
ers condemn as tawdry, looks pretty to
them. This persuasion generally takes
place very early, and is much to be regret-
ed, as it prevents the growth of purer prin-
ciples. We have often thought that the
very bad taste in which dolls are usually
dressed, may have something to do with
this early love of finery. Children have of-
ten a real affection for their puppets; and
when they are bedizened in all the colours
of the rainbow, and decked in all the odds
and ends of finery that can be stuck upon
them, the little dears learn, by this associa-
tion, to love this tawdry ornament: whereas
a well-dressed doll would have an import-
ant influence in establishing a correct taste
in the mind of the child. We once knew a
family where the dolls were all very neatly
dressed, like babies and little children, and
not as fine ladies, on purpose to make them
a more rational and useful source of amuse-
ment; and we would beg all young ladies
who dress dolls for little girls, to do it in
such a manner as not to foster a love of fin-
ery.
	We have heard a mother who guarded
her daughters against this bad taste by mak-
ing it one of their childish punishments to
weak a very tawdry cap full of feathers, and
flowers, and bows of ribbons of all colours.
Judging by what we sometimes see worn
by grown up people, we might suppose that
such a cap had been their reward in child-
hood rather than their punishment, and was
thus recommended to their best affections.
The love of finery is rarely cured, and forms
an insurmountable obstacle to the cultiva-
tion of pure taste. Whosoever is conscious
of possessing it, ought to mistrust her own
judgment in matters of taste, and be will-
ing to take the advice of others. No plain-

[COLUMN 2]

ness of dress can ever be construed to your
disadvantage; but ornamental additions,
which in their best state are a very doubt-
ful good, become a positive evil when de-
faced, or soiled, or tumbled. Shabby feath-
ers, and crushed or faded artificial flowers,
are an absolute disgrace to a lady's appear-
ance; while their total absence would never
be remarked. Next to soiled stockings,
soiled bonnet-caps are the most offensive
things in a young lady's dress; and the lat-
ter are but too common. Whatever ap-
proaches the face should be particularly
clean; and it is better always to wear those
materials which will wash than to use silk
net after it is at all sullied by wear. Color-
ed gauze hankerchiefs, that are worn till
they are faded, or sullied, or the color
changed by perspiration, are a disagreeable
sight, and will spoil the neat appearance of
a person, however well dressed otherwise;
cleanliness being the first requisite in a
lady's dress.
	Such qualities of mind are brought into
action in connection with dress that we
cannot wonder at its having great influence
on the opinions that are formed of us. Who,
that sees a young lady very carefully array-
ed at a ball, and finds her when at home,
and not expecting company, in a torn or
soiled dress, can fail to draw conclusions un-
favorable to the character of the individual?
If you have a friend who has lately be-
come insolvent, and you see his daughters
appear, soon after, in new and costly gar-
ments, what are your feelings? Is not all
admiration of their costume lost, in the
sense of its betraying a want of common
honesty, thus to spend the money that be-
longs to their father's creditors? And does
not this exhibition of lax principles do
them more harm than any personal decora-
tion can do them good? Dress is a very fair
index of a young woman's neatness, indus-
try, economy, good sense, modesty, and
good taste; and she, who is at all times, in
her private as well as in her public hours,
perfectly well dressed, according to all that
we include in that term, must have many
of the substantial qualities that constitute a
good character and are essential to domes-
tic comfort. The character is much more
shown in the style of dress that is worn ev-
ery day, than in that which is designed for
great occasions; and when we see a young
girl come down to the family breakfast
in an untidy wrapper, with her hair in pa-
pers and her feet slip-shod, and an old silk
handkerchief round her neck, we know
that she cannot be the neat, industrious,
and refined person whom we would like for
an inmate. We feel equally certain too,
that her chamber is not kept in good order,
and that she does not set a proper value up-
on time. However well a lady has appear-
ed at a party, we would recommend to a
young gentleman, before he makes up his
mind as to her domestic qualities, to ob-
serve her appearance at the breakfast-table,
when she expects to see only her own fam-
ily; and, if it be such as we have just de-
scribed, to beware how he prosecutes the
acquaintance.
	To begin the day well it is necessary to
rise early enough to perform all the ablu-
tions necessary to health and cleanliness,
and to be neatly and completely dressed be-
fore breakfast. Your morning dress should
always be such that you would not be
ashamed to be seen in, by any accidental
visitor; and a clean muslin collar, or ruffie,
of the plainest materials, give an impress-
ion of far greater neatness than a colored
handkerchief. If you are suitably dressed
or the business of the morning, you are

[COLUMN 3]

ready to enter upon it at once and much
time is saved; you are not discomposed by
unexpected guests; and, if particularly en-
gaged, you can wear the same dress all day.
Very yonng girls are apt to think that the
most important item in their dress is the
material of which their frocks are made,
whereas that is really of the least conse-
quence. Clean stockings, neat shoes and
strings, smooth, well-brushed hair, and
delicately clean hands, nails, and teeth,
would make them look more lady-like, and
better dressed, in a cheap calico, than they
would be in the finest merino, or most costly
French silk without these accompaniments.
Those things which are most essential to a
neat appearance, are most within the reach
of everybody, and therefore the neglect of
them is not to be excused. Everybody can
mend stockings and gloves, however old
they may be; everybody can avoid break-
ing shoe-strings by wearing them too tight,
or having them become untied, by tying
them in false knots. Clean hands and nails,
and well-brushed hair and teeth, it is with-
in everybody's power to possess; and with-
out constant attention to these particulars,
the most expensive garments will fail to
produce the effect you desire. The same
honesty and self-respect which would keep
you from making a saving that you are
ashamed of, should prevent you wearing
anything, even out of sight, that you would
be ashamed to have seen, if sudden indisposi-
tion caused it to be exposed before stran-
gers. We should gladly adopt every con-
trivance for saving time and abridging the
labour necessarily bestowed upon dress.
Those who know how to use the needle af-
ter the best fashion of our grandmothers'
days, may next acquire the art of slighting
certain parts of their work, where it will
not interfere with durability, and so save
some thousand superfluous stitches in a
week. If it has been the misfortune of
any of my readers to have grown up with-
out being made good needlewomen, the
sooner they undertake to supply this defi-
ciency the better. A woman who does not
know how to sew is as deficient in her ed-
ucation as a man who cannot write. Let
her condition in life be what it may, she
cannot be ignorant of the use of her needle,
without incommoding herself and others,
and without neglecting some important du-
ties. Besides this, there is, in this truly
feminine employment, a moral power which
is useful to the sex. There is a soothing
and sedative effect in needle-work; it com-
poses the nerves, and furnishes a corrective
for many of the little irritations of domes-
tic life. Let no woman think herself ex-
empt from the duty of "plying the polish-
ed shaft." In every situation of life, she
will find herself the better for an early and
thorough acquaintance with plain sewing.
	SELECTED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


LOVER'S MISTAKES.

	Many a man lives with a woman half a
lifetime without suspecting that the wife
of his bosom has really forgotten more than
he ever knew. Many a carpet-knight, who
plumes himself upon his wonderful skill in
smashing hearts, is being mentally meas-
ured and intellectually turned inside out by
the smiling girls whom he thinks he is
captivating. Many a veteran beau, who
pulls on his gloves to depart, feeling proudly
conscious of having made a profound im-
pression upon the soul of the belle who has
endured him for the evening, would be
wonderfully enlightened, if not edified,
could he hear the sigh of relief which es-
caped her lips when the clang of the door
announced his departure.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cure for Neuralgia:—Take horseraddish and
grate it, then mix in vinegar and apply it to the
temples if it is the face or head that is affected; to
the wrists if it is the arms or shoulders.
	Ivy Poisoning:—Bathe the affected, inflamed
or swollen parts of the body freely with sweet
spirits of nitre, three or four times during the
day; it is affirmed by those who have tried it that
it is a safe, simple, and effectual remedy.
	For Corns:—Take a lemon and roll it until it
becomes soft; then cut thin slices from it and bind
on the corns when retiring for the night; in the
morning if the corn is white and disintegrated,
pull it out, but never cut it. If one application
will not answer, keep on applying the lemon and
perseverance will accomplish it.
	Waking at Night:—Dr. Hall says if persons find
themselves inclined to wake up at any regular
hour in the night, the habit can be broken up in
three days, by getting up as soon as awake and
not retiring again until the usual hour; or by re-
tiring two hours later and rising two hours ear-
lier for three days in succession.
	Sleep for Children:—The rule for children's
sleep, says an eminent physician, is for children
between the ages of five and seven, about twelve
hours; children over that age ten hours and never
less than eight hours. The time for going to
sleep seven o'clock in summer and six in winter.
To adhere strictly to this rule, he observes,
would be decidedly beneficial to health, growth,
and development. The Doctor adds it would al-
so accustom them to a sense of punctuality and
obedience. It is a well-known fact that children
require more sleep than persons of maturer age.
If we would have a healthy race of men and wo-
men, we must give all possible attention to the
laws of life and health.


FLOWERS.

	THE best consistency is to be consistent
to one's self, by acting every day up to the
light of that day.
	To work out our own contentment we
should labor not so much to increase our
substance as to moderate our desires.
	PERSEVERE against discouragements.
Employ leisure in study, and always have
some work at hand. Be punctual and me-
thodical in business, and never procrasti-
nate. Maintain dignity without the ap-
pearance of pride.
	No person is so well qualified to discharge
the duties of life as one who has a tempera-
ment glowing and genial. Such a one above
all others, is able to bring to the discharge
of duty such happiness as is necessary to
persistency.
	GREATNESS lies not in being strong, but
in the right using of strength; and strength
is not used rightly when it serves only to
carry a man above his fellows for his own
solitary glory. He is the greatest whose
strength carries up the most hearts by the
attraction of his own.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	FRENCH statistics show that woman is
six times less criminal against person, four
times less criminal against property, and
twice less hardened a criminal than man.
The recently published record also proves
that maternity is a better shield than pater-
nity against bad life. Of 1,000 female
criminals 261 are mothers, and of 1,000
male criminals 324 are fathers.


THE population of some of the largest
cities in the world at the present time, by
good authority, is as follows: Paris, 1,851,-
792; New York, 1,046,000; Berlin. 980,000;
Philadelphia, 800,000; Vienna, 676,791;
Naples, 451,000; Brooklyn, 450,000; Ham-
burg, 370,000; Rome, 256,153; Copenhagen,
199,000, Brussels 188,264; Florence, 176,-
000; Christana, 75,000.
	IN England and Wales there are 810 co-
operative societies with a membership of
357,821; a capital of £4,151,634; annual
sales amounting to about £14,000,000; with
profits £1,070,000; expenses of manage-
ment £601,000. In Scotland, 216 societies
with 54,431 members, £338,946 capital,
£2,062,000 sales, £155,000 profits, and £76,-
300 expenses of management.


FACT FOR DARWIN;—"What's your
name?" said an officer to a young colored
lad, who joined his ship at the cape. "Al-
goa Bay, sir," "Where were you born?"
"Wasn't born at all." "Wasn't born at all?"
"No Sir; was washed ashore in a storm!"


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S,
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES,
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jaws,)
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER,
			AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		PUMPS REPAIRED ON SHORT NOTICE.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
				Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House. 

	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
	lake pleasure in making to order, such
		brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.
[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & CO.,
		Manufactures of
ESSENCE OF JAMICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID.
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BAR[-]OOT, Chemical Director.
Adres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 106[-].		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
lastest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple street,
				TEMPLE OF FASHION. 

	Z. C. M. I. 
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
 	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
			D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substantia.
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

	EVERY DESCRIPTION
CLOTHING, BOOTS, SHOES,
			AND
		GENERAL DRY GOODS.

Specialty in Gloves and Home-made Socks.

	Fine Line of LADIES' CORSETS.

				H. E. PHELPS,
					29 EAST TEMPLE STREET.

	H. DINWOODEY,
		WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES
FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
76, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1876.	NO. 6.


For the EXPONENT.
IT'S BETTER TO LAUGH THAN TO
CRY.

I am only a girl in the cold, proud world,
	Working from day to day;
But this is my plan, wherever I can,
	To brighten the lonely way.
I look around me where they stand,
	The weary and sad and meek,
I smile and offer a friendly hand,
	And these are the words I speak:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To sustain one's self and thus be free,
	And its better to laugh than to cry."

I have a heart that is full of love,
	For those sorrowing words of dust,
And would brace them up while they drink life's cup,
	So bitter, though oft so just.
But I know that the Lord is over all,
	Who can every comfort bring;
So attention to this great truth I call,
	And this is the song I sing:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To trust in God and His mercies see,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

I often think as the world moves on,
	And we trample and crowd and shove,
That a world like this, full of lovliness,
	Should be much fuller of love.
We all admit that it must be so,
	When God shall all things restore;
And this great, beautiful truth I know,
	And I love to keep telling it o'er:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die:
To help each other and all agree,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

There's plenty of work for us all, my friends,
	And blessings that all may earn,
If we'll hold to the plan, wherever we can,
	To offer a kindly turn.
I'm only a woman bearing a part,
	In the world's great, busy throng;
Yet I may comfort some sadder heart,
	By the sound of my cheery song:
"It is better to work than to idle be,
	As it's better to live than to die;
To assist the Lord in His wise decree,
	And it's better to laugh than to cry."

		A WORKING WOMAN.


[Column 1]
	NOT ABOVE THEIR MISUNDER-
			STANDING.

	Dr. Arnold said, thirty years ago: "It is
in vain to say that questions of religion
and politics are above the understanding of
the poorer classes: they are not above their
mis-understanding." This is the irrestible
fact in regard to women and politics; and
every advance in education increases the
weight of the fact. At the beginning of a
Presidential campaign, this consideration
presses more and more upon us. Every
man wishes, or professes to wish that the
whole community should be enlightened as
to measures and men. Woman as a power-
ful factor in this process, will be every-
where conciliated. But if you conciliate
them, why not enlighten them? And of
all modes of enlightenment, the best is
that which is to be found to lie in some ac-
tual participation in the pursuit.
	This is recognized, in some degree by the
most conservative. The study of Political
Economy is introduced into High Schools
and Academies for both sexes. The most
conservative authorities recommend that
"Nordhoff's Politics for young Americans"

[Column 2]
should be widely circulated among ingen-
ious youth. Mr. Wells writes: "Robinson
Cruesoe's Money" that all may read. Why
is all this, if not that the understanding of
the whole people may be reached, and their
misunderstanding corrected? And since
women will have opinions and will influ-
ence votes, why not include them in the
general instruction? If we look in the
newspapers, what questions do we find
most pressing? The Chinese question, the
Indian war, the Hamburg massacre. All
these questions are daily discussed at a hun-
dred thousand breakfast tables, and in most
of these discussions women take their part.
What they say may have much or little ar-
gumentative value, but its representative
value is enormous. If it does not exhibit
common sense it exhibits at least the com-
mon nonsense—a thing which is, as Helps
has pointed out, almost equally important
to know.
	And each of these questions, moreover,
will be taken up and followed out, by clear
heads among both sexes, to its ultimate
principles. The principles of civilization
itself,—the rights of different races and re-
ligions under our government—the bind-
ing force of treaties—the principle of State
rights as against centralized power, are all
involved in them. Nay, a few short steps
take one back to the theory of the Federal-
ist, that the few wise and good should gov-
ern the many—or the other theory involved
in Jefferson's pithy question. "It is said
that man cannot be trusted to govern him-
self; can he then be trusted to govern an-
other? And between these two there is a
great gulf fixed, of inheritance, temperance
and habit; and if man cannot yet bridge
this chasm how can woman?"
	That women are to vary among them-
selves, almost as much as men, in opinions
on public matters is plain from the divided
fears, of those who oppose their enfran-
chisement; orthordox Christians for in-
stance, opposing it lest women should prove
too radical; and free thinkers, lest they
should prove too conservative. But wo-
men have opinions on all these matters as
it is; they are radical or conservative, as it
is. What we claim is that just in propor-
tion as they have a recognized position,
they differ, as it is. What we claim is that
just in proportion as they have a recognized
position, they will be trained for that posi-
tion, and by educating their understand-
ing we shall best get rid of their misunder-
standing.—A. W. H.—Ex.


BUCKSTONE'S BENEFIT AT DRURY LANE
THEATRE, LONDON:—

	A benefit was tendered to the old and
celebrated Comedian, Buckstone of the
Haymarket Theatre, London, it came off on
the 8th of June-"The School for Scandal,"
was the play chosen-every character even
to the guests, being played by first class
characters, in fact the elite of the stage
came forward to honor their old friend; the
result-was one of the most wonderful per-
formances ever known. The net profits of
that single performance amounted to the
large sum of twelve hnndred pounds."
						H. T. K.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	EASTERN papers announce the death of
Sydney Rigdon at Friendship, Alleghany
County, New York, July 14. He was born
in Alleghany County, Pennsylvania, in
1793, and was about 83 years of age at his
death. Sydney Rigdon's name is familiar
with the people called Latter-day Saints; in
connection with the early history of the
church. It is said that he was unwavering
in his testimony concerning the truth of the
Book of Mormon.
	THE FIRST railroad in China has been
opened for traffic. The line is only five
miles long, connecting Shanghai and Kan-
gwan; it is intended to extend it to Woo-
sung, five miles farther. It is built on the
narrow guage system with British capital.
This opens a new field for American enter-
prise in China, undoubtedly they will soon
establish a vast railroad system.
	THE FORTY Fourth Congress has pro-
tracted its session very considerably owing
probably to the great variety of questions
before the house and the many wide differ-
ences of opinion upon them. It seems to
have been particularly hard work during
this session to come to any satisfactory de-
cision, and where haste or dispatch are used
at the close of a session in disposing of vexed
questions ruinous consequences are usually
the result.
	AT THE Universal Peace Convention, (an
international gathering) held in Philadel-
phia early in this present month, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted as pro-
posed by Julia Ward Howe.
	"Resolved, That this Convention do not
regard the late unhappy massacre of U. S.
troops under General Custer as requiring or
justifying any departure from the pacific
policy inaugurated by the President of the
United States. They believe this event, on
the contrary, to have been the result of an
attempt on the part of our troops to occupy
by force a territory formerly ceded to the
Indians and already long occupied by them;
and they would respectfully request the
Government to either complete the purchase
of the disputed Territory or secure to the
Indians its peaceable possession.
	"Resolved, That the friends of peace
should spare no pains to contribute to the
civilization of the Indian tribes on our
frontiers and elsewhere, that schools and
missions should be largely established
among them, and that their children should
be so trained and educated as [-]o become fit-
ted to participate in the rights and duties of 
American citizenship.
	"Resolved, That every effort should be
made by the Government of the United
States and the friends of peace in America,
to induce the Indian tribes devoted to hunt-
ing to support themselves by agriculture,
and to study the arts and appliances of civ-
ilized life, since the tendency of their pres-
ent mode of life is to excite their passions
which lead to deeds of cruelty, while the
tendency of agricultural pursuits is peace-
ful and humanizing.—EX.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Senior and Junior Retrenchment
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, Saturday, Aug. 7th, was
one of general instruction and good feeling,
Counselor Zina D. Young presiding: meet-
ing opened with the usual exercises and
reading of minutes by the young lady sec-
retaries; considerable improvement is mani-
fest from time to time in the reports from
the societies, any person who attends these
meetings can readily perceive the spiritual
culture that is gaining ground in the organ-
izations formed to promote spiritual devel-
opment of the young. Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke of the testimony the faces of the sis-
ters brought to her by being present regu-
larly at these meetings, that they were
seeking after light and knowledge from on
high. Mrs. J. Howe, Coun. E. Howard,
Mrs. M. R. Thompson, Mrs. P. Kimball
and other sisters spoke of obeying counsel,
training and educating the young, home
manufacture and other subjects of interest.

	FAIRVIEW, June 16, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our president, Mrs. Mary
A. Pritchett, I send you the Eighth Annu-
al report of Fairview Relief Society. The
Society convened in the meeting house on
the 14th of June, 1876. Opened by sing-
ing—prayer by Bishop Tucker. Report
read by the Secretary, as follows: From Jan.
21st, 1876, till June 14th.
	Disbursed to the needy................... $ 20
	To St. George Temple....................	    38
	To Salt Lake Temple......................     16
	In Treasury.....................................     12
	Spirited remarks were made by our Bish-
op and others. Our President, Sister Prit-
chett exhorted the sisters to be united, said
she was pleased with what they had
done in so short a time. We have a great
mission to perform in helping to build up
the kingdom of God, and it is for us to be
up and doing. Several other sisters spoke,
and all seemed to enjoy the spirit of the
Lord. Dismissed by Bro, Sanderson.
	M. A. PRITCHETT, Pres.
		T.C. AVERY, Sec. 

	KAYSVILLE, July 10, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Kaysville was organized May 16,
1876, by Sister Eliza R. Snow: officers as
follows:
	Mrs. Ada Williams, President,
	"	Maggie Allred,
	Miss Helen Hyde,
	"	Matilda Egbert		Counselors.
	"	Sarah Ann Webb,
	"	Martha Raymond,
	"	Mary Ann Layton, Secretary.
	Mrs. Celina Phillips, Assistant Secretary.
	Miss Elizabeth Williams, Treasurer.
	Seventy-five young ladies were admited
as members of the Society. Our meetings
are well attended, and all seem to take an
interest in the welfare of the Association.
	We have an energetic president who is
fast gaining the love and respect of the
young sisters. She is taking measures to
establish Home Industries, according to the
counsel of Sister Snow. At the organiza-
tion of the society, Sisters' Eliza R. Snow
and Rachel Grant gave us some excellent
instructions and advice, which we think
will leave a lasting impression on the
minds of all who were present.
	We gave a concert on the fourth of July,

[COLUMN 2]

assisted by a number of the young men,
from which we realized forty-two dollars,
which will be used for the establishment of
Home Industry.
	The Exponent is read with interest in
our meetings.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work, we remain your sisters,
	HELEN HYDE,
		MARY A. LAYTON, Sec'y.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co.,
		July 11, 1876
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 17th day of June, 1876, the young
ladies of Wellsville were organized into a
Retrenchment Association with the follow-
ing officers:
	Miss Mary E. Maughan, President,
	"	Martha Eckersley,
	"	Martha Woodward,
	"	Lucy Haslam,
	"	Annie Leavitt,
	"	Mary J. Owens,
	Mrs. Martha A. Murray, Secretary,
	Miss Euphamia Nibley, Treasurer.
	We meet regularly, and speak of the
things pertaining to the work in which we
are engaged. Our President is an amiable
young lady, who is trying together with
her counselors, to honor her calling. We
have forty-seven members. We have ta-
ken a vote to refrain from round dancing;
we read selections from the EXPO-
NENT at every meeting and gain much in-
struction therefrom.
	Wishing the paper success, and all insti-
tutions of improvement, I remain your
Sister &c.,
		MARTHA A. MURRAY, Sec'y

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD, July llth, 1876. 
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been rather negligent in for-
warding our report. Our soeiety is in a
very prosperous condition and we are try-
ing to do all the good we can. We held our
Annual Meeting on the 8th of June, there
was a full attendance. Bishop Joseph Raw-
lins and several of the teachers were pres-
ent and gave us some very good instruc-
tions. They were well satisfied and pleased
with the progress we had made, and the
way in which we conduct our meetings,
encouraged us to sustain all HOME MANU-
FACTURES and strive to be self-sustaining
in all things. Many interesting remarks
were made on very important subjects, but
would take up too much space to make
mention of them.
	The report of the Society from its organ-
ization in May 17, 1868, until May 17th,
1876. Disbursements as follows:
	Cash disbursed......................   $1,323 98
	Cash to Emigration Fund......	     325 00
	Goods to Lamanites and St.
	George Temple......................		88 65
	Goods disbursed to poor........	      397 91
	Total goods disbursed............	      486 56
	Produce..................................		18 60
	Cash in hand, at present time.		12 25
	Goods.....................................		59 75
	Mulberry trees valued at........	      100 00
	Cash invested in the Co-op
	Store.......................................		92 26
		JANET CAHOON, Prest.,
			ANN E. LABRUN, Sec.


A COUNTRY paper in describing the burn-
ing of a building, mentions the rescue "by
way of a window of the servant girl fifteen
feet in height."


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	This is my first attempt to write for the
EXPONENT and I do not expect to give any
one instruction or counsel, but I feel it
my duty to contribute my mite with the
rest of my sisters, and I know that if we
strive to do right and ask our Heavenly
Father to bless and aid us in our endeav-
ors to do good He will do so. I do not
have the same chance to improve my mind
and feast my soul that some of my sisters
have who live in the midst of the Saints,
and do not have the outside influences to
contend with that those living out here do.
But we can learn to do right and not follow
after the ways of the outside world. We
have a Sunday School, and it is in a pros-
perous condition. We have no young la-
dies association, because there are but very
few families and they are living quite a
distance apart. Swearing and drinking is
getting to be quite a habit with some of the
young people in this vicinity, most people
know that it is wrong and should refrain
from it. I am very glad to hear that round
dancing is being put down among our
young people. Boys and girls refrain from
using bad language, refined people do not
like to associate with young ladies who
use slang phrases, and young men who will
swear, they feel ashamed to be seen in their
company, they are shuned, and respected
by none. If we are acquainted with any of
this type, let us talk kindly to them, show
them how wrong it is, and try to persuade
them to better regulate their conversation
and their actions.
	We should honor and obey our parents
and teachers, and do our best to keep the
commandments of God in every particular.
How well we feel when we know that we
have done right, and how miserable when
conscious of having done wrong. There
are many young men and boys who think
it is a credit to them to smoke, but on the
contrary, it is a disgrace; it is a very bad
habit and the Latter-day Saints are counsel-
ed to refrain from it. "Do what is right,
let the consequence follow," when we do
this we are often ridiculed by our compan-
ions, but if the spirit of God is in our
hearts, and we know we are pleasing Him,
we do not care for their taunts and sneers.
Let us shun all evil companions, and seek
the company of those who can improve us.
I am not in the habit of giving counsel, but
I feel it my duty to speak about these bad
habits having noticed many of the evils
which arise from them. We should strive
to improve our minds and seek continually
to do our duty.
	We all have faults, some more than oth-
ers, but by constant prayerand watch-guard
over our actions, we will in time overcome
them. We must love all mankind, and
keep the GOLDEN RULE if we ever expect
to have a crown in the kingdom of Him
who is Omnipotent. We should pray con-
stantly to Him who keeps us from day to-
day. May God bless us all and preserve us
from evil, is my prayer in the name of Je-
sus.
	I remain your Sister, &c.
						J. A. MAXWELL.
	Little Spring Valley, Nev.


THE following advertisement lately ap-
peared in a Liverpool paper:—"Wanted, by
a young man of refined musical tastes, a
position as son-in-law in a quiet, well-to-do
family. Address ——."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		43


LEARN TO KEEP HOUSE.

Beautiful maidens—aye nature's fair queens,
Some in your twenties, and some in your teens,
Seeking accomplishments worthy your aim.
Striving for learning, thirsting for fame;
Taking such pains with the style of your hair,
Keeping your [---]y complexions so fair:
Miss not this item in all your gay lives,
Learn to keep house, you may one day be wives.
			Learn to keep house.

Now your Adonis loves sweet moonlight walks,
Hand clasps, and kisses, and nice little talks;
Then, as plain Charlie, with burden of care,
He must subsist on more nourishing fare;
He'll come home at the set of the sun.
Heart-sick and weary, his working day done,
Thence let his slippered feet ne'er wish to roam,
Learn to keep house that you may keep home.
			Learn to keep house.

First in his eyes will be children and wife,
Joy of his joy, and life of his life,
Next his bright dwelling, his table, his meals—
Shrink not at what my pen trembling reveals,
Maidens romantic, the truth must be told.
Knowledge is better than silver or gold;
Then be prepared in the spring-time of health,
Learn to keep house, tho' surrounded by wealth.
			Learn to keep house.


[Column 1]
			A VISIT TO TEXAS.

	I left S. L. City, in company with the
missionaries who were going East, on
the 9th of Nov., 1875, to visit my relatives
in Texas, and had a very pleasant and in-
teresting time. On the Union Pacific R. R.
we met with a number of strangers who
manifested an interest in our people, and
wished to know concerning our doctrine &c.
They had stayed over Sunday in Salt Lake,
and had heard Orson Pratt preach and were
surprised to find the city so orderly and
quiet, spoke of the saloons being closed, re-
marked how unfavorably we had been rep-
resented abroad.
	I was surprised to find books distributed
on these cars containing misrepresentations
against the Mormons. I thought the U.
P. R. R. was too well patronized by the
Mormons to allow such insults to them; I did
not feel like being insulted by the distribution
of such literature, (especially as there was
no deduction made in the fare for a lady
missionary,) nevertheless it opened a field
for the missionaries, so that what was design-
ed for evil resulted in good.
	On our arrival at Omaha we parted with
the Elders who were going East and board-
ed the southern train by way of Council
Bluffs, St. Joseph, and Kansas cities for Dal-
las, Texas, which is near my mother's resi-
dence, arrived at the "Old Folks at Home,"
the seventh day after leaving here. To say
we had a joyful meeting and all talked at
once, will not begin to express the scene
that prevailed. My brother Thomas said it
reminded him of the resurrection, that
twenty years absence had not broken the
kindred ties; I answered, if you believe the
Gospel they have grown ten-fold stronger.
He replied he had not lost the testimony
he[-]eceived twenty years before, but was
anxious to forward the work and assist the
Elders; there were appointments made and
the work of preaching the everlasting Gos-
ple re-commenced in that lovely land of
Texas, for indeed it is a beautiful country,
and I felt constrained to prophesy that
there would yet be a Temple built in that
land and the Saints would possess it; the
good seed sown there by the Elders twenty
years ago has not all died out, and by dili-
gent care and cultivation it will yet take
root and grow. The meetings were well
attended, eight persons were baptized into
the church and others renewed their cov-
enants by baptism, and many were inter-
osted, believing and inquiring. I never

[Column 2]
felt better and stronger in my life than I
did when defending the character of this
people and the principles of our belief. I
attended all the meetings held by our Eld-
ers in Bosque County, Texas, and whenever
it was known that I was present, I was al-
ways requested by some of the audience to
speak and tell what I knew, and what had
induced me to live among such a despised
people. I never refused to respond and
there was a power with me whenever I
raised my voice to testify to the truth of
the Latter-day work. I was told in a bless-
ing given me by one of the Twelve Apos-
tles, that those who heard my testimony
should be pierced to the heart, and this
prophecy was literally fulfilled. Several
noted gentlemen remarked to my brother
that they never heard a more convincing
testimony, and that he should feel proud of
a sister who in face of opposition, and the
unpopularity of the doctrine in which she
believed, could thus stand up and defend it.
A gentleman said to me, Paul said it
was a shame for a woman to speak in
public." I replied, Paul also said, Priscil-
la and Aquilla labored with him in the
Gospel, and that Paul was not writing to
me, that my religion was between me and
my Father in heaven, that I had covenant-
ed with Him that if He would give me a
testimony of the truth I would be a faith-
ful witness to Him. He had fulfilled His
promise and now it remained for me to be
true to my covenant with Him. On one
occasion I was requested by a Universalian
minister to speak to the people on the sub-
ject of polygamy; this reverend gentleman
invited our Elders to preach to his congre-
gation, thinking to lay a snare for them as
was afterwards proven, but he was caught
in his own trap, for there was an editor
present who reported the discourses of
Elders' East and Greer, and published
them, which opened the way for Mr. East
to get an article published in the Bosque
Co. Herald, in which he invited the said
Rev. gentleman to prove the assertions he
had made by the Bible. At this meeting
there was the largest audience that had
ever been present, and I was called on to
speak at the close of the meeting; I told
them it reminded me of the Apostle Paul
when he made his defense before King
Agrippa, Paul had seen the power of God
made manifest (so had we) he had seen a
vision and testified of Jesus of Nazareth,
and the resurrection of the dead, (so do
we testify of that same Jesus, the gift of
the Holy Ghost bearing witness &c., and
we warn you to repent and fear God for the
hour of His judgment has come, and the
day is nigh at hand when this beautiful
land of yours will be laid waste by another
desolating war, and you will feel the chast-
ening hand of God and acknowledge Him
perchance when it is too late to gather out.
We contrasted the practises of the mono-
gamic cities of the world, where beautiful
women were led astray and excluded from
society, disowned by parents and kindred,
left to die without husband or child to
mourn for them, their names dishonored
and cast out as evil forever; compared this
with the Patriarchal order of marriage
where women are honorable wives and
mothers, the children considered an herit-
age from the Lord. You who so despise Po-
lygamy which of the two do you think the
Lord will own and bless?
	There are among the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints, we are proud to say, those
who are self-sacrificing like holy women of
old, and as Josephine the first wife of Napo-
leon, who would make a sacrifice for the
the benefit of a nation, or the elevation of a

[Column 3]
people, rather than to gratify their own sel-
fish feelings and desires. To be self-sacrific-
ing is elevating and exalting, it was through
this principle that Abraham proved him-
self to be the friend of God.
	After bearing a faithful testimony, we bid
farewell to Texas and our kindred; Yes,
Fare well, "In the sweet by and by we may
meet on that beautiful shore."
	On the 25th of April, 1876, we started
for home, "Sweet Home," arrived in S. L.
City the 2d day of May, feeling we had
not labored in vain.
				WILLMIRTH EAST.


SPLINTERS.

		GENERAL.
	The Emperor of Brazil's hotel expenses
in this country are said to have been nearly
$40,000......Charles Campbell, the Vir-
gina historian, died a few days ago in the
insane asylum at Staunton......Vanderbilt
is very likely to recover......Miss Allison,
the engineer of machinery, in the Wo-
man's Pavillion at the Centennial is report-
ed very ill......Miss Martineau, recently de-
ceased, left an injunction in her will
against the publication of her private let-
ters......Clara Bauer, a German novel-writ-
er, died lately in Breslau; she was familiar
with Russian society, and her last work "A
Document," was a portrayal of the best
Russian society......New port, Vermont, on
the 4th of July, had music by a drum corps,
each member of which was over ninety
years of age. America has two thousand
actors, all trying to become renowned......
Bryant is said to be the richest as well as
the oldest poet now living.....Over three
millions of visitors have reviewed the cu-
riosities at the Centennial Exposition...... I
Capt. Gildersleeve will command the Amer-
ican rifle team in the Centennial matches.
		FOREIGN.
	Abdul Aziz's private jewelry, valued at
six million Turkish lbs., has been seized
and handed to the Finance Department for
sale.........Don Carlos is tall, handsome,
swarthy of complexion, dark hair, dark
moustache, and small imperial......Victor
Hugo is worth half a million of dollars and
is said to be as egotistical as he is rich......
Mrs. Swishelm writes that in Germany it is
the rule for gentlemen to bow first in the
matter of recognition......News from the
seat of war in the East is of a very confiict-
ing character, each side claiming victories.
All the powers except Russian have de-
clared Roumania's demands unreasonable
.......A Berlin mechanic has invented a
steam velocipede, the engine is heated with
petroleum, and placed on the back wheels
does not interfere with the driver.


ALEXANDRE Dumas, who had some rea-
son to complain of his plays being left on
the shelf, sat down one evening and wrote
an article in his newspaper against the
Theatre Francais. An ill-natured person
carried the news, the manager immediate-
ly altered his play bills. The next morning
people after reading the attack of the great
author on the Theatre Francais, turned to
see what the house was performing, they
read—"This evening 'Les Demoiselles de
St. Cyr,' by Alexandre Dumas, to be fol-
lowed by 'Le Mari de la Veuve,' by Alex-
andre Dumas. To-morrow evening, 'Made-
moiselle de Belle Isle,' by Alexandre Du-
mas, to be followed by 'Romulus,' by Alex-
andre Dumas."


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpare[-]l space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMEN TALKERS AND WOMEN
WRITERS.

	"But words are things; and a small drop of ink,
	Falling like dew upon a thought, produces
	That which makes thousands, perhaps millions think."
		BYRON.
	Then let women talk and write and think.
It is a common saying, women talk too much;
it may be that they do about that which is of
no real importance, but upon subjects which
should be well understood, by women possess-
ing common intelligence, there are a vast ma-
jority who do not converse at all; to them it is
all rubbish, nonsense and unwomanly. They
prefer to have a husband, father or brother, to
think and act and speak for them; to attend to
them, to support them and to defend them.
It is to educate this class of women upon such
essential points, that it becomes more than
ever necessary to speak, and write, and har-
angue. The vine and oak theory, that has
been so romantically written about by a cer-
tain class of authors, will answer perhaps in
exceptional cases, but how it will apply to the
world of mankind and womankind in general,
those who are observers of modern society
can easily perceive.
	In this wonderfully enlightened nineteenth
century when there is so much questioning
of rights and equality and supremacy. and in-
feriority and superiority, and submission and
place and calling, and influence and individu-
ality, it is but natural to express some interest
on the subjects which bring to their aid such a
variety of adjectives to qualify and determine
their general and relative interest.
	It is a well-authenticated fact and palpable
to all the world, that there are thousands of
women, who have no such substantial support
to cling to, as an oak in the form of a husband,
father or brother, and of those who have, there
are many, who suffer more than those who
have not, from intemperance and other causes,
consequently it follows, that as vines they
would trail upon the earth, and very naturally
be trod upon just as thousands of women are,
who have been taught and encouraged in de-
pendence instead of independence.
	Circumstances and training it is said form
the individual; certainly they tend to strength-
en and develop important characteristics.
Custom the irrepressible tyrant, has in the
past constrained parents to train their boys for
the battle of life, the girls to look forward to
marriage as the one great aim of their exist-
ence. Now custom, alias fashion, argues men
cannot afford wives they are too expensive a
luxury; then women must necessarily look
around for some avenue of support, some prac-
tical, paying kind of labor. These matters re-
quire serious thought, require words, require

[COLUMN 2]

actions,—which will determine some positive
demonstration of the subject in question.
	Women cannot talk too much about these
matters, if they do so understandingly to as-
sist in enlightening themselves and others.
	The world says Polygamy makes women in-
ferior to men—we think differently. Polyga-
my, gives women more time for thought, for
mental culture, more freedom of action, a
broader field of labor, inculcates liberality and
generosity, develops more fully the spiritual
elements of life, fosters purity of thought and
gives wider scope to benevolence, leads wo-
men more directly to God the fountain of all 
truth, knowledge, light and intelligence.
	If those who are anxious to promote higher
development, would consider the true prin-
ciples upon which to base marriage, they would
look closely into the order of plural marriage,
and some of the most momentous questions
that are puzzling the world at the present
time, might thus be properly adjusted. Then
let women talk, and write, and reason, and
think, and interchange their ideas with each
other and with men. God has endowed wo-
man with reasoning and intuitive powers—
certainly He intended her to use her own
agency.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS:

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the favor of an elegant
bouquet of flowers from Mrs. Toms, we appre-
ciate these delightful and pleasant reminders
of the perfection of the works of God, and we
are grateful to the lady for her kind remem-
brance. The flowers were delicate and choice
ones, and the trailing vines, ferns and fancy
grasses gave an additional charm to their va-
riety and beauty.
	WE HAVE had several pleasant calls within
the past week from strangers, people of refine-
ment and culture. Almost invariably, they
express themselves pleased with the locality
and general appearance of the city, the moun-
tain scenery etc. Capt. Havelock, Mrs. Have-
lock, and Mrs. Rattray, English people, called
on Monday, Aug. 7th, and spent an hour [--]
two in a cheerful social way. They had been
under the impression that this people discour-
aged education, advancement, or progression
in any but industrial employments.
	THE BENEFIT tendered Mrs. Susie Maiden,
at the Theatre on Saturday evening, Aug. 5th,
was not so largely attended as the occasion de-
served. The selection of the programme for
the entertainment presented a most attrac-
tive bill, and those who profess so much ad-
miration for the drama ought to offer some in-
ducement and encouragement to HOME TAL-
ENT. Mrs. Marden as Peach Blossom was a
decided success, and merited the applause ac-
corded her, and the congratulation of her
friends for her exertions to please the public.
Several other parts were extremely well ren-
dered, particularly those performed by Miss
Colebrook and Miss Decker.
	Mrs. Louisa Pratt of Beaver, in this Terri-
tory has written her Autobiography which
she purposes publishing the present year.
The writer is in her 74th year, she has
kept a journal almost all her life, and has pre-
served a record of the most important events.
She has a prospectus printed and distributed
among her friends; in this she refers to some
of the main incidents of her history, of her
journey by land from the Atlantic to the Pa-
cific, before the days of cars and steam, of her
sojourn on the South Pacific Islands, where

[Column 2]
she resided for some time with her husband
and family, including four daughters, living
in friendship with the natives, a teacher to
their children &c., of her many trials shared
with the saints, in their persecutions wander-
ings and drivings. She closes the prospectus
by saying the work shall have one merit, it
will be STRICTLY TRUE.
	MRS. A. J. DUNIWAY, one of the most ear-
nest and indefatigable workers in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage etc., delivered two lectures
during her recent stay in this city. The first
was designed particularly to benefit her sex,
and enlighten them on some particular essen-
tial points of which many women seem en-
tirely ignorant and unconcerned. It was en-
titled, "Personal Experiences which led to my
Mission." Mrs. Duniway is extremely practi-
cal and matter-of-fact in all her views, argu-
ments and reasonings. She lectured without
notes or references of any description, and
never hesitated for a word, or seemed in the
least embarrassed. Her second lecture was
upon railroads etc., and she evidently under-
stood her subject in all its multifarious bear-
ings. Her description of the North-western
part of the United States, Oregon and Wash-
ington was extremely interesting. She enu-
merated the many advantages which would
accrue to benefit the country at large if this
grand and wealthy region could be connected
by railway with San Francisco and the East,
making Salt Lake the central point. The tim-
bers, the coal mines, the fisheries which are so
abundant there, these were all descanted
upon in her most glowing descriptive terms.
	MONDAY MORNING Aug. 7th, the Normal
Institute opened its annual session for eleven
days, it is under the management of Dr. J. R.
Park. There was a full attendance. Most of
the teachers are residents of Salt Lake County,
Weber and Utah Counties are next best repre-
sented. The exercises so far have been very
interesting and highly instructive, and must
confer material benefit on those who are atten-
tively and assiduously applying themselves to
the department of teaching or the acquire-
ment of knowledge. Prof. Maeser's lectures
on history and natural science are remarkably
solid and well worthy contemplation. The in-
structions in geography by Mr. Charles
Wright, are very good, and the illustrations
are clear and practical. Prof. M. H. Hardie
on the subject of reading expresses his views
and ideas in such a manner as to awaken much
interest in this important subject; it is the
prevailing idea of most persons that to be able
to pronounce all the hard words and observe
the pauses and punctuation marks, constitutes
a good reader. Perfect reading, like music,
must be harmonious or it grates upon the
finer senses like a song badly sung, or an in-
strument out of tune. Mr. G. M. Ottinger's
illustrations of drawing are happily rendered
and calculated to make impressions favorable
to that useful and beautiful art.
	THE LADIES' Centennial Territorial Fair
still continues attractive to visitors. Several
additions in woman's work have been brought
since the first opening; among these, one which
deserves mentioning is a Scripture pic[-]ure in
needle-work, by Mrs. M. E. A. Wat[--]ough,
representing the child Samuel when he comes
to Eli, having heard the voice of the Lord
calling him. The scene is well represented,
and very natural for the kind of work, which
of course is not equal to a painting in likeness
to life. The tambour needle-work by Mrs.
Wm. Matthews is something exquisite in
beauty and rarity. The silk work, laces, veils,
fichu, and handkerchiefs; all entirely of home


production are the most wonderful. We have
heard several strangers remark upon their ex-
cellence, and were indeed surprised that the
energy and perseverance of the sisters had ac-
complished such beautiful and meritorious re-
sults. If those engaged in the manufacture of
silk are only as patient as the coral insects who
possess only instinct to prompt them to labor,
and from the smallest beginnings form im-
mense reefs; then indeed may we look for won-
derful results. We advise everybody to go
to the Fair, you will certainly find many
things to admire, and in no other way, can you
in so short a time, judge of the energy the
taste and skill of the women of Utah. Miss
F. R. Snow and the ladies engaged there
spare no pains to make it interesting and at-
tractive.
	THE SILK ASSOCIATION met Aug. 1st. at the
Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
Mrs. Young cautioned those sending cocoons
to the society to be sure they were properly
dried, and floss them carefully. The cocoons
should not be moved off the rack or brush for
eight days, then they should be placed where
the sun would shine on them at least a week:
save the very best and finest cocoons to raise
seed from, and each one should raise more seed
than needed for his or her own use. What
was most needed now was the planting out of
mulberry trees; this branch of industry should
receive due attention and encouragement.
Mr. Paul A. Schettler said he felt sure the
raising and manufacture of silk here could be
made a success, and he was glad to see the
progress already made. Mrs. Dunyon gave
her experience in planting out mulberry cut-
tings, she advised sandy soil and to shade
them from the sun, at first to water them well
and for the first and second winter to lay
some straw over them. Mr. Groves said he
had good luck in raising silk worms and had a
fine grove of trees, the difficulty with him be-
ing he had not room enough. Miss E. R.
Snow said that to make a successful industry
of silk raising would require a vast amount of
perseverance and patience, and it could not be
accomplished without a united effort of the
people. She remembered hearing the Prophet
Joseph say the time would come when the peo-
ple of the world would come to Zion to buy
the finest of fabrics, said strangers had spoken
very highly of the samples of silk in the La-
dies' Fair. In Brigham City they thought of
making the raising of silk one branch of their
home industry another year. Mr. Smith, Mrs.
E. S. Barney, Mrs. E. Shipp, Mrs. M. A. White
and Mrs. Smith each gave a little of their ex-
perience in this industry and the result. The
next meeting of this association will be held
to-day, Aug 15th, at three o'clock at the same
place, such arrangements will then be made
as will be necessary for the advancement of
the society and a permanent organization ef-
fected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		45


NINETY-TWO.

	Miss Rhoda Richards celebrated her birthday
on Tuesday the 8th inst. She was ninety two
years old; and notwithstanding the heavy
rain fall, which commenced about mid-day,
two o'clock found a number of sisters assem-
bled at her humble dwelling, to offer congratu-
lations and kind wishes. A quiet little bless-
ing meeting was conducted, in the midst of
which the following pleasant note was receiv-
ed:
		Salt Lake City, August, 8th, 1876,
Sister Rhoda Richards,
					City;
My dear Cousin:
	The condition of the weather is such that I


do not think it wise for me to leave home. I
shall therefore be debarred the pleasure of call-
ing on you this afternoon and offering my con-
gratulations and blessings on this the anniver-
sary of your birthday. Permit me however,
by means of pen and ink to express my kind-
est feelings and regards, with the hope that
abundant blessings may continue to abide with
you to the latest days of your life upon the
earth, and increase with you throughout a
never-ending future of joy, happiness and ex-
altation. Such is the heartfelt prayer of your
Brother in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant.
					BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	After choice blessings had been asked for and
pronounced upon the aged hostess by all pres-
ent, she said she did not wish to take all the
blessings to herself, but desired that her sisters
should also be blessed. Accordingly a bless-
ing was pronounced upon each in turn by the
others. At the close of this sacred and joyous
interview, the company sat down to a well-
filled table, and feasted bodily as well as spirit-
ually. When the repast was finished, Sister
Zina D. Young, in a sweet and beautiful pray-
er, returned thanks to the Giver of all good,
for the blessings of the day, and asked for a
continuance of God's mercies to His people.
Sister Rhoda gave an invitation for all to
be present at the next anniversary of her
birthday, and with affectionate adieus the com-
pany dispersed.


For the EXPONENT.
DEPENDENCE AND INDEPENDENCF.

	I often wonder why it is that women
will be so dependent. Why they think, or
at least a great many of them, that it is
their calling to be dependent upon man-
kind for all they have or are in this world,
imagining that it looks more womanly to
depend upon the sterner sex for a name and
standing in society, than to go to work and
earn it. Is it because that men as a gener-
al thing, have taught them that dependence
upon them is necessary; that a weak,
languishing woman with hardly life enough
to laugh a good hearty laugh, one, who if
left to depend upon herself would find her
staff of support very frail, is more to be ad-
mired, than one who has been taught to be
self-reliant, and who can, if necessary, earn
not only a livelihood: but a name which will
be honored by all. Bah! I get perfectly dis-
gusted with womankind when I think how
little independence there is among them.
There are so few who will think, or act for
themselves. It is my candid opinion that
this would be a happier world if there
were a few more independent women in it.
	JUNE.


THE LADIES Centennial Fair is still open
and seems to be a successful enterprise.
The variety of woman's work exhibited
there, speaks volumes for the women of
Utah, for their industry, energy and un-
flinching faith and perseverance. The
samples of straw goods are indeed very su-
perior in quality and taste. The cabinet of
curiosities and wonderful collection of min-
erals and specimens are worthy the atten-
tion and admiration of all. Varieties of
lace and silk work which have been created
and brought to perfection from the ele-
ments in Utah, are indeed beautiful and
worthy of commendation. Tidies, Anti-
macassars, curtains, bed-quilts, rugs, car-
pets of almost every variety, are there in
abundance.


This is positive proof that almost any-
thing can be accomplished by united efforts
and energy of purpose.


MAN'S DUTY TO WOMAN.

	Let him learn to be grateful to woman
for this undoubted achievement of her sex,
that it is she, she far more than he, and she,
too, in spite of him, who has kept Chris-
tendom from lapsing into barbarism—kept
mercy and truth from being utterly over-
borne by those two greedy monsters, mon-
ey and war. Let him be grateful for this,
that almost every great soul that has led
forward or lifted up the race, has been fur-
nished for each noble deed, and inspired
with each patriotic and holy aspiration, by
the retiring fortitude of some Spartan or
more than Spartan—some Christian mother.
	Moses, the deliverer of his people, drawn
out of the Nile by the King's daughter, some
one has hinted, is only a symbol of the way
that woman's better instinct always outwits
the tyrannical diplomacy of man. Let him
cheerfully remember that though the
sinewy sex achieves enterprises on public
theatres, it is the nerve and sensibility of
the other that arm the mind and inflame
the soul in secret. "A man discovered
America, but a woman equipped the voy-
age." So everywhere; man executes the
performance, but woman trains the man.
Every effectual person, leaving his mark on
the world, is but another Columbus, for
whose furnishing, some Isabella, in the form
of his mother, lays down her jewels, her
vanity, her comfort.—Rev. E. D. Hunting-
ton.—Ex.


THE FITNESS OF THINGS.

	The middle-aged lady who adorns herself
with diamonds on full dress occasions does
what is perfectly right and proper; but good
taste is outraged at sight of a girl of fifteen
wearing these jewels. It is no uncommon
thing to see school-girls, from the ages of
ten to eighteen, wearing diamonds on their
fingers and in the ears. A young girl does
not think her toilet complete without dia-
mond ear-rings and at least one diamond
ring. Then as she gets richer, come hair
ornaments, crosses, and lockets made of the
precious stones. In European countries it
is not until a woman has attained to years
of maturity that she wears diamonds, and
even then not unless she is very rich. In
this country no one is too young to wear
them, and scarcely too poor for many wo-
men who live in small houses up back
streets, appear at church or the opera glit-
tering in diamonds. One lady who is not
able to afford a servant, when she gets up
in the morning puts on a calico wrapper,
but that does not prevent her arraying her
self in diamond ear-rings, breast-pin, and
finger rings, with which she performs her
household tasks. Bad taste of this sort is
positively vulgar.—Ex.


THE PRINCESS Louise will again this year
it is said, have some work in the Royal
Academy. Her bust of the Queen stands
perpetually in the sculpture room, and a
very good bust it is. Most probably her
new work will be a picture. She has of
late been studying very hard at South Ken-
sington, and has enlivened many a class
there by her chattiness and love of fun.


46		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	JOHNSONVILLE, WARREN Co., IND.
					        July 3, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	DEAR LADIES:—The second number of
your excellent paper was received, and I
was well pleased with its high moral tone.
It was not just what I had expected to see,
coming from your city. I am more than
surprised at the interest manifested by
your women on the subject of reform, and
the up-building of the cause which you
have espoused, together with your co-opera-
tive system of doing business. I can but
admire the spirit evinced in the good
works.
	I have been reading some of your books:
"Voice of Warning," by Parley P. Pratt,
and two sermons by Orson Pratt, one of
which was highly instructive, and am now
perusing the Book of Mormon. I shall be
better posted by and by, particularly if I
could have the Elders to teach and explain
the Scriptures according to your views. I
might after a while be constrained to say—
"Almost thou persuadest me to be a Mor-
mon." The women of your community
cannot be much oppressed, when they have
the right of suffrage, and a paper entirely
devoted to their interests. That is more
than we can say, for we are not allowed to
vote even on questions directly concerning
us.
	In conclusion I will remark that, If you
carry out the doctrines taught and preached
by your Elders, you cannot be a bad people.
	Let me hear from you again, at least
through the columns of your paper, if you
cannot find the time to write.
	I shall be very happy to have your paper
for the rest of the year.
	Wishing you success in your enterprise
I remain				Very truly yours,
							M. L. Johnston.

				LOWELL, MASS.
						July 27, 1876
MY DEAR AUNT:
				The scenes I have had the
pleasure of witnessing and the people I have
seen, if aptly described, would perhaps in-
terest you and the other friends at home,
but I am not very good at descriptive letter
writing, and will leave you to the papers for
the Exhibition and the notables who attend
it. There are some things that don't often
get into the papers that interest me more,
and I love to write to you about, for your
appreciation of the work that absorbs the
attention and is the delight of missionaries
makes it a pleasure to write you. Of course
I have not done much preaching while trav-
eling from one great city to another, but oc-
casionally I have had opportunity to advo-
cate our doctrines to some of the people who
travel by my side in the cars, whom I meet
in the boarding houses and hotels, in the
art galleries and museums, viewing monu-
ments and parks, and in the various associ-
ations that are formed by travellers.
	Since I came to New England I have
been devoted to a few poor, humble British
Saints,' who, crowded in the back streets of
the manufacturing towns are trying to live
in their old English style at American
prices, and are consequently, with good
wages, getting in debt, and getting farther
from Zion than they were before they left
their Albion shores. Still a spark of that
fire, that fills the soul with light and the
hearts of the people with love, is found
glimmering in their breasts, and when you

[Column 2]
speak to them encouragingly, it revives,
and glows and sparkles in their eyes like
burning coals. But when we go away it
smoulders again, and the ashes of discontent
envelop and almost smother it out. Again
and again has this fanning and cooling pro-
cess been experienced by them, and will
continue I suppose until the last. I wish the
Saints in the world could have a foretaste
of the experience that is necessary for them
to pass through when they are gathered.
I think it would be easier for them to com-
prehend the reality of their religion more
than they do at the present. The Lord has
queer material with which to work, but I
suppose it is the best He can get. Only the
poor and lowly have time to entertain the
homely truths of the old fashioned gospel of
Jesus. It is enough for the rich and learn-
ed to meditate upon the glittering bubble,
conjured up in the minds of enthusiasts, and
surmounted by the golden cross and brazen
image, which the truth-denying, self-loving,
prophet-denying, mis-called Christian priests
present to them as the gospel of peace,
and effigy of salvation.
	The Lord's economy in taking the very
lowliest of all people with which to perform
His work, is of course the best, for if they
were not already humble, He would have
to bring them down; and often material is
worn out before a vessel of either beauty or
utility can be formed of it, for the reason
that there is so much of the brittle, refuse
matter mixed with it, that the process of
expunging it wastes away the rest.
	I think that the Centennial year of our
nation's independence presents to the
Saints a condition of society throughout
the world, peculiarly interesting, in view
of the pointed, prophecies of which it is the
realization and fulfilment. The civilized
nations, particularly our own FREE country,
and the savages of our country, are des-
cribed better than most writers of the pres-
ent can describe them, and yet the scene we
witness was foretold over a thousand
years ago. There is no more satisfactory
nor interesting reading than the prophets
of the East and West, particularly the lat-
ter. The changes that are to transpire in
the immediate future, we see from these
writings before their actual advent, and are
prepared for them; and with assurance of
safety for ourselves, we take out our pencils
and books and proceed to chronicle the ful-
fillment of inspired words of other ages. I
think those who are interested, will find
matter in this Centennial year to occupy
their leisure moments in narrating for the
benefit of future generations.
	Excuse so long and rambling a letter.
	Give my love to all the folks.
	May the Lord bless you and guide you in
all your labors by the inspiration of His
Spirit, is my desire.


[COLUMN 1]

Yours affectionately,
	JUNIUS F. WELLS.

PROVIDENCE, CACHE Co.
	July 26, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized April
27, 1868, under the counsel of Bishop W.
Budge. From that time up to the present
it has progressed very favorably. We have
endeavored to do all in our power to comfort
and bless the poor, the widow, the father-
less and the sick. We hold regular month-
ly meetings beside special ones which are
called on certain occasions. The sisters
manifest a kind and affectionate spirit to-
wards each other, willing to listen to and

[COLUMN 2]

practice the instructions that are given to
them. We have a kind, motherly, kind-
hearted sister for President, (Margaret
Matthews) who is always on hand to render
all the assistance she can, both temporal
and spiritual; to wait upon the sick, and
comfort those that mourn; this can be said
of all its members, for we desire to be one
with all our sisters in the labor of love; to
be useful in our day. We need not think
that we have nothing to do, it is not so; it
is true our brethren are called to go on mis-
sions to the nations of the earth to preach
the gospel, and to bring the Saints to Zion,
and we are permitted to remain at home to
take care of our families and to receive the
Saints that may come into our midst, to
teach and instruct them in the duties of
life. We see the necessity to encourage
HOME MANUFACTURE; we have quite a
number of young ladies learning to braid
straw. They have been quite busy during
the past season making hats and straw
trimmings, which is leading in the right
direction, for we sisters in the country are
obliged to use economy, for we are not like
our sisters in the large cities whose hus-
bands are merchants or clerks, etc., that
receive very large salaries, from $150 to
$300 per month, and mechanics that receive
from four to five dollars a day, whereas our
husbands that follow farming raise a little
wheat, potatoes, &c. &c., and if we did not
use economy we should never be able to
sustain our families. But you may say—
when we visit our sisters in the country
it seems by all appearances that they are
getting rich and able to build comfortable
houses to live in, and make other improv-
ments, while we in the cities (with all the
large salaries) can hardly live. Let us for
a moment look into this, and compare notes.
In the first place, who are these that go to
the theatre with their families, that go to
the grand balls in the winter season, that
dress up in the highest style, some of whom
pay from fifteen to twenty dollars to have a
dress made up for their wives and daugh-
ters? Who are they that send their sons
and daughters abroad to be educated? Do
they belong to the Saints that live in the
rural districts of this Territory? Oh no.
They belong to those persons who are in
prosperous business, or receive large sal-
aries. Is it true when they say they hard-
ly know how to live? Yes. They live so
extravagantly they are not able to pay their
tithing and their offerings to the Lord that
are required of them as Saints. When I
reflect upon the circumstances we are in as
Saints, surrounded with the blessings of
the Lord, and we make such foolish and
wicked use of them, and how ungrateful
we are for them, it seems strange that the
Lord is so good to us; how merciful He is
that He does not permit our enemies to
come upon us and drive us from our homes,
(which has been done frequently) how much
longer will the Lord bear with us as a peo-
ple? We are certainly as a people follow-
ing after the foolish fashions of Babylon.
	Our Society receives good advice and as-
sistance from our worthy Bishop, who is al-
ways ready to encourage us in our labors.
Our means are limited, but the sisters do-
nate all that is required to sustain the poor,
helping towards the missionaries and the
temple. We have shares in the Co-op. store
and have a first class knitting machine, with
which we intend to do all the knitting in
the place. The sisters made a quilt for the
Centennial, now we have sent it to the Fair
in Salt Lake City.
	At a recent meeting of the brethren some
expressed a desire that we should celebrate
the 24th of July. The Bishop proposed that


the sisters of the Relief society, assisted;
so the sisters met together and got up a
Programme, which was composed of speech-
es, songs and toasts; a sumptuous dinner
was given; about 300 persons including
children sat down; and in the evening a
dance, which finished the proceedings of the
day. All went off pleasantly, joy and glad-
ness beamed upon every countenance.
throughout the day. There were quite a
number of emigrants just arrived, and they
were cordially invited, with strangers from
other settlements. Among the speeches of
our brethren there were two missionaries
who had just returned from Switzerland
who spoke. They remarked they had just
returned from a mission and looked upon
their brethren and sisters in Zion, and com-
pared them, and their circumstances with
the condition of the Saints, there it was a
vast contrast; the Saints here could enjoy
life and be happy and comfortable, there
was nothing here to prevent them from
living their religion, but in the world it was
different; the Saints are poor and have to
work hard from morning till night, and get
hardly anything; and if those that are all
the time complaining and finding fault with
everybody and everything could be taken
back there it would do them good.
	The EXPONENT is very much appreciated
by those that take it here, and if more
would subscribe for it, it would be a great
benefit to them, because it contains articles
that are calculated in themselves to cause
us to reflect and meditate upon our conditions
as sisters and as mothers in Zion. There is
many an article that brings joy and peace to
those that read it, and I consider for myself
that it is one of the very best papers that
we sisters can subscribe for, it is very good
to have other papers in our houses (I mean
those that are good, or are edited by our
brethren) but for me, in my leisure moments
of reflection, give me the EXPONENT; there
I can find something to peruse suited to my
condition; some sister's letter wherein she
gives her experience of life in this church,
or her testimony on some certain principle,
which give new impulses to do good.
	Hoping that you will receive encourage-
ment in your labors in editing a paper so
useful among the Latter-day Saints,
				I remain Your Sister, &c.
					EMILY MADISON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				VISITING.

	There are three essentials which must be
understood and acted on before visits and
visiting will ever fulfill the idea of the
pleasure they ought to be and to give.
First, nothing must be done for parade or
show. No matter how rich a man may
be, if he sets on his dinner table one thing,
either to be eaten or looked at simply for
show, it is a challenge and offense. Of
course, nobody is so absurd as to maintain
that the rich must make dinners of herbs
because the poor cannot afford stalled oxen.
A very feast of good things, both for the
eye and the palate, can be set out without
any attempt at, or suggestion of mere par-
ade, mere display. There are plenty of
ways in which a man may advertise his
wealth if he likes, without doing it in his
hospitality. To do it there, or even seem
to do it there, is the very essence of vul-
garity, and real inhospitality. To avoid by
every possible device and by the utmost
tact, the bare suggestion that the guest is
the recipient of and not conferrer of favors,
is the first principle of entertainment. To
ask a man to your house and treat him as if
he were inspector of wines or tax gatherer

[Column 2]
on silver, is a piece of very coarse stupid-
ity; and to make a very great difference
between the way you live when you are
alone and the way you live when you have
friends under your roof, is surely a very di-
rect way of injuring one's self-respect, of
casting an unpleasant reflection on one's
own personal standard of taste.
	The second essential of the ideal visit
and visiting is, that the host not the guest,
set the limit of the visit. There is so false
a notion in this country on this point that
it almost seems as if it must spring out of
a national lack of directness and sincerity.
Everybody knows when he asks a friend to
his house, how long he wants him to stay.
There may be fifty reasons combining to
make him very glad of a visit three days
long, and very much inconvenienced by
one longer. Honest people ought to find no
difficulty in saying this and honest people
take no offense at hearing it. This does
away with all possibility of misconstruc-
tion on either side, with all uncertainties
as to welcome, with all fears of intrusion.
	A third essential of ideal visits and visit-
ing is that there be on the part of the host
no strained effort to entertain or amuse the
guest, on the part of the guest, no expecta-
tion to be amused or entertained. Simply
to meet for the interchange of good will
and cordiality, the usual current of life go-
ing on undisturbed, the habits of the fami-
ly remaining unchanged—that is the true
social visit. The man who knows how to
"drop in" of an evening draw his chair up
to your hearth as if it were his own, and
fall into the usual evening routine of the
household as if he were a member of it—
how welcome he always is! The man who
comes to stay under your roof for a season,
and who without being intrusive or famil-
iar, makes you feel that he is at "home"
with you, and is content in his usual fash-
ion of occupation—how delightful a guest
he is! And the houses—ah, how few of
them!—into which one can go for a day or a
week, and feel sure that the family rou-
tine is in no wise altered, the family com-
fort in no wise lessened, but on the contra-
ry increased by his presence—what joy it is
to cross their threshold! What good har-
bors of refuge they are to weary wanderers!
	When the world mends its ways in these
regards, when these essentials are fulfilled,
the lost art of conversation will revive;
hospitality will be worthy of its name; and
householding and housekeeping become, as
they ought to be, the greatest pleasure a
man can have.—H. H. in the Independant.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT is that which flies high, lies low,
has no feet and yet wears shoes?—Dust
	THE woman of work sweeps everything
before her, while the woman of fashion
may be said to sweep everything behind
her.
	WHAT are our young men doing? (Ans-
wer.) Trying to lead a five pound exist-
ence on a two pound salary.
	BOGGS recently invested in a box of cigars.
He calls them tickets to a course of lectures
to be given by his wife.
	BROWN PERPLEXED.—Mrs. Brown tells
her husband not to sit in his shirt sleeves
or he will catch cold. How can a man sit
in his shirt sleeves?
	MRS. PARTINGTON expresses her appre-
hension that the people of the gold regions
will bleed to death, as the papers are con-
stantly announcing the opening of another
vein.


PATIENT, anxiously to doctors after con-
sultation:—"Tell me the worst gentlemen;
am I going to die?" Doctor: "We are divi-
ded on that question, but there is a majori-
ty of one in favor of your living."
	ONE GRAND object accomplished by the
visit of the Prince of Wales to India will be
the substitution of the Sanscrit, Arabian
and Persian languages for the Latin and
Greek classics at Oxford for the benefit of
Hindoo students and candidates for the In-
dian Civil Service.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Omelet:—To four well beaten eggs add one tea-
spoonful corn-starch dissolved in half teacup of
milk, one tablespoonful sugar, a little salt and
pepper; fry as an omelet.
	Lemon Cream Pie:—One cup sugar, one raw
potato grated, one cup water, one lemon grated,
and juice added, baked in pastry top and bottom.
This quantity is sufficient for one pie.
	To Extract Ink Stains:—Saturate the spots with
turpentine, letting it remain several hours; then
rub it between the hands, and the ink will crum-
ble away without injuring either the color or the
texture of the article.
	Furniture Polish:—One of the simplest and
best; get a bottle and fill with equal parts of boiled
linseed oil, and kerosene oil; mix and apply with a
flannel and rub dry with a second flannel. It
will remove all scratches and marks by bruising.
Destroy the rags after using, because they might
ignite spontaneously. An experienced house-
keeper recommends this polish, having used it her-
self for years.
	Cook and Housekeeper:—A good cook is not
the one who uses the most and and richest ingre-
dients, regardless of the expense; but she who
studies economy, and is able to concoct a delic-
ious meal from scanty materials. To be a success-
ful housekeeper, a woman requires as much sustem
and tact as she would to carry on any other busi-
ness.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Lightning Strokes:—Dr. Fothergill, says per-
sons struck by lightening are not always dead
when they appear to be so. There are few re-
coveries from it, because no means are tried to re-
store the sufferer. He believes that cold effusions
to the body has a decided action in such cases.
The free use of cold water under these circum-
stances cannot harm any one, and if only an oc-
casional recovery took place it would be well
worth the pains bestowed.
	Artificial Cooling of Roons:—M. Martin, in
the "Herald of Health" suggests a plan for the
cooling of rooms, which, it is affirmed, works ad-
mirably, especially for sick persons confined to
their bed or room. Open the windows wide and
hang wet cloths before them. The water as it
vaporizes absorbs the calorie, and lowers the tem-
perature of the apartment by several degrees,
while the humidity which is diffused renders the
heat much more supportable. By adopting this
plan even in the heighth of summer, you may re-
alize a freshened atmosphere, "analogous to that
which prevails after a storm."
	Liver Complaints:—The usual remedies are
iron, quinine, liquors, etc., but do not these do
more harm than good? One important item in
successful treatment of liver complaints should be
to find out its cause; there are a great variety of
causes, but among them all, perhaps our unwise
eating, sleeping and working habits have as much
or more to do with it than anything else, then the
best methods of cure, would be those which all
persons that are afflicted could apply for them-
selves, such as would b[-] eminently health-giving.


.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. CARABELLO, who died recently at
Canelones, Banda Oriental, had lived to the
extraordinary age of 120 years.
	MRS. JULIA N. Gott, of Ann Arbor, died
July 7, aged sixty years. She established
the first Young Ladies' Seminary in Ann
Arbor in 1840, and was herself a teacher in
the institution three years.
	MISS EMELINE Shepherd has on exhibi-
tion at Philadelphia a cambric handkerchief
the work of two years. It is embroidered
with a "fac simile" of Independence Hall,
a liberty cap and other national emblems,
valued at $500.00.
	SENORITA DONA Rosario Acunary Ville-
nueva has written and given to the public
in Madrid, a drama, founded upon "Rienzl
the Tribune, which has been very success-
fully played." The young lady is yet in
her twentieth year.
	MRS. ELIZA Esdaile, recently deceased,
was the only surviving daughter and child
of the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley by his ill-
fated wife Harriet Westbrook. She was
born in 1813, and could have no recollection
of her father; having been one of the three
children taken away from him by Lord El-
don, which circumstance called forth the
celebrated "Curse" to the Lord Chancellor.
	HON. MRS. Talbot of London, England,
has attained considerable celebrity in Wo-
mon's Work, by devising and practically
starting the "Parochial Mission Women."
She began this enterprise with three wo-
man, whose great and untiring labor in
ministering both to the physical and spirit-
ual wants of the poor in their own houses
were sufficient guarantees of the good faith
and earnestness with which Mrs. Talbot
forwarded the scheme. There are at present
183 of these co-workers, sincere and devot-
ed to the cause of carrying comfort to the
poor and unfortunate, and instructing them
concerning health and the management of
homes and children. "Mrs. Talbot is an in-
stance of the way in which all the great
questions of social politics are being met
and worked out by women, at the present
day, in England."


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We the sisters of the Relief Society have
been having good times in my estimation
of late. We seem to be very united and
full of love for each other and willing to do
all we can for the cause and the kingdom.
We love our President and her counsel-
ors, and feel to be one with them in
all things. We are trying to strengthen
and aid each other, and we want to enlarge
on the right hand and on the left with all
the facilities we can bring to our aid. We
meet with our sisters in the south part of
the district once in two weeks and we en-
joy ourselves exceedingly. We had a most
enjoyable time yesterday the 24th of July.
We had everything arranged according to
our own ideas. The day was beautiful af-
ter lovely showers the night before, so we
had very little dust. The procession was all
that could be wished for. The twenty-four
old ladies looked splendid in their cos-
tumes, and I wish you could have seen our
girls, especially the Retrenchment Associa-
tion, they looked lovely, no long trains but
straw hats on their heads and white dresses,
plain and neat, and very becoming to
the "Daughters of Zion." It was all good
to me.
						E. MCKAY.
	Ogden, July 25, 1875.


A LADY asked her husband if her new
dress was not as sweet as a spring rose. He
said it was, even to the minor attraction of
having a little "due" on it.
	TRADE TOA[-]TS: A painter was at dinner
where several artists, amateurs and literary
men were convened. A poet, by way of
being facetious, proposed as a toast "The
Painters and Glaziers." The toast was
drunk, and the painter, after returning
many thanks for it, proposed "Success to
the Paper Stainers," and called on the poet
to respond.


FLOWERS.

	SIN forgiven is peace restored.
	IF there be any good in thee, believe
that there is much more in others.
	FAITH illuminates much of the darkness
of this world with the brightness of its re-
ligious consolations.
	HE who persuades himself to do that
which he ought to do, is a great orator.
	GOOD company and good conversation
are the very sinews of virtue.
	A HOUSE uninhabited soon comes to ruin,
and a soul uninhabited by the Holy Spirit
of God, verges faster and faster to destruc-
tion.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah. 

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four 
	doors below Walker House, and examine our 
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such 
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP.
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the 
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1876.	No. 7.


For the EXPONENT.
	LINES.

BY A RETRENCHMENT GIRL.

Why are we to the things of earth
	So carefully endeared,
Forgetful of "The Kingdom" oft,
	Which must to God be reared?
Why do we vain and foolish thoughts
	Upon a home bestow,
Which winds or floods or flaming fire
	Might in an hour lay low?

A safe, bright home awaits us,
	A heavenly mansion fair;
The loved ones we have mourned as dead,
	Now live and worship there.
They'l welcome us with out-stretched arms,
	At the Eternal Gate—
Oh! happy, joyous, meeting—
	Sweet friends, how can we wait?

But ah! the richest boon of all,
	When this life's work is done;
Will be to know those Blessed Ones-
	the FATHER and the SON!
To look upon their faces kind,
	To press their gracious hands,
And hear their own lips teach the law,
	And utter wise commands.

How can we, and why mnst we wait!
	Yet, patience, O my soul!
Perform thy mission faithfully,
	All anxiuos haste control.
'Tis not for you to question why
	The way is long or rough,
But to be ready when the call
	Shall come, "It is enough."


[COLUMN 1]

For the EXPONENT.
MRS. DUNIWAY'S LECTURE.

	I suppose, dear girls, you will all think,
"Well, if I were going to write about any-
thing, I would write it in the season thereof,
and not wait till the circumstance was a
month old, and had been forgotten by every
one except myself!" But I'll tell you how
it is with me. When I am washing, iron-
ing, sweeping, cooking, sewing or running
after a mischievous baby I cannot be writ-
ing; and these former things occupy so
much of my time that I only find now and
then a spare moment for anything else.
	I went to hear Mrs. D's. Sunday evening
lecture, because—my mother said I might.
—I liked it very much too, except one or
two small insinuations which I considered
uncalled for, and which served to weaken
rather than to give vim to the otherwise
excellent speech. She told her audience
that she had milked cows and made butter
in abundance, in earlier days; she had
washed, cooked, plucked geese, taught
school, kept a milliner's shop and raised a
family of boys; she advised the girls when-
ever they considered themselves old enough,
and strong enough, and wise enough to take
upon themselves the responsibilities of
wifehood, to get married as she did. I
liked all that. "But," she added, "do not
imagine that I would have you take FRAC-
TIONAL husbands, as many of the women of
Utah seem perfectly willing to do." This
was one of the weak points which she pre-
sented, and I did not like it.
	What right, let me ask, has such a wo-
man to advise the girls of Utah upon a
subject of which she knows, practically,
nothing, ontradistinction to the teach-

[COLUMN 2]

ings of their own noble mothers, many of
whom have lived in polygamy for ten-
twenty and thirty years? Mrs. Duniway
appears to be a thoroughly practical woman.
I think she should let polygamy entirely
alone until she actually knows something
about it.
	The speaker gave a highly interesting ac-
count of her own personal experience.
she spoke with energy nnd earnestness in
favor of equality of the sexes, in the right
to control property and make laws concern-
ing it. She truthfully illustrated the lit-
tleness and insipidity of the souls of wo-
men who are perfectly content to let the
world move on in its own way, with no
thought for others because all is well with
themselves. This was only in reference to
property and woman's right to vote.
	She did not say as I would if I were a
lecturer, that every good woman has a right
to be married to a good man; and that, as
there are so many more worthy women than
men, it is noble and good for more than
one woman to accept the same man as a
husband. Of course I did not expect her to
say anything of the kind, but I felt I should
like to say it for her.
	I did not go to hear her Rail Road lecture,
though I wanted to very much. I had
been washing that day and was tired; then
I must have taken a long walk in order to
attend the lecture. Still I would have gone,
but that my mother said, "I think you had
better not my dear. I should like to have
you go and learn all you might, but you
have worked hard, and it is not best to
over-tax nature."
	I have learned, girls, that to listen to the
counsel of a good mother, pays better than
anything else.
	A FARMER'S DAUGHTER.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THERE WILL be a Republican Convention
held at Worcester, Mass., Tues., Sep. 5th.
	A FREE HOSPITAL is about to be erecte
at the Begum of Bhopal, as a memorial of
the visit of the Prince of Wales to India.
The cost will probably be 80,000 rupees.
	MAURICE SAND, son of the French au-
thoress, warns all persons possessed of
manuscript copies of letters from his moth-
er, not to make them public without special
authorization from him.
	A STATE Convention is to be held in Bos-
ton on Tuesday, Sept. 12, 1876, at 11 o'clock
a. m., to consider their political duties in
regard to the fall elections; also to make
nominations for state officers if it is con-
sidered advisable. Men and women are in-
vited who are interested in Woman suf-
frage.
	A SCHOOL is to be founded to the mem-
ory of Lady Augusta Stanly, in the neigh-
borhood of Westminister Abbey. The
school is to be a Home and Training School
of Nurses. To the poor this lady was a con-
stant and tender friend, and always carried
with her the warmth and energy of true
sympathy in the hour of adversity or sick-
ness.
	HARPER'S WEEKLY says the truly inde-


pendent voters support Hayes, not because
they do not severely condemn much for
which the Republican party in any intelli-
gible system of party government must be
held responsible, but because, upon a sensi-
ble and practical survey of the situation
and the parties, they have decided that the
better element of the Republican party is
more likely to prevail for good results than
that of the Democratic.
	AT THE Exposition, near to Machinery
Hall, is situated the Turkish Cafe, a pretty
cheerful resort. A Turkish gentleman
from Constantinople presides over it, and
the attendants are in the picturesque cos-
tume of that locality. If you wish coffee,
it is made at once in little brass coffee pots,
each holding a cup, over a little charcoal
fire in a small furnace in one corner of the
room. The berry is ground as fine as meal,
and the coffee is poured into a tiny cup
which rests on a stand of silver filigree, the
liquor is as thick as cream; it soon settles,
and the beverage sweetened with rock
candy and served without milk is sure to
be delicious to lovers of good coffee. To
strangers this glimpse of Oriental life, its
people and customs is peculiarly interest-
ing. They will also serve you with Turk-
ish pipes and tobacco in their own peculiar
style.


FOURTH EPISTLE OF HAL TO
			THE "OLD MAID".

	I looked for you at the Normal Institute,
for I was there—were you? If you an-
swer me that you were really present at
those very instructive meetings, I believe
I may pronounce myself satisfied that I
know your name now, and should recognize
you if good fortune should ever chance to
bring us face to face.
	Please tell me if you were not greatly de-
lighted with Mr. Ottinger's lectures. I
thought them remarkable for clearness, and
besides drawing is a subject in which I am
much interested. I thought your face gave
evidence of interest during all the lectures,
but especially when something particularly
amusing was going on. I feel sure that you
were there, and that I made no mistake in
the one I singled out for you.
	You have not read Nasby's "Hannah
Jane?" You will find it in Hill's Manual,
which is an excellent book for young teach-
ers.
	You would like to see me, "just for fun"
would you? I am sorry to say that I am
not at all funny. But as funny people and
sedate people generally agree well together,
I hope to hear from you again very soon;
and
	If human forms were formed to soar,
		Like human fancy light and free,
	Here would I calmly wait no more,
		On hope's bright wings I'd fly to thee.
	But since we're doomed to dwell apart,
		And 'tis the common fate of men—
			(And women, too,)
	Thank heaven for this goodly art,
		Communication with the pen.—
			Fair maid, adieu.


THE most inquisitive of ancient divini-
ties—Tellus.


50		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the 14th Ward, on Saturday, August 19,
was well attended. Counselor Mrs. B. W.
Smith presided. The speakers were spir-
ited and earnest, and seemed to be es-
pecially led to dwell upon the subject of
building Temples. Counselor Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball alluded to the time when the
Kirtland Temple was being built, when the
Saints all considered that what they pos-
sessed belonged to the work of the Lord;
when the women would churn and cheer-
fully send their butter to the workmen on
the Temple and eat without any on their
own tables; then they were all hopeful and
joyous; she had never seen happier days in
her life that she knew of. Sister Mercy M.
Thompson spoke beautifully concerning the
giving of donations for the building of
Temples. She considered that the poor
saint's dollar, which was given with a
grateful hand out of a meagre pittance,
would go farther towards purchasing eter-
nal blessings in the kingdom of God, than
the dollar of a person whom the Lord has
blessed with abundance, so that the small
sum given would never be missed. A num-
ber of sisters bore strong testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel. At the close of the
meeting, Counselor Mrs. Phebe Woodruff
asked the sisters to remember in their pray-
ers—Sister Horne—the beloved President of 
the Associationwho has been so long unable
to attend.

HYRUM, CACHE Co., Aug. 17, 1876.
Editor Exponent:
	The members of our society are still alive
to the interests of the kingdom and al-
ways ready to lend a helping hand to the
poor and the needy, and to give a word of
comfort to the downcast. We held our 8th
Annual meeting on the 7th inst. There
were present on the stand several of the
brethren of this place and Sister Maughan of
Logan. Our report was laid before the
meeting which showed we had done many
good deeds in assisting the poor, donating
to the emigration, missionaries and Temple.
The brethren gave very good instructions
and encouraged us to faithfulness and per-
severance.
	Sister Maughan addressed the meeting a
short time, said our balance sheet was a
great credit to us; exhorted us to continue
in well doing. President Christina Liljen-
quist felt thankful for the good instructions
we had received, and asked the blessings
of the Lord upon the Saints. We had a
good time and the Spirit of the Lord was
with us; all seemed to feel to renew their
exertios to do good and to sustain our
President and those in authority. We
hope to build a house of our own next sea-
son and feel sure the Lord will bless us in
our endeavors. All is peace and quiet in
our little town and the Lord has blest us
with a bountiful harvest which the breth-
ren are very busy gathering in.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper
I remain your Sister,
	NANCY M. NEILSON, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		SOME OF MY THOUGHTS.

	ADDRESSED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY
				OF NEPHI.

	Owing to a diffidence which always at-
tends me whenever I attempt to speak be-
fore my sisters in our meetings, I thought
I would write a few lines which I surely

[Column 2]
could command courage enough to read.
When a vote of thanks was given me for
the faithful performance of my duty as
secretary my heart overflowed with grati-
tude and thankfulness to my heavenly
Father for the good feeling manifested by
my sisters, but I could not express my
thanks then, which I now beg you to ac-
cept.
	When a meeting was appointed for the
organization of a Relief Society, I thought
I would attend, partly from curiosity to see
how it would be conducted not expecting
I should be called on to occupy a place in
this society, but that I would, if permitted,
at some future day become a member. But
when I entered the house, before I took my
seat our Bishop called my name for secre-
tary. I thought it impossible for me to fill
that position, and therefore begged to be
excused on the grounds that I already had
as many duties as I could perform, and that
there were many others who could fill the
place much better than I could, not having
had the advantages of an education which
would qualify me for such a position. But
my excuses were not accepted and I was
elected. I knew my inability; and the
thought came, the Lord must help me or I
shall fail; I felt humble and asked His aid,
and am now willing to give Him thanks for
the honor that was bestowed upon me at
our last meeting. I have often noticed how
well our sisters in these societies fill
their positions, and I know it is because
they are humble and willing to try with the
help of the Lord to do what is required of
them. We are not all called to fill the same
places, but every one that does her duty in
the office assigned to her to fill, be it ever
so humble a one, is just as honorable and
deserving of praise as the one who occupies
the highest position; and I think I can say
in truth that our President and Counselors'
are just as willing to award praise where
they see one attending to her duties faith-
fully, whether in attending her meetings
or in staying at home to look after the fam-
ily that God has given her; for He will re-
quire her to guard well the jewels He has
entrusted to her care. And here let me
say how often has my heart been pained to 
witness the neglect that we as mothers are
guilty of in regard to our children. When
I see so many of our girls and boys run-
ning wild, disgracing themselves and their 
parents, and sinning against God, I think
we shall not all escape punishment. Moth-
ers, let me exhort you, with myself, to gird
on the armour of watchfulness, and never,
no never lay it off again until we have
rooted out this arch enemy (recklessness)
which has been the cause of so much evil
among our young people. What a stigma
on virtue and religion, what a disgrace to
our settlement, and above all what a sin be-
fore God! Arouse sisters and let us unite
in this great work that lies before us, and
let us call on our young sisters to assist for
the responsibility also rests upon them. I
feel that we have already put this matter off
too long and that God will hold us account-
able for the same. I presume that many
mothers feel that their children are young
and want to enjoy themselves, but we
must remember that because they are
young and have not the wisdom and experi-
ence of older persons, they are not pre-
pared to shun temptation, therefore they
need our watch-care and counsel. Better,
far better to curtail their pleasures or offend
them now, than to allow them to go unre-
strained and unprotected.
	If we take the right course with our
children when they are quite young, talk
kindly to them and tell them the conse-

[Column 3]
quence of an incorrect course, and point
out the path of virtue, and portray its
blessings and advantages, there will be but
very few who will not have confidence
enough in their mothers to heed what they
say, and in after years will bless them for
their strict requirements of obedience to
their wishes, and for their guidance and
care.
	When I commenced to write, I had no
intention of touching on this subject; but it
was forcibly presented to my mind and I
felt it my duty to pen some of my thoughts
in regard to it.
	Hoping that God will help us to be dili-
gent and faithful in all the duties of life,
and fill honorably the station assigned—to
each of us, I will add no more.
							A. L. B.


FLORAL HINTS.

	FOR RAISING FERNS:—Make a bed of
deep rich soil from the woods; in this bed
plant the native ferns; they will bear
transplanting at any time. This bed for
ferns should be on the north side of the
house or fence.
	THE rose requires high culture, and
should be planted in good, well-drained
soil, it can scarcely be too rich. The in-
sects which are most injurious to the rose
may be easily destroyed by syringing the
plants in tobacco water. Care should be ta-
ken in winter to protect them from severe
cold and frosts; cover them with leaves or
straw, or remove them to a cool cellar. A
nice way to plant rose-bushes is in a circle,
with some tall growing shrub in the cen-
tre; in this way they can better be pro-
tected in winter by throwing some straw or
light brush over them.
	CARE OF PLANTS:—Almost all house
plants require constant care and attention,
plenty of sunshine and fresh air, they will
not thrive without it. Windows which face
the south are the best for most plants; am-
monia water is one of the best fertilizers,
making the leaves fresh and green, also
liquid manure, but very weak. For some
delicate plants the Floral Cabinet recom-
mends glue-water; get the most common
dark glue, put it in a pitcher or jar, pour
boiling water over it, then when it is cold
dilute it and water the plants with it about
once a week; glue being made of bones and
refuse of various kinds is a very good stim-
ulant and makes the plants look healthy and
fresh. Sprinkle and wash plants frequent-
ly, and as much as possible keep them free
from dust.


CHINESE GARDEN:—The largest garden
in the world is in China; it covers an area
of fifty thousand square miles, round
Shanghai; it has been in a high state of cul-
tivation for hundreds of years. Three crops
a year are harvested from it; it is all mea-
dow land, raised a few feet above the wa-
ter, and with a complete net work of water
communication.


THE term "conservative," so says an
English writer of note, was first used in
the "Quarterly Review," for January, 1830,
by John Wilson Croker thus. "We despise
and abominate the details of partizan war-
fare, but we are now, as we always have
been, decidedly and conscientiously attached
to what is called the Tory, and which might
with more propriety be called the Conserva-
tive party."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		51


ISABELLA.

Oh, Woman! Genius, power, kingdoms,
Thrones, with all their charms and prestige—
Sceptres, subjects, ministering spirits—round,
Hover round thy footsteps, to watch thine eye,
To catch thy lightest word and that obey;
To stand in highest altitude, erect and firm,
And ne'er turn dizzy with the regal hight—
Who still is WOMAN, still her nature holds,
Pure, unsullied, as a queen should be,
Who has an ear for Truth, for Genius,
In whatever form it comes, though stript
Of worldly grandeur—all the world calls great;
And Standing like the far-famed obelisks
Of far-famed Egypt, alone, unread,
With naught to herald it but that intense,
That persevering Genius God bestows
On those He singles out to do His work;
His work on earth where man his agent is,
And woman too, his partner and co-mate
In all the grand, essential moves upon
The mighty chess-board of the game of life
Such was Isabella, Sovereign of Castile
And Queen of Ferdinand and Spain.
To Ferdinand—himself a king—she brought
Her throne, her kingdom, subjects, and herself,
And laid them at the feet of him to whom
More, more than all, she gave her loving heart—
A gem of which a monarch might yet be proud;
And he—most rarely found—proved worthy
of all the wealth she showered on his head.
They lived, and loved, and reigned conjointly;
Hand and heart united in their regal work,
When lo! a man in humble guise presents
Himself, and with them craves an audience.
He is admitted. In person, regal
As the pair to whom he is presented;
She has an eye at once to read the man;
A heart to feel he bears upon his form
The duplicate of HIM who gave the mission,
And sustained throughout, in ev'ry need the man
Ferdinand gives attention—Isabella
Enthusiasm. She felt the man of God
A messenger direct, and hence prepared
To learn his mission and obey his voice.
Columbus spoke! and then at once a queen
Stood forth as tho apostle of his cause;
A queen, a woman, a proselyte of truth,
A truth that did enrich his day and age,
Was first received by woman's gentle heart;
Isabella was that woman; and she
Never waver'd, but until death was true.
Before her court's indifference, before
His enemies, or his reverses, she
Believed him true, and was upon the throne
His proselyte, and to the grave his friend.

Ferdinand, in this, was worldly-minded;
Isabella saw, with spirit eyes, he
Was a man of destiny! a man of God!
And told the man appointed to investigate
The claims Columbus advocated,
That they were haggling with God the price of
Empire, and of souls, whom to idolatry
Their infidelity would leave. The king
Had not the faith that he could meet expense
So mighty as a naval outfit for
The man, who, in returning, promised
An Empire that should astound the world
And ages yet unborn.

Isabella listened to the colloquy, then with a
Burst of heavenly enthusiasm cried,
"I will undertake the enterprise alone
For my crown of Castile; I will pawn
My diamonds and my jewels, in MY eyes
Most worthless, compared with what is offered
By this great, good man, whom God has sent to us."
This noble burst of woman's feeling triumphed
The king, chagrined, consented to inspect
His treasury and see what could be done!
"Disinterestedness is the true wisdom
Of great politicians!" Columbus
Was re-called. He bow'd at the feet of her
Who'd nobly won for him the victory;
His soul was full of sweet emotions,
And she wept tears upon his noble head;
Ferdinand was moved and ratified the deed,
And into unknown seas the explorer passed.
	HANNAH T. KING.


TEMPLE FUNDS.

	The Countess of Huntington, who lived
about one hundred years ago, was a religious
reformer. We think she was one of the
noblest women of whom we ever read.
She gave her time and talents, her exten-


sive influence and her entire fortune to the
service of the Lord. So great was her de-
sire to advance the good work which she
had espoused that she allowed herself only
one new dress a year. Her means were
employed in building and supporting chap-
els in which converted souls might wor-
ship undisturbed by the show of pride and
vanity which characterizes common church-
goers.
	In contemplating the earnest zeal with
which that excellent lady worked for the
benefit and salvation of mankind, as far as
she understood, the thought arises, what
a vast amount of good might be done by
our sisters, if they were really as earnest
and as zealous in the cause of truth and
righteousness as she was. True she was
a lady of wealth and influence. She sold
her jewelry and used the means thus pro-
cured in the erection of a college for the
benefit of young ministers. No one of us
could do anything like that. But suppose
that several hundred or a few thousand of
us should put together all our best jewelry
—reserving, perhaps, some sacred tokens,
such as "the ring MY MOTHER wore," or a
wedding ring—would not the money thus
obtained do something towards building a
temple to our God?
	We have been informed that in some of
the Retrenchment Associations in this city,
five cent Temple Funds have been estab-
lished. In these funds, each young lady or
little girl may deposit a nickle once a week,
or as often as she can get one, instead of
spending it for a piece of ribbon or lace or
a bit of candy; an excellent plan, we think.
And not only should the officers of these
associations encourage the younger mem-
bers, more by example than precept, to
sustain and enlarge funds of this kind, but
mothers should find great satisfaction in as-
sisting to make such things items of spec-
ial interest.
						A MOTHER.


WOMAN’S RECORD.

	CHARLOTTE Bremer, the only sister of
the celebrated Frederika Bremer, and sharer
in her literary labors, died at Stockholm,
July 8th. She was born in 1799.
	THERE were more than two thousand
years ago women missionaries, one the
daughter of an emperor who, at her own
expense went to Ceylon and introduced
Buddhism into that island.
	MADAME Christine Neilson has recently
given over one thousand pounds to the
Committee of Diseases of the Throat. This
is the second gift from her generous hand
to the same institution, and was the pro-
ceeds of a concert given in May.
	MRS. Thomas, widow of a Baptist mis-
sionary, has been made superintendent of a
diocese in Burmah, which includes thirty-
nine native Karen pastors besides other
evangelists, schools, etc. The annual re-
port of the Baptist Missionary Union, speaks
of her new plans and labors, and her emi-
nent fitness for the position.
   MRS. L. H. Green, M. D. writes from
the Women’s Dispensary, Barielly, India:
"People of all castes come to the Dispensa-
ry. Ladies of the higher classes spend so
much time in retirement that they are glad
to go out under any pretext that may seem
to their friends respectable.
	MISS Jane Bay, of Baltimore, who died
recently, bequeathed over $200,000 to the
"Jane Bay Home for Boys." We agree in
the sentiments expressed by the Woman's
Journal. "How much better if she had re-
membered the still more destitute orphans
of her own sex, also." This institution
was incorporated by the last Legislature for
educating and training orphan and poor
boys.
	THE widow of Frederic VII of Denmark,
the Countess Danner, left her property val-
ued at $4,000,000, for the maintenance of an
institution for orphan and deserted girls of
Denmark. The central building of the in-
stitution will be the castle of Jagersprls, in
North Zealand, and it is expected will ac-
commodate [-]00, or 800 children.


PROFESSOR RIGGS ATTENDS THE
		EDUCATIONAL CONGRESS.

	At the three days session of the National
educational association, in the Academy of
Music, Baltimore, twenty-six states and
two territories, viz, Arizona and Utah were
represented. The papers read and the sub-
jects discussed, made the association one of
the most interesting and instructive char-
acter to the educator. At the close of the
association, the international congress as-
sembled for a one day's session in the same
place. The countries represented there
were: Of America—The United States,
Canada, Brazil and the Argentine Repub-
lic; of Europe—England, Lapland, Norway
and Sweden; of Asia—China and Japan;
the Sandwich Islands and Australia. The
speeches made by all those representatives
could be understood, except the Laplander's,
which was interpreted by Dr. Meyerberg of
Stockholm.
	After the adjournment, the teachers of
the public schools of Baltimore, tendered
the convention an excursion to Fair Haven
on the steamer Matilda. Fair Haven is
about fifty miles down the Chesapeake bay,
and was reached about 6 o'clock, where two
hours were spent and a collation of Mary-
land delicacies enjoyed. On the return
passage a business meeting of the conven-
tion was held in the cabin of the steamer,
at which the following resolutions, with
others, was adopted;
	Resolved, That, next to liberty, educa-
tion has been the great cause of the mar-
vellous prosperity of the republic in the


first century of its history, and it is the
sure and only hope of its future. The high-
est concern and the grandest duty of the
new century now opened is the right edu-
cation of every child born into American
liberty.				O. H. RIGGS,
			Ter. Supt. Dis. Schools.


KIND WORDS DO NOT COST MUCH:—They
do not blister the tongue or lips, and no one
ever heard of any mental trouble arising
from this quarter; though they do not cost
much, yet they accomplish a great deal;
they help one's own good nature and will.
Soft words soften our own soul; angry words
are fuel to the flame of wrath, and make it
blaze more fiercely; kind words make other
people good-natured; cold words freeze peo-
ple and hot words scorch them, sarcastic
words irritate them, and bitter words make
them wrathful. There is such a rush of
all other kinds of words that it seems de-
sirable to give kind words a chance among
them. Vain words, silly words, hasty
words, empty words, profane words, bois-
terous words, and a great variety of naughty
words. Kind words produce their own im-
age on men's souls, the image of beauty.
They soothe, and quiet and comfort; they
shame away sour, morose and unkind feel-
ings; kind words should be used in abund-
ance.


52		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

TAKE CARE.

	Autumn has come again. September with
its fair cool mornings, its mild and pleasant
days and chilly evenings is with us once more.
Now is the time when thoughtful florists
and gardeners begin to shelter their tender
plants; cautiously watching for the approach
of early frosts, making preparations to ward off
the same, and prevent all injurious effects.
	And now, oh! anxious mothers, is one of the
times when special care should be exercised
over the bodies and health of the little human
plants which God has placed in our charge.
Do not wait until freezing winter weather
comes before you think of the childrens' wool-
en dresses and stockings. Already they should
be in readiness to supply the places of light
summer clothing.
	It does seem as though enough has been said
and written to revolutionize the world in this
respect. And still there is astonishing evi-
dences of much ignorance and want of thought
on the subject. A woman comes into a meet-
ing house where religious services are being
conducted, and as she enters, the damp, chilly
atmosphere fairly makes her shiver although
she is wrapped in a warm woolen shawl; yet in
her arms she carries a bright, fat baby, dressed
in white jaconet, with bare arms and neck,
blue with cold, and thin cotton stockings
which do not come to the knees! Such in-
consistencies are difficult to imagine, yet as
day by day they are brought to notice, the
stern reality of their existence, and even of
their prevalence, cannot be denied. When will
the people learn, and when will they put in
practice the good they know? Sometimes
there seems to be so much on hand, so many
things crowding at once, that it is almost an
impossibility to bestow the requisite care up-
on the babies. But mothers should always
keep in mind the fact, that it does not require
half the time or half the trouble to take care
of a well child, that it does to nurse a sick one.
If all things cannot be accomplished as a wo-
man may desire, let something go undone.
Let her can or dry less fruit than she intended,
and give the surplus, which would otherwise
be wasted, to her poor neighbors. Let beds go
unmade or kitchen work undone if necessary,
let anything else be neglected rather than the
children. And if by close care and attention
they can be kept in good health and spirits,
let every one carry a cheerful face and a thank-
ful heart, and let no one fret about what has
not been done. or cannot be done.
	Never regard symptoms of disease in a child
as nothing serious, but study how to take wise
precautions against dangerous illness. And
when in the case of a child being slightly in-
disposed, anything ought to be done, let it be

[COLUMN 2]

done at once and not put off for a more conve-
nient time when other matters have been at-
tended to. By saying "take care," we do not
mean to be over anxious and uneasy and full
of undue solicitude all the while concerning
the little ones. Wise care prevents cause for
anxiety, saves trouble and expense, and often
averts sorrow.
	The autumn will come again; beautiful
flowers, delicious fruit and rich, golden grain
will blossom, mature and ripen. But if one
of the children is taken from us, we can never.
have it back while we remain in mortality.
Yet when care and watchfulness have failed to
retain the little being here, there is still con-
solation in the reflection that neglect or im-
prudence had nothing to do with its suffering
or its departure.
	Be mindful of your own health mothers, for
your own sakes, but more particularly for the
sake of your babies. You will lose less time in
taking care of yourselves if you do so, than in
being unable to work if you do not.


[Column 1]
		A GLANCE AT THE FUTURE.

	There is in the nature of all intelligent per-
sons a definite or undefined longing to look for-
ward into the future and to discern by the pres-
ent transpiring events, or judge from the past,
what the indications are of coming prosperity or
evil. When any great change is on the tapis
this is more especially the case; people cannot
but question and wonder, what the great move
will bring about, and whether it will promote
and foster an influence for good or ill.
	In America perhaps more than in any other
country in the world, the majority of the peo-
ple interest themselves understandingly in the
subjects of rulers and governments; because
each person considers himself a citizen of free
and independent principles, and a part of
the great body politic.
	Then the educational system of this grand
country has been established upon such a
broad scale as to reach all classes and therefore
they are taken as a whole, better enlightened
on all practical subjects and interests. It
would seem to one not knowing anything of
the real wickedness and corruption that exists
in the United States, and possessing a knowl-
edge of the laws and constitution, and being
familiar with the geography of the country,
its great internal resources, and the enlighten-
ed condition of its inhabitants, that of all peo-
ple in the world the people of America should
be the most prosperous; but how far from this
is this their present condition? Underlying
the surface which is not in itself altogether
free from turmoil and ripples, is an element of
contention seething and boiling and foaming,
ready to burst its bounds at any moment if not
quelled and kept in subjection to the powers
that be.
	The people at the present time seem to
think, that whatever change occurs, matters
really cannot be made worse, and naturally
hopeful, expect that the next presidential era
will assuredly settle some of the many diffi-
culties now pending. The corruption of men
in power has become the theme of common
conversation, and there is scarcely a child old
enough to read that does not seem somewhat
informed in regard to crime in high places;
with such men at the helm, what can be ex-
pected of the state of public society?
	It is said and justly too, that happy homes
and well-disciplined families are the true ele-
ments of great institutions, and social and
and general government; but there can
scarcely be any permanent, thorough home-

[Column 2]
happiness when the sovereign power of the
nation is vested in men who have no genu-
ine interest in the homes of the people.
	Of course it is humiliating for a nation who
have boasted so much of freedom and liberty
to acknowledge that they are wrong, that they
have allowed unrestrained license to those in
power, instead of the liberty of action, which
the rights of the CONSTITUTION guarantee; but
the wrong has become so undeniable [-]o out-
rageously self-evident that every intelligent
person must perforce perceive that some posi-
tive change is necessary.
	Liberty implies responsibility, and that is
not liberty which resolves itself into selfish-
ness and indifference to another's rights; this
odious attitude of public matters totally and
hopelessly demolishes all real society all true
general government. If there are any persons
so blind to the present state of national affairs
as not to be able to see the elements of total
wreck and dissolution, they have only to open
their eyes and ears to attain completely this
uncomfortable conviction. The great difficulty
in the matter is, how wisely and prudently,
to select and then apply a sale and speedy
remedy; and for such an issue at the present
crisis, with all the differences of opinion which
exist, is there any sure foundation or funda-
mental basis for believing such a change will
be effected?


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MESSRS. G. M. Ottinger and C. R. Savage
have started for Philadelphia where they pur-
pose remaining a few days as visitors to the
great Centennial Exposition.
	THANKS FOR the "Utah Musical Times,"
number six of the publication: it is the first
we have had the pleasure of perusing. A jour-
nal devoted to music, art and literature ought
certainly to be of great advantage in a com-
munity to encourage refining and elevating
influences. We are pleased with its contents
and wish it success.
	MRS. DR. Ellen Fergurson who is at present
residing in St. George, recently gave a lecture
in that city. Her subject was Rome. We had
the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Ferguson and her
husband when they were in Salt Lake on
their way to St. George. Mrs. Ferguson is a
woman of very pleasing manners and appear-
ance, has traveled extensively, and has had a
superior classic and a thorough medical educa-
tion, with considerable practice.
	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon delegate to Con-
gress from Utah, with his wife and daughter,
has returned home, arriving Monday evening
Aug. 21st. He has given most complete satisfac-
tion by his labors the past years, to those most
interested in the future welfare of Utah, and
truly merited the good feelings of the people he
has served. We greet him welcome to Utah
and his mountain home.
	THE DESERET University opened as usual at
the University Buildings, Mo[-]day Morning,
Aug. 21st, Dr. J. R. Park, Pri[--]cipal. The
rules and regulations and the system of in-
struction are similar to that of pre[-]ious years.
The teachers substantially the same; the at-
tendance is as large as could be expected so
early in the season. Dr. Park and those en-
gaged with him spare no pains to make the
school in every respect equal to similar insti-
tutions in the East. Dr. Park himself is a
teacher of vast experience, and one who mani-
fests the truest interest in the development
and education of the young.


[Column 1]
	MISS M. E. Cook will open her Graded
School in the Social Hall on the first Monday
in this month, September 4th, assisted by her
former teachers. Miss Cook has taken great
pains and been untiring in her efforts to es-
tablish this system of school here; she has so
far succeeded as to draw forth encomiums of
praise and commendation from persons inter-
ested in the subject of schools and education in
Utah, and from strangers who have visited her
school and taken pains to go through her rooms
and hear recitations. Miss Cook has taught for
many years and is a thorough and energetic
worker in the cause of education in the school
room and elsewhere. Her terms for tuition
will be the same as usual.
	MRS. WELLS: Yesterday I had the pleasure
of an interview with Mrs. Porter; a Silk Rib-
bon weaver.
	Mrs. Porter has just arrived from England
and has brought harness, reeds, shuttles &c.
&c., with a model of her loom. This morning
she goes to Bountiful, Davis Co., where she
expects to locate, and, as early as practicable,
resume her accustomed occupation.
	It is to be hoped that through the assistance
of our energetic sisters in Bountiful and else-
where, we can trim our hats with Ribbons of
Home Manufacture.				E. R. S.
	S. L. City, Aug. 19.
	THE NORMAL Institute closed its regular
session Thursday, Aug. 17th. There has been
a great deal of instruction given during this
term which cannot fail to be an advantage to
those engaged in teaching, and indeed to all.
There was a report from the committee on res-
olutions tendering thanks to Prof. J. R. Park
and others who had assisted him, the rail-
road companies, and all who had favored the
Institute in any way. Prof. Park returned
his thanks and also in behalf of all interested,
and made some most excellent closing remarks
which it would be well for every person to re-
member and profit by. He exhorted the teach-
ers to remember always at all times and in all
places, in the schoolroom and out of the school
that their conduct should be most exemplary.
He told them how closely children watched
the conduct of teachers and those who were
placed over them; consequently how much
evil a bad example might work upon the
minds of those who were too young to discrim-
inate for themselves. He said the future hap-
piness and prosperity of a nation depended up-
on the training and education of the young;
and that teachers could not be too careful and
judicious in the course they pursued, them-
selves; and by example as well as precept in-
stil into the minds of pupils true principles.
	The Institute in its session this year number-
ed 158 members, including some from almost
every county in Utah. These reunions will
serve to give tone and elevation to the system
of education and by bringing together the best
talent of the country promote the advance-
ment of literature and science.
	HON. JOHN Taylor and Hon. J. F. Smith,
with the teachers of the territory, met in the
University Building Sat. Aug. 12th, and
Monday Aug. 14th, to discuss the question of
suitable school books for the territory. It is
well known that some of the superintendents
and teachers of schools have declined accept-
ing some of the schools books adopted by the
convention. The result of the present conven-
tion was the adoption of certain specified reso-
lutions which we give in full below.
	Resolved, That the following resolutions be
submitted by the secretary of this convention
to the honorable superintendent, O. H. Riggs,
of Utah, as the sentiments of the teachers of

[Column 2]
this territory, and that the same should be
published in the leading newspapers of said
territory.
	Whereas, The acts of the late convention
held by the superintendents of schools of the
territory April 6th, 7th and 8th, 1876, for the
purpose of adopting text books in accordance
with section 16 of the school law of Utah, fail-
ed to meet the approval of many of the citi-
zens of said territory, in consequence of which
said act failed from being carried into execu-
tion; and
	Whereas, Said failure has been attended
with much inconvenience to our schools, in
some instances even breaking up classes, thus
placing our teachers in a very embarrassing
position.
	Therefore, it is the voice of this convention
that the Hon. O. H. Riggs call a convention
for the purpose of unravelling the present
difficulty, and if possible bring about a change
before opening our winter schools.
	In offering this resolution this assembly does
not presume to criticize the acts of said con-
vention, but simply from necessity calls for re-
lief, and appeals to those whose right it is to
say what text books we shall have.
			CHARLES WRIGHT, Chairman.
	ARTHUR PARSONS, Sec:
	WE HAVE had the pleasure of a call from
Elders' M. B. Young and M. H. Hardy who
have been traveling for some months past,
most of the time through the settlements in
the interest of the Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Associations. They visited most of
the settlements South as far as St. George, and
organized in all the towns where it was deem-
ed practicable; they express themselves as
having been treated with the utmost kind-
ness and hospitality by bishops and people,
and everything done as far as possible to ad-
vance the special mission in which they were
engaged. Br. Young while South made quite
a collection of minerals and curiosities to add
to his cabinet; among them were specimens of
petrified corn which must have lain at least a
hundred years, but were perfect in outline.
Upon the top of a very high mountain he
found a great number of petrified oyster shells,
perfect, and some of them closed together, nev-
er having been opened, proving beyond contra-
diction that the sea had once covered that por-
tion of the country.
	Bro. Hardy informed us they had, while
traveling, visited the day and Sunday Schools
and spoken to them whenever they could. At
Monroe they had been very much gratified
with the manner in which the school was con-
ducted by Mrs. Bean, a lady who seemed to
have a thorough understanding of her work.
She had a class in the Book of Mormon which
was very interesting; this Book as a history of
this country and its former inhabitants and
government, ought to be well understood by
the rising generation, and especially by the
children of the Latter-day Saints.
	On the 10th of July Elders' Young and
Hardy started North to visit that part of the
country on the same mission; they held their
first meeting at Brigham City, with the young
people there in a general assembly and had an
interesting time. They then proceeded through
Cache Valley visiting almost every town,
organizing associations at Hyrum, Smithfield,
and Wellsville; thence to Soda Springs and on 
through Bear Lake Valley holding meetings
and organizing Associat[-] societies in nearly all
of the towns and settlements. Br. Hardy in-
formed us that he had been distributing tracts
and pamphlets containing the first principles
of the Gospel, through the Sunday Schools and
associations in the settlements; it will no doubt

[Column 3]
have a tendency to facilitate the work of the
Sunday School—teachers very—considerably.
There are many of the children who are not
sufficiently informed of the fundamental prin-
ciples of the Gospel. Elder Hardy has been
for some years assistant to Dr. J. R. Park in
the Deseret University in Salt Lake City, he
has now gone to assist Br. Carl G. Maeser in
the Academy at Provo. We wish them the
success and patronage we are sure they emi-
nently deserve.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RUNNING IN DEBT.

	I dwell on this point, for I would deter
others from entering that place of torment.
Half the young men in this country, with
many old enough to know better, would go
into business—that is, into debt—to-mor-
row, if they could. Most poor men are so
ignorant as to envy the merchant or manu-
facturer, whose life is one incessant struggle
with pecuniary difficulties, who is driven
to constant "sinkning," and who, from
month to month, barely evades the insolv-
ency which sooner or later overtakes most
men in business; so that it has been compu-
ted that but one man in twenty of them
achieve a pecuniary success. For my own
part I would rather be a convict in the
State prison, a slave in a rice-swamp, than
to pass through life under the harrow of
debt. Let no young man misjudge him-
self unfortunate, or truly poor, so long as
he has the full use of his limbs and facul-
ties, and is substantially free from debt.
Hunger, cold, rags, hard work, contempt,
suspicion and unjust reproach are disagree-
able, but debt is infinitely worse than them
all. And if it had pleased God to spare
either or all my sons to be the support of
my declining years, the lesson which I
should most earnestly seek to impress up-
on them is, "never run in debt." Avoid
pecuniary obligations as you would pesti-
lence and famine. If you have but fifty
cents and can get no more for a week, buy
a peck of corn, parch it and live on it, ra-
ther than owe a dollar! Of course I know
that some men must do business that in-
volves a risk, and must give notes or other
obligations, and I do not consider him in
debt who can lay his hands directly on the
means of paying, at some little sacrifice all
he owes; I speak of real debt—that which
involves risk and sacrifice on one side, ob-
ligation and dependence on the other—and
I say from all such, let every youth humbly
pray God to preserve him evermore.—
Horace Greely.


WEIGHT OF LIGHT: Scientists have
now proved that light has weight, it seems
impossible to associate light with weight
so long have we looked at it in another sense,
that it seems incredible to associate the two
together, but from the fact that light exert-
ed a certain repellant force upon whatever
it fell, Mr. Crook, at the Royal Institution
in London, has lately demonstrated not
only this truth, but that this force or weight
could be measured. Of course this has all
been done on a very minute scale and with
a very finely constructed apparatus; yet it
suffices to give a standard, and from this
the calculation is that sunlight falls with a
weight of thirty-two grains to every square
foot, fifty-seven tons to the square mile, or,
3,000,000,000 tons on the whole earth, a
force that would be sufficient to drive our
globe from its orbit, and send it flying off
into space, but for the still more gigantic
influence of gravity."


54		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		ACTION OR INDIFFERENCE.

			BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

					[handwritten] E. B. Wells

		"Act! for in action are wisdom and glory;
		Fame, immortality—these are its crown;"

	Does not the very indication of the times
demand sober, earnest thought and prompt
and decisive action? And are not the ques-
tions now before the public, such as call for
the united influence of men and women?
What shall be said then in this day of
great social questions when modern society
seems to have arrived at a culminating
point which requires some immediate at-
tention, when crime has so steadily and
surely worked its way into popular and
prominent places and positions, that it is
almost countenanced if not actually sanc-
tioned; what shall be said I repeat, of those
possessing ability and influence who sit in
listlesness and indifference and do not lift
their vioce, or in anywise deprecate this
state of things, seemingly apathetic on the
score that it has nothing whatever to do
with them?
	Let the favored ones, the fair daughters
of the nation who look with such apathy
upon all the abstruse questions of public
and general interest, pause and consider;
they fare sumptuously, their lives are pleas-
ant ones, their homes are elegant, their ta-
bles luxuriously supplied, their husbands or
fathers are perhaps attentive to their every
wish, the world pays them homage, it mat-
ters not to them who wields the power of
state, who sits at the helm; they think not
of the many who must toil or starve, wives,
widows, mothers or sisters, who sue in vain
for some recognition of their equality with
their brother MAN; widows and orphans un-
justly deprived of their honest dues, whose
entreaties and intercessions pass unheeded;
are they not a part of the same great fam-
ily, one universal brotherhood; and if in-
justice is dealt out to some, should not all
feel interested? Think of this you who sit
carelessly with folded arms, while the daugh-
ters of the nation by hundreds and thou-
sands go down into the great whirlpool of
sin and wickedness, their names dishonor-
ed and their eternal future blighted, their
hopes of happiness forever wrested from
them; will you not even ask the cause?
Are you so unconcerned as to allow such
tragedies to be enacted under your eyes and
not even question the justice of such ine-
quality as visits shame and dishonor upon
the head of woman while man the offender
goes scatheless?
	Women, you who are surrounded with
peace and plenty, or competence, with lov-
ing hearts to cherish you and strong hands
to bear you up, think you, that you will be
held guiltless because it is not your daugh-
ter, sister or mother that is wronged?
Should you allow the cares or pleasures of
this world to so absorb your attention that
you cannot take any interest in those im-
portant questions which involve the gener-
al happiness or misery of the nation? Are
you quite sure, you who do not wish to get
mixed up in vexed questions, that you will
be free from blame? Who has absolved
you from duty to your fellows? Is it be-
cause you are so ignorant of the terrible
consequences that are involved by even one
person leading a life of sin? If so, where
is your excuse? Everywhere around you
are the means of enlightenment on these
points; and lectures, public meetings and
conventions where you can learn of these
things if they do not come under your im-
mediate observation; is not this very plea
of ignorance a sin in itself? Are you not

[Column 2]
interested in the welfare temporal and spir-
itual of all the great world of mankind?
Have you not then a desire to know by
what laws countries are governed, and
whether all women YOUR SISTERS, are free
to live their own lives, to follow out their
own convictions of right and wrong, and to
worship God according to the dictates of
their own consciences?
	"I leave all these subjects of discussion to
my husband," says one lady, "he attends to
all these things, it is out of a woman's
sphere, I detest women who mix up with
political affairs and talk like men, I would
not vote if I had ever so much freedom."
These are the sentiments of a large class,
usually happy wives, content to live only
in their husbands affections; as yet, their
homes have never been invaded by any
wolf in sheep's clothing; but the majority
of women have not such homes, are not so
happily situated. And death often takes
away the husband or father, the supporter
and defender, and those so carefully nurtur-
ed by tenderest care, have to struggle with
the world, face to face in the conflict, with
no strong arm for a shield and support, and
should injustice be meted out to them, they
may reflect they could better have informed
themselves in the days of prosperity before
the evil days came. Women shrink away
abashed at the sight of one of their own
sex who they know is openly living a de-
graded life, that of an outcast, and think
themselves modest, and that the presence
of such abandoned ones would pollute them;
they do not want to breathe the same at-
mosphere. Meantime let me ask where
are the men who have caused the downfall,
the ruin, the utter recklessness of these
poor creatures, whose garments must not
touch yours? The world does not frown
upon them, society receives them with open
arms, they are FAST, A LITTLE FAST, by and
by they will settle down into respectable
fathers of families. Yes, and what will
they expect their wives to be— women of
spotless purity. Will they not be unequal-
ly yoked? Why should not woman de-
mand the husband to bring a spotless repu-
tation to the marriage altar?

						"But not alone
	The girl is pure: the boy with beardless lip
	Will blush as fair as any girl, and shrink
	From all unchaste, or evil word or deed
	As virginal as she; and God designed
	No more that woman should be pure than man.
	Your bodies are the temple; know ye not,
	In which the Holy Ghost was made to dwell!"

	Boys should be held morally responsible
as well as girls, and little misdemeanors and
digressions from rectitude should not be
over-looked in them and license allowed
them in the matter of self-restraint, on the
plea that "boys will be boys." There is an
underlying cause and it is useless to at-
tempt the cure of an evil unless the cause
is ascertained; society tolerates certain
wrongs in men simply from long-continued
custom, while it visits with scathing ven-
geance an irreperable blight and disgrace
upon women for the same offences. Should
not those mutually guilty receive the same
censure, or punishment irrespective of sex?
	Men have the reins of power, they "hold
the fort," but in this age of progress, if wo-
men are awake to the great events which
must transpire while these grand evolutions
are going forward, and are found ready to
lend a helping hand in each great move up-
on the "chessboard of life," or within the
arena of action, if they stand firmly side
by side with man in any great social, polit-
ical or national quostion, then may they
work for the advancement and enfranchise-
ment of their sex, be it ever so quietly or

[Column 3]
unobtrusively. In the meantime be thank-
ful for small favors, although they may be
viewed as something doled out more as a
peace offering, than an inherent privilege
by right, yet accept such gladly as a prelim-
inary step, a firm footing gained in the lad-
der of advancement; make use of the rights
allowed, act as far as possible in unison with
each other, and never let one point gained
be so lightly h[-]ld that it will slip from you.
	No intelligent woman should consent to a
grievous wrong or injustice even by her si-
lence; but by all the eloquence and influ-
ence she can bring to bear, seek to instil in-
to the minds of all who come within her
sphere, such principles of honor, justice and
equity as cannot fail to make an impression
upon the side of right.
	Women who are happy wives, who are
surrounded with all that adds beauty and
attraction to life, who have personal and so-
cial influence with MAN, the ruling power,
could, were they fairly aroused, do most in
the cause of enfranchisement which would
materially benefit the condition of all, be-
cause their very position will command fa-
vor and power, and they would not be held
up to ridicule as seeking for notoriety, or
acting from a spirit of revenge; they would
not be caricatured as "hybrids." If such
women could be made to realize the terri-
ble condition of the working-girls whose
wages are not a compensation for labor, but
a mere pittance which will hardly suffice
to keep them from starvation, and that thus
they are the more ready prey of the seducer,
could they be so indifferent? In many in-
stances the net is spread for the girls by the
too wily employer, or those who are suffi-
ciently acquainted with the circumstances
to take advantage of their poverty, and in-
nocent and unsophisticated, they walk into
the snare without warning.
	Give them equality in all respects, and
let each work with the same chance of suc-
cess according to the labor performed, with-
out the consideration of sex, and there
would soon be a vast change which would
be of material benefit to the existing state
of society. But be not discouraged; small
beginnings are the most auspicious, and no
great achievement has been popular at the
outset, and so surely as "coming events cast
their shadows before" it is self-evident that
woman's cause is surely and steadily ad-
vancing; and men who possess the sound-
est principles morally and socially, if they
are really honest, will forward the move-
ment and understand the true policy of a
united effort. Woman does not seek for
any independent power, but only to become
a co-worker in the future development of
human progression, and mutual recognition
of right.
	And why not? There are plenty of in-
stances to prove that women have made
themselves famous in science, art and liter-
ature; and as rulers, have not the reigns of
queens been as successful and judicious as
those of kings?
	You may say they are only exceptional
cases where women become celebrated for
any particular genius, power or excellence
of talent or ability; but is it not equally so
with men in comparison? Woman has had
more difficulties to contend with, her ad-
vantages have been fewer, but let them
have the same opportunities for an educa-
tion, observation and experience in public
and private for a succession of years, and
then see if she is not equally endowed with
man and prepared to bear her part on all
general questions socially, politically, in-
dustrially and educationally as well as
spiritually.
	S. L. City, Aug. 21st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

AN INCOMPLETE CENTENNIAL.

	But the ceremonies were incomplete.
Some Frenchman,—if possible, a soldier of
the Republic, should have stood shoulder to
shoulder with orator and poet, bearing his
witness that the old charter is a living let-
ter at the century's close.
	And again, there was incompleteness, but
there was fitness, perhaps, in the omission.
The magnificent chorus that alone gave ex-
pression to the opening day, the chorus
which owes its existence to Philadelphia
women, was absent from the ceremonial of
the Fourth. Created by the energy and
musical taste of the Women's Committees,
there was something typical in the fact of
its absence. A hundred years ago, Abi-
gail Adams, the wife of one President and
mother of another, was writing to her hus-
band. "I long to hear that you have de-
clared an independency. And, by the way,
in the new code of laws which I suppose it
will be necessary for you to make, I desire
you would remember the ladies, and be more
generous and favorable to them than their
ancestors were. Do not put such unlimited
power into the hands of the husbands." And
again in another letter,—"I cannot say I
think you are very generous, for while you
are proclaiming peace and good-will to men,
emancipating all nations, you insist upon
retaining absolute power over wives."
	The women of the Centennial Commit-
tees have had three years of education.
Their services have been sought, their as-
sistance invited, the profits of their hard
work have been given to build up the en-
terprise, yet not unfrequently has the snub
been administered, reminding them that
the old century men, still claim "absolute
power" over them and their belongings.
They may have had feeble powers of reas-
oning, it is true, when they began to work,
but in the severe school of adverse decis-
ions and continual subordination, their per-
ceptive faculties have grown and widened.
They refuse any longer to accept palaver in
the place of justice. Resolutions of thanks
is one thing, recognition is another.
	If they apply the experience gained in
judging of some other matters, the school
of their training must shoulder the respon-
sibility. They fail to perceive why the
Michigan woman, who settles upon govern-
ment acres, preempts her little farm by cul-
tivating it, making a home for her child-
ren and her drunken husband, is denied
the privilege of ownership, which that hus-
band could have obtained at the govern-
ment's hands any day he was sober enough
to claim it. To make out her title to these
acres her own hand had planted and sown,
it was necessary for the United States Sen-
ator to tell her whole sad story to his fel-
lows, and by a special act of Congress ena-
ble her to own what she had paid for to the
United States. The beautiful discrimina-
tions of the law, which forces the hard-
working wife to wait for special legislation,
dragging the sad circumstances of her life
into public discussion, must be encouraging
to other married women, driven by hard
necessity to make homes for themselves
and children.
	Again, we fail to understand also, if it
was highest virtue, in Boston men, a cen-
tury ago, to throw into the harbor tea that
did not belong to them, because they would
pay no taxes without their own consent,
why should it be the best kind of a joke
when two ladies of Connecticut, who own
more property in their township than ten of
their neighbors, shall refuse any longer to
pay taxes, thereupon, unless granted some

[COLUMN 2]

power in spending, for the township's good,
the rates levied upon them, which their un-
taxed neighbors have full disposal of. We
fail to perceive the logic that makes the
tea-chest a heroic emblem, while the year-
ly sales by the sheriff, from the Glastonbury
farm are newspaper jokes from Maine to
Georgia.
	Again, Abigail Adams was happily mar-
ried, but she had the courage to speak for
other women less favored. She could look
out from her secure shelter by her hus-
band's side, and see how other mothers suf-
fered at the hands of the law. So long as
the law, now, as then, gives to the father
absolute power over his child, the power to
send it whithersoever he will, away from
its mother, standing faithfully at his side,
the power to will it with his dying breath,
into other care and guidance than hers, no
wonder that this far-sighted woman of the
Revolution told the men of the day, that
they were ungenerous and cruel. The wo-
men of '76 ponder these things in their
hearts. They rejoice with unfailing grati-
tude, at the victories won, the difficulties
conquered, and the power and freedom the
old century has brought, with its declara-
tion of rights to all men; they look wist-
fully into the new, requiring that it shall
give unto them also; some surer ground to
stand upon than the shifting sands of for-
tune, and the caprice or indulgence of the
law-making sex—New Century for Women.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

DEATH IN THE NURSING BOTTLES.

	The following we clip, by request, from an old
number of the Scientific American. The subject
thereof is of such vital interest to all mothers; that
we would advise them to read carefully and profit
by the same.
	"But there is a prolific source of infant
mortality, to which we wish now to direct
special attention, namely the patent nursing bot-
tle. It consists of a rubber tube, one end of
which is held in the child's mouth; the other end,
passing through a cork, is attached to a glass rod
which descends to the bottom of a bottle of so-
called milk. We might write a page on the dan-
gers that reside in the milk, unless special care has
been taken to obtain fresh, or by suitably diluting
pure condensed milk. But this danger is well
known, and our business at present is with the
bottle, or rather its dirty tube, which should nev-
er be used more than once, then thrown away and
a new one bought.
	Even when new, these white tubes, impregna-
ted as they are with oxide of zinc, are not unobject-
ionable: far worse are they when saturated with
sour milk, germs of putrefaction, decay and dis-
ease. Some of these child-murdering, Yankee
inventions have reached Berlin, and have called
forth the following from a practising physician of
that city:
	"The supposed advantage of these bottles con-
sists in this, that they can be placed beside the in-
fant in bed, while other bottles must be held in
the hand all the time. What sensible mother or
nurse would leave a child with a bottle without
watching it? The danger of the bottle consists
in this, that it is absolutely impossible to cleanse
it. When sucked on, little particles of milk be-
come attached to the tube and cork; these curdle
and soon turn sour. If some of this deposit be
placed under a microscope, we see innumerable
bacteria, organic beings which indicate decomposi-
tion and decay. At every meal the child draws
in thousands of these germs. The decomposing
process acts upon what it finds in the mouth,
æsophagus, and stomach, and the result is diar-
rhea, cholera infantum, etc. I will here express-


ly remark that the usual method of placing the
apparatus in water, or merely rinsing it out with a
stream of water, is in no way sufficient. Some
dealers sell a suitable little wire brush with the
bottle, but even this does not answer the purpose,
for the apparatus is not clean by a long way after
drawing the brush through it several times; and
who will take the trouble to clean it so thoroughly
eight or ten times a day? How much time it
would require! Another disadvantage is that the
bottle is air tight, and a partial vacuum is formed,
which renders sucking so difficult as to exhaust
the child, and it stops before its hunger is satis-
fied. Hence, parents, ye who are compelled to
feed your children with a bottle, throw away this
apparatus, which can only bring destruction upon
your children, and either select a bottle with glass
mouthpiece, which is filled from below, or take a
large rubber mouthpiece, which is perforated by
a small hole and can be drawn directly over the
neck of the glass bottle. This large mouthpiece or
nipple can readily be turned inside out and thor-
oughly cleaned and rubbed with dry salt."
	After reading the above, we sorrowfully ac-
knowledge that our own experience warrants us in
saying, that many infants, children of parents re-
siding in Salt Lake City, and Utah Territory,
have succumbed to cholera infantum, as a result of
using the Patent Nursing Bottles above referred
to, and the heading thereof is true that there is
"Death in the nursing bottle."			C. S.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Glue.—A teaspoonful of saltpetre added to a
large potful of glue will effectually prevent it from
smelling; besides, it causes it to dry faster and
harder than it would without it.
	A New Mucilage.—The Journal de Pharmacie
states that if, to a strong solution of gum arabic,
measuring eight and a half fluid ozs., a solution of
thirty grains sulphate of aluminum dissolved in
two thirds of an ounce of water should be added,
this makes a very strong mucilage, capable of fas-
tening wood together, or of mending porcelain or
glass.
	Apples Pickles:—Quarter and core the apples,
then steam them until a fork will go through
them readily. Make a syrup of sugar and vine-
gar and pour over them while it is hot. Stick a
clove or two into each quarter. Seven lbs. of ap-
ples prepared to three lbs. of sugar and one pint
of vinegar are good proportions.
	Drop Cakes:—One teacupful of cream; one of
sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, a pinch of salt,
two teacupsful of flour, two tablespoonsful of su-
gar with one egg stirred well together, and drop-
ped from the spoon into a dripper well buttered.


LATE MARRIAGES:—It is greatly to be
regretted that young people are reluctant
to marry because they cannot at once set
up house-keeping in an expensive or stylish
manner. Society as a whole is seriously
endangered by these absurd and false ideas
of social economy, and late marriages have
become largely characteristic of modern so-
cial life. Young love if true and godly
will make early struggles wholesome and
joyous, and let not the prudence of such a
question be pressed too hard; if a young
man has a position that will enable him to
marry with ordinary carefulness, and if he
has found a woman, who he believes will
make his home happy, and be a true com-
panion, let him marry and take her to a
humble home, let them practise such econ-
omy as is consistent with their circumstan-
ces. It will discipline them in the right
path and give them an experience they
could never have gained in affluence. Life
will be the better for it and fortune more
acceptable and more wisely disposed should
prosperity beam upon them and success at-
tend their efforts.


56		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	OF all the celebrated lovers of George
Sand, two only survive—Jules Sandeau,
the first love of that passionate, undiscip-
lined heart, and Prince Napoleon. Jules
Sandeau, who is the first novelist who ever
gained by reason of his novels alone a fau-
teuil at the Academy, is still a very fine-
looking man, bald-headed and stout it is
true, but still of a pleasant and comely pres-
ence, and of peculiarly graceful and win-
ning manners even for a Frenchman.
	DIFFERENT TYPES OF THE REINDEER:
—Mr. Lamont, an English sportsman and
member of Parliament, who has made
many summer yacht voyages to the Arctic
seas, says that the reindeer in Nova Zem-
bla is much larger and wilder than in Spitz-
bergen, and he is disposed to believe that
the smaller and tamer variety found in the
latter island is allied to the reindeer of Nor-
way and Lapland. As these animals are
noted for their wandering habits, Mr. La-
mont conjectures that they may have
made their way originally into both is-
lands from the continent, over seas not usu-
ally frozen, but which then happened to be
so. It is a curious fact, however, that al-
though Nova Zembla is much nearer the
continent of Europe than Spitzbergen is,
the reindeer there is of the wild and large
American type, while those of Spitzbergen
more nearly correspond to the European
variety.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	A few words of exhortation especially to
the young, praying to the Lord to direct
my thoughts that I might through the me-
dium of the EXPONENT bear my testimony
and add my voice to that of my sisters and
co-workers in the great work of educating
the young and rising generation spiritu-
ally; we look forward to them, to take their
part in assisting to establish the kingdom of
God upon the earth, and my prayer is that
the Lord will bless them with wisdom and
power to overcome everything which is op-
posed to the kingdom of God, and that they
may carefully guard themselves against
the temptations of the adversary and be
prepared for the great changes that are
about to take place here on this earth, even
the coming of our Lord and Savior–Oh
that we may be prepared to behold him
with joy in the Temple of the Lord. Then
let us endeavor to become sufficiently pure,
that we may become saviors of our dead
friends who cannot be made perfect with-
out us, or we without them; let us consider
how anxiously they are waiting for us to
do our part.
	I pray mightily to the Lord to bless me
with wisdom to do my duty, that I may
have joy. And it is the desire of my
heart that I may know the duties I should
perform for those who are gone behind the
veil without having the opportunity which
has been granted to me.
	Sisters let us live our religion, be true to
our covenants, and faithful in observing
counsel.
					JEMIMA BROWN.
	20th Ward, S. L. City.


"BROTHER, why don't you ask the stran-
ger to pray?" "Because," reprovingly ob-
served the deacon, "this ain't no place for
practical jokes. That man's the president
of a gas company.".


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	STEEL which has received the hardest
temper takes the strongest magnetization
	A BOILING Lake is reported to have
been discovered in the Island of Dominica,
in a mountainous region, 2,500 feet above
the level of the sea.
	M. JAMIN, treating upon magnets, says
he has proved that a bundle of thin steel
plates is stronger than a single steel bar of
the same dimensions, the proportion in-
creasing indefinitely with the number of
plates.
	MR. Lamont, the Arctic sportsman, in
speaking of the transmission of sound by
water, says "I am perfectly sure that vibra-
tions of a boat striking against the ice-edge
are conveyed a distance of two or more
miles. Directly the boat comes in contact
with the ice every seal for miles around
raises his head and is on the alert.
	MULTIPLEX TELEGRAPHY: Recent ex-
periments have proved it is possible for two
messages to be simultaneously passed
through a single wire called "duplex tele-
graphy;" and experiments have also been
made in "quadruplex telegraphy;" in one
instance an experiment was successfully
carried out, whereby eight messages were
sent simultaneously from each end of a
wire two hundred miles in length.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	HOME-MADE BRUSHES.
Of a better quality, and as cheap as the imported article.
	Call at the Store of the U. O. 14th WARD, Four
	doors below Walker House, and examine our
	goods, we guarantee satisfaction, and will
		take pleasure in making to order, such
			brushes as we have not on hand.
						Wm. H. MILES, Supt.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1876.	No. 8.


GIVEN NOT LENT.

Friends of faces unknown and a land
	Unvisited over the sea,
Who tell me how lonely you stand,
With a single gold curl in the hand
	Held up to be looked at by me,—

While you ask me to ponder and say
	What a father and mother can do,
With the bright fellow locks put away
Out of reach, beyond kiss, in the clay
	Where the violets press nearer than you,

Shall I speak like a poet, or run
	Into weak, woman's tears for relief?
Oh, children!—I never lost one.—
Yet my arm's round my own little son,
	And Love knows the secret of Grief.

'God lent him and takes him,' you sigh;
	—Nay there let me break with your pain:
God's generous in giving, say I,—
And the thing which He gives, I deny
	That He ever can take back again.

He gives what He gives. I appeal
	To all who bear babes—in the hour
When the veil of the body we feel
Rent round us—while torments reveal
	The motherhood's advent in power,

And the babe cries!—has each of us known
	By apocalypse (God being there
Full in nature) the child is our own.
Life of life, love of love, moan of moan,
	Through all changes, all times, everywhere.

He's ours and forever. Believe,
	O father!—O mother, look back
To the first love's assurance. To give
Means with God not to tempt or deceive
	With a cup thrust in Benjamin's sack.

He lends not; but gives to the end,
	As he loves to the end. If it seem
That he draws back a gift, comprehend
'Tis to add to it rather—amend
	And finish it up to your dream.

So look up, friends! you, who indeed
	Have possessed in your house a sweet piece
Of the Heaven which men strive for, must need
Be more earnest than others are,—speed
	Where they loiter, persist where they cease.

You know how one angel smiles there,
	Then courage. 'Tis easy for you
To be drawn by a single gold hair
Of that curl, from earth's storm and despair
	To the safe place above us.  Adieu.
		—MRS. E. B. BROWNING.


[Column 1]
		ESSAY ON EDUCATION.

READ BEFORE THE TOOELE RETRENCHMENT
			ASSOCIATION,

	Having been appointed to write a com-
position I will endeavor to comply with
the request; although I am conscious that
my abilities for the task are very limited.
The subject that presents itself to my mind
is Education.
	Webster, in giving a definition of the
term, says: "Education comprehends all
that series of instruction and discipline
which is intended to enlighten the under-
standing, correct the temper and form the
habits of youth, and fit them for usefulness
in their future stations. To give children
a good education in manners, arts and scien-
ces is important. To give them a religious
education is indispensable. Our daily pur-
suits of life should be such that we could
gain information. Our language at home
such that there would be no offense taken
from it. Our manners should be courteous,
pleasant, and charming; so much so that

[Column 2]
those around would be kept in a good hu-
mor and a pleasant state of feeling. The
education of manners depends greatly upon
the kind of society in which we mingle;
almost unconsciously we will gain refine-
ment, from intercourse with the cultivated
and educated classes; while the contact with
low, vulgar minds, must, even insensibly,
affect our own manners. A certain young
lady could not comprehend the counsel of a
good father who advised her not to mingle
with certain parties; he picked up a cinder
from the hearth and presented it to her re-
questing her to take it into her hand; she
drew back thinking it would burn her; but
her father assured her it would not burn
for it was cold, she then took it into her
hand, and her father said; there, although
it has not burnt it has blackened your
hand; so if you desire to preserve pure and
refined manners, mingle not with the vul-
gar and low, lest you blacken your charac-
ter and pollute your manners. We should
strive as an association to converse with
those who are wiser than ourselves or
whose age and experience have given them
greater scope for observation than we have
had. We should always seek the assistance
of our God by prayer in passing through
the events and pursuits of life.
	In our minds this question may arise;
what kind of associates should we strive to
become acquainted with in order to edu-
cate ourselves? Now this is a question of
such great importance that we should not
pass it over without a glance. Says one.
Why should I be so very particular about
the company I keep? We should be partic-
ular in this matter, because if we form a
friendship with an ungodly, disobedient,
unwise, reckless and frivolous person, we
are liable to pattern after them; or at least,
to drink of the same spirit; hence, let our
friends be selected from among the God-
fearing, virtue-loving people, they are the
kind that God is pleased with; and His
promise to the meek and lowly is that "they
shall inherit the earth."
	Now my dear sisters, let us educate our-
selves in the ways of God, that we may be
able to do His will; and become instruments
in His hands in building up this church and
kingdom. This is the humble prayer of
your Sister in the New and Everlasting
Covenant.
						M. L. L.


HOW TO CHOOSE A WIFE.—That young
lady will make a good wife who does not
apologize when you find her at work in the
kitchen, but continues at her task until it is
finished. When you hear a young lady
say, "I shall attend church and wear
my old bonnet and waterproof cloak, for I
fear we shall have a rain storm," depend
upon it she will make a good wife. When
a daughter remarks, "Mother, I would not
hire help, for I can assist you to do all the
work in the kitchen," set it down that she
will make somebody a good wife. When
you hear a young lady say to her father,
"Don't you purchase a very expensive or
showy dress for me, but one that will wear
best," you may be sure that she will make
a good wife.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Woman's
National Christian Temperance Union will
be held in New York City, October 25. The
delegates from each Congressional District
should be chosen before that time.
	A CORPORATION has been formed in the
District of Columbia, to be known as the
Woman's National University, for the pur-
pose of affording to women a thorough
knowledge of the sciences, divinity, medi-
cine and law, both in theory and practice.
	REPEATED EXPERIMENT has proved that
in schoolrooms lighted by windows on both
sides the children suffer more or less from
injured vision; and so important has the
subject been considered in Germany that a
law has been passed forbidding such win-
dows in schools.
	WE LEARN through the columns of the
"Woman's Journal," that in Massachusetts
at the present time they have a political
party, equally composed of men and women,
which makes one of its avowed objects the
establishment of "Woman's Suffrage."


OUT-DOOR EXERCISE FOR
MOTHERS.

	Consider it your religious duty to take
out-door exercise without fail each day.
Sweeping and trotting around the house
will not take its place; the exhilaration of
the open air and change of scene are abso-
lutely necessary. O, I know all about
'Lucy's gown that is not finished," and
"Tommy's jacket," and even "his" coat,
his buttonless coat, thrown in your lap, as
if to add the last ounce to the camel's back;
still I say, up and out! Is it not more im-
portant that your children in their tender
years should not be left motherless, and that
they should not be born to that feeble con-
stitution of body which will blight every
early blessing? Let buttons and strings go;
you will take hold of them with more vig-
or and patience when you do return bright
and refreshed; and if every stitch be not
finished at just such a moment (and it is
discouraging not to be able to systematize
in your labor, even with your best efforts),
still remember that "she who had done
what she could" is entitled to no mean
praise. Your husband is undoubtedly "the
best of men," though there are some ma-
licious people who might say that that is
not saying much for him. Still he would
never, to the end of time, dream what you
were dying of; so accept my advice, and
take the matter in hand yourself.


MR. F. G. HEATH in his useful and in-
teresting work "The Fern Paradise," tells
us what a fern is, and how it may be dis-
tinguished from other varieties of plants.
A fern is a flowerless plant, but although
flowerless not seedless, but its peculiarity
is that it acquires its seed without the in-
tervention of flowers. Ferns belong among
plants to the class "Cryptagamia," which
literally means "concealed fructification."
They are therefore flowerless seed-bearing
plants, and when they bear seek hide, it
away.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

		PROVO CITY, Aug. 30th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We notice in your valuable paper many
reports from various parts of our Territory,
of the exertions made for the improvement
of the youth in each community. We take
interest in the rise and progress of the Lit-
erary and Mutual Improvement Association
of this city, believing that we are doing an
important work. It was organized by coun-
sel of Sister Eiiza R. Snow, under the su-
perintendence of Mrs. M. T. Smoot, in
company with the four presidents of the
Relief Societies of this place, Nov. 7th, 1873,
with 27 members; the young ladies presided
alternately for a time, after which Mrs.
Jane Jones was elected to the presidency,
and was subsequently succeeded by Mrs.
Margaret A. Cluff July 20th, 1875.
	We now number one hundred and fifty-
seven members. The Association meets
every Thursday evening, and the exercises
consist of reading from church works and
other good books, with occasional addresses.
We also have a semi-monthly paper, enti-
tled the "Young Ladies' Diadem," with
motto "Virtue, Faith in God and Earnest
Endeavor," edited by the young ladies as
per appointment by the president; the con-
tents of which, consist of original essays,
poetry &c., by the members.
	We have made several quilts, which with
the proceeds of an entertainment given by
the Society in the "Brigham Young Acad-
emy" Aug. 18th, 1876, amounting to about
one hundred dollars, is to be appropriated
to the building of the Temple in S. L. City.
We take the EXPONENT and Juvenile,
besides we have a number of Church books
and other good works which are read in the
Association.
	Our meetings are generally well attended
the young ladies manifesting a great inter-
est in the work of improvement.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the pros-
perity of Zion we subscribe ourselves,
		Your Sisters &c.,
			ZINA B. SMOOT, Sec'y.
			EMILY G. TILL, Assistant.

				SALEM, Aug. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation held their first Annual Meeting
July 17th, 1876. Opened by singing and
prayer; after which some excellent peices
were recited by members of the association.
Remarks were then made by Brothers' Levi
Jackman and Robert Davis President of
this place, Clous Baker, President of the
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation, and Willford Crocket; also by Sis-
ters Lucinda Jackman and Josephine
Curtis, each encouraging the young ladies
to be faithful to the work they were en-
gaged in; said the time was shortly coming
when they would have to rouse from their
stupor and help to bear off the kingdom of
God, with many other excellent remarks.
I will send the remarks of Father Jackman
in full as they were his last in public, and
perhaps there are some who knew him
that would like to hear them. He said: I
am always in my element when I have the
privilege of encouraging what I call the
"HOPE OF ISRAEL." There are a great
many who are in the habit of addressing
public audiences that have their sermons
written down, some write on one subject
and some another, the subject to-day is to
the youth; how often I wish that I could

[Column 2]
picture to you your present condition; the
young have got to have a knowledge of
the truth for themselves, they cannot gain
it by hearing another's experience, they
must know it for themselves. I would say
to my young sisters who have been recit-
ing, you have done remarkably well, and
I feel to say to you, go ahead and God bless
you in your efforts; it is not time thrown
away, and you will gain confidence in your-
selves by so doing, so that you will not be
frightened to arise before a congregation
three times as large as this and speak or re-
cite. I would say to the parents encourage
your children to learn all that they can
while young, for the time will come when
they will not have the chances they
now have; they will grow up and become
mothers in Israel and will have the cares of
a family on their minds; then they will not
have the opportunities that are now present-
ed before them to improve their minds.
This is why I am so anxious for the young
to learn all they can now. There are those
in our midst who are doing all they can to
overthrow the kingdom of God, if they
find they cannot get the advantage of the
older ones, they will try the young; they
pretend to be Saints of God but they care
no more for God and His laws than they do
for the wind that blows, nor half so much,
they worship Mammon and care only for
SELF; but God is able to do His own work
and don't need any of their help. After
awhile the cry will be made "Behold the
Bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
Him." Have we got oil in our lamps, or
will we have to borrow of them that have?
What do you mean by having oil in our
lamps? It means to get the Spirit of God
and keep it burning in your bosoms. I
will say to those to whom we have been
listening, you have done honor to your-
selves, and those around you, I don't think
that there is one here that would say they
have not been greatly edified. I could talk
all day, but I will close now by asking God
to bless you all in your endeavors to do
right, Amen.
	Our Association is doing well under the
guidance of our beloved President Sister
Martha Curtis and her Counselors. The
young sisters take great interest in these
meetings, and are willing to respond to any
call that is made of them.
	May God bless all who are interested in
the kingdom of God, is the wish of your sis-
ter, &c.
					ALMIRA JACKMAN.

		SPANISH FORK Aug. 25, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place was held July 31st, '76.
The meeting was well attended and a good
spirit prevailed. The sisters bore their
testimonies, exhorting to faithfulness and
diligence in the building up of the kingdom
of God, knowing that the time is short and
much to be accomplished. Made mention
of the loving kindness of our Heavenly
Father; expressed their desire to aid by
their labors and means to build Temples, to
sustain HOME INDUSTRIES, and also to
bless the poor, the fatherless and the wid-
ows. They expressed their satisfaction at
the result of our year's labors as a society.
	Report of the year ending June 2nd, '76,
is as follows:
Cash on hand June 2nd, '75.............. $263 80
Donations since, in cash...................... 162 88
Special donations for building............ 196 98
		Total........................................ 623 66
Disbursed to poor................................. 163 87

[Column 3]
To Missionaries........................................ 55 00
Donated to Temple.................................. 16 60
For land...................................................... 32 50
Total disbursements.............................. 217 97
Am't on hand in cash and
	store pay.......................................... 208 73
Shares in Co-op. Store............................. 80 00
Land for building spot............................ 142 50
Sundries on hand,..................................... 90 00
	Total on hand................................... 521 23
	The Young Ladies' Association is prosper-
ing under the presidency of Mrs. Mary
Morrison (formerly Miss Warren.) They
hold their meetings once in two weeks, and
the Relief Society once in two weeks, they
meet with us and we meet with them, so
we meet every week, one meeting for la-
bor and one for spiritual improvement.
	May God bless the humble efforts of all
who are laboring for the advancement of
His Kingdom.
	Your Sister in the Covenant,
						MARY FERGUSON.

		SPANISH FORK, Sept. 4th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our first Annual Meeting March
31st. There was about one hundred and
thirty-six assembled in the Social Hall at 2
p. m. The time passed very pleasantly,
and about 5 p. m. when we all dined at the
same table. Every one seemed filled with
a spirit of union and advancement and all
felt like moving on with renewed energy.
Bishop Snell and several of the brethren
were present and gave some excellent in-
struction. Bishop Snell said it filled his
heart with joy when he contemplated the
progress we had made in one year. We
have held our meetings every Monday un-
til lately, when we meet every alternate
Monday with the Relief Society. Since
our last report we have been called to
mourn the loss of Sister Mary Cornaby,
who died May 1st, 1876. She was a faith-
ful member of the Retrenchment Society
and was beloved and respected by all who
knew her.
		Yours Truly,
			LUCY H. SNELL, Sec'y.
		SARAH WARNER Ass't Sec'y
		TOOELE CITY, Aug. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of Tooele meets every other Thurs-
day afternoon at two o'clock. We have
excellent times in assembling together.
Our older as well as our younger sisters
strive unitedly to make our meetings as in-
teresting as possible. We endeavor to main-
tain the principles of the Gospel as contain-
ed in the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine
and Covenants, and other Church publica-
tions; likewise those precious counsels that
flow continually from the lips of the living
oracles of God. Your valuable little paper
is like a welcome messenger in our midst,
greeted with smiles of approbation from all
quarters; and when one of our sisters holds
it in her hand to read from its pages we
feel assured that something good is coming,
and we are filled with joy and gladness.
We endeavor to discipline ourselves in the
noble and exalting principles of truth: and
we hail gladly the tidings of the progress of
Retrenchment throughout the Territory as
communicated through the columns of the
EXPONENT.


BY Mohammedan law, all sculptures and
engravings of the human face are strictly
orbidden.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COLUMBUS.

A moment let me view, as on the disk
Of mental vision—and by the aid of
Memory's mystic gift, the portrayed
History draw of this most patient man!
The majesty of man, in him, behold!—
His stature, tall, erect, and powerful,
Ever towering above his fellows!—
He wore a bland, yet theughtful countenanee,
The impress bearing of divinity.
Pale by study, brown'd by sun and sea;
No levity, or carelessness were trac'd
Upon his form or visage, every gesture,
Gravity and deliberation showed.
Among the potentates he stood a king,
Though poverty enwrapt nought could hide,
The majesty, that as a mantle cover'd him!
The prime of life he scarcely had attain'd,
Yet mental care had prematurely bleach'd
His auburn locks, and streaks of grey appeared.
His voice, deep, sonorous, and impressive,
Like one accustomed to profound reflection.
He wore a modest self-respect the aspect
Of a worshipper in audience of Deity.
Columbus!—Yes, 'tis he! whose name has rung
Throughout the circumnavigated globe!
Strange! that the Hemisphere exhumed by him,
And placed as "Beacon on a hill" before
The wond'ring world, bears not his noble name!
His great, his noble, mystic, thrilling name!
—Like imbecile ingratitude this seems!
No matter! he has yet a FUTURE—
And among the Harmonies of heaven,
Myriad, yet will tune their golden harps
In praise of him; endowed of God, and sent
To bring before the world a hidden land,
And fore-ordained to cradle gospel-fruit,
And be the Nursery of the First-born's Church.
Columbus! Blessed genius! Blessed name!
God's instrument for a work stupendous!
Isabella, with all her strong convictions,
Her warm and rational enthusiasm,
And all the whisperings within her heart,
E'en SHE dreamed not the glory of her work!
She saw Earthly Empires and present good,
And in a measure this was true and right,
But little did she dream GOD'S KINGDOM
Was to rise from out the Empire Columbus
Was impelled to seek and resurrect.
"God's Kingdom cometh not with observation."

So the work progressed, the day has dawned,
And light breathes in upon the mystic work
That Isabella and Columbus organized;
And their names shall be enthron'd forever,
And Ferdinand the TRIO shall complete.
Pioneers of untold glory were they!
God worked with them to impel them on,
Hence nought could daunt them.—On and on they
	went,
And HE, the instrument, was made to bear
Calumny, and scorn, and pinching poverty,
And the imputation "Thou art mad!"
Maniac. dreamer, visionary man!
And thus he lived, assuring them of truth,
Till youth was gone and much of manhood's prime
Until a WOMAN God inspired to hear
The message he for years had yearned to tell;
A regnant queen his helpmeet was to be,
And she his mission nobly did endorse,
And unto death remained his firm ally.

How strange an atheist is man! Show him
A NEW TRUTH, and he will spurn you from his door.
He rarely says, reason be THOU my guide,
I will INVESTIGATE, and then decide;
But no, it comes in contact with my views,
My theory, and my understanding;
The "canon's full," and I am also full,
Being fed on such a nutriment. I,
On such a canon, hence, will live and die—
Such was my father's creed, and therefore mine!
Such is the logic of the worldly-wise,
And such the "Daniels" in the judgment seat;
So TRUTH is veil'd till God sees fit to tear
The mummy wrapping, and HIS truth declare.
Then those who've crushed conviction rise to truth,
And worship her with all the warmth of youth;
And then she'll reign immortal and for aye—
And all her mandates they with joy obey.
	HANNAH T. KING.


"JOE," said Tom, "I heard a certain fel-
ler say to his girl, 'shall I have your utensils
engraved on that ring?' What do you
think of that?" "I think," answered Joe,
"he must be the same fellow who asked
the girl to let him ride in her phantom."


A MEANS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
FOR ENGLISH WOMEN.

	Among the many efforts which have been
made in different parts of England to aid
in giving women opportunities of continu-
ing their education after they have left
school, and of consolidating it even when
the thought of school days has been long
left behind, none have been more persistent
or more successful, says a London journal,
than those made at Bristol. During the
last eight years the Clifton Committee for
Promoting the Higher Education of Women
have organized and kept in action lectures
and classes. This year, however, they do
not propose to have classes or lectures of an
independent character, and the reason for
this determination is that Bristol is about
to have a college of its own—the University
College; and this college, which will be
opened in October, will admit women to its
lectures, and will also organize for them
separate classes in the various subjects treat-
ed by its professors and lecturers, and it is
believed that these classes and lectures at
the University will supply an education
more definite and systematic than that
which has been given hitherto by the class-
es for ladies. University College is the
first English institution which has recog-
nized the higher education of women as
one of its primary aims, and the committee
in their circular hope "that so unusual an
opportunity for mental training will be
turned to good account by those for whom
it is intended." For the first time men
and women students will sit in all the lec-
ture rooms of the college, a part of the lec-
ture room being appropriated to women.
The classes which will follow up the lec-
tures, and which will give more detailed
instruction, will, however, not be "mixed,"
but in them ladies will be taught alone.
The subjects which will be at first taught in
the college will be chemistry, modern his-
tory, modern literature, mathematics, ap-
plied mechanics, experimental physics, pol-
itical economy, and classical history and lit-
erature. There are also to be evening class-
es, open to students of both sexes, taught
in all the above named subjects by the same
professors and lecturers, and in such other
subjects as may seem to the council to be
required. Medical education is to be pro-
vided by the Bristol Medical School; but it
is not said that women are to be allowed to
attend this special branch of instruction.
Four scholarships for women will be offered
at the beginning of October, of the annual
value of $60 each, tenable for two years at
the University College, Bristol. These schol-
arships will cover the expenses of lectures,
classes, and registration. It is proposed to
make up two of these scholarships to the
value of $250 each, if the successful candi-
dates should need help to enable them to
continue their college course.


THE common sense of Americans has
long ago perceived the necessity for some
women to be self-supporting. Feminine
dignity and delicacy as sung by poets and
vaunted after-dinner orators, when the
last toast is drunk and the best gift to man
is gushingly if somewhat incoherently
cheered, is as pretty as painted china. Un-
til the State is prepared to furnish elegant
shelving for such porcelain, in other words,
shelter and maintenance befitting its ex-
treme fragility and preciousness, the finan-
cial crash, with its complicated problem of
wreck, constantly repeats itself; and the
question arises, what is to be done with
china, for which there is no place in the
world?—New Century for Women.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	EX-QUEEN Isabella has informed King
Alfonso that she will take no part whatever
in the political affairs of the kingdom.
	AT the laying of the corner stone at the
new building for indigent women at St.
Louis, Mo., a lady officiated, Mrs. Shepherd
Wells. This is the first instance of the kind
of which we are aware.
	ANOTHER woman editor, Mrs. Signiago
of Granada, Miss., has assumed the edito-
rial duties of the "Grenada Sentinel," as
her husband's health would not permit his
retaining the position.
	MISS Willard, in an address delivered re-
cently in Boston, Mass., argues in this wise
upon woman's duty to vote: "She had long
hesitated, but now the ballot had been pros-
tituted to undermine the Sabbath, and rob
children of the influence of Bibles in
schools, she thought it time WOMAN, who
is truest to God and her country by instinct
and education, should have a voice at the
polls, when the Sabbath and the Bible are
now attacked by the infidel foreign popula-
tion of the country."
	MRS. Paulina Wright Davis died of con-
sumption in Providence, Rhode Island, the
last week in August. Mrs. Davis was an
earnest and practical worker in the cause of
the advancement of women. She was one
of the callers of the first Convention held
in Worcester twenty-six years age, and her-
self took an active part. She was for a
time editor of a weekly paper devoted to
the interests of women, styled "The Una."
She gave public lectures to women upon
Anatomy and Physiology: she began her
career of lecturing before the public ac-
knowledged woman's right to the platform,
and helped to open up this avenue of pub-
lic speaking for others, and to make their
way less difficult.
	MATILDA Fletcher of Iowa, is spoken of
in the public papers as doing an enormous
public literary work. It is af[--]rmed that
during the past year she has lectured one
hundred nights, traveled seven thousand
miles, written a book upon "Practical Eth-
ics," for shools and families, prepared three
new lectures, two of which have been
given, "The Heart of Man" and "What can
You Do?" The other one will be presented
to the public the coming season; it is styled
"The Ethics of Marriage." Besides this
work she has devised a plan of establishing
Industrial Expositions in the public schools,
which the lower house of legislature, acting
upon her suggestions, last winter enacted
into a law." She has also spent some of
her leisure hours in practical inventions.
She is certainly a most happy illustration
of the advancement and enlargement of
woman's sphere, and th[---] who need in-
spiration and courage to persevere can find
it in such real examples as this.


THE language of flowers, which is pecu-
liar to the Turkish harems, owes its celeb-
rity wholly to Lady Wortly Montague; she
introduced it into Europe. Persians per-
sonify the rose and make it mistress of the
nightengale, to whom he tells his love and
sorrows at each return of Spring. The
Hindoos dedicate flowers to their divinity,
and represent to his imagination their var-
ious ideas through this flower language.
But in Turkish harems this mysterious lan-
guage is turned to its fullest account.
There the language of flowers is the favor-
ed amusement of the fair secluded ones,
and a perfect knowledge of it can only be
obtained through the "slaves of the harem."


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1876.


NOTICE.

	We would say to our agents and subscrib-
ers that our terms to clubs are the same as
heretofore, no change having been made;
but we withdrew the article (Club Rates) as
our paper is small and we thought it suffi-
ciently understood; had any change been
made our agents and the public would have
been apprised of it.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UNIVERSITY of Deseret has been re-
moved from the Council House Building to the
south west corner above Union Square in the
Seventeenth Ward. The building was former-
ly designated Union Academy, but will hereaf-
ter be styled University Building. The location
being a little way from the centre of town, it
will be more quiet and retired which is an ad-
vantage to study.
	DURING THE last month many. new mounds
have been made in the city grave-yard, mostly
little one's. We never watch the hearse mov-
ing solemnly along, bearing a little coffin, or
glance at the evening or morning paper which
contains accounts of the departure of little
friends, but our heart goes out in tender, yearn-
ing sympathy, and we pray God to comfort
the stricken and bereaved.
	MISS E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne and
Mrs. E. Howard, have gone on a visit to
Tooele, and vicinity, in the interest of the
Relief Societies, Retrenchment Associations,
and Woman's Department of Home Indus-
tries. They will spend a few days with the
sisters in that locality, and after their return
Miss E. R. Snow, with some of the sisters, in-
tends going north, visiting settlements as far
as Franklin, in the interests of women gener-
ally, and with the view of arousing the siste[-]s
to renewed efforts in all the home institutions
established in Zion for the promotion of good,
and the higher elevation of the human family.
	WE HAVE been requested to publish an arti-
cle in regard to seri-culture; which will be in-
structive to those just entering upon this
branch of home-industry, who are too far re-
moved from Salt Lake City to attend the meet-
ings of Association:
	When the cocoons are ready to use, put them
in scalding water and they will soften, take
from an old broom eight or ten of the straws
that are worn and tie them together, and stir
the cocoons with them and the end will cling
to them so you can get hold of it and start to
wind it on a reel; it can be wound on a com-
mon reel, although there are reels on purpo[-]e
for silk. There is no mistaking what end of
the cocoon to begin at it, because there is
only one end outside and the other inside.
Such cocoons as are perforated and cannot
be r[--]ied, can be made available by boiling

[Column 2]
them well in strong soap-suds, they will soften
and then can be spun without reeling, so that
not one inch need be wasted.
			PLAIN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We are certainly a blessed people in this
place. Everything we have sowed or planted
this year has produced abundantly and we
have great reason to be thankful that the Lord
has so rewarded our labors. The kingdom of God
is increasing fast in this little settlement. We
have, during the present month, had ten babes
born, all living and doing well; for those ten
babes there were only eight mothers; all are
bright beautiful children, and born in the new
and everiasting covenant. Success to them all,
and may the kingdom of God flourish and in-
crease as the bees in the hive, is the earnest de-
sire of a country woman.			A. C. H. *
	The Territorial Central Committee held a
meeting in the City Hall Friday evening, the
8th inst., to adopt such measures as should be
deemed practicable for the nomination of a
candidate for Delegate from Utah to the Forty-
Fifth Congress, Nov. 7, next ensuing. It was
decided that in order to awaken sufficient in-
terest in this important matter to elicit an ac-
tive vote, a People's Territorial Convention
should be held, composed of Delegates from all
the counties, at the City Hall in Salt Lake City
on Saturday, Oct. 7th, 1876, at 12 m. The
number of delegates to compose the Territo-
rial Convention has been fixed at seventy-eight,
and the allotment to the different counties
based upon their representation in the Legis-
lature. To secure a proper selection of these
county delegates, it was suggested that each
county hold a county convention composed of
delegates sent from primary meetings previ-
ously held in the several precincts. Each dele-
gate to the Territorial Convention should come
with credentials duly authorized and signed by
the President and Secretary of the convention
which appointed them. Each county conven-
tion should also appoint a County Central
Committee to attend to all election matters in
its county, and this committee, as soon as or-
ganized, should communicate with the Peo-
ple's Territorial Central Committee at Salt
Lake City, that there may be a concert of action
in this matter. It is for the future interest of the
people of this Territory to be prompt and ener-
getic as well as cautious and wise in these
matters, and thereby secure such measures as
shall be for the benefit of the entire commu-
nity.
	DIED AT Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah; on
Tuesday, Aug. 8th, 1876; after a lingering ill-
ness of cancer in the throat, Alvira Thomas,
beloved wife of Chancey Loveland, aged 68
years, 7 months and 3 days; her husband died
Aug. 6th, and during his funeral services she
quietly passed away. Deceased was born in
Glamorganshire, South Wales, where she em-
braced the Gospel on the 12th day of October,
1846, emigrated to Utah in 1856, crossed the
plains in Captain Bunker's Hand-Cart Com-
pany. In 1858 she removed to Bountiful
where she has resided ever since, and was
highly respe[--]ed. She was a lovi[-]g and duti-
ful wife and faithful saint. She w[-]s a lively
member of the Relief Society, and acted as
counselor to the Teachers Quorum, always
present at our meetings as long as her health
permitted. She rejoiced in the society of the
saints, and in the principles of the Gospel, and
was always ready to administer to the sick and
poor in word and deed, her actions spoke loud-
er than words; she was full of faith and integ-
rity in her religion. She was a firm believer
in the order of Celestial Marriage and lived in


[Column 1]
it for many years. Her example was worthy
of imitation, and she will reap the reward of
the righteous. She looked calm and lovely in
her rest, merciful death had smoothed many of
the care lines in her face. Great is the reward
she has won.
						M. J. CROSBY.
	Bountiful.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met at the Fireman's Hall,
Wednesday, Sept. 6th, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said we had met to transact im-
portant business, pertaining to this society
and to find out a way to pay for the coccoons
as they are brought in.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler read a letter he had re-
ceived from the Atwood Machine Company,
Gonn., stating the prices of different ma-
chinery, as follows—
	Winding frame complete, with
		swifts, 50 spindles			   $125
	Cleaning, 60 spindles				     100
	Doubling, 52 spindles				     150
	Spinning, 114, to 120 spindles $250 to 400
	Stretching, 					   20 to 100
	Reel,						     20 to 50
	Soft Silk Winder,				   24 to 100
	Spoolers for table, (2 machines)	     100
	Mr P. A. Schettler said he had sent for a
reel that would cost $25.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper suggested that every one
interested in this organization and in the com-
monwealth of Utah be solicited to donate to
the society and the amount given be left en-
tirely to the individuals donating; also that our
merchants, business men and others be solici-
ted for donations, the object of the donations,
being purposely to raise means to encourage
and remunerate those who had raised the
cocoons, for their labor; and not only that, but
to open another branch of home industry,
whereby the aged, the lame and the young
can find employment and be recompensed;
and it would also be a source of great wealth
to Utah.
	The question was asked, 'What price shall
we pay per pound for cocoons? Mr. A. C. Py-
per said he wished to see the raisers of cocoons
paid for their labor and stimulated to pursue
it, and he would be in favor of continuing to
give two dollars per pound for good cocoons.
	The following members donated as fol-
lows—
	Mr. A. C. Pyper $10, Mr. P. A. Schettler $10,
Mr. R. Simpson $10, Mr. Wm. Smith $5, Mrs.
Zina D. Young $10, Mrs. E. B. Wells $10, Mrs.
M. A. White $10 (cocoons), Mrs. A. K. Dun-
yon $10 (cocoons), Mrs. Ann Morgan $5 (co-
coons).
	Mr. P. A. Schettler suggested that the presi-
dents of all the Relief Societies throughout the
Territory be solicited to act as agents for this
Association, to solicit donations from the
brethren and sisters in their respective dis-
tricts; and as Miss Eliza R. Snow is chairman
of this committee, please forward all donations
to her address, Lion House. It was also sug-
gested that the following gentlemen be ap-
pointed to solicit donations in Salt Lake City
—Mr. A. C. Pyper, Mr. P. A. Schettler, Mr.
A. M. Musser, Mr. R. Simpson; and Mr. Wm.
Smith in Bountiful, Davis Co.
	These suggestions, were adopted by the meet-
ing, which then adjourned till the first
Wednesday in October, at 2 o'clock p. m ,
at this place.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
			NOTICE.
Mrs. Zina D. Young wishes those who have

[Column 2]
not been paid for their cocoons to call at her
residence and receive payment.	R. S.


NO CHARACTER.

	Picking up one of the latest magazines we
find allusion made to Pope's cynical reference
in his Moral Essays, of the character of wo-
men. He commences to a lady in this style;

	"Nothing so true as what you once let fall."
	"Most women have no characters at all."

	So women are indebted to one of their own
sex for this withering sarcasm, which has been
perpetuated to this day, and must even now
be brought up to prove that women are weak,
feeble and unstable in character. The writer
goes on to say, "They have no opinions they
can call their own, no preferences, no dislikes,
they are not strong enough to keep even a prej-
udice, they will passively agree to a long suc-
cession of opinions, no two of which could be
held by the same man at the same time."
	No wonder that women who are determined
to live down such accusations as these should
be designated "strong minded." Will it not
take some moral courage, some undaunted he-
roism to face such imputations of feebleness,
especially when coincided in by the majority
of women?
	It is women themselves in a great measure,
who are to blame for the estimate given of
their own character; but there will not always
be cause for such assertions, for such channels
of education and cultivation are opening from
time to time as will give to women all the supe-
rior advantages which they can possibly make
use of, and with use the faculties and capac-
ities will enlarge on general principles, and
man will find that woman is capable of strength
of character as well as man, and subsequently
when some standard writer, a second Pope,
portrays woman to the world, she will be rep-
resented in a different light. Instead of such
arguments as these hindering woman's pro-
gress it only gives an impetus to all their
movements to stimulate such as are earnest
in their endeavors to redouble their exertions
and maintain such firm purpose as shall in-
sure to them ultimate success.
	Women have seen the dire necessity for the
movement they are making, namely, Woman's


Suffrage," before they entered upon the "arena
of action." They knew from the openly-
avowed sentiments of men that they had noth-
ing to expect of them, taken as a class, but
ridicule and loss of "caste." Every woman
has an innate desire to be loved by the oppo-
site sex, God has implanted it in her nature,
consequently it is so much the harder for her
to have his opprobrium almost his disrespect,
for the sake of maintaining justice and equity
for those who are dearer to her than her own
life—her posterity.
	A very popular writer has just published
his ideas of the course which should be pur-
sued thus: "A woman with a mission is an
affliction that ought by every means within the
law to be proscribed as dangerous to public and
private peace."
	Then women are first ridiculed because they
have no opinions, and then without judge or
jury condemned as heretics because they have
opinions of their own. This subject will bear
descanting upon; we leave the field open to
those who have talents given them to use, and
our opinion is that SUCH MEN have not yet
got rid of Women with a Mission.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


For the EXPONENT.
			VALEDICTORY

	OF THE LADIES' CEN. TER. BOARD.

	The Directors of the Ladies' Centennial
Territorial Fair which was opened on the
Fourth of July and closed on the 2nd of Sep-
tember, before relinquishing their responsibili-
ties, avail themselves of this opportunity to
express their sincere thanks to all those who
either furnished specimens for the Fair, or in
other ways assisted in the enterprise.
	The interest manifested by those who have
visited the Fair has been very gratifying, and
constitutes the most desirable PRESENT success.
We have taken pride in exhibiting from day
to day the beautiful articles of taste and util-
ity, (many of them produced entirely from the
elements of Utah,) manufactured by the skill
and industry of the people of our Territory,
and humbly trust that our united efforts in
our Centennial Exhibition will prove instru-
mental in stimulating to greater energies and
be productive of much good in encouraging
home-industries.
	Through the gratuity of Pres. Young and
the generosity of the City Fathers, we are en-
abled to meet our heavy expenses incurred
through the condition in which we found the
Fair Building, occasioned by the late terrible
explosion, but after satisfying all demands,
shall have a small surplus, which will be de-
voted to some charitable purpose.
	On our own part we have spared no pains,
and have cheerfully devoted our time, efforts,
and labors gratuitously, feeling satisfied that
they were in the right direction. The only
financial success we have had in view, from
the commencement, beyond meeting our ex-
penses, is in prospective, when through the ex-
tension and general establishment of Home-
Industries, we shall as a people, become self-
sustaining.
	In conclusion we wish to be understood that
all articles of exhibition which have not been
taken away, will be safely deposited in the
Lion House, where they will remain until
called for.
				ELIZA R. SNOW, Pres
				LOUISA A. ASHBY, Sec.
	S. L. City, Sep. 9th, 1876.


For the Exponent.
	SOME THINGS THAT I DESPISE.

	I despise to see a girl get up in the morn-
ing rather late, lounge around all day with
a novel in her hand, while her mother does
the work. Such a girl will sooner or later
come to some bad end.
	I despise to see a girl, who, when there
is any work to do, has the headache, back-
ache, or some other kind of an ache; but if
there is a ball or opera to attend, her ills
will all vanish like dew before the morning
sun. I pity the mother of such a girl.
	I despise a girl who will not learn to knit
her own stockings, and make her own cloth-
ing, who considers it no accomplishment to
know how to make good bread and butter,
I pity the man she marries, especially if he
happens to be poor.
	I despise a boy whose parents have work-
ed hard to give him an education and ad-
vantages for usefulness, when placed in cir-
cumstances to earn a name and an honorable
position, will waste his time and talents,
and outrage the laws of God and common
decency, by drinking, swearing, smoking,


and gambling. And I despise the girl
who will keep the company of such a boy
	I detest a woman who is always talking
of improving her mind, but who reads
nothing more instructive than dime novels.
Such a woman will, no doubt cause a great
reform some day.
	I despise a girl or boy who are not always
kind and gentle to their parents, kind to
the poor, the old and infirm, and who do
not do all the good they can in this world.
Such are of no use, and we would do better
without them.					JUNE.


A CENTENNARIAN.

	Mrs. Hannah Hawley, of Boston High-
lands, celebrated the anniversary of her
one hundred and third birthday, Aug. 26th,
1876. She was born on the 26th of August,
1773, at Stratham, New Hampshire. Her
father, Jonathan Rollins, held a lieuten-
ant's commission in the colonial army and
stood by Gen. Warren when he fell. Mrs.
Hawley married at the beginning of the
war of 1812; her husband was stationed at
Ft. Independence, and they had been mar-
ried scarcely nine months, when in over-
exerting himself moving a piece of ord-
nance he burst a blood vessel and survived
but a few hours after. Mrs. Hawley has
remained a widow ever since, true to her
first love. Her personal appearance is said
to be most remarkable; her health and
strength are excellent, and she walks with
ease and a buoyancy of step which surpasses
many very much younger. Her hair
is abundant but very white, undisturbed
by a single dark thread. She possesses a
cheerful mind, and a placid, serene coun-
tenance, her conversation is pleasant and at
times jocular; her hearing is good and she
has never worn glasses; she reads and does
light work about the house, and up to a
year ago was in the habit of sewing; her
appetite is excellent, and she sleeps remark-
ably well, she seldom retires before ten and
always rises at half-past five. She has a
happy disposition and delights in relating
anecdotes of the war of 1812. She is greatly
attached to a pet rabbit which she keeps in
the basement and always attends to it her-
self, going twice a day down two pairs of
stairs for that purpose. She says she dis-
tinctly remembers picking huckleberries on
Boston Common, where she recollects see-
ing Mrs. Gen. Hancock and other noted
ladies who pastured their cows there.
	In speaking of cooking she remarked
"why shouldn't I cook? I'm old enough."
She remembers very little about the Revo-
lution, being quite young when her father
was in the habit of telling stories about the
war. She now goes out but little, finding
her happiness all within the home of her
declining years. She has been connected
with the Baptist denomination ever since
she was seventeen; and has never attended
any public place of amusement or rode in a
steam car. On her recent birthday she re-
ceived numerous callers, with whom she
conversed freely and cheerfully, evincing
a remarkable degree of vitality and de-
claring she was not in the least wearied by
the attention she received.


﻿To the Centennial Exhibition went Darby
and Joan, whom a correspondent met in
the Egyptian department included in the
Khedive's contributions. "What's that?"
said she.  "That," said he, reading the la-
bel attached, "is from the floor of the tem-
ple of Minervy, at Babylon, two thousand
years old." "Du tell," said she; "well, it
looks durable don't it?"


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Tomato Salad:—Take ripe tomatoes and cut
them in thin slices; sprinkle over them a small
quantity of finely chopped green onions, add salt,
pepper, vinegar, and oil if liked. Serve with
roast meat.
	Chow Chow:—Chop together very finely a head
of cabbage, six green peppers, six green tomatoes;
add two teaspoonfuls of mustard, one tablespoon-
ful of salt, a little cloves and allspice and vinegar
to wet it; this is ready for use and will keep for
a long time.
	For Jelly:—Take a preserving kettle, porcelain
is the best, have your fruit carefully picked over,
then put it over the fire and when thoroughly heat-
ed, take it off and let it cool, then strain it through
a jelly bag and measure the juice, return it to the
fire and let it boil twenty minutes briskly; add one
pound of loaf sugar to each pint of juice, stir it
until well dissolved; pour it into the glasses or
whatever vessels you use, and seal closely when
cold. The best method is to use the fruit just as soon
as it is ripe, not let it become what is called "dead
ripe."
	Dried Corn:—This is a very good way of keep-
ing corn and is much the surest method. Pick the
corn the night before and husk it in the morning,
then cut it from the cob and put it into pa[-]s and
set on the stove or in the oven, with the oven doors
open; stir it often until thoroughly scalded; spread
it on cloths in the sun, and take care of it at night
and it will soon dry. Put the corn in paper bags
and have it near the fire for some time after its
having been out in the sun, a sure way to pre-
vent its gathering dampness, and hurrying the dry-
ing prevents its souring. Good housekeepers as-
sert a batch of corn can be finished in twenty-four
hours. Soak it over night before cooking, then
simmer on the stove until thoroughly done; season
with cream or butter.
	Canning Corn:—To make corn keep well re-
quires more care than almost anything else, ow-
ing to its containing a large amount of gas in its
composition. The only recipe we can give is this;
gather the corn the night before, husk it in the
morning, cut it from the cob, put it in a jar or ves-
sel to scald, with a little salt; let it cook slowly,
so as to let all the gas that will, pass off; have
your bottles ready, and see that they are all per-
fectly air tight, and put the corn in while it is at
boiling heat, and close the jars up quickly, keep
them in a cool, dark place and never allow the jars
to touch the wall or each other, if you have a clos-
et that has no outside walls it is preferable, as
moisture exudes even from the driest walls in win-
ter and spring. It is necessary occasionally to
look at them and if there is any sign of fermenta-
tion boil the contents up again.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Prickly Heat:—One oz. cream of tartar and
one oz. flour of sulphur, mixed in half a tumbler
of water; take a teaspoonful three times a day, use
vegetable diet and cold or tepid bathing.
	For Poison:—A safe and simple remedy, if one
has swallowed poison, is a heaping teaspoonful of
common salt and the same of ground mustard
stirred well together in a teacupful of water and
swallowed quickly. It will immediately cause
vomiting, and lest any remnants of the poison re-
main in the stomach after the vomiting, beat up
the white of an egg with sweet oil, or butter or
lard, several spoonfuls, and take it; these com-
com articles will counteract many virulent poisons.
	The Wet Sheet Pack:—The advantages of this
r[-]medy in sickness and ill-health and especially in
colds, is incalculable, and as there are perhaps
some of our readers who are unacquainted with its
use, we will give them the best method in a few
words: First put the blankets on the bed, then
take all clothing off the patient and wrap him or


her in a wet sheet, covering the body closely with
blankets; if the feet are very cold a warm brick
or bottle of hot water can be used; bathe the head
of the patient while in the pack with cold water
if there is fever or heat in it, and give them cold
water to drink or some warm herb tea if preferred;
the patient should remain in the pack from half an
hour to two hours, or until there is a sense of heat
or oppression. After the pack is over the patient
should be quickly washed off by sitting in a tub
while water, either cold or tepid, is poured over
the body, or if the patient is not strong, rub off
vigorously with a dry towel or with liquor. It is
better and safer than any kind of drugs or medi-
cine, and will very often prevent the need of send-
ing for a doctor.


A REFORM CAMPAIGN NEEDED.

	The greatest danger which menaces the
Republican institutions is the growing
apathy of the intelligent masses of our citi-
zens in regard to their political duties. In
Massachusetts the statistics of elections
show a steady decrease in the proportion of
votes cast to the whole number of voters.
This decrease has been going on for twenty
years, and in the absence of some new meth-
od of political activity, it bids fair to con-
tinue at an increasing ratio. More and
more—the leading classes of society stay
away from the primary meetings and the
polls. Just in proportion as they neglect
their political duties, they exaggerate the
corruption of others, and lose faith in the
principle of representative government.
Less than sixty per cent of our qualified
voters voted in the last Presidential elec-
tion. Less than fifty per cent. of our voters
voted at our last State election.
	The only radical remedy for this evil lies
in the extension of Suffrage to women,
thereby enlisting the social element in poli-
tics. But meanwhile, it is important to
overcome the existing apathy, in order to
secure a fairer expression of public opinion
in reference to this and all other public
questions. How can it be done?
	Most readily, as it seems to me, by reviv-
ing the good, old, western fashion of hold-
ing mass meetings of the whole people, and
addressed by speakers of both parties—in
other words—by public political debates.
	Let the National and State central com-
mittees, in behalf of our strongest Repub-
lican speakers, challenge the leading Demo-
cratic speakers in every State to discuss the
national issues before the whole people.
Let all citizens, men and women, irrespec-
tive of party, be invited to attend these
great mass meetings. The novelty of the
method and the interest of an intellectual
conflict will bring out our entire population,
and insure a full and fair expression of pub-
lic opinion next November.
	There is another and higher reason for
reforming existing political methods by the
introduction of these united political meet-
ings of both parties. It will compel a high-
er order of political discussion. Speakers
will be more guarded in their statements
when they are subject to criticism and re-
futation upon the spot. Their appeals be-
ing made to members of both parties, a tone
of comparative candor and moderation will
prevail. To hundreds of thousands of our
citizens such meetings would be a political
education. Especially in the South this is
the only way in which the bitterness of
party feeling can be mollified, and a fair
election insured. For such discussions
will bring together men of all parties to hear
both sides, and this will necessarily modify
prejudice, and awaken independent thought
and judgment. They would be worth more


to Southern Republicans than a standing
army.
	With the abolition of slavery and the
theoretical acceptance of manhood Suf-
frage, the ancient  barriers are broken
down. To-day both parties substantially
accept a common platform. In this Centen-
nial year why should not both parties con-
duct a reform canvass, upon reform princi-
ples, by inaugurating political meetings of
American citizens, to consider questions of
national interest, not as partisans but as pa-
triots?						H. B. B.
—Woman's Journal.


A CURE FOR HYDROPHOBIA.

	The Salut Public of Lyons says: Dr. Bus-
sion claims to have discovered a remedy for
this terrible disease. In attending a female
patient in the last stage of canine madness,
the doctor imprudently wiped his hand
with a handkerchief impregnated with her
saliva. There happened to be a slight
abrasion on the index finger of the left
hand; but, confident of his own curative
system, the doctor merely washed the
parts with water. He was fully aware of
the imprudence he had committed, and
says: "Believing that the malady would
not declare itself until the fortieth day, and
having various patients to visit, I put off
from day to day the application of my rem-
edy,—that is vapor-baths. The ninth day
being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain
in my eyes. My body felt so light that I
felt as if I could jump to a prodigious
height, or if thrown out of a window,
could suspend myself in the air. My hair
was so sensitive that I appeared to be able
to count each separately without looking at
it. Saliva kept forming in my mouth. Any
movement of air caused great pain to me,
and I was obliged to avoid the sight of
brilliant objects. I had a continual desire
to run and bite—not human beings, but ani-
mals and all that was near me. I drank
with difficulty, and I remarked that the
sight of water distressed me more than the
pain in my throat. I believe that by shut-
ting the eyes, any one suffering from hy-
drophobia can always drink. The fits came
on every five minutes, and I felt the pain
start from the index finger and run up the
nerves to the shoulder. In this state, think-
ing my case was preservative, not curative,
I took a vapor bath, not with the intention
of cure but of suffocating myself. When
the bath was 52 centigrade (93. 4. 5. fahren-
heit,) all the symptoms disappeared as if
by magic, and since then I never have felt
any more of them.
	I have attended more than eighty per-
sons bitten with mad animals and have not
lost a single one. When a person is bitten
by a mad dog, he must for seven successive
days take a vapor bath, a la Russe, of 57 to
62 degrees. This is the preventive remedy.
A vapor bath may be quickly made by put-
ting two or three red-hot bricks in a buck-
et of water for fifteen or twenty minutes.
When the disease is declared, it only re-
quires one vapor bath, rapidly increasing
to 37 centigrade, then slowly to 53, and the
patient must strictly confine himself to his
chamber until the cure is complete."
	For God's sake give this remedy a trial
should a case present itself.
				G. F. Colburn,
					Washington, D. C.


WHO is the best writer for public jour-
nals? The man who writes the cheques.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		63


[Column 1]
			LORD BYRON.

	An American writer who met Lord By-
ron at Florence, has left some interesting
remarks concerning his lordship. He says,
"Lord Byron lived then in a street in the
rear of the church Santa Maria Annunziata.
A large garden at present intervenes be-
tween the house he occupied and the Palaz-
zo Zimenes. It is a pleasant and very re-
tired spot, with extensive and delightful
views towards the north. He received
me with great affability, and began chat-
tering on all sorts of subjects, asking twenty
questions in a breath. I was a good deal
surprised at the first sight of him—first, on
discovering that he was the person I had
seen on a former occasion, and whom, in
my fancy, I set down as a decided nobody—
certainly not for a poet; secondly on mark-
ing the total difference between the real
Byron and all the portraits of him I had
ever beheld. The likeness seemed to be
drawn from the 'Corsair,' 'Lara,' or 'Har-
old,' a frowning, supercilious, disdainful
thing; but here was an ordinary-looking
man, who, if he was not short and thick,
was at least shortish and thickish; and
whose countenance had good humor to rec-
ommend it, but which, in spite of a certain
regularity of features, I could not think re-
markably handsome. Of his dress I re-
member but little; only his shirt-collar was
not turned down, as in the portraits, and
his pantaloons were strapped close over the
feet—the lame one was drawn up a little
out of sight, which, I understand, was his
usual practice. He conversed with great
readiness, but not at all in a sermonizing,
bookish way. He skipped from one sub-
ject to another, broke off into digressions,
left things half said, was often incoherent,
sometimes ungrammatical, and now and
then, in spite of his readiness at an idea,
was at a loss for a word to express a very
simple thing. What he uttered was, in a
thousand instances, better said than if it
had been coolly elaborated by study, yet it
was no more than the prompting of the in-
stant. We talked in a rambling style for
some time, in the course of which he grew
more cheerful than he appeared to be at
first. His countenance struck me as sus-
ceptible of a great variety of impressions,
and his smile was in the highest degree
engaging; although the habitual expression
of his countenance when not under the ex-
citement of talk, was rather sombre than
lively."
	BYRON'S DEFENCE OF HIS PLAGIAR-
ISM.—He allowed, frankly, that he was in-
debted to the hints of others for some of
the most esteemed passages in his poetry.
"I never," said he, "considered myself in-
terdicted from helping myself to another
man's stray ideas. I have Pope to counter-
ance me in this. Pope was a great hunter
up of grains of wheat in bushels of chaff:
perhaps I have not been so laborious a
searcher, but I have been no more scrupul-
ous than he in making use of whatever fell
in my way. Mankind have been writing
books so long, that an author may be ex-
cused for offering no thoughts absolutely
new; we must select and call that inven-
tion. A writer at the present day has
hardly any other resource than to take the
thoughts of others, and cast them into new
forms of association and contrast. Plagiar-
ism, to be sure, is branded of old; but it is
never held criminal except when done in a
clumsy way, like stealing among the Spar-
tans. A good thought is often far better
expressed at second hand than at the first
utterance. If a rich material has fallen in-

[Column 2]
to incompetent hands, it would be the
height of injustice to debar a more skillful
artisan from taking possession of it, and
working it up. Commend me to a good
pilferer. You may laugh at it as a paradox,
but I assure you the most original writers
are the greatest thieves"—Byroniana.


LOST WOMEN.

	We commend the following thoughts to
the public;—"Has it ever occurred to you
what a commentary upon our civilization
are those lost women, and the attitude of
society towards them? A little child strays
away from her home enclosure, and the
whole community is on the alert to find the
wanderer and restore it to its mother's
arms. What rejoicing when it is found,
what tearful sympathy, what heartiness of
congratulations! There are no harsh com-
ments upon tired feet, be they ever so
so weary. No reprimand for the soiled and
torn garments, no lack of kisses for the
tear-stained face. But let the child be
grown into womanhood, let her be led from
it by the scourge of want; what happens?
Do Christain men and women go in quest
of her? Do they provide all possible help
for her return, or if she returns of her own
free will, do they receive her with such
kindness and delicacy as to secure her
against wandering? Far from it. At the
first step she-was denounced as lost—lost!
Echo, friends and relatives—we disown you;
don't ever come near us to disgrace us.
Lost says society, indifferently. How bad
the girls are! And lost—irretrievably lost
is the prompt verdict of conventional mor-
ality, while one and all unite in bolting
every door between her and morality. Ah!
will not those lost ones be required at our
hands?"—Ex.


[COLUMN 1]

SPLINTERS.

GENERAL.
	Georgia has forty cotton mills running
full time and paying handsome dividends
........Jersey Day at the Centennial was cele-
brated by twenty thousand citizens of New
Jersey........Fish of all kinds are scarce in
the East, and bring a very high price........
Large forest fires are reported as having
raged fiercely in several places in the States
.........The Boston Museum opened its 34th
regular dramatic season Monday evening,
Aug. 28th, with Victorian Sardou's play
entitled "Ferreol".......Boston Theatre, on
the same evening as the Museum, opened
with "The Streets of New York," Frank
Mayo personating Tom Badger........The
Globe has just opened with the drama
"Pique." This play run last year eight
consecutive months in New York at Daly's
Fifth Avenue Theatre.......The small pox has
been raging in Chili, attended with great
loss of life.......The standard of the prophet
was raised recently in Turkey; the emblem
is black, and is only displayed in times of
great peril........The World's Homeopathic
Convention, recently held in Philadelphia,
will assemble again for the same purpose in
1881........Normal schools have become ex-
ceedingly popular in Canada........Prepara-
tions are being made for building a hand-
some granite vault over the remains of
Wm. B. Astor........Musical promenades were
very popular in London the past summer
......They talk now of keeping the Centen-
nial Exposition open until December......
Gilmore's Band will begin to play in New
England in December......The Musical Fes-
tival at Philadelphia will begin Sept. 20.

[COLUMN 2]

PERSONAL.
	James Hamilton is employed painting a
large picture of San Francisco Bay at sun-
set......Queen Victoria has entered upon the
fortieth year of her reign......Mr. Henry
Vincent, the English orator, will make a
farewell lecture tour in this country this
winter, arriving in America in October......
John Bright informs the "Redpath Bureau"
that his visit to America is yet undeter-
mined; he will not leave home before 1878
...........Levy is preparing "Casta Diva" for
Gilmore's Band.......Minnie Palmer, the
New York beauty, is going to star in "Kiss-
es" the coming season........Mrs. James A.
Oates has compromised the difficulties with
her business manager by paying him $1000
......Senator Bayard received the honorary
degree of L. L. D., at the recent commence-
ment of Delaware State College......Mary
A. Livermore and Wendell Phillips were
two of the speakers at Prohibitory Rally,
in Faneuil Hall, Boston, Mass., Sept. 7th
.......Mr. Tilden and Mr. Hendricks, in their
letters of acceptance, said not a word about
the woman question.

Foreign.
	The King of Dahomey has threatened to
kill all the English in his kingdom........The
Prince Imperial of Austria will make a
visit to this country of two years' duration
.......Gen. Sickles, Ex-Minister to Spain, has
sold his establishment in Paris with a view
of returning to America......The Emperor
William of Germany will have seen seventy
years of military life next New Year's Day
......In France there are six women who are
Knights of the Grand Cross of the Legion
of Honor........Mr Duff of Edingburgh
thinks he could keep up all the "missions"
with the surplus silk worn by the ladies,
with which they sweep the streets......Earl
Russell called for an autumn session of Par-
liament.......The Bishop of Lincoln thinks
the Lord should be specially entreated in
behalf of Servia against the Turks......
Prince Milan wants peace..........Three Spanish
gunboats have been sent out to Chinese
waters at the request of the Spanish Rep-
resentative at Pekin.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"'TIS false," as the girl said when her
lover told her that she had beautiful hair.
	To write a good love letter you ought to
begin without knowing what you mean to
say, and finish without knowing what you
have written.—Rousseau.
	A COMPOSITOR, setting up a report of a
horse race, said the "fool-sellers were
busy," instead of the "pool-sellers." But
it did not alter the sense of the paragraph
much.
	IN the window of a shop, in the obscure
part of London is this announcement.
"Goods removed, messages taken, carpets
beaten and poetry composed on any sub
ject."
	A YOUNG lady in Georgia is six feet two
and a half inches high, and when her
young man sings, "Thou art so near and
yet so far," he can throw more feeling into
the song than any other man in the State.
	MARK Twain, speaking of a new mos-
quito netting, writes: 'The day is coming
when we shall sit under our nets in church
and slumber peacefully, while the discom-
fitted flies club together and take it out of
the minister.'


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWER'S.

	THE firmest friendships have been form-
ed in mutual adversity; as iron is the most
strongly united by the fiercest flames.
	KIND words judiciously used make us
feel all the better for saying them, and cre-
ate a glow of warm respect in our hearers
that will live forever in the heart, a moun-
tain of radiant cheer and good-will to us
and the One above.
	BY the prayers of those nearest and dear-
est to him, is a man often softly drawn away
from an immortal purpose. Where power
and strength might avail nothing, tears
and a little love avail much to shake the
soul's sense of some pitiless duty. An in-
fant's little hand may thus draw the just
man from justice, the righteous man from
righteousness; for justice and righteousness
are alike awful, while to stoop and kiss is
sweet. When a man's house is armed in
affection against him, when, instead of
help and a sword, he finds on his own
hearth only feebleness and a love that can
not understand, strong indeed must be his
purpose, supreme indeed must be his faith,
if he walks still onward and upward to the
terrible heights of God.—Robert Buchanan.


THE FIRESIDE.

	It is as the focus of home fellowship and
intercourse that we speak of the fireside—
as the spot consecrated to the freeest action
and utterance of family sympathies and af-
fections—where conjugal, parental, frater-
nal and filial anxieties, hopes, fears, joys,
sorrows, loves, resentments, confessions,
forgiveness are wont to be exchanged.
There is no other place in which can be re-
alized more thoroughly the weaving into
one of several lives, each imparting and re-
ceiving something from the rest. No oth-
er is so sacred to the memory of those who
have been summoned thence into the wide
world, who are, perhaps, afar off on the sea,
or doing their allotted work amongst stran-
gers, or removed to those more inaccessible
shores where "the wicked cease from troub-
ling and the weary are at rest." Elsewhere
the absent may be forgotten, but seldom,
for long together, at the fireside. It is
crowned with associations which touch the
heart at some point or other of its surface,
and make it thrill with affectionate emo-
tion, in which every member of the family
gathered aronnd the hearth can take an ap-
propriate share. No lesson leaves a more
abiding impression than those which gently
drop into the mind at the fireside. No fun
is more tickling, or leaves behind it less re-
gret. No history is purer, as a whole, than
fireside history, and none lingers longer or
more lovingly in remembrance. He who
cannot look forward with yearning desire to
fireside enjoyment, as the staple enjoyment
of life, is greatly to be pitied, and, if the
cause be himself, greatly to be blamed.


A GENTLEMAN.—When you have found
a man, you cannot have far to go to find a
gentleman. You cannot make a gold ring
out of brass. You cannot change a Cape
May, crystal to a diamond. You cannot
make a gentleman till you first find a man.
To be a gentleman it is not sufficient to
have had a grandfather once. To be a gen-
tleman does not depend upon the tailor or
the toilet. Blood will degenerate. Good
clothes are not good habits.
	A gentleman is just a gentleman; he is
no more, no less; a diamond polished that
was once a diamond in the rough. A gen-
tleman is gentle. A gentleman is modest.


A gentleman is courteous. A gentleman is
slow to take offence, as being one who never
gives it. A gentleman is slow to surmise
evil, as being one who never thinks it. A
gentleman subjects his appetites. A gen-
tleman subdues his feelings. A gentleman
refines his taste. A gentleman controls his
speech. A gentleman deems every other
better than himself.
	Sir Philip Sidney was never so much of
a gentleman—mirror though he was of
England's knighthood—as when, upon the
field of Zutphen, as he lay in his blood, he
waived the draught of cool spring water,
that was to quench his dying thirst, in fa-
vor of a dying soldier.—Waverly Maga-
zine.


"MAN," says Victor Hugo, "was the
conundrum of the eighteenth century, wo-
man is the conundrum of the nineteenth
century." An editor adds, "We can't guess
her, but we will never give her up. No, 
never."
	IT was told of a famous tragedian that,
at the close of an act in which he had been
the prominent character, a goose's head
was thrown upon the stage by some one
who had a spite against him. The trage-
dian picked it up, handed it to one of the
others to take away, and said, with perfect
nonchalance. "The gentleman who has
thrown his head upon the stage can get it
back at the close of the performance."
	PENCILS have lately appeared, the writ-
ing of which is capable of being copied
more or less perfectly in the press. They
are said to be made of graphite, kaolin and
aniline violet. The graphite is used in
the form of a thick paste, the koalin in a
finely pulverized state, and the violet in the
form of a very concentrated aqueous solu-
tion. The whole well mixed and molded
under the press with cylinders about four
inches long and of the required diameter.


[Column 1]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Is now prepared for the Spring Trade, with all the
latest styles of Hats and Bonnets, and newest shades of
Silks and Ribbons. Flowers in endless variety.
	Ladies attending Conference should call and see her
fine assortment, which cannot be excelled in quality and
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1876.	NO. 9.


GREETING.

Spread, spread the tables wide—a feast prepare,
Of bounteous blessings, wholesome, sweet and rare.
Bring fruits and flowers, bring every beauteous thing,
And bread the staff of life, in plenty bring:
Bring ye of costlier tokens to impart,
The purest, richest treasures of the heart.
Bring joyous greetings, smiles and cheerful faces:
Bring tender words and kisses and embraces:
Bring friendship and its holy offspring love;
Bring all fair graces that are born above,
Bring truth to speak from every lip and eye—
Bring sounding praises to the Great Most High!
Sing to His name a grateful, happy lay,
Who hath to us returned this welcome day;
Our Parents still both living in the flesh,
Their spirits quickened, hearts and memories fresh.
Now forty years they've journeyed on together.
'Mid storms and sunshine and uncertain weather;
But what to them the sunshine or the shade,
They still press on, undaunted, undismayed.
They do not live for Mammon nor its cause,
The world's opinion, flatt'ry or applause,
Their aim is higher, their reward more sure,
Hence they afford life's crosses to endure.
And while they thus, the way of life are threading,
Custom would call this day their "Ruby Wedding!"
Rubies and gems we have not to bestow,
Nor aught of glittering brilliancy or show,
But bring we each a holier offering.
Father and mother see ! our souls we bring,
Laden with gratitude to God and you.
Who hath ordained and taught them to be true!
True to the work which will at length prepare
The faithful in Celestial wealth to share.
We'll all be there, your daughters and your sons,
Lovely and brave, with Mates and little ones.
Friends will your mansions crowd, this day at least,
They'l come in myriads to your glorious feast;
And who shall say but there, with all the rest,
Our Father God may be your honored guest?
Granting you blessings, while we sing His Praise,
And gladly celebrate this day of days.
	Ulala.
Aug. 29th, 1875.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
	LOVE OF THE BEAUTIFUL IN
				NATURE.

	Ever since I was a wee little girl with
rosy cheeks and clusters of bright, brown,
wavy hair (that never would lie smooth,) I
have had a passionate love for the great
out-spread book of nature. I have wander-
ed dreamily for hours "in childhood's days"
through the grand old forests in the vicin-
ity of my New England home, never lonely,
sitting down here and there on the beds of
moss fashioned like cushioned seats upon
some fantastically shaped rock, or the gnarl-
ed trunk of fallen trees, listening to the
songs of birds, and the incessant monotony
of the woodpecker, gazing now and then
up through the leafy branches, catching a
glimpse of the azure above, watching the
rays of light as they shimmered and flashed
through the leaves, adding new brilliancy
to the variegated coloring, as they trem-
bled and swayed with the soft breezes, and
the boughs waving gracefully towards each
other as though embracing tenderly, and
whispering inarticulately in an under-tone,
seemingly a language of reciprocal affection.
	There were always volumes of unwritten
poetry for me in the woodlands and mead-
ows, and in the sparkling brooks with their
shining pebbly depths; and in haunts of
forest shades and falling waters, enthusias-
tically I have drank in, in rich, exhilarat-
ing, inspiring draughts nature's beauty and

[Column 2]
glory, and intuitively I seemed to under-
stand that God was in and over all.
	O how the pealing voices of memory
ring down into my heart, the recollection
of the weird land of the past, whenever I
wander forth among wild, romantic scenery,
or fresh, green pastures, babbling brooks,
deep, winding rivers, or any of the diversi-
ties of nature's grandeur and magnificence,
which insensibly strike the silent chord of
response in my bosom. There is something
inexplicably attractive in the association
with mountains, glens, canyons and forests,
and it calls forth the purest and happiest
emotions, elevating and stimulating the fac-
ulties of thought and reflection and irresist-
ibly leads the soul to the Fountain of all
beauty, of all intelligence. If would one
bring from the deepest recesses of the soul
the richest gems of thought, the most bril-
liant ideas, and clothe them in the choicest
language, let that person go out among the
wildest haunts of nature undisturbed; these
beauties have an inspiration and speak to
the soul in their own simple, unmistakable
language, breathing audibly the music of a
Creator's voice. The grandest parlors with
all the appliances of modern luxury may
lull the senses to rest and wrap the soul in
soft, dreamy raptures, but can never call
forth the intense emotion, the soul-thrilling
ecstasies of thought, that will shape them-
selves into language to touch the hearts of
thousands, opening up great avenues of
sympathetic feeling, like the association
with the wild haunts where the splashing
waterfall foams and dashes, and the snow-
crested mountains tower above, like the
giant kings of some palatial domain.
	It is good for us all at times to leave the
dust and din of city life behind us, and for-
getting the daily cares of every-day life,
which so tax the physical strength, and
harass the mind, go for a little season into
some quiet country nook, nestled among
the hills, where we can think, where we
can rest, where we will be free to act our-
selves, unnoticed by Madame Grundy. We
recruit, we add vigor to our life and
zest to our enjoyments by this means, and
if only for a day, we breathe another at-
mosphere, and it helps us to gather fresh-
ness and activity, quickens our pulses and
strengthens our nerves.
	My intense admiration for the beautiful
helps me perhaps to appreciate a ride, or a
walk where there is always something new
and attractive, and I beg pardon if I over-
estimate the advantages to be derived from
such resources. To me, they are ever an
inexhaustible fund of enjoyment, and I
never look upon them without contrasting
them with similar scenes of the "long ago."
Then I was wont to build castles in the air,
to indulge in all sorts of dreamy fancies,
and embody all sorts of childish ideas in
silly rhyme and rustic prose, and I am
afraid that in this one speciality I am a
child yet, although grown up people will
persist in calling me,
						AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Sep. 19, 1876.


MISS Anna Dickinson has accumulated
quite a fortune by lecturing, and yet she
has been extremely generous in dispensing
to others.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL NEWTON'S little girl, Mary,
not quite three years old, fired the mine
that blew Hallett's Point Reef to pieces. A
most remarkable incident certainly in the
life of a little child.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will hold their Eighth, Annual
Meeting in Philadelphia, on Monday and
Tuesday, Oct. 2, and 3, morning, afternoon
and evening sessions. The public are in-
vited, a[-]d auxiliary State and local socie-
ties are considered entitled to send dele-
gates according to the respective delega-
tions of their States. President, Mary A.
Livermore, Secretary, Alice C. Fletcher.
	THE FOURTH Woman's Congress will be
held at Philadelphia Oct. 4, 5, and 6, in St.
George's Hall, daily sessions twice, also
evening sessions. In this Congress will be
assembled many of the most superior wo-
men of the present age, working with un-
tiring zeal and earnestness for reformation
in public and private. Maria Mitchell will
preside.
	IT HAS been proposed to flood the desert
of Sahara. Mr. McKenzie, the projector,
with an engineering party, is about to make
the necessary surveys for turning the wa-
ters of the Atlantic into the great desert.
He is confident that a canal eight or nine
miles long will accomplish the object, flood-
ing the low lands and bringing Timbuctoo
within navigable distance of the sea, open-
ing up a vast trade with the interior of Af-
rica which is the great inducement.
	THE MINISTER of Public Instruction, Mr.
Waddington, proposes an entire reorganiza-
tion of State Education in France. His
scheme embraces primary, secondary, and
university education, making the first com-
pulsory, and for that purpose he asks an ex-
tra grant of five million francs; and looks to
the departments, and communes for fifteen
million francs more. This is in direct op-
position to the scheme adopted by the
French Assembly last year, and of which
the Roman Catholic Church has so vigor-
ously availed itself. The plan is strongly
opposed by the Roman Catholic universities
and their party.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MADAME Louis Blanc, who died recently
in Paris, must have been very lovable, as it
is said tens of thousands followed her re-
mains to the cemetery.
	MISS Anna Oliver, the young preacher,
is filling with characteristic dignity, an en-
gagement at the First Place Methodist
Church in Brooklyn.
	MISS Tora Dutt, a young Hindoo lady,
has just published a book of translations of
French verse into English. Critics praise,
and esteem it as an item "in the history of
the progress of culture."
	"SHELLS FROM THE SANDS OF TIME,"
is the title of a book written by Lady Lyt-
ton, (widow of Lord Lytton the author) in
which she comments upon modern servants
"stuckapativeness."


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday Sept. 16, 1876, was presided over
by Mrs. W. East, but during the meeting
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E. Howard ar-
rived from Tooele where they had been vis-
iting in the interests of the Societies. Af-
ter the minutes of the last meeting and
from the several wards represented had
been read, Mrs. W. East spoke upon obedi-
ence, fashion and the principles of Celestial
Marriage; referred to Bro. George Q. Can-
non's remarks in the Sunday School Union,
exhorting the teachers upon teaching that
subject.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow referred to
her absence from the meetings on account
of her duties at the Ladies Fair; said she
had enjoyed the spirit of God while en-
gaged there, spoke of home-industries and
the necessity of becoming self-sustaining as
a people. She spoke of her absence from
these meetings having been similar to a
long fast, but that the last week she had
been feasting. On Tuesday, of that week,
she met with the Society at Mill Creek,
Wednesday in the 20th Ward, Thursday
morning with Sisters Horne and Howard,
started for Tooele, where they held a gen-
eral meeting in the afternoon; Friday they
had another general meeting of brethren
and sisters. She had enjoyed the time
very much; exhorted the sisters to punctu-
ality and improvement; remarked the great
blessings that would attend the faithful.
Mrs. M. E. Watmough then spoke upon
the subject of elections, and the neglect of
the sisters on this point, also in regard to
teaching the children as they grew up
every pure principle and duty. Mrs. M. I.
Horne expressed her pleasure in being able
to meet with the sisters again, spoke upon
the principles of marriage, and the superi-
or blessings conferred by the higher law of
marriage which has been revealed in this
last day, also upon seri-culture, and elections,
and their visit to Tooele.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard impressed up-
on the sisters the necessity of using decor-
um, and teaching it to their children, and
advised them to remember this subject in
the coming Conference, it would add to the
good order and quiet of the meetings, in
large assemblies particularly.

	HYDE PARK, CACHE Co., Sep. 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society met July 18th, for the
purpose of organizing a Retrenchment As-
sociation. Our Bishop was present and gave
us some excellent advice; after which a few
of the sisters made suitable remarks and
the young ladies were organized with the
following officers:
	Sarah James President,
	Ellen Woolf,		}
	Celia Woolf,		}
	Permelia Drury,	}	Counselors.
	Lizzie Thurston,	}
	Rose Hyde,		}
	Orrilla Woolf,	}
	Mary Burnham, Sec'y.,
	Kate Perks, Assistant Sec'y.,
	Rosanna Hurren, Treas.
	We have about forty members, have
made resolutions similar to many that have
been published. The girls all feel pleased
with the arrangement and are energetic in
the work. We hold our meetings once a
week, and should be so glad to have some of

[Column 2]
our sisters from Salt Lake come and talk to
us. We intend to try and live up to our
resolutions and improve day by day. Your
paper is read in our meetings, and we could
not well do without it. Praying God to
bless every effort made for its circulation,
we are
		Yours Truly,
			MARY S. BURNHAM Sec.
				KATE PERKS Ass't. sec.

		ST. CHARLES, Sept. 15th,, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the Annual Celebration of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
held in St. Charles, Sep. 6th, '76, just one
year from their organization. Proceedings
commenced at 10 a. m. with singing "Oh ye
mountains high," by the Retrenchment
choir, Opening prayer by Bishop Budge,
singing, "Hard Times come again no
more"—
	The Annual Report was read by the Sec-
retary; items as follows:
	Retrenchment Association of St. Charles,
organized Sept. 6th, 1875, with President,
eight Counselors, a Business Manager or
Superintendent, Secretary, and twenty-sev-
en members. Have held twenty-four meet-
ings and had one party, the proceeds of
which was forwarded to Miss E. R. Snow to
help defray the expenses of the Ladies Fair
at Salt Lake City.
	Then followed select reading and recita-
tions, also singing and music. Speeches
were then made by Pres't. Rich, Bishops
Budge and Hunt; they thought the young
ladies had made great improvement during
one year, said they would be pleased to
meet with them a year from that time, and
see if there would be such a marked im-
provement at the close of another year, as
there had been at this. Meeting was then
adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. Closing
hymn, "We thank Thee O God for a Pro-
phet"—Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
	We met again at 2. p. m., and commenced
dancing, had songs and recitations at inter-
vals. At five the hall was cleared and ta-
bles arranged for supper. A committee of
six young ladies appointed waited on the
tables, dressed in costumes to represent a
hundred years ago; there were two tables
the length of the hall and about 50 persons
seated at each. Thanks were offered by
Pres't. C. C. Rich; the supper was a com-
plete success and all passed off pleasantly.
When the tables were removed, dancing re-
commenced. The committee danced in
their costumes the rest of the evening,
which created a great deal of mirth; about
8 o'clock in the evening Pres't. Rich made
a few remarks, expressing that it had been
altogether an enjoyable affair; then he with
Bishop Budge, bade the company good
night and started for their home in Paris.
The dance was closed at 11 o'clock in the
evening, all retired feeling-that the spirit
of God had been with them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and have in each select reading from the
EXPONENT.
			LIZZIE M. PUGMIRE, Sec'y.

	DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER Co.,
						Sept. 6th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty of this place was held in the School-
House, Aug. 9th. There were present, Pres-
ident J. C. Dewey, of this place, and Pres-
idents' Harriet and Minnie Snow of Brig-
ham City. They spoke words of encour-

[Column 3]
agement to the sisters and exhorted them
to be united and live their religion. The
report of our last years' proceedings was
read; after which Pres. Mary Dewey made
a few remarks. The present officers are
as follows:
	Mary Dewey, President,
	Heneretta Call,	}	Counselors
	Althea Lewis,	}
	Eliza Howard, Secretary,
	Matilda Lish Treasurer.
	There is a small amount of means in the
treasury, and we hope to do more in the
next year than we have done in the past;
some of the sisters have united and are
saving the eggs their hens lay on Sundays
for the Temple. We meet once a week and
have good meetings, and those who attend
them regularly, feel well and are desirous
of doing all they can to help the work along.
We have been organized one year and we
know how to appreciate the blessings of a
Society. Your excellent paper is read in
our meetings with great interest.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work, we remain your sisters,
&c.
			MARY DEWEY, Pres.
				ELIZA HOWARD, Sec.

		WELLSVILLE, CACHE CO.,
						Sep. 12, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of this place, was held July 11th '76.
Our financial matters for the past year are
as follows:
	Disbursements to the needy... $ 85 19
	To Mrs. Romania Pratt and .....
		Centennial Flag..................    15 00
	Towards building Society House. 59 49
	Sundries.....................................     40 92
				Total.................... $ 200 60
	In the Treasury.......................... $     5 45
	Temple clothes, and Sundries..     91 30
	Shares in Co-op Institutions.....   118 25
				Total....................... 215 00
	We had a good meeting, the Spirit of
God prevailed in a marked degree. Act-
ing Bishop Jardine who was present, en-
couraged us by his wise exhortations to
continue faithful in our honorable and
holy mission, in striving to alleviate suf-
fering among the children of our Great
Parent. Several of the Sisters then arose
and bore testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel as taught by the Latter-day Saints.
We expect to finish our Relief Society
House this fall, it was commenced last
Spring and the outside work is now com-
pleted, thanks to the brethren and sisters
who generously donated for that purpose; it
is a splendid structure, being composed of
three rooms; a large one running east and
west, 30 by 15 ft., and a room at each side
14 by 12, the large room will be dedicated
to meetings and quiltings. One of the
small rooms is intended for a store, the
other for various purposes. This good piece
of work was the suggestion of our worthy
Bishop, Wm. H. Maughan ere he went on
his mission.
	Success to the EXPONENT and every en-
terprise that has for its object the good of
the human family.
	Yours in the Gospel of Peace,
			ELLEN WHITON, Pres.
				LUCY HA[-]LAM, Sec.


INK is the black sea on which thought
rides at anchor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
THE MAGIC OF MUSICAL ECHOES. 

There's a strain of music floats on the breeze,
	And its echoes, the rhythm of fairies tell,
And mingling with notes of the sighing trees
	It enchants the soul with a weird-like spell.
And the sweetest visions of long ago
	Are afloat on the summer breeze again,
And we pause as we think of time's swift flow,
	And we listen to catch the sad refrain.
The thoughts that come with that musical strain
	Bring the past enwrapt in a mystic light—
And the halo of memory once again,
	Beams dim o'er our path on a moonlit night—
Away in the shadowy, hazy past,
	Ere clouds had darkened the azure skies;
Our pulses were quick, and our hearts beat fast,
	And earth in its beauty, seem'd Paradise.
The tender chords of the heart may be stirr'd
	By a sweet strain of music soft, and low,
Repeating the echoes that erst were heard
	From the depths of the years of long ago.
A lingering sweetness of cherish'd hours,
	Sweeps through our lives as we journey along,
As delicate perfume from fragrant flowers,
	Or the melody of some long lost song,
Which wake in our soul where remembrance stays,
	The joys which e'en time can never outlive;
And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days
A nameless charm does their influence give. 
	EMILE. 
S. L. City, Sept. 27, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I want a little talk with our girls, and I do
not know of a better opportunity than
through the columns of the EXPONENT. I
love them all, bless their dear hearts, and
the boys too. I love to see them inno-
cent, intelligent and beautiful. They can
all be so, yes every one of them. No mat-
ter if nature has not endowed them with
faces that are most attractive to the casual
observer, they may cultivate sweet tempers
and pleasant dispositions, until they will ob-
tain the admiration and respect of all who
are associated with them, and to those who
know their true value, their faces will beam
with grace and beauty. Sons and daugh-
ters of Zion, you are destined, if you so
will it, to fill high places in the world's
honor and esteem. A life of usefulness is
before you. The foundation is laid where-
on you can rear the walls of a goodly edi-
fice, and your names may shine forth in the
annals of history, brilliant as the sun at
noonday. You may be classed with the no-
blest genius of the age, and your names
handed down to posterity emblazoned in
letters, brilliant as of gold; or, they may be
held up to your fellow countrymen as ex-
amples of degradation and shame. It lies
with yourselves to choose your path, and to
walk therein. Let truth, modesty and vir-
tue be your standard, let your lives be open
to investigation, that all your actions may
bear the strictest scrutiny without calling a
blush to your cheek. Then no stain or
blemish will rest upon your characters and
the good you strive for will not be thrown
back as a mockery. Every woman should
guard her virtue as she would her life, that
no tarnish may rest on her fair fame. It is
a duty she owes, not only to herself, but to
her friends and to unborn generations. How
often are parents hearts bowed down and
their lives shortened by the reckless and
unwise course of their children. I often
think, when I see some broken-hearted
mother, mourning over the disgraceful con-
duct of her children, how heartless and
hardened they must be to cause so much
sorrow. If they have no regard for their
own honor or welfare, they might, at least,
respect the parents who reared them, who
would suffer and lay down their lives for

[COLUMN 2]

them if need be, and for THEIR sakes keep
themselves pure and unblemished. For
the sisters who love them, and whose pros-
pects in life may be blighted through no in-
discretion of their own, but through the
recklessness and ill conduct of those who
should, and do profess to love them. They
not only injure themselves, but they do an
irreparable wrong to those who are bound
to them by the tenderest ties of relation-
ship. Then I would say to my young
friends, be watchful and prayerful lest in
some unguarded moment the enemy should
take advantage, and a rash act be commit-
ted that can never, never be recalled. No
tears, sorrow, or repentance, no remorse,
however deep, can give back to a woman
her lost chastity. No atonement can erase
the blemish on her fair fame. She brings
upon herself a lifetime of agonies, of suffer-
ing and repentance.
	She not only loses her own respect, but
she loses the respect, and outrages the feel-
ings of her friends and kindred, and be-
queathes to her children a legacy of shame.
How must a young man or woman of intel-
ligence and high principles feel to bear the
brand of illegitimacy? Who can imagine
the agony of outraged feelings, when the
disgraceful information comes to them as it
is apt to do sooner or later. Could they be
blamed if they turned with loathing from
the parents they had learned to love and
reverence? Thus do, misdeeds follow the
perpetrator as long as life continues.
	And what of the man that could cause
all this sorrow and despair? Can he pass
without spot or blemish? Not by any means.
He should be marked for execration, held
up as a thing too foul for the companionship
of modesty and virtue. Man who is strong
in his passions, in his love and affections,
should be strong also in honor and self-con-
trol. He should look on every woman as a
mother or a sister, and guard her honor as
he would her life, with his own if need be.
What man would not strike down the
wretch who by violence would harm a de-
fenseless woman. How much more should
he be struck down who would insinuate
himself into her kind feelings, win her af-
fections, and in an unguarded moment, steal
from her the honor that is more sacred to
her than her life. No words can describe
the execration we should feel for such a vil-
lain, his life is not too much to pay the for-
feit. But, says one, does not marriage make
reparation? Yes, a poor pitiful reparation,
but not restoration. It cannot erase the
blemish from her crown of virtue, nor re-
store to her the happiness and innocence of
her maidenhood. Such marriages are al-
ways incomplete, and often unhappy. Ev-
ery man prefers taking to his home a pure
and unsullied bride, and he will not give
honor to those of tarnished name even
though he himself is the cause of it. Neith-
er will he give the same respect and con-
fidence to a woman whose purity he knows
to be of such doubtful texture.
	Girls, guard your virtue as with a wall of
adamant, and do not even countenance the
man who does not hold virtue sacred, shun
him as you would the viper that is seeking
your heart's blood. Do not let love plead
his cause, for he is unworthy the name of
love, much less the affection of a pure and
honorable woman. Give heed to the coun-
sel of your friends, and let your language
and manners be modest and refined. Let
all your thoughts be pure and holy. Cast
aside all books and papers that are calcula-
ted to influence the emotions in a wrong di-
rection or contaminate the mind. Shun the
companionship of the vulgar and unprinci-

[COLUMN 3]

pled, allow no undue familiarity in any of
your communications, and you will never
have cause for repentance.
	MARY.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

		OGDEN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
	I wish to say a few words through
your valuable paper; thoughts suggested by
reading an article in the "Sacramento
Daily Union;" it is headed "THE TWO PRO-
PHETS."
	I know that this Gospel is true, and so do
thousands of my sisters, and we wish the
world to understand that we know it is the
church and kingdom of God. In the above
named article the question is asked, "What
will be the situation in Utah on the death
of Brigham Young? The answer, by Joseph
Smith Jr., is this: "I THINK there will be
nothing to hold the people together on
Young's demise." I can answer this ques-
tion according to knowledge and not on a
mere think so. I know that this is the
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people,
but will stand forever; it came not of man
or the will of man, but from God our Eter-
nal Father, and it is His cause and His
work. Mr. Smith's statement in regard to
our leaders and their principles, as well as
their actual lives, are altogether false; and
it is hard work to read, and not attempt to
refute such imputations.
	There are many thousands in comforta-
ble homes through the wise management of
Brigham Young, and the blessing of God
our Heavenly Father, and I am one of
those. It also says we are compelled to
pay the tithing. I answer I have always
paid tithing, but never been compelled to
do so, I have done it from my own free will
and choice, because I knew it to be a com-
mandment of God, and binding upon His
people. It also says that what we term
Celestial Marriage is a heresy. I say it is
a commandment of God to His people, and
the Bible will sanction me in this declara-
tion. Father Abraham practiced this doc-
trine, also Jacob, and God talked with them
face to face," and to Moses and many others.
To the pure all things are pure. Joseph
Smith Jr., calls it immoral and unclean and
says he has fought against it. I am sorry
to hear of any one fighting against it, for
those who will do so will become as dark as
midnight, and will lose the Spirit of God,
if they ever had it.
	We are witnesses for our Father's cause
and kingdom, whether the world believe
us or not, and our witness will stand against
them at the great day of accounts; it will
be a saviour of life unto life, and death un-
to death. Then O let us be valiant my dear
sisters in testimony and witness for God and
His kingdom; I am proud of the EXPONENT
for this purpose.
	I am your sister in the Gospel,
						ELLEN MCKAY.


The steel that has suffered most is the best steel.
It has been in the furnace again and again, it has
been on the anvil; it has been tight in the jaws of
the vice; it has felt the teeth of the rasp; it has
been ground by emery; it has been heated and
hammered and filed, until it does not know itself,
and it comes out a splendid knife. And, if men
only knew it what are called their "misfortunes"
are God's best blessings, for they are the molding
influences which give them shapeliness and edge,
and durability and power,


68		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WEELS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
[-]ast streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. [-]1, 1876.


NOTICE.

	We would say to our agents and subscrib-
ers that our terms to clubs are the same as
heretofore, no change having been made;
but we withdrew the article (Club Rates) as
our paper is small and we thought it suffi-
ciently understood; had any change been
made our agents and the public would have
been apprised of it.


THE POWER OF MAMMON.

	That money is the ruling power of the age,
has become proverbial. No matter how supe-
rior one may be in morals, or attainments, in
innate generosity of mind, or chivalry of char-
acter, custom will not exempt him from bow-
ing on the altar of Mammon.
	In this age of professed culture and refine-
ment, when all the accumulated erudition of
the ages of the past has concentrated itself in-
to one grand avalanche of knowledge and
showered itself in rich profusion to grace the
crowning era of worldly wisdoms, strange that
men and women should not inherit and pos-
sess more strength of principle and of charac-
ter, than to yield to this fascinating, all-absorb-
ing influence of the power of gold. It is a 
baneful deterioration to society, leading to all
sorts of stratagems and expediences to keep up
appearances that are false and shallow.
	The majority of people have not the cour-
age to live within their actual resources, be-
cause if they do, those whose companionship
they are desirous of retaining will "cut" them.
And for such flimsy reasons they ignore all
true pride of character, and become virtually
slaves in bondage to custom, or to the tyrant
money. They must maintain their position
and keep up a certain style—and at whose ex-
pense? In many instances not their own.
	Where is the change to begin, the great re-
formation, how will it commence? Sim-
plicity in dress, in the style of living—that is,
of eating, drinking, visiting, giving entertain-
ments—in order to come down to some solid
basis is highly necessary, or sooner, or later
the final crash which all are trying to avoid by
shifting the burden from one's shoulder to an-
others will be inevitable. Otherwise it would
seem necessary for every person to come into
possession of a gold mine in order to live up to
the style of this fast age.
	To listen only for a few minutes to the con-
versation of what is termed business men, one
cannot but draw the conclusion that money
has actually become the motive power that de-
termines the genuine value of every thing on 
earth.


What capital can a man possess to ensure
him permanant standing in modern society
without money? Honesty is apparently at a 
discount; will brains or mind avail him?
Not unless he can make practical use of 
them which will yeild a heavy percentage in 
hard coin. One would almost doubt whether a 
colossal mind would even call forth admira-
tion unless backed by a colossal fortune.
						[handwritten] E. B. Wel


NOTICE.

	A meeting of all the officers of the Relief
Societies and as many others as wish to attend
will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 4th, at 2
o'clock, p. m., in the Council House.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday Evening, Sept. 21, a Bishop's
meeting was held in the Council House build-
ing, at which time the house was dedicated
for the use of the Priesthood. Elder John
Taylor offered the dedicatory prayer.

	Mr. James Dwyer has gone East to pur-
chase a new and liberal stock of books and
holiday goods; and to attend the great Book
Fair at New York on the 25th of Oct.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre will open on the 5th
inst., and remain open during conference.
The first play presented upon the boards will
be "Through by Daylight" and Mr. Jim Ward
and Miss Winnetta Montague will play the
prinicipal parts.
	THE AMATEUR Dramatic Company who
have been playing for the benefit of Mrs. Ro-
mania Pratt, have succeeded well in Utah
County, having given good satisfaction, and
been renumerated financially, quite equal to
their expectations.
	UTAH MUSICAL TIMES.—We have received
the seventh number of this new magazine.
The editorial "Vocal Music in Schools," we
would recommend specially to the notice of all
interested in the cultivation and education of
the young. It also contains two very sweet
pieces of original music, one, composed by
Prof. Careless and the other, entitled "Prayer,"
by his wife.
	As a home paper, which contains items of
general interest, we take pleasure in recom-
mending the Ogden Junction, which has now
entered upon its fifth volume: as a local paper,
the citizens of Ogden and vicinity, have every
reason to be proud of it. It contains a vast
amount of real humor, and in this feature it is
particularly characteristic of the editor.
	THE MEETINGS, conventions etc, which are
being held in the interest of the coming elec-
tion, have been so far well attended, and good
order and quiet have been the rule. The elec-
tion of a Delegate to Congress to represent the
interests of the people in Utah, is an import-
ant subject, and the people, MEN and WOMEN,
who hold the right of franchise should be
prompt in exercising it to secure such a candi-
date as shall be qualified in all respects to pro
mote the best interests of the community.
	PORTLAND, SALT Lake, and South Pass rail-
road company, reorganized from the Portland,
Dallas and Salt Lake railroad company, in-
tend commencing to grade the road as soon as
the location is completed in Malad city. There
is a large corps of engineers in the field survey-
ing and locating the line. They intend to
complete the portion of the road to Malad city
and have it in running order by the 1st of
January. Colonel H. I. Chapman has charge
of the company's business and is forwarding
the work with great dispatch.
	The Deseret Silk Association will not hold
any meeting until sometime during the com-
ing conference, and then due public notice will
be given. It is expected that there will be a
great many of the brethren and sisters from
the country in the city then, and that all
those who are interested in seri-culture will at-
tend this meeting and such arrangements be
made, and instructions given, as shall awaken
increased interest, and promote the develop-
ment of this branch of home-industry. 

THE FORTY-SIXTH Semi-Annual Conference
is now very near: this people have been blest
in a most wonderful manner in establishing
themselves here in these vallies. This present
year there has been a bountiful harvest in
many parts of the Territory, and assuredly
should the people with one accord give praise
and thanksgiving to God whose hand has
been stretched out continually in their behalf.
There will be in all probability one of the larg-
est conferences ever assembled together in
Utah; It adds very much to the enjoyment of
any meeting and more especially is it neces-
sary where there is a multitudinous assem-
blage, to observe the laws of order and decor-
um. People can scarcely be too particular in
this respect.
 INTEMPERANCE AND in what way best to
check the growth of it, is a subject that is be-
ing considerably agitated in this community
at the present time. It is certainly one of the
most important matters which can be treated
upon, and requires the utmost thought, cau-
tion and wisdom in passing ordinances or reg-
ulations. It is one of the greatest evils with
which the world is contaminated and leads to
more crime than anything else in the whole
catalogue of vices. Every person who has
eyes to see may be aware of the great change
in this city in a very few years, in the growth
of this terrible sin; and it is decidedly time
that some efficient measures were taken to
prevent further increase of and profit from the
degrading traffic in this community. It is
sincerely to be hoped for the best interests of
all, and especially the young and innocent,
whose future it is the duty of the people to
carefully consider, that such measures may be
adopted as shall successfully hinder the sale of
ardent spirits, except for medicinal purposes.
God speed the time when every saloon here,
or elsewhere shall be closed forever. This sub-
ject should be kept before the people until some
permanent movement can be unitedly deter-
mined upon.
 THE  SUNDAY School: Jubilee of Cache
County, held in the bowery at Logan, Sep. 24,
1876, was in its complete success most encour-
aging, not only to those who had been instru-
mental in bringing about the gratifying result,
but to all persons interested in the future wel-
fare and progress of the youth of the Territory.
The Sunday School is one of the most efficient
educators of children. The congregation, it is
believed, consisted of over 2,000 children, and
about two thirds, or three-fourths as many
adults. Elder George Goddard, Assistant Gen-
eral Superintendent of the Sunday School
Union, addressed the children on the power of
the Sunday School to inculcate and promote
the best and truest principles in the minds of
the young, at a time when they were suscepti-
ble of receiving lasting impressions. Bishop
Wm. B. Preston in his remarks alluded to the
pleasure he felt in being able to say that there
were no "grog shops" there to allure and pol-
lute the habits and morals of the children, and
felt that he would like to take that vast assem-


blage in his arms and care for, and carry them
through, pure and unspotted from the evils of
the world, and see the children grow up in vir-
tue and purity."
	On reading this we could but think what an
appropriate speech for a Bishop, the father of
a people. Would that there were many such
fathers who would carry out in their lives the
feeling portrayed so eloquently in this brief
sentence. President Brigham Young. Jr., in
his address, contrasted the multitude there as
sembled, to the few who were only a few years
since gathered in Salt Lake City. He alluded
in a pathetic manner to the history of Joseph
Smith, said when the children were answer
ing the questions, he could fancy he saw "the
boy Joseph Smith wending his way to the
hill Cumorah." Spoke of the joy he must
have felt in receiving the plates from the stone
box. He alluded briefly to the joys and sor-
rows that afterward followed, and said the rec-
ollection of these things brought to him both
pain and pleasure in meditating upon them.
	Sup't. Moses Thatcher read some selected
lines which were very appropriate to the occas-
ion.
	Towards the close of the Jubliee a standing
musical committee was formed. The Jubliee
was most thoroughly enjoyed by all present,
and the most perfect harmony and good order
prevailed.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


MISTAKES CORRECTED.

	Mrs. Duniway, in an account of her recent
visit to this city, speaks of going through the
"great 'co-op' on Sunday." We are willing to
believe that the mistake thus published in her
paper, the "New North West," was merely a
typographical error. Still, it demands atten-
tion; as the erroneous idea might be created
thereby, that the "Mormons" have no more
respect for the Sabbath than to have their
stores open, and business transacted upon that
day. Mrs. Duniway's visit to the building re-
ferred to, occurred on Saturday instead of on
Sunday.
	She mentions "a Mormon lady who acted as
chaperon, and was both obliging and intelli-
gent." We bow acknowledgement to this deli-
cate compliment; and consequently we are
prepared to speak knowingly concerning the
circumstances of which Mrs. Duniway writes
during her visit to the store known as "The
Co-op." She speaks of a gentleman being ac-
costed by her chaperon, and relates the follow-
ing short conversation which took place be-
tween them.
	"'Have you been to see—lately?' evidently
meaning one of the wives of the man address-
ed.
	'No,' said he, 'not for some time. How are
they getting along?'
	"Nicely,' replied our guide; 'but you ought
to go and see her. She has a nice new baby.'
	'I know I ought to go, but I'm too busy,'
said the saint."
	Mrs. D. then comments as follows:
	"When the mothers of men are thus neglect-
ed, through viciousness and drunkeness, when
undergoing the fiery ordeal of unwelcome and
enforced maternity, men denounce the cruelty,
though failing to prevent it by law; but what
can we say of such inhumanity when prac-
ticed under the name of religion, and adhered
to as an ordinance of God, the law; meanwhile,
remaining powerless?"
	Was Mrs. Duniway watching for iniquity,
that she imagined she discovered a huge black
fact, where in truth, not the shadow of a dark
reality was visible?
	We take pleasure in correcting this mistake


also, which we consider of too much import
ance to pass unnoticed. The gentleman with
whom the above conversation was held, is the
father-in-law, not the husband of the lady
spoken of; which, we think, alters the appear-
ance of the case materially. We do not, and
would not knowingly hold conversation with
such an inhuman husband and father as Mrs.
Duniway must have considered our gentle-
manly and much esteemed friend. It is not
among the Mormons, we are happy to say,
that "the mothers of men," and their offspring
are "thus neglected." The present glory and
the anticipated exaltation of the Latter-day
Saint, reclines in his little kingdom begun on
earth.
	We hope the "New North West" will pub-
lish this explanation, which as an advocate of
truth and true intelligence, it should do in jus-
tice to its subscribers as well as to a people who
are often ignorantly maligned.


For the EXPONENT.
OUR PARENTS' LOVE.

	There is no love as true and faithful as
the love our parents give us, and for none
are we so ungrateful. We take this devo-
tion as something which is our right, or as
something we deserve, even though our
mothers toil and labor and deny them-
selves time after time for our gratification,
from our earliest infancy till our growing
to womanhood. We can never comprehend
the extent of her love and patience with
us; yet is there anything like it? Our lover
may desert us, our friends vanish, and in
our sorrow and distress leave us; but our
parents cling to us in all trials and troubles,
and we are dearer to them for any misfor-
tune or grief we may chance to have, or
meet with  in this life. Then let us do all
we can to make our parents hearts rejoice,
and that will add to their happiness in any
way, and show them by our actions that we
appreciate their kindness and love, and try
to lighten their troubles and labors; then,
when they shall leave us, we will have
nothing to reproach ourselves with on their
account; but to look forward eagerly to the
time when we shall meet them with joy
and gladness, and be assured that the meet-
ing will be a welcome one.
	M. J. R. R. HAMPTON.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
				WOMAN.

	I do not know how I shall throw my ideas
into language, but my theme is Woman! I
fear I shall fail in doing justice to the sub-
ject, yet I will try; I am a woman's friend
in the fullest sense, for I will show how
much we owe to woman! Who gave me
life, naturally speaking? My mother! who
watched over me in my baby-hood, and
boyhood, in sickness and in health? Who
taught me to speak? Who taught me to
pray? My mother! who has watched over
me through the critical moments of youth-
ful life up to manhood? My Mother! Who
told me when I was wild, oh! so wild! to
obey the Priesthood? My Mother! Who
gave me strength to subdue my wild nature
by her kind teachings and wise suggestions?
My Mother! Who on earth are my two
best friends to-day? My wife, and my
Mother; I class them together now, because
I know no difference! Being so blest, should
not woman be my theme? And where can
I get a better subject to write upon? Ladies!
I ask you from 19 to 95—do you ever think
of your position on this earth? The influ-

[Column 2]
ence you throw around, either for good or
for evil? Think of it! Think of the power
you have for good, or its opposite! Do you
realize the life-giving faculty you possess,
like your Mother Earth? Do you try to un-
derstand your present, and your final des-
tiny? Oh! Women! Oh! Girls! if you would
only think, if you would only "take coun-
sel together," and say "come let us reason
together," if this be true, let us take heed and
obey it, what is wrong, let us refuse and
endeavor to appreciate and practice that
which is wise and good. Let me (although
a comparative stranger to many of you)
persuade you to think, think, think of your
position in life! You will say, perhaps, where
is my position? Well, I will try and give
you some of my ideas, but hold! I shall get
myself into a "fix," for I was going to pre-
sent my wife as a specimen! But perhaps
you would say, "oh! he's infatuated." Well
then to suit you I won't take her, but of
course you will let me take my Mother!
My own Mother! My Teacher in early
years, and up to the present time; No, I
hardly dare trust you yet! So I wont take
my Mother! If you all knew her, I would
not fear you censuring me for partiality—
but don't we all love our mothers? Are they
not literally our guardian angels upon the
earth? Yes—and we may add, "We knew it
not!" Now I must finish these desultory
thoughts and ideas, with a few more that
are in my mind. Burns, in speaking of the
works of Nature, says:

	"Her 'prentice Han', she tried on Man,
	And then she made the Lasses, O!"

I believe that God ordained man to be the
Leader and Woman to be his "Help-meet,"
that is, that she should walk foot to foot,
and shoulder to shoulder with her Brother
Man! Why, oh! why cannot you as Sisters,
as Wives, as Mothers, as Women as Girls,
follow in the footsteps of your Brother Man,
if worthy, in whatever capacity, or position
he may stand to you. Give me the woman
who is one with me through the journey of
life, my God, her God, my hope, her hope;
my people, her people. Do I ask too much?
Verily No! There have been many such
women upon the earth, though they are
among the few! but quite enough to re-
deem the sex. Then my sisters, awake
from your lethargy, your apathy, shake off
the listlessness that now enfolds so many
and say we will realize the Mission God has
given us, whether man helps us or not,
whether he owns it or not we WILL be a
Helpmeet for Man.
							IOTA,
	S. L. City, Sep., 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Erysipelas:—Take smartweed moisten with
water, and apply to the part affected. If the
herb can be obtained green it is preferable; a tea
of the same drank inwardly will assist in remov-
ing the disease from the interior of the body.
Erysipelas is caused by an injudicious living,
which creates a putrefaction of the blood. No
person would have this disease if sufficient out-
door exercise was taken accompanied by a natu-
ral and proper diet, and sponge-bath every even-
ing and morning to keep the pores of the skin
free, so that nature could throw off the impure
matter which accumulates. This disease is often
caused by medicine which has been previously ta-
ken, and may have been gathering in the system
for years, in which case there is no permanent
cure except to purify the blood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	YOUNG LADIES OF SOCIETY.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

							"I your glass,
		Will modestly discover to yourself,
		That of yourself, which you know not of."
	The term young lady as expressed in
"common parlance," means one that dress-
es stylishly; if she has an indulgent father,
one that can be coaxed and wheedled out of
money for a caress, a few kisses, or win-
ning smiles, or, perchance, if the occasion
is urgent, a few sobs and a shower of tears.
Her hair must be frizzed and crimped, and
arranged "a la mode," regardless of facial
or cranial suitability. She is harmonized
and toned down to the level of modern
small talk, and has no disagreeable hob-
bies or opinions to make her offensive
in the eyes of the opposite sex; she is so in-
nocent and unsophisticated that whatever
she does is beautiful, in their eyes at least,
and in whatever she says or does she mani-
fests that she knows the power of sweet
looks and simplicity.
	She never seeks to lighten one's burdens
not even those of her own father or mother;
she is too delicate for any occupation, save
the fancy work she toys with, and she has
no power to strengthen or make happy the
lives of others. Even her little brothers
and sisters are an annoyance to her, she
dislikes children and if she marries never
intends to have any. She expects every
one to accommodate her, or yield her supre-
macy, the best seats, and the first privileges
are hers by right, one would suppose from her
behavior. Her accomplishments are varied
but she excels in none; she sings a little
when it pleases her, or plays a little on the
piano, or guitar, she knows a few French
phrases and has read scores of novels. She
is well versed in small talk and knows how
to flirt to perfection. She can dance all
night, but cannot possibly assist her mother
in sweeping, dusting or any household em-
ployment because it is too fatiguing.
	She ridicules the idea of women taking
any prominent part in any public enter-
prise, or meeting, is disgusted with wo-
men who want to vote, she expects she will
be all right, let the condition of politics or
the national affairs be prosperous or other-
wise, the world is indebted to her, one
would imagine so sure is she of her rights.
	She feels sadly ashamed of the mother
who ventures to suggest the propriety of
being self-sustaining, and her mother would
not by any means, like her to know that
she really had addressed a public congre-
gation.
	She knows nothing of the real worth of
money only as a power to be used for her
comfort, and to procure her kid gloves, em-
broidery, laces and jewelry. She never
thinks of denying herself any pleasure that
it may administer solace to another. SELF,
is her prevailing impulse. Her whole
every-day life is one grand mistake from
beginning to end, and will culminate in a 
grand failure.
	The fashionable young lady estimates
men by their faultless attire, the whiteness
of their hands and teeth, the fashionable
cut of their hair, the peculiar curl of their
mustache, and their polished manners. This
is her "beau ideal" no matter if his mind
is as bare and as unfruitful as the desert of
Sahara, if he possess these qualifications and
added to them has money to board at a ho-
tel or travel about he's a "good catch."
	Is this a fitting example for the daughters
of Zion? and are some of them not trying
to ape these very things, living continually
for the indulgence of SELF, without any

[Column 2]
higher aim than to create and foster admir-
ation?
	When one contemplates the great work
which woman has assigned her upon this
earth, and the necessity of commencing it
early, fostering and inculcating those gen-
uine principles of virtue, chastity, self-de-
nial and true nobility and generosity that
will develop into the most sublime attri-
butes in the character of woman as a wife
and mother, how earnest one should be to
impress upon the minds and hearts of the
daughters of Zion the great importance of
improving time and opportunities.

	"I would not waste my spring of youth,
	In idle dalliance; I would plant rich seeds,
	To blossom in my womanhood, and bear fruit
						When I am old."

	S. L. City, Sept. 23rd, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	A delegate convention of the Woman
Suffragists of Mass., was held in Meionaon,
Tremont Temple, Boston, Sept. 12, 1876, in
response to a call made upon them for that
purpose. Their motive was to consider po-
litical duties in regard to the fall elections
and to make nominations for State officers
should it then seem advisable.
	The Committee, or Credentials reported
that there were present 706 delegates, rep-
resenting 105 towns and wards. Mrs. Mary
A. Livermore was elected Chairman. The
meeting was one of special interest, many
subjects were discussed, all aiming at Wo-
man Suffrage.
	The Convention read the second time the
resolutions that had been adopted in 1872,
which were received with cheers.
	"Resolved, That we heartily approve of
the recognition of the Rights of Woman
contained in the National Republican plat-
form; that the Republican party of Massa-
chusetts, as the representative of Liberty
and Progress, is in favor of extending Suf-
frage on equal terms to all American citi-
zens irrespective of sex, and will hail the
day when the educated intellect and en-
lightened conscience of Woman finds di-
rect expression at the ballot box.
	Mr. Lothrop, for the Committee on Reso-
lutions, reported the following:

DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES.
	The Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts
in Delegate Convention assembled, respect-
fully submit to the people of the Common-
wealth the reasons which compel them for
the first time to make independent nomina-
tions for State officers.
	For many years they have appealed to
both the great political parties of the State
to rectify the injustice which taxes and gov-
erns women without their consent, and
which subjects them to cruel legal disabili-
ties, as wives, mothers and widows. But
their appeals have been disregarded. The
Republican party of Massachusetts, after
repeatedly endorsing Woman Suffrage in
its platform and repudiating it in the Legis-
lature, has just refused to invite Republican
women to take part in the nomination of
their representatives, and has framed a
platform which it declares has a double
meaning on the Suffrage issue. The Demo-
cratic party of the State has refused to
take any action on the subject. The Pro-
hibitory party of the State, on the contrary,
has invited women to take part in its pri-
mary meetings, with an equal voice and
vote in the nomination of candidates and
the transaction of business. It has made
the establishment of Woman Suffrage one

[COLUMN 2]

of its avowed objects, and has nominated
candidates, all of whom are Suffragists.
	State governments have jurisdiction over
matters with which the National Govern-
ment has no concern. We maintain that
State officers should be elected upon State
issues, independent of National politics.
And, whereas, Woman Suffrage is purely a
question of State policy, it is the duty of
Woman Suffragists of Massachusetts so to
cast their ballots next November as to rep-
resent their principles in the choice of
State officers.
	Believing that "Governments are just
only when they rest on the consent of the
governed," and that the establishment of
a truly representative government is vastly
more important than the success of Rice or
Adams, we commend the nominees of this
Woman Suffrage State Convention to the
Suffrages of the people, irrespective of
party, as the candidates who represent Im-
partial Suffrage and Equal Rights for all."
	Mrs. Livermore's speech was spirited
and eloquent, containing many excellent
points; she referred to the temperance
movement resting with women and that
men felt it to be so; she believed there
were 30,000 votes in the state that could be
obtained for Woman Suffrage. She spoke
of the influence of women in making pub-
lic meetings quiet and orderly. She ex-
horted women not to be scared by the word
"unwomanly," which scares so many out of
their boots. The definition of the word
womanly, means "being a fool," to most
men." She said if consecration makes
men noble, it lifts women to the height of
a grand purpose."
	Mrs. Spaulding, of Cambridge, offered
the following resolution, which was passed
without discussion:
	"Resolved, That we pledge ourselves as
Suffragists to vote for no person for Sena-
tor or Representative to the General Court,
who is not fully committed to the Suffrage
movement, and that the State Central Com-
mittee be instructed to take measures to en-
able Suffragists to carry this resolution at
the polls."


R. S. REPORT.

		CEDAR VALLEY, Sep. 13, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 21st of April, 1875, we had a pleas-
ant visit from Sister E. R. Snow, who or-
ganized among us a Retrenchment Associ-
ation Since that time we have met once a
week, and although we are but few in num-
ber, our meetings are generally interesting.
We read selections from the Exponent and
other good works, and original essays. We
have done no work in our meetings until
lately, now we meet every two weeks to
do work of different kinds. We desire to
improve ourselves and to do all we can to
forward the work in which we are engaged.
The officers who were selected are as fol-
lows:
	Miss Rebecca Rodeback, President,
	"	Polly D. W.,		 }
	"	Melissa Weeks,	 }
	"	Mary J. Glines,	 } Counselors.
	"	Phebe Wilcox,	 }
	Mrs. Harriet Walton,	 }
	"	Margaret Bennett, }
	Miss Mariett Cook, Secretary,
	"	Serena White, Assistant Secretary.
	Wishing your paper success, and the
blessing of God to attend you in your la-
bors, and hoping you will excuse this, my
first attempt, I remain your sister,
				SERENNA. WHITE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
MISUSE OF POWER.

	God never gave to man nor woman,
brains, heart and muscular strength, with
the intention that any power pertaining to
the organization should remain dormant;
or that either should tryannize over and sub-
ject the others. Yet, in our mortal weak-
ness, we call it "human nature," that one
propensity over-balances the rest at times,
and often in spite of better judgment,
makes men and women speak and act like
dolts;
	To bring all the selfish and ignoble quali-
ties of our natures into subjection before
the better and higher ones, is the individ-
ual mission assigned to each one of us. But
how we over-step the bounds at times, and
wander strangely from the given path. Our
great desire to be magnanimous in helping
others to improve their ways, makes us for-
getful to reform our own.
	And thus it is, that whether we study
and practice self-control or not, we are quick
to show our wonderful appreciation of
right and order, by assaying to govern ac-
tions, tongues and tempers for those of
whom we receive the guardianship. If we
are parents, our children should be perfect,
or as nearly so as possible, notwithstanding
our own inconsistencies. If Statesmen,
rulers of a nation, the people for whose ben-
efit we labor, who feed and clothe, and find
us luxurious homes, must be respectfully
submissive to our prudent, wise decrees,
even though we, ourselves, are open viola-
ters of the country's laws.
	But such is not the pattern God has given
for those who wish to follow after Christ.
He requires none to be more holy than
Himself. To prove that Abraham would be
His faithful Friend, He asked no larger
boon than He was ready to bestow Him-
self on the ungrateful, unbelieving world.
	If this example were followed by God's
children on the earth, we should have no
"might opposing right," we should know
no wrongs created by the misuse of power.
	MABEL.


BEAUTIFUL EXTRACT.

	[The following beautiful tribute to Wo-
man was written many years ago. It occurs
in a tale of touching interest, entitled "The
Broken Heart"--its author, Dr. F. J. Strat-
ton:]—
	"Oh, the priceless value of the love of a
PURE woman! Gold cannot purchase a gem
so precious! Titles and honors confer upon
the heart no such serene happiness. In our
darkest moments, when disappointment
and ingratitude, with corroding care, gather
thick around, and even the gaunt form of
poverty menaces with his skeleton fingers,
it gleams around the soul with an angel's
smile. Time cannot mar its brilliancy; dis-
tance but strengthens its influence; bolts
and bars cannot limit its progress; it follows
the prisoner into his dark cell, and sweetens
the homely morsel that appeases his hunger,
and in the silence of midnight it plays
around his heart, and in his dreams he folds
to his bosom the form of her who loves on
still, though the world has turned coldly
from him. The couch made by the hand of
the loved one is soft to the weary limbs of
the sick sufferer, and the potion administered
by the same hand loses half its bitterness.
The pillow carefully adjusted by her brings
repose to the fevered brain, and her words
of kind encouragement revive the sinking
spirit. It would almost seem that God,


compassionating woman's first great frailty,
had planted this jewel in her breast, whose
heavenlike influence should cast into for-
getfulness man's remembrance of the Fall,
by building up in his heart another Eden,
where perennial flowers forever bloom, and
crystal waters gush from exhaustless foun-
tains."


FLORAL HINTS.

	AUTUMN LEAVES:—Gather as large a num-
ber and as great a variety of these leaves
as you wish, use old books for drying, or old
magazines, or newspapers; put as many
leaves on a page as you can, only not let
them touch each other, then turn five or
six pages and arrange similarly until you fill
your book; place in a cool dry place under
a heavy weight for twenty-four hours, then
remove the leaves to a dry book; change
them thus three times, when they will be
in beautiful condition and ready for use.
Get some cake wax, such as is used for
"fruit molding," put it in a vessel and set
that in a pan of water on the stove; when
melted, add a few drops of turpentine or
fir balsam, to render the wax pliable; when
the wax is the right temperature, dip the
leaves in one by one, or spray by spray and
hold each until cool, then place them upon
newspapers to harden completely: Thus
prepared they will present the natural ap-
pearance of the leaf, but to give them a
glossy surface give them a thin coat of De-
mar varnish with a camel's hair brush.
The best time to gather ferns for winter use
is September and October, also all kinds of
grasses and varieties of autumn berries.
Ladies of skill and ingenuity may arrange
these so artistically as to beautify and adorn
their homes with very little expense.


FASHIONABLE WOMEN.

	Fashion kills more women than toil and
sorrow. Obedience to fashion is a greater
transgression to the laws of woman's nature,
a greater injury to her physical and mental
constitution, than poverty and neglect.
The slave-woman at her tasks will live and
grow old, and will see two or three gener-
ations of her mistresses fade and pass away.
The washer-woman, with scarce a ray of
hope to cheer her in her toils, will live to
see her fashionable sisters die all around
her. The kitchen-maid is is hearty and strong,
when her lady has to be nursed like a sick
baby. It is a sad truth that fashion-pam-
pered women are almost worthless for all
the ends of human life. They have but
little force of character; they have still less
power of moral will, and quite as little phys-
ical energy. They live for no great purpose
in life: they accomplish no worthy ends.
They are only doll forms in the hands of
miliners and servants, to be dressed and fed
to order. They dress nobody, and save no-
body. They write no books; they set no
rich examples of virtue and womanly life.
If they rear children, servants do all save
to conceive and give them birth—and when
reared, what are they? What do they ever
amount to but weak scions of the old stock?
Who ever heard of a fashionable woman's
child exhibiting any virtue or power of
mind for which it became eminent? Read
the biographies of our great and good men
and women. Not one of them had a fash-
ionable mother. They nearly all sprang
from strong-minded women, who had about
as little to do with fashion as with the
changing clouds.—Ex.


SKELETON OR PHANTOM LEAVES:—The
collection of the various kinds of leaves
having been made, place them in an open
tub or pan, covering them several inches
above the leaves with rain water, then put
them in the open air in full sunlight. Put
a pane or two of glass or a light china plate
over them with a weight sufficient to keep
them well down in the water, the loss of
which by evaporation must be made up by
adding more when needed, to keep up the
quantity. After two weeks examine them
and if some are pulpy, take those out, let
those which have kept well remain, exam-
ine them once or twice a week, do not dis-
turb the water too much; after the leaf has
become slimy and pulpy remove them by
slipping a card under them, and allowing
them to float off into a basin of clear water.
The cleaning process is the next, for which
you will need a stiff camel's hair brush, a
stiff bristle brush and a tooth-brush. Slip
the leaf off upon a piece of smooth glass,
gently pass the brush over the surface, aid-
ing the brush with a stream of water poured
over it carefully. Then slip the leaf again
into the water, and let it float off on to the
glass on the opposite side cleaning that in
the same manner; the green surface must
be entirely removed until nothing but the
skeleton or fibrous veins remain; if the soft
brush will not do it, the stiffer one or the
tooth-brush must be applied; and for some
strong leaves gentle scrubbing is necessary;
it must not be a sweeping motion but a
downward tapping. As fast as the leaves
are cleaned they must be put in clean water
and left until the bleaching process, which
should be done as soon as possible. The
best method for bleaching is with a solution
of chloride of lime, and immersing them a
day or two in a covered dish, in a dark clos-
et, and covered with a folded towel.
To make the solution, take one table-spoon-
ful of chloride of lime in a quart of water,
adding a few grains of citric-acid, shaking
well until dissolved, then bottling the clear
liquid for use. Some experienced operators
prefer using chloride of soda. After bleach-
ing the leaves, put them in clear water for
twenty-four hours, float off on a card and
turn over on a soft napkin, and gently press
until all the moisture is absorbed, and then
curled gracefully or pressed between the
leaves of an old book, under pressure. They
will now bear handling and can be arrang-
ed to suit the taste, under a glass shade or
in a deep recess frame. Frames lined with
dark-colored velvet are very beautiful. A
black cross covered with them is very
pretty. Such leaves as contain tannin should
never be placed with others, such as Oak
and Hazel. A method sometimes used for
these leaves is to put with them a number
of the caddis worms which eat away all of
the soft green part of the leaf, leaving the
skeleton entire. The making up of these
phantom leaves requires tact and nicety,
but the effect is very ornamental.


A little Miss writing to her father on the first
day of her entrance at boarding school said: "The
first evening we had prayers and then singing, and
a passing round of bread which I did not take,
because not being confirmed, I thought I had no
right to take communion. Afterward I learned I
had lost my supper.


The cultivation of such manners as shall ex-
press the best feelings, the noblest thoughts, the
refinement and grace of the mind and the heart,
is a thing which cannot be too highly thought of,
or s[-]t about too soon.


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Icing for Plum Cake.—Take the white of an
egg, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and a tea-
spoonful of gum dragon, melted. Mix them into
a paste, and lay it on the cake.
	Carpet Moths.—We find that ground pepper,
plentifully sprinkled about the edges of carpets,
will prevent them, in a great measure at least,
from the ravages of this destructive creature.
	Night Light.—Put a bit of phosphorus into a
small phial, then fill it one-third with boiling olive
oil, and cork it close; whenever the stopper is ta-
ken out in the night, light will be evolved suffi-
cient to show the hour upon a watch.
	Making Vinegar.—To eight gallons of clear
rain water, add three quarts of molasses, put into
a good cask, shake well a few times, then add two
or three spoonfuls of good yeast cakes. If in sum-
mer, place the cask in the sun; if in winter, near
the stove, where it may be warm. In ten or fif-
teen days, add to the liquid a sheet of brown pa-
per, torn in strips, dipped in molasses; and good
vinegar will be produced. The paper will, in this
way, form what is called the "mother" or life of
vinegar.


Catarrh Snuff:—Powdered elecompane root,
half an ounce; powdered myrrh, a quarter of an
ounce; gum arabic a quarter of an ounce; blood-
root, half a drachm. Mix altogether and use
twice a day. It must be continued to effect a per-
manent cure.
	For Dyspepsia:—One ounce of double tanzy,
dry, one ounce of boneset, one ounce of flour of
hops, two ounces of spearmint, one ounce of car-
away seed, half a pint of Holland gin, half a
pint of cold, soft water, a teacup half full of
loaf-sugar, a quarter of a pound of glauber salt.
Add all together, then strain, and take a desert
spoonful before each meal; and on going to bed.
	Benefit of Laughter:—A hearty laugh is a vi-
talizer to the whole body. The blood moves quickly
and as its chemical electricity conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body it car-
ries on its mystic journey new life, and electric
force. There is no doubt a good laugh promotes
happiness, and brings joy and gladness to the
heart. It is better than all the pills and electric
shocks in Christendom:—C. A. Von Cort, M. D.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT species of love is that which is
never reciprocated?—A neuralgic affection.
	An undoubted truth.—The people
want the gas companies not only to make
their dwellings light, but their bills light-
er.
	England has waged forty-nine wars since
1300; France, thirty-eight; Russia, twenty-
two; Austria, twelve, and Prussia, eight.
	The stone bridge across the river Taff, in
England, was built in 1746. It has a span
of one hundred and seventy feet, and is as
firm to-day as when built.
	CONSIDERATE.—"Now Spriggins my
dear," said Mrs. Spriggins at the theatre
after the first act, "you needn't go out to
get any coffee for I've got a pound in my
pocket."


AT the request of the king of Sweden,
Mme. Nilsson consented to appear as Mar-
guerite in the Royal Theatre at Stockholm.
She has been enthusiastically received in
her native land, and feted and honored as
few but queens ever are.


A curious calculation has been made in
the printing office of a Paris newspaper.
Assuming that a good compositor handles
24,000 letters a day, and that his hand moves
one foot with each letter in taking and set-
ting the type, it will be seen that his hand
travels 43,000 feet, or nearly ten miles, a
day, and in the course of a year, excluding
Sundays, travels fully the distance from
Paris to New York.
	MAKING A FOOL OF ONESELF.—Making a
fool of oneself is with many people a part
of the educational experience of life. Once
brought to the experimental realization of
this fact, one is apt to be wiser ever after.
A man generally makes a fool of himself by
wasting his money; or going into some mad
speculation; or believing in mines and com-
panies that are but traps for the unwary; or
by losing his temper at a critical moment.
A woman manages to do the same thing
through the means of her tongue or her
heart. She talks herself into tribulation:
or she gives her love to some worthless
creature who becomes the bane of her life.
It is over his empty purse that a man gen-
erally stands and clenches his hands, and
mutters, "I've made a fool of myself." It
is over her empty heart that a woman usual-
ly wails forth the same words.
	Let those who would attain real greatness keep
themselves true to their conscience and to their
Creator; let them order their lives with wise sim-
plicity; be frugal in all the substances of life; and
set the example so greatly needed in modern times,
of wholesome moderation. Show by what you
do and by what you are, that you esteem character
above all else.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[handwritten text in margin]

[Column 2]
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity. to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town,
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	THE KIND OF
BOOTS AND SHOES
	EVERYBODY SHOULD WEAR
Are the handsome, durable, easy-fitting and reasonable-
			priced articles made by the
	WORKINGMEN'S CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
	At the TOWN CLOCK STORE, 87 Main St. Repairing
Done. Leather, Findings and Kit at Moderate Rates.
		D. M. McALLISTER, Supt.

			LADIES
If you want your husbands to have a good, substanial
		Suit, either Home-made or Foreign, send
					them to the
UNITED ORDER OF TAILORS
	They will take in payment, CASH, FLOUR,
			BUTTER and EGGS,
					F. GOSS, Supt.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1876.	No.10


NEVER GIVE UP.

SELECTED.

Never give up! It is wiser and better
	Always to hope than once to despair;
Fling off the load of doubt's cankering fetter,
	And break off the spell of tyrannical care.
Never give up! Or the burden may sink you;
	Providence kindly has mingled the cup:
And in all trials or troubles bethink you,
	The watchword of life must be "Never give up."

Never give up! There are chances and changes
	Helping the hopeful a hundred to one:
And, through the chaos, high wisdom arranges
	Ever success if you'll ever hope on.
Never give up! for the wisest is boldest,
	Knowing that Providence mingles the cup;
And of all maxims, the best, as the oldest,
	Is the true watchword of "Never give up!"

Never give up, though the grape-shot may rattle,
	Or the thunder-cloud over you burst:
Stand like a rock, and the storm or the battle
	Little shall harm you, though doing their worst.
Never give up! if adversity presses,
	Providence wisely has mingled the cup;
And the best counsel in all your distresses,
	Is the stout watchword of "Never give up.


[COLUMN 1]

OUR HOME HERE AND HEREAFTER.

	Let us imagine 'tis Spring! and every-
thing is bright and beautiful: all living
things are filled with new life and vigor.
Man, the noblest work of God, is light-
hearted and happy, ready to commence
another year of labor. The birds are
singing, bees are humming, and the
innumerable voices of life are listened
to with thankfulness to our Maker. Homes
of every description are being built by the
various inhabitants of the earth; the sky is
a deep, clear blue, free from all clouds, and
the sun that has been hidden for so long
now shines forth in all his glory, casting his
warm rays upon the damp earth, causing
vegetation to spring forth; the trees that
have been bare for so long are undergoing
a change preparatory to regaining their
rich foliage and verdure; the brooks and
rivers are filled and gushing over with clear
sparkling water, and all nature seems fresh
and new. Time rolls on. Summer takes
the place of spring, all nature is in its ma-
tured state, and every thing at its height,
and we experience all the pleasure and
buoyancy which summer brings to the ad-
mirer of nature's perfection; this passes by
and gives way to Autumn, the busiest of
all seasons; the fresh green verdure which
looks so cool and pleasant has undergone a
change; bright, brilliant hues have taken
the place of the green foliage and shrubbery,
and when looking at them we know it is
the brightening up before death, that it is
near the time of decay for them; rich, lus-
cious fruit weighs down the branches of the
trees, the grasses are withering and the
leaves are falling; it is at this season we
have our glorious sunsets, when it seems as
if the whole heavens were illuminated, one
blaze of living light, and it occurs to us
that all inanimate nature is giving one last
heroic struggle before death. The last of
the successive seasons is winter; black
clouds are heaped up in the sky, the winds
are whistling and the frost is biting, but is
this winter really cheerless and cold to us?
No, if we have warm, comfortable homes, are

[COLUMN 2]

surrounded by friends, and above all if we
have warm hearts; it is then that friends
and families have most opportunity of con-
versational intercourse with each other, ex-
changing visits, and enjoying each other's
society at home and around the fireside; it
is then that we should use every effort to
make our homes pleasant and happy, so
that everything will be bright and cheerful
within, no matter how cold and cheerless
without; it is then we can most fully enjoy
the profits of our former labor; this is the
earthly home our Father gives temporarily,
in order to protect ourselves from the tem-
pest; we build structures or houses, and
consequently shut out the beauties of nature
it is therefore necessary that we should
beautify the interior of our dwellings; there
are a variety of ways in which we can do it
and benefit ourselves. Do not our lives
compare with that of nature? The life of
mankind upon the earth compares well with
the variety of nature's seasons. We are
sent upon earth, to do a certain work;
why should we not do that work uncom-
plainingly and grow up good, strong and
wise men, and women so that our Father
would be proud of us? The farmer who
plants his trees is proud of those that with-
stand all the tests of the elements, and
grow up to be large and stalwart, and speaks
of those that wither and become dwarfed
and ugly as not of much worth, perhaps we
are judged likewise.
	If we live faithfully through the Spring,
Summer and Fall of our lives, according to
the dictation of our heavenly Father, the end
will be as our home in winter and warm
within we will be ready to meet our Father
with a clear conscience and unblushing faces,
and we will know we are worthy of holding a
high position in the kingdom of God, for
He will be pleased with us, and we will be
rewarded according to our works.
	M. M.


BOOKS FOR A HOME.

	Books are not made for furniture, but
there is nothing else that so beautifully
furnishes a house. The plainest row of
books is more significant of refinement
than the most elaborately carved side-board.
Give us a home furnished with books rather
than furniture. Both, if you can, but books at
any rate. To spend several days at a
friend's house and hunger for something to
read, while you are treading on costly car-
pets and sitting on luxurious chairs and
sleeping upon down, is as if one were brib-
ing your body for the sake of cheating your
mind. Books are the windows through
which the soul looks out. A house without
them is like a room without windows. No
man has a right to bring up his children
without surrounding them with books, if
he has the means to buy them. It is a wrong
to his family. Children learn to read through
being in the presence of books. The love
of knowledge comes with reading and
grows upon it. And the love of knowledge
in a young mind is almost a warrant against
the inferior excitements of passion and
vice.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNA DICKINSON will soon appear in
Utica in her new play, and if she isn't suc-
cessful there will be a real tragedy.
	ALBERT WELLES of the Society Library
N. Y., is about to publish "The Pedigree
and History of the Washington family.
This will be authentic.
	MR. CHARLES Francis Adams, it is said,
is as persistent in work as was ever his fa-
ther or grandfather. Though he has a car-
riage, he seldom rides, and always walks
five miles or more every day, winter or
summer.
	THE BOSTON POST considers Mrs. Lucy
Stone a very wise woman in selecting the
Democratic party to represent the interests
of Woman Suffrage, the champion in the
cause being the Hon. Richard Fothering-
ham, and agreeing all petitions to Congress
be presented by him.
	PRINCE LOUIS Lucien Bonaparte has for
many years been engaged in superintending
the translation of portions of the English
version of the Scriptures into the various
dialects spoken in England and Scotland,
and travels about Britain collecting informa-
tion about these dialects.
	THE OREGON State Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held its second special session at
Salem, Oregon, opening on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 26, closing September 29. There
were morning, afternoon and evening ses-
sions. President Mrs. H. A. Loughary.
Judging from the minutes of the conven-
tion we have read, they transacted their
business in a very parliamentary like man-
ner, and the speeches of the woman work-
ers in the cause of temperance and the bal-
lot for women were earnest, spirited and
eloquent. The speech of the President Mrs.
Loughary we would gladly publish in full
if we had space; it contains some excellent
items, full of pith and calculated to arouse
dormant energies.
	THE EIGHTH annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association com-
menced on Monday evening Oct. 2, at Han-
del and Hadyn Hall, Philadelphia. The
Hall was filled; Mrs. Mary A. Livermore
presided and made the opening address.
She dwelt earnestly upon the Temperance
question, the benefit it would be to that
cause to have the vote of women; the many
reasons that there were, why women should
have the ballot, and the many flimsy objec-
tions that men made to prevent it. Twen-
ty-five States were represented by delegates
some of them from long distances. There
was entire harmony of feeling according
to the accounts of the proceedings, and a
spirit of encouragement in regard to Wo-
man'a future representation in the govern-
ment. The meeting was a success pecuni-
arily, and every way. Committees of dif-
ferent kinds were appointed to act in vari-
ous capacities such as are identified with
the interests of the representations of such
conventions.


To be blest with happiness we must be
beautified with holiness.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[COLUMN 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

TOOELE CITY, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Thursday, the 14th of this month, we
had the pleasure of a visit from Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Mrs. E. How-
ard. Meetings were held two days, and
some very valuable instruction was given;
the sisters had gathered from the different
settlements in Tooele County to hear the
words of life, and they were not disap-
pointed; much that was said related to cul-
tivating ourselves; that we should cultivate
our spirits as well as our bodies, that we
may become thoroughly pure and noble in
disposition and actions, so that our whole
lives may be spent in doing good. Consid-
erable was said about home manufacture
and the culture of silk. A committee was ap-
pointed to attend to the silk industry, and
the Saints were forcibly shown the neces-
sity of moving forward in all things both
temporal and spiritual.
	That heaven's choicest blessings may
rest continually upon those who labor so
faithfully for Zion, is the prayer of your
Sister,
	 EMILY WARBURTON.
		Secretary.

SANTAQUIN, Sep. 25th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our 8th Annual Meeting took place Sept.
14th, 1876. Our School House was decora-
ted for the occasion, with the HOME INDUS-
TRIES of the sisters, consisting of bed
quilts, rugs, embroidery, and crotchet work
of every description, fancy quilting, mil-
lenery, and even wooden-bottomed shoes;
but the most conspicuous of all was the
coverlets, shawls and flannel made by the
sisters in Santaquin.
	On the stand was our President, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Pres't. Jane Simonds
of Payson, with her first Counselor and
Secretary, also Presidents Mary Johnson of
Goshen, and Elizabeth Broadbent of Spring
Lake District, and Bishop George Halla-
day. Many other visitors from Payson and
Goshen were present.
	After the usual exercises of reading the
minutes, etc., the Annual report was read
by the Secretary, showing we had received
during the year.........................	$184,87
	Disbursed do....................	  125 84
	The Young Ladies' Improvement Asso-
ciation, held their 3rd Annual meeting at
the same time; their report, and also the re-
port from Spring Lake District was very
favorable.
	The meeting was addressed by Presidents
Stickney, Simonds, and Johnson; Mrs.
Douglas, Bishop Halladay, and Bro. Coombs
of Payson. All the remarks were encour-
aging, and expressive of their pleasure in
hearing our reports, and in beholding the
products of the talents of our sisters.
	Our President is a good financier, as well
as a great economist. Nothing is wasted
that can be turned to account for the benefit
of the poor. She is herself, humble, kind,
and loving, respected by all who know her,
and we wish her long to be our president.
	Wishing great success to your valuable
paper, we beg to remain yours in the new and
everlasting covenant,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Prest.
		ELIZABETH CARTER, Sec.

EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	The Annual Meeting of the Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association of the

[COLUMN 2]

Twentieth Ward was held in the Relief
Society Hall, Sep. 13th, 1876. The leading
officers of the Senior and Junior Co-opera-
tive Association being present, also Elder
C. W. Staynes. President Mrs. Sarah How-
ard made a few opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion. Miss E. R. Snow then
addressed the meeting explaining the ob-
ject of these organizations etc.; said she
was present at the meeting when God,
through His Prophet commanded the intro-
duction of these organizations; said she
well remembered the occasion of the or-
ganization of this Association, and thought
we had improved our time well. She gave
good counsel and exhorted the mothers to
encourage their daughters to attend these
meetings, as great good would result there-
from. Mrs. M. I. Horne expressed her
pleasure of again having the privilege of
meeting with the sisters of the Twentieth
Ward, remembered Sister Snow making
the remark at their first meeting, that al-
though it was the last organized it would
not be the least, said she could see that
assertion had proved correct. Mrs. B.
Smith, Mrs. Persendia Kimball, Mrs Sarah
Kimball and Mrs. E. S. Barney gave ex-
cellent instructions, exhorting the young
ladies to be energetic in the pursuit of use-
ful knowledge. Elder C. W. Stayner then
spoke, explaining the responsibility that
will rest upon the young in filling import-
ant positions in preparing themselves to
guide the good ship Zion into its haven of
rest. He spoke lengthy and glowingly on
the upbuilding and future glory of Zion.
All present were greatly edified and a good
spirit prevailed.
	Report for the year ending Sept. 13th,
1876, of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Association of the Twentieth Ward; this
association was organized Sep. 3rd., 1875,
by Miss Eliza R. Snow, with the following
ladies as officers: Mrs. Sarah Howard, Pres.,
Mrs. E. Stayner and Mrs. Isabella Glade,
Connselors, Mrs. Jane Fowler Superintend-
ent, Miss Rebecca Manning Sec. and forty-
one members. At a following meeting, Mrs.
Henrietta Simons, Mrs. Alice Simons, Miss
M. A. Sanson and Miss Janette Sharp were
elected as counselors, the two last named
ladies were also elected assistant secretar-
ies; but through unavoidable circumstances,
Miss M. A. Sanson has since resigned her
office as secretary, and Mrs. E. J. Mathews
has been appointed to fill the vacancy. We
have held regular meetings weekly and
with but few exceptions, have generally
had a good attendance. The meetings have
been very interesting and instructive, the
exercises consisting of essays, select read-
ing from church works and other good
books; and to add in bearing testimony to
the fulfillment of Sister Snows remarks,
made at our organization, there has been a
marked improvement. The society num-
bers at the present time, upwards of
150 members. A fund has been estab-
lished for the purpose of emigration, help-
ing the poor, or assisting in any good en-
terprise. Donations received for the fund,
and by a party given by the association,
amounting to $54,20, has been disbursed
for various benevolent purposes.
	President Mrs. Sarah Howard proposed
that a five cent temple fund be established
which met with a hearty approval, amount
received for said fund $5,05. It was also
proposed that we make a quilt for the ben-
efit of the fund. Received for purchasing
material for quilt $3,75.
	Total amount received........	$63 00
	Disbursements....................	  57 95

[COLUMN 3]

	In Treasury, the quilt and cash
amounting to...........................	5 05
		REBECCA WILLIAMS Sec.
	ELIZABETH MATHEWS, Ass't.

MORGAN CITY, Sept. 25, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Allow me through your columns, to add
my mite to the already large stock of news
and interesting reports you deal out to us
semi-monthly.
	Yours is a noble mission indeed, to carry
the expressions of love and gratitude from
thousands of hearts to each other, all over
Utah.
	Our little city was honored, on the 19th
inst., by a visit from two "bright stars"
from the Relief Society Constellation: Sis-
ters E. S. Barney and E. Howard, who
spoke words of instruction and comfort.
The Lord poured His Spirit on them in
such abundance that they fed our hungry
souls with the food they most needed. Their
texts were: Education, watch-care of our
girls, plural marriage, care of the sick,
word of wisdom, womanly dignity, the im-
portance of availing ourselves of the right
of the ballot, folly and extravagance of the
fashions of the day. Showing to us that
the mission of the Relief Society is not only
to relieve the poor, but to introduce and
cultivate everything that tends to the ex-
altation of woman and the saving of souls.
Seri-culture, straw-braiding, and all kinds of
home industries were highly recommended.
	We feel to bless them for their kind and
cheering words; and I say God bless our
dear Sister E. R. Snow, who presides over
these institutions.
	Your Sister, etc,
		ESTHER E. E. FRANCIS,
			Sec.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. D. W. Rogers is superintendent of
schools in Danby, Conn., and is the first
woman that ever held public office in that
town.
	MISS Helen Potter, the reader, is doing an
excellent business professionally, her in-
come for the season it is said will be about
$15,000.
	MRS. A. J. Duniway, of Portland, Oregon,
and editor of the "New North West," de-
livered an earnest and characteristic speech
at the Woman Suffrage Convention at Phil-
adelphia on taxation without representation
and other subjects.
	MISS Abbie G. Ketchum of Marshall,
Michigan, sailed from San Francisco Oct. 1,
for China, to commence missionary work in
that country. She had the congratulations
and earnest blessings of t[-]ousands to follow
her as encouragement in her labors of de-
votion and self-sacrifice.
	MISS Lydia Becker, the London advocate
of Woman suffrage, in a recent speech at
the excursion of the British Association,
gave a happy description of the visible
change and marked improvement in regard
to the position of women at society gather-
ings. On the last occasion when the British
Association had visited Glasgow, the gen-
tlemen had been invited to luncheon and
the ladies left outside, the gentlemen had
pretended to have more pleasure in toasting
the ladies in their absence, but it was real-
ly more satisfactory to respond to these
toasts in person, and contributed more to
the enjoyment of the c[-]mpany.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


THE WIFE TO HER HUSBAND.

		It seems to me that should I die,
And this poor body cold and lifeless lie.
And tho[-] shouldst touch my lips with thy warm breath,
The life-blood quicken'd in each sep'rate vein,
Would wildly, madly rushing back again;
Bring the glad spirit from the isle of death,
		It seems to me that were I dead,
And thou in sympathy shouldst o'er me shed
Some tears of sorrow, or of sad regret,
That every pearly drop that fell in grief,
Would bud, or blossom, bursting into leaf,
To prove immortal love could not forget.
		I do believe that round my grave,
When the cool, fragrant, evening zephyrs wave,
Shouldst thou in friendship linger near the spot,
And breathe some tender words in memory,
That this poor heart in grateful constancy,
Would softly whisper back some loving thought.
		I do believe that should I pass
Into the unknown land of happiness,
And thou shouldst wish to see my face once more,
That in my earnest longing after thee,
I would come forth in joyful ecstacy,
And once again gaze on thee as before.
		I do believe my faith in thee,
Stronger than life, an anchor firm to be,
Planted in thy integrity and worth,
A perfect trust, implicit and secure;
That will all trials and all grief endure,
And bless and comfort me while here on earth.
		I do believe who love hath known,
Or sublime friendship's purest, highest tone,
Hath tasted of the cup of ripest bliss,
And drank the choicest wine life hath to give,
Hath known the truest joy it is to live.
What blessing rich or great compared to thi[-]?
		I do believe true love to be,
An element that in its tendency,
Is elevating to the human mind,
An intuition which we recognize
As foretaste of immortal Paradise,
Through which the soul will be refined.
											EMILE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Nov. 17, 1876


For the EXPONENT.
		"THE BACK BONE OF THE
			KINGDOM OF GOD."

	At a recent Fast Meeting, I was much
pleased with the testimony of a humble
brother. He said he noticed, wherever she
went, that the sisters seemed to be the
main strength of the Church. In the old
country, when he would be preaching,
perhaps out in the open air, it was the sis-
ters who gathered around him and strength-
ened him with their faith and prayers.
And here, in the Ward meetings or tho
Tabernacle, everywhere, it was the sisters
much more than the brethren, who would
turn out to perform these religious duties.
"The sisters" he said, "form, substantially
the BACK BONE of the Kingdom of God!"
	Similar remarks are frequently made by
other Elders, which helps to prove that in a
general way at least, the women of the Lat-
ter-day Saints are appreciated.
	I do like the idea of the sisters forming
the "back bone" of the Kingdom of God.
It seems to show me exactly where we (sis-
ters) stand, what our calling is and how
great our responsibilities are, more than any
small sentence I ever heard. I have al-
ways realized, since I became old enough
to reflect, that the woman could not right-
fully claim the leadership, or profess to be
the head. But I have also felt that, some-
how, her position was quite as essential as
that of her—generally acknowledged head
—the man. And now I believe I see this
little matter as it is.
	Of what use would a head be without a
backbone to assist in keeping it in its prop-
er position?  It would be worth just about
the same as a kingdom of men without wo-
men.


I am thankful that I am numbered with
a people whose men accord to woman's
worth so fair an estimate. I would rather
claim such a man as husband, in connection
with many other wives, than to hold any
position women may possibly gain outside
the Church and Kingdom of God, where
none even profess to be guided and direct-
ed by the power and authority of the Holy
Priesthood.						INEZ.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

		HEBER CITY; WASATCH CO.,
						October 3d, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We have a Relief Society here that meets
once a month to bring in our offerings for
the poor and bear testimony of the things
pertaining to the kingdom of God. Our
President, Margaret Muir has been talking
to the sisters here about learning to braid
straw and making their own hats, and also
to have shares in the co-operative store and
to trade among ourselves.
	On Wednesday and Thursday, September
27 and 28, we held a special meeting, Mrs.
E. S. Barney and Mrs. E. Howard were
present from Salt Lake City visiting in the
interest of the Societies and Deseret Silk
Association. Mrs. E. S. Barney in her address
to the sisters said they had visited already
ninteene meetings; spoke of the great work
which had been done in building up towns
and settlements and from what small be-
ginnings of Joseph Smith's mission to es-
tablish the Latter-day work; and the many
temples that must be built in the north and
south and all over the land of America, and
referred to the prophecy that the people
should "fly as doves to their windows, and
come on swift beasts;" she spoke consider-
ably upon the principles of Celestial Mar-
riage, and the follies and fashions of the
world and how they were creeping in among
this people.
	She dwelt most pointedly upon the de-
velopment of home industries, and the spe-
cialty of sericulture, its different depart-
ments from the planting out of the mul-
berry trees to its manufacture into the most
beautiful lace and ribbons, she touched up-
on the necessity of our living our religion
so we need not be scourged with grasshop-
pers and plagues of that nature; the train-
ing and educating our children in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God,
the great benefits resulting from the organ-
izartions that had been established among
the women, and the privileges they enjoyed
in voting and closed with remarking that
she had been left an orphan and was self-
educated in nearly all respects.
	At the meeting on the following day, af-
ter the opening exercises Mrs. E. Howard
addressed the congregation first upon punc-
tuality; said it was the first meeting where
the people had come together at the appoint-
ed time. She exhorted the sisters to be
faithful in their societies and have a good
testimony of them enrolled upon the books;
she referred to the neglect of duties and
the ultimate result of such a course, that we
should be kind to our children and reason
with them and seek to preserve them from
temptation. She spoke of her astonish-
ment to see such a beautiful little city here
and thought it would be a good place in
which to carry out the United Order. She
dwelt considerably upon the useless waste
of time among the young, and their frivo-
lous ideas of love and marriage; she spoke

[Column 2]
of intemperence as being one of the great-
est curses to this nation or to any people
who would allow it to make inroads in a
community. She dwelt upon the Word of
Wisdom and the blessings attached to its
observance; the great detriment outside
trade was to this Territory, taking away the
means that would help to sustain and build
up our own institutions and manufacturies.
She said in Brigham City they had forty
home industries. She urged upon the sis-
ters the necessity of using economy in re-
gard to the smallest matters, also to teach
it to their little children, and that even in
the gathering up and saving of rags it was 
beneficial, that in saving rags they might
take the "Juvenile" and "Exponent" for
the benefit of their families.
	The instructions and counsel of these sis-
ters was very impressive, and will no doubt
be an incentive to action in the societies
they visit.
	We donated in Heber City for the Deser-
et Silk Association $16.20.
				ELLEN LEE, Secretary.


HOPE AND CUSTOM.—In our estimate of
the ills of life, we never sufficiently take
into our consideration the wonderful elas-
ticity of our moral frame, the unlooked-for,
the startling facility with which the human
mind accommodates itself to all change of
circumstance, making an object, and even a
joy from the hardest and seemingly the
least redeemed conditions of fate. The
man who watched the spider in his cell,
may have taken at least as much interest
in the watch as when engaged in the most
ardent and ambitious objects of his former
life; and he was but a type of [-]is brethren;
all in similar circumstances would have
fonnd some similar occupation. Let any
man look over his past life, let him recall,
not moments, not hours of agony, for to
them Custom lends not her blessed magic;
but let him single out some lengthened per-
iod of physical or moral endurance; in has-
tily reverting to it, it may seem at first, I
grant, altogether wretched; a series of days
marked with the black stone—the clouds
without a star; but let him look more close-
ly, it was not so during the time of suffer-
ing; a thousand little things in the bustle of
life, dormant and unheeded, then started
forth into notice, and became to him objects
of interest or diversion: the dreary present,
once familiar, glided away from him, not less
than if it had been all happiness; his mind
dwelt not on the dull intervals, but the step-
ping-stone it had created and placed at
each; and, by the moral dreaming which
for ever goes on within man's secret heart,
he lived a little within the immediate
world before him, as in the most sanguine
period of his youth, or the most scheming
of his maturity. So wonderful in equaliz-
ing all states and all times in the varying
tide of life, are these two rulers yet level-
ers of mankind, hope and custom, that the
very idea of an eternal punishment includes
that of an utter alteration of the whole
mechanism of the soul in its human state,
and no effort of an imagination, assisted by
past expecience. can conceive a state of
torture which custom can never blunt, and
from which the chainless and immaterial
spirit can never be beguiled into even a mo-
mentary escape.—Bulwe[-].


IT has been estimated that the annual
production of paper of all kinds in the
world amounts to 1,800,000,000 lbs. Half
of this is used for printing purposes.


76		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00: A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
		SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of sav-
ing grain. It is one important item which
President Young has labored diligently to im-
press upon this people ever since their residence
in these valleys. His advice has ever been to
the brethren to cultivate the soil and let the
mines, and mining speculations alone, for the
grain was of more consequence than gold or
silver. And these people are witnesses to that
fact; practically having experienced the scar-
city of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundant-
ly in the few years past in their fields and in
their stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case when there is a profusion
of blessings, the people who receive them be-
come indifferent and do not appreciate them as
they ought. The people have been careless in
regard to taking care of their grain and many
other things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their pro-
ducts in such a manner as, were it to continue,
the Lord would be sorely displeased with them.
This year grain is unusually low, yet the grass-
hoppers have been visiting different parts of the
Territory, and, it is feared by many, have laid
their eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will secure
the grain now in market. The Relief Societies
and Co-operative organizations in which some
of the women of this Territory are interested,
have funds at their disposal from time to time,
which can be made available to carry out Presi-
dent Young's wishes in regard to b[-]ying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of means
that could possibly be made, for if the prophe-
cies of the Scriptures, both ancient and modern,
and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfilled, which the
Latter-day Saints profess to believe, there will
be a desolating famine in the land; and if the
women of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an emi-
nent success. If the means now on hand in the
societies and women's associations can be turn-
ed into grain, and such measures taken to store
it and preserve it from damp and all other
things that would damage, or destroy it, as can
be made practicable according to circumstances
and advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this people in
case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be im-
mediately without any delay (except such as
is unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-

[Column 2]
sonal and individual as well as a general in[-]er-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you
determine to do any thing of whatever name or
nature, first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are
almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left with-
out excuse; he has called upon the brethren
until he has become wearied, and now he ap-
peals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of his
confidence in their desire to listen to counsel?
The sisters will have ample opportunity now to
prove their ability in financiering; and it is
greatly to be hoped that they will manifest
such earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their va-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off, or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en:
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them
and preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells


THE FORTY-SEVENTH SEMI-
			ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The interest manifested by the people call-
ing themselves Latter-day Saints, at the late
general Conference was great. Each day large
congregations assembled, to listen to the words
of instruction, relative to their temporal and
eternal salvation; and the servants of the Lord
were truly blest in their endeavors to minister
to the wants of the people. The first discourse
of the Conference was delivered by President
Daniel H. Wells, the last by President Brig-
ham Young; the intermediate spaces being
principally occupied by different members of
the quorum of the Twelve Apostles. President
Young was present at and presided over all the
meetings. As a text upon which to reflect and
preach, he gave to the people the question,
when shall we begin to live according to the
pattern chosen when we embraced the Gospel
of Christ? or in other words, when will the
people become one and learn to be saints?
	This is a wonderfully significant text. Surely
the answer arose in the hearts of the many
thousands "Now!" And although this senti-
ment in the souls of individuals formed no ut-
terance, certainly the majority of the people
will set to with renewed diligence and deter-
minations to assist each other in the great
work of uniting their interests as one. The
Conference just past over was one never to be
lost sight of by those who attended it. It was
adjourned till the 6th of April, 1877, to meet
in the Temple at St. George.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON FRIDAY and Saturday evenings, Oct. 6
and 7th, select entertainments were given in
the 10th Ward School-house, consisting of
songs, recitations, dialogues, instrumental per-

[Column 2]
formances etc. The most striking and pleas
ing feature of the entertainment was the reci-
tation of "Beautiful Snow," by Miss Mattie
Paul. In character of expression, in voice a[-]d
gesture, her rendering of this pathetic poem
was equal to that of a cultivated artiste.
	OGDEN RELIEF SOCIETY.—On Saturday eve-
ning, Sept. 20, an entertainment was given for
the benefit of this society in the Ogden Thea-
tre. Misses Carrie Cogswell, Susie Marden and
Edith Clawson, and Messrs. Forster and Clarke
of this city, Mr. Alfred Thorne, and members
of the Ogden Dramatic Company, produced
the play of "Camille," which was followed by
an "Olio," and concluded with the "Tower
Scene" in the play of "King John," in which
Miss Clawson gave her clever rendition of
"Prince Arthur." There was a "packed"
house, and the general opinion given was that
it was an excellent dramatic entertainment.
	President F. D. Richards thanked the per-
formers, musi[-]ians, etc., all of whom had gen-
erously given their service gratuitously, and
the audience, on behalf of the Relief Society.
	Credit is due Sisters Richards and S. Herrick,
the instigators and managers of the entertain-
ment, from the proceeds of which the Relief
Society will be benefitted.—Ex.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Associotion held a special meeting at Fire-
men's Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Oct. 7th,
Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that she expected a reel
would be here in a few days. She had received
a large quantity of cocoons. This organiza-
tion was not for any personal benefit, but for
the benefit of the community of Utah. We
ought to be looking after our trees and cut-
tings, as it was very near time to plant them
out.
	Mr. Robbins said it was best to plant them
in the fall. He had had fifty years' experience
and had always found it best.
	Mrs. Barney reported that, while in the
north, she had collected $105. She could not
raise the worms, but felt a desire to see the
movement a success.
	There being quite a number present from the
various settlements, the remainder of the time
was taken up in asking questions and answer-
the same.
	The following donations were received:
Cynthia Clyde, $1; Mary S. Clark, $1; Martha
Thomas. 50c.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in November, at the same place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE PEOPLE'S Territorial Convention for the
nomination of a Delegate to Congress, was
held in the Co[-]rt House in Salt Lake City,
Saturday, Oct. 7th, at half-past twelve, p. m.
David O. Calder, acting chairman, called the
convention to order; Judge Elias Smith, on
motion of Mr. Calder was chosen temporary
chairman. John T. Caine, on motion of Col. J.
R. Winder was elected temporary Secretary.
The business was all arranged and carried for-
ward in a quiet and methodical manner, and
no confusion whatever occurred. The com-
mittee, which had been appointed in the usual
form, reported the following officers f[--] a per-
manent organization. President D. H. Wells;
Vice Presidents, according to their districts,
A. O. Smoot and A. Hatch; E. Snow and J. N.
Smith; J. F. Smith and Brigham Young. Jr,
Secretaries, John T. Caine, Moses Thatcher,
and R. S. Horne; Chaplain, F. D. Richards;
Sergeant at Arms, Joel Grover. This report
was unanimously carried. Hon. W. H. Hoop-
er Chairman of the committee on resolutions,


reported the following subjects in form. State-
hood, Education, Irrigation, Silver Currency,
Stumpage, General. The convention sustained
the present people's territorial central com-
mittee. Hon. George Q. Cannon was formally
nominated and several speeches made on the
subject. The nomination was received with
universal applause.
	SUNDAY SCHOOL MOVEMENT.—A general
meeting of the Sunday school superintendents
and teachers of the Territory was held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Friday
evening Oct. 6th. Of the Twelve Apostles
there were present Elders John Taylor, Wil-
ford Woodruff, F. D. Richards, and George Q.
Cannon. There were representatives from
nearly all the counties and the time was occu-
pied mostly by hearing from the superintend-
ents; the reports of the progress of the move-
ment being very encouraging, and indicated
that the Bishops and other leading men were
taking a more lively interest in it than hereto-
fore.
	THE SUNDAY School is one of the greatest
educators of the young that has ever been
instituted; and upon the youth of any na-
tion, or people depends the future strength
and power for good or evil. It is the influ-
ence of Sunday Schools in a very great de-
gree that gives sublimity of tone to the
aspirations and ambitions of the young.
The subject is one which involves the highest
and holiest interests of a community. Here
they are, or should be taught to reverence
every thing that is sacred and pure, to imitate
the blessed Savior in humility and meek-
ness which were the striking characteristics of
His life and death.
	Let every mother be awakened to renewed
interest in this direction, and inspire, if possi-
ble, all within her circle with the same zeal
and earnestness. To the children of the poor,
and to the orphan the Sunday School is a bless-
ing which it is impossible to estimate. God
bless the Sunday School; it is one of the most
potent workers of the redemption of Israel.
	DR. ELLEN B. Ferguson to whom reference
has been made in this paper, has returned from
St. George and taken up her residence in Pro-
vo, where she will continue the practice of
medicine. Mrs. Ferguson is a regularly grad-
uated physician, has studied her profession
in England and America, and spent four years
of her life in the hospitals of London and
Paris; has had twelve years experience in an
extensive practice in the United States. We
would recommend her to the sisters in
Provo and vicinity who need the services of a
skillful and experienced physician. She is al-
so a fine musician and vocalist and will give
lessons in vocal and instrumental music at her
residence. Office and residence in A. F. Mac-
donald's house, Provo, Utah Co. Mrs. Dr.
Ferguson has traveled and lectured extensively
in different countries; she is a lady of most
pleasing and attractive manners, her voice is
clear and full of melody, and in notices we
have seen from the Eastern press, she has been
spoken of as a woman possessing "rare intel-
lectual ability and literary culture; a thorough
knowledge of all that belongs to the human
system, and the pathology of disease;" Mrs.
Dr. Ferguson is also spoken of as "one having
in a large degree those qualities of hert and
mind that must always be the crowning glory
of true and enlightened womanhood."
	Mrs. Ferguson's course of lectures on Gyne-
cology, delivered in the East, treat of the Con-
stitution, Idiosyncrasies and Diseases of Wo-
man, together with the Laws of the Social and
Physical relations of the Sexes.
	A Woman's Convention.—On Wednesday,
Oct. 4th, at 2 o'clock p. m., the officers and
members of the Relief Society from all the
different wards of the city and vicinity con-
vened in the Council Hose by previous ap-
pointment. President Miss E. R. Snow arose
and explained to the sisters that President B.
Young would not be present, as had been an-
ticipated, but would send his private Secretary
with a communication. She thenn nominated
Mrs. M. I. Horne to preside over the meeting,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells to act as Secretary,
which motions were unanimously carried.
	After the opening exercises, the assemblage
being too large to be accommodated in the
Council House, the meeting adjourned to the
Old Tabernacle. Elder George Reynolds, hav-
ing arrived with President Young's communi-
cation, arose and addressed the sisters on the
object of the meeting and read the following
letter from President Young:
			"Salt Lake City, Oct. 4th, 1876.
		"To the President, and Members of the Re-
lief Societies, in meeting assembled at the
Council House this afternoon.
	"Dear Sisters.—It would be very gratifying
to us if you could form an association to start
business in the capacity of disposing of home-
made articles, such as are manufactured among
ourselves, for the benefit of the Latter-day
Saints; also to make a selection from among
the sisters, members of this association, to take
charge and carry on this business on commis-
sion or by purchase, and to transact all the
business pertaining to this institution. If you
cannot be satisfied with the selection of sisters
from among yourselves to take charge, we will
render you assistance by furnishing a compe-
tent man for the transaction of the financial
matters of this establishment.
		"Your brother in the Gospel,
					"Brigham Young."
	After reading this letter, Brother Reynolds
made some very suggestive and appropriate re-
marks on home industries and the great desire
President Young felt to have the people push
forward in the development of home manufac-
ture.
	An organization was formed by electing the
following persons as officers of the association.
Miss E. R. Snow, President; Mrs. Priscilla
Stains, Vice President; Mrs. Elizabeth Davis,
Secretary; Mrs. Bathsheba Smith, Treasurer;
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. Presendia
Kimball, Directors.
	Many excellent remarks were made by the
officers and such suggestions by Miss E. R.
Snow and others, as were adapted to the occa-
sion and organization of the association. After
all the business had been transacted which
seemed requisite at the time, the officers of the
board were requested to meet at the Old Con-
stitution building at 6 o'clock the same eve-
ning, and after singing and prayer the Conven-
tion adjourned sine die.
	The Relief Society Woman's Mercan-
			tile Association.
Has opened a store for the sale of home man-
ufactures in the building lately occupied by
the Woman's Centennial Territorial Fair,
known as the Old Constitution Building, op-
posite Z. C. M. I. store.
	We are now ready to receive home made use-
ful and ornamental articles of all kinds, which
we will sell on commission.
	Many of our citizens have felt the want of a
place devoted exclusively to Utah productions,
and now that we are, in accordance with the
wishes of President Young, uniting our hum-
ble efforts in this direction, we confidently
trust that we shall not only have the support
of all branches of the Relief Society through-
out the valleys of the mountains, but also of
our brethren and all others who feel an inter-
est in the future welfare and prosperity of
Utah.
	Commencing as we do without capital we
wish it distinctly understood that at present
we can only sell on commission.
				Eliza R. Snow, President.
				Priscilla M. Stains,
						Vice President.
				Elizabeth Davis,
						Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Relief Society Woman's Co-operative
Association or Woman's Commission Store is
now open at the Old Constitution Buildings
opposite Z. C. M. I. The Superintendent and
those interested with the management of the
organization are prepared to do business on
commission in all departments of dry goods
home productions. They have for sale many
useful and ornamental articles, and their
supply is rapidly increasing. They have near-
ly all the varieties of church books, including
"Book of Mormon" and "Doctrine and Coven-
ants" new edition, and Mr. E. W. Tullidge's
new book "The Life of Brigham Young, or
Utah and Her Founders." This enterprise is a
most laudable one and the Association labor
under many inconveniences in starting out in
this new direction. We sincerely hope the
Latter-day Saints will interest themselves
practically in this praiseworthy undertaking,
and by their patronage thus promote the es-
tablishment of more successful and extended
home-industries, and thus advance the inter-
ests of economy in devising and practising
such measures as shall result in a thorough
system of self-support throughout this com-
munity.


OBITUARY.

	DIED IN Cedar City, Iron Co., July 28th, '76,
Mrs. Rachel Whittaker, aged 68 years. She
received and obeyed the Gospel in Bolton,
Lancashire, England, in 1850, and came to
Utah in 1851, with her husband and four child-
ren, arriving in Salt Lake City, Sept. 27th, of
the same year. She was one of the first set-
tlers in Cedar City and remained there till her
death. She was President of the Relief So-
ciety of that place since its first organization
until within a year of her death, when she re-
signed on account of failing health. She had
the confidence and love of all the sisters, was
ever found at the post of duty at the bedside of
the sick, or ministering to the poor; wherever
sorrow or trouble was she was always ready to
console and administer relief, and was indeed
a mother in Israel. She was one of the most
patient women in suffering, never complain-
ing or repining, and at the last she fell asleep
without a struggle, and with abundant hope
of a glorious resurrection. She will be greatly
missed as a counselor and benefactor in the
vicinity of Cedar City where she was so much
revered and beloved.


RESIGNATION is putting God between
one's-self and one's grief.—Madame Svet-
chine.
	NONE can enter by the heavenly gate
above who do not enter by the narrow gate
below.


78		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS.

	READ BEFORE THE RELIEF SOCIETY
		OF SANTAQUIN, COMPOSED BY
			THE SECRETARY.

	Dear brethren and sisters, I do not know
what may be your feelings on this occasion,
but mine are full of intense gratitude to
the author of every good and perfect gift.
	While contemplating the display of the
sisters' home-made work, so gracefully dec-
corating these walls, I cannot help feeling
grateful to God, that he has blest our sisters
with such talents, and so inspired the hearts
of worthy men and women, to introduce
into our church such a heavenly society as
the Relief Society is. There is nothing
but the Relief Society that can so effectu-
ally carry out the one great principle ever
taught by our Saviour while upon the earth.
Except ye have charity, nothing will avail
you.
	If our society cannot make the display
that other settlements have done before us,
it is not for the want of talent or energy,
but for the want of time and means. We
as a society are composed of poor sisters,
who have to labor with our husbands and
sons, and whose means are but limited. We
have a number of poor families to care for,
and our disbursements many times exceed
our income. We have a President who is
ever alive to the wants of the poor and the
needy, and who well knows how to dis-
pose of the means intrusted to her care, for
their relief, likewise when sickness and
death are in our midst you will always find
Prest. Elizabeth Stickney among the first
to visit and administer to the afflicted ones.
We have wise counselors, faithful teachers,
and a good treasurer; we also have about
one hundred or more faithful sisters who
can stand up at our meetings and nobly
bear their testimonies and who love to give
their mites for the up-building of the King-
dom of God, and who relieve the wants of
the poor widows, orphans, aged and dis-
tressed, and who say they never miss what
they give to the Relief Society. We like-
wise have a kind father in our Bishop, who
knows how to advise us in any difficulty,
and who cares for our welfare in every par-
ticular.
	That our Society, although poor, is blest
with faithfulness, unity and love, is a fact
not to be denied; therefore it is for this that
I feel full of gratitude to God at this time,
who has blest us so richly ever since this
society was organized here, by our beloved
but departed brother, Pres. D. H. Holladay,
who said that the society should be blest,
and that it should never fall.
	May God bless us, one and all, and save
us in His celestial kingdom, is my prayer in
the name of Jesus Christ, amen.
								E. C.


[Column 1]
				EXTRACTS,

	FROM A RECENT BOOK BY DR. GARTH
		WILKINSON, ENTITLED, "HUMAN
			SCIENCE AND DIVINE
				REVELATION.

	Speaking of the new freedom of man-
kind he says:
	"This is seen very especially in the per-
ception looming everywhere of the rights
of women. Not to mention other branches
of the subject, political rights, and the
rights of education may be adduced in
point. No reason has yet been given, why
Woman should be denied her experiment;

[Column 2]
why any real sphere of life should be clos-
ed against her; and her public free will be
abated or wholly or chiefly managed by the
masculine free will. The despotism over
her cannot last; her incessant cause will
wear it out, will tire it to death. When
she has been enfranchised, and barrier af-
ter barrier has been removed, when no stat-
ute not obviously sexual contains either
"he" or "she" distinctively, and all the ways
of life are open to her, and property is no
longer masculine but human, what will she
do with her freedom? There is no possibil-
ity of forecasting that future. It is adduced
only to show the new strain upon responsi-
bility which is coming; and how much God
and prayer will be needed to enable her to
bear the strain and to receive the light
which is required. Clearly many rights
will drop when the power to exercise them
is given. Clearly a new education for femi-
nine wisdom will accrue from her earnest
desire and inquiry to know what fields she
may occupy. It is obvious that freedom
and experiment alone can qualify her for
knowing her qualifications; that she will
then learn from failures and successes, as men
have done, where she is, and become a
teacher to herself. In the meantime, even
now, with Parliament against her she is
inwardly in the tension of this new free-
dom, and is not sure whether she is to be
as a man, or whether there is a whole new
womanly side to affairs and the state.

	Let male law be lifted off as a burden and
a shame, and woman be left to her proper
self determination; to be as much like a
man, or as little like a man as she pleases;
to vote, propose marriage, administer prop-
erty and the like, and her quality will
right itself, because her experimental in-
struction about her place can then begin."
	"In her thoughts of education also, the
same strain is felt. Is she to be as a young
man and a collegian here, and to be made
into a man-woman by exactly that education
which it is supposed has produced the pres-
ent masculine race with its dominant pow-
ers? It is not perhaps any person's busi-
ness to answer that question, but rather it
must be referred to experiment, of which
her new mental freedom is the condition.
The world must await the trial, and succor
the stress which it involves.
	It is evident that woman has the same
mental powers as men, but differently sex-
ed and centered. She can enter in her
way into all arts and sciences; she can sit
on thrones, command and lead armies, ex-
ert eloquent speech, make excellent litera-
ture, practice medicine and perform sur-
gery, preach in pulpits, and receive divine
communications. In short, the scale of her
powers is co-equal with his in all things. She
can do in every department what she has
an adequate affection for doing. But what
perhaps she cannot profitably do in the long
run is, to lay hold of things on the purely
intellectual side and enter upon them thus.
Her heart predominates, as the head pre-
dominates in the man. Now this being the
case, to give her equal chances with man,
a complete rehabilitation of knowledge in
her interests also is necessary, that she may
learn a corresponding heart-truth in every
detail for the man's head truth. Man has
the advantage of all his own intellectual
experience; gained through his own effort
by his own sexual process of thought. Wo-
man has no present advantage of the kind
before her; and must be content to enter
upon the faculties of man and their acqui-
sitions, at second hand. This is a grave
consideration for the advocates of the higher
education of women; indeed for their gen-

[Column 3]
eral education of all; that the intellect of
the heart that beautiful intellect, should
have no knowledge of nature and things,
and no learning at first hand, but only what
supplants its freedom, and is compelled up-
on it by the intellect of the head. It ar-
gues the throwing away of a marriageable
quality, the abeyance of the woman's in-
tellect before the man's.
	Is she to rewrite history to reconstruct
science, to reproduce metaphysics, to rein-
vent the arts, from her own womanly intel-
lect so as to have a world of her own, and
introduce it into harmonious and conjugal
relationship, as of the heart-mind with the
head-mind with the existing intellectual
fabrics, and art fabrics which is so prepon-
derantly of masculine growth? That can
hardly be intended; because what has been
done hitherto belongs to the past, and no
copy is possible; nay, no new originals that
follow the old lines. Moreover it is to be
hoped that the man has done, and is doing
the coarse work of thought, invention and
practice; and that his partner, in the days
of time, is to be saved that labor. Never-
theless it may be thought that Woman's
mind has a sphere of its own in everything;
and that all things through her faculties,
now that they are being filled with the new
free-will which is creative, will reappear in
their new heart-forms.

	Now the thought that c[--]es out of a true
sympathy is full of the finest natural truths.
The new Woman will therefore be present
by heart truths all through the common-
wealth, and will be prime minister of the
new man in his permitted administration
of the Godwealth. The coin of regenera-
tion will pass through her fingers in its frag-
ments and to its ends.—Woman's Journal.


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	Flowers seem intended for the solace of
ordinary humanity. Children love them:
quiet, tender, contended, ordinary people
love them as they grow; luxurious and dis-
orderly people rejoice in them gathered.
They are the cottager's treasure, and in the
crowded town, mark as with a little broken
fragment of rainbow, the windows of the
workers in whose hearts rests the covenant
of peace. To the child and the girl, to the
peasant and manufacturing operative to
the woman of the world and the nun, the
lover and the monk, they are precious al-
ways.
	Until we can read the heart of another
without doubt and know all the circumstan-
ces of his or her life, all the many links in
the chain of accident that has surrounded
the erring one, we should not blame too
much or be too wrathful towards such a
one. What one has done may be wrong,
but we cannot tell why it was done, or how
the doing of it may have been repented. A
moment of strong feeling, an hour of wrath,
may turn the feet upon the downward road
so hard to retrace. We see one lying at
the foot of a precipice; but we do not know
how he or she fell over—what cruel hand
may have smote!—what lie betrayed—nor
how the wounded one may have clung
vainly to the brink, praying in vain for
some helping hand.


VOLTAIRE, having lampooned a noble-
man, was caned by him for his wit, when
on applying to the Duke of Orleans, then
Regent, and begging him to do him justice,
the duke replied with a smile, "Sir, it has
been done already."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A VINDICATION OF WOMEN.

	With all the boasted chivalrous feeling of
the United States it is astonishing to see
how many of them are attributing to wo-
men the condition of things that has led to
the crimes and the disgrace of the late Sec-
retary of War. There have been innumer-
able sermons printed, in newspapers con-
ducted by men, on such texts as woman's
extravagance, woman's ambition, woman's
love of admiration, woman's fast living,
and woman's want of principle. All these
assumed characteristics of the sex in Ameri-
ca are illustrated by anecdotes or by scandal-
ous insinuations furnished by the wretched
creatures in men's clothing, who make their
living by the retail of personal gossip, mis-
named "society-news," for papers that cater
for the vulgar tastes of the people that fre-
quent the lowest kinds of balls, clubs and
bar-rooms, and the still lower resorts where
virtue in either sex is unknown and impos-
sible. If the women of American soci-
ety were really composed of such beings as
put themselves at the mercy of these crea-
tures, and allow them, or pay them to ad-
vertise their style of beauty, their wit,
their accomplishments, their dinners, their
receptions, their dress, their jewels, their
visiting lists, their followers of each sex,
and their utterly heartless, heathenish
worldliness, then one might well despair of
the country.					But happily
where one woman, or half a dozen women,
can be found to commit a disgrace that is
felt by the whole nation, there are millions
of women that are the very vital essence of
the goodness of the American people.
	Without these millions of good women
there would be no good men, or very few.
				Each one of these mil-
lions of good women, be she matron or
maid, is exercising a good influence, accord-
ing to her physical and her mental strength,
that tells upon the general condition of so-
ciety quite as much as does the influence of
each one of the small number of famously
bad, or silly, or extravagant women, one of
whom has lately been so ruthlessly held up
as a typical American woman by ignorant
or cowardly men.				The
old history of the Garden of Eden is re-
peating itself frequently. But in all recent
repetitions of it, especially in political af-
fairs, the Adam is the worst sinner. In
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred he puts
himself in the way of temptation, and in
most of these he is saved from a fatal fall
by his Eve. If his is the controlling spirit,
and he leads her to join him in sins of his
own devising, he is the party to be dis-
graced and punished. His Eve ought to be
treated at least with a little of the mercy
given so abundantly by a Divine being, in a
later dispensation, to a woman who had al-
ready sinned but was really repentant.
There was the one grand case of chivalry
that was more than knightly—THAT was di-
vine.—Ex,


POSITIVE PEOPLE.

	Of all the trials appointed by way of dis-
cipline in this sublunary sphere, is not the
greatest that of being forced into the per-
petual companionship of a positive person?
One who is so eminently and distressingly re-
spectable that he never did a wrong act in
his life, yet who constantly clashes upon all
your little harmonies and ideal dreams of
life, who shadows your rose-colored atmos-
phere, dispels your fancies at a glance, and
transforms every chord of your life to a dis-
cord. To be able to discover a flaw in the


character of such an individual would be
to your mind more refreshing than summer
rain to the parched earth. But no; from
his immaculate and appaling respectability
there is no appeal. Defenseless and silent
must you listen to his oracular opinions on
all conceivable subjects. His ground is
staked out at right angles, around which
your feet, long accustomed to wander at
their own sweet will, must walk circum-
spectly.
	There is no subject, from the Heaven
above to the Earth beneath, on which his
mind is not established firmly as the ever-
lasting hills. Who are you to presume on
questioning his opinions?
	Oh, for the grace of adaptability? Like
charity, it covers a multitude of sins.
Though your friend be more unlettered
than a Patagonian, more unconformable in
temperament than the Furies of old, yet
the grace of adaptability to times and moods
shall transfigure him in your sight, and his
coming shall ever bring you pleasure, and
his leaving pain!
	It is a great virtue in machinery that it
is easily adjustable to different kinds of
work and different operators. It is no less
a virtue in life. The gauges of living must
meet various and widely different demands.
Unforseen exigencies are continually aris-
ing. Opinions, duly labelled and stowed
away in one's mind, are not available for
the common needs of humanity. The best
of all things is a susceptibility to progress-
ion. People who pride themselves upon
being always the same, yesterday, to-day
and forever, are not only the most tiresome,
but the most detrimental to the true inter-
ests of society. Dr. Holmes remarks some-
where: "Don't be consistent but be simply
true."
	If your opinion has changed, you are,
doubtless, wiser than you were before. It
is not probable that wisdom has found a
termination in a life of any one individual,
and it becomes us to feel some regard for
the opinions of every one. A sweet and
gracious adaptability—a mental pliability,
so to speak—which, if not analyzed, is al-
ways realized. It is the slight and unassim-
ilated culture that repels. The genuine ar-
ticle attracts, and, unconsciously, perhaps,
to itself, draws all around it upward. It is
the "life of beauty" which invests all
around it with the "beauty of its thought."
It is the "little learning," the little culture,
the little thought, that is "a dangerous
thing," not the deep, sure foundations
widening every day. Positive people do not
change, therefore they do not progress.
At twenty years of age they may be shin-
ing lights in the community, but see if at
fifty they are not hard, unyielding and un-
comfortable.—Lady's Journal.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Ginger Cake.—One cup sour cream, one of mo-
lases of any kind, one of sugar, one teaspoonful of
salt, one of soda and two of ginger, Mix stiff
and bake quickly.
	Packing Eggs for Winter use.—Strong lime
water is the best of anything, but in the absence
of lime many pack their eggs small end down in
common salt. Some grease the shells with melt-
ed lard and pack in bran. A very good way too,
is to fill a calendar full of eggs and pour over
them a teakettle of boiling water, then, when
cool, pack in salt. The hot water slightly cooks
the outside of the egg, making it air-tight.
	Citron Preserves.—Pare the citron, take out
the seeds, and cut in small pieces; weigh it and
put it in cold water and boil until tender; throw in


a few peach leaves to give it a green color; also a
small lump of alum to harden it. Make a syrup
of three-quarters of a pound of sugar for each
pound of citron, and for every seven pounds use
four lemons and two ounces of green ginger-root.
Slice the lemons and ginger-root thin, scald them
in a little clea[-] water, after which add the sugar.
Boil the syrup down until thick, then add the cit-
ron and let it boil five minutes. Take the whole
up in jars and seal up close, and keep in a dark,
dry, cool place.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Sure Cure for Inflamed Eyes.—Take half an
ounce of Golden Seal (you will find it at the drug
stores), pour one-half pint boiling water upon it
and let it cool. Bathe the eyes with a linen rag
dipped in this, each night on going to bed, and
you will soon effect a cure.
	How to Grow Fat.—Take soup every day,
also milk-coffee or chocolate well sweetened, 2
Let your food be chiefly farinaceous and vegeta-
ble; bread with butter or milk; milk-mush, pota-
toes, cabbage, turnips etc., prepared with butter,
sweet puddings. 3 Eat meat only once a day;
the fatter kinds are the most suitable. Take
neither acids nor alkalies, and avoid everything
that disagrees. Milk, butter and sugar are very
fattening, but everybody cannot take them with
impunity, and to grow fat it is essential that di-
gestion be almost perfect. Sleep all you want, and
take exercise in moderation.
	Action of Cod-Liver Oil in Disease.—Buch-
heim finds that cod-liver oil has an acid reaction,
and contains, in addition to the fatty glycerides,
free fatty acids—oleic, stearic, and pahnitic—the
quantities of which vary in different kinds of oil,
but amount in the clear variety to about five per
cent.; and no biliary matters are present in the
oil. Its value, according to Buchheim, depends on
the presence of the free fatty acids, since the ab-
sorbtion of fats is preceeded, to a certain extent
at least, by their disintegration into glycerine and 
fatty acids; and as the latter are introduced in 
cod-liver oil in their free condition, and thus easily
unite with the alkalies of the intestinal juices to
form soluble and easily absorbed soaps and com-
binations, a part of the digestive work is spared,
which is of importance for weak persons with de-
ficient power of producing the gastric juices.
	Barley Water Preferable to Milk.—A paper en-
titled "Observations on the Digestibility of Milk,"
read a short time since in London, by Dr. Carter,
has attracted considerable attention. In this pa-
per, Dr. Carter, as reported, discussed various
methods which had been generally used with a
view of promoting the digestibility of milk, point-
ing out that their efficiency was essentially due to
the dilution of the caseine, thus causing the pre-
cipitation, on its introduction into the stomach,
in a granular form, of what would otherwise be
firm, bulky, and compact. He further showed by
experiment, that simple dilution with water was
insufficient for this purpose, and that the object is
far better attained by adding a mixture of alka-
line or starchy waters with the mix. Dr. Carter
summed up by giving a decided practical prefer-
ence to barley water, and this conclusion he illus-
trated and supported by various experiments.


The following are some of the meanings
attached to precious stones: Diamond, in-
nocence; ruby, forgetfulness of vexations
caused by friendship and love; emerald,
success in love; sapphire, repentance; ame-
thyst, sincerity; garnet, coustancy; topaz
fidelity; turquoise, prosperity; opal, hope;
bloodstone, courage; agate, health and long
life; cornelian, contentment; sardonyx, con-
jugal fidelity; chrysolite, antidote against
madness; malachite is not a precious stone
but its color green, signifies hope.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE NEAR FUTURE.

	A San Francisco, California, prophet gives
us items of his predictions in regard to
events just about to transpire. We know
this to be an age fraught with wonders
great and marvellous; the Scriptures, Book
of Mormon, the prophecies of Joseph Smith,
all warn us of thrilling scenes, national revo-
lutions and fearful convulsions of the ele-
ments of nature's realm. Some of our
readers may like to hear what one of the
world's seers says, and for their benefit we
copy the prediction in full:
	"A dark cloud is visible over a great
part of the United States, between October
and the 10th of November. This denotes
ill feeling, stringency in money matters,
political disturbances, and want of harmony
in nearly all particulars. Somewhere about
October 20 or 25th, a great catastrophe will
occur in one of the large cities in the Uni-
ted States, involving much loss of life. A
dark cloud in the political horizon denotes
the near approach of the death of a politi-
cal leader of note, also to a renowned capi-
talist in the East. A convulsion of nature
is threatened upon this coast in October,
and great storms in the East. A very
prominent man upon this coast will be the
mark for many tongues in regard to finan-
cial integrity. After much trouble he will
probably save himself from utter ruin.
Disturbances of various kinds will trouble
the peace and quietness of the people in a
thickly populated part of this city, and
many alarming rumors will be prevalent in
October and November. In mining stocks
an unusual market is denoted in October,
and many sensational reports will be used
to check the growing bonanza, which stock
at the present time is but little thought of.
	In Europe, a nation now at peace, will
make warlike preparations, which will
probably end in war, but not during this
year. A great convulsion of nature is
threatened in a country situated to the
south. A country now at war in Europe
will by changes of administration settle all
difficulties and suspend hostilities during
the last of the year.
	In our own government a stupendous
fraud will be discovered near the seat of
government which will bring disgrace to
several very prominent officials. Figura-
tively a cloud visible, just rising in the
West, and the form it takes is that of a
man whose advent will overtake all exist-
ing forms of government. Many people
will flock to his standard during the early
part of '77, and the outlook of that year in-
dicates that it will be the most noted one of
the century."—Ex.


A VISION.

	I had a vision in which I was transport-
ed to the city of Paris. There I saw noth-
ing, however, which as a traveler, I should
have sought. I was conducted by an un-
known guide through crowded streets, into
the heart of the city—into a house, and by
a winding passage into the centre of the
house. That room was small, without win-
dows, and brilliant with gas. The occu-
pant was a man, and we found him violent-
ly at work turning a crank, which seemed
to communicate its motion to machinery
outside of the room. His neck and arms
were bare, and he was red, and puffing with
the violence of his exercise. His express-
ion was evil, and I began to retreat; but
my guide held me, and said, "Ask him
what he is about." So I said as graciously
as I could:


"What manufacture may you be engaged
in, sir?"
	"I turn out the fashions," said he. "My
master keeps a hand at this machine day
and night, throwing off the fashions which
you may see in magazine plates all over
Christendom; now a new style of bonnets,
now of sacks, of dresses, of jewelry, trim-
mings, every thing which goes to make up
feminine attire. By means of this machine
a perfect metamorphosis in woman's dress
is accomplished at least every two months.
One fashion is only adopted before another
is ready to displace it."
	"What is the use?" said I.
	"Well, master is fond of power," he re-
plied, and he rules the world, as you may
say, in this way. This is his grand device
to keep women from thinking. She has no
time to think; she has only time to change
her dress. I turn the wheel, and she must
keep step. She is like a dazed bird—charm-
ed with changing colors—and my master
keeps easy possession of her."
	Then I saw that the adversary of souls
contrived this great system of fashions to
keep woman in a vain show all her life; and
when I went into the street, I saw in every
line of the "latest fashion" his deep design.
	R.
—The Gem.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHAT word will read backwards and for-
wards the same?—Level.
	WHAT flower is emblematic of a fop ad-
dicted to fighting?—The dandy-lion.
	WHY are we sure to have justice done us
after dinner?—Because we get our dessert.
	WHAT word in the English tanguage be-
comes shorter by having a syllable added?—
Short.
	WHAT word of one syllable becomes a
word of two, by having two letters taken
away?—Plague.
	IT was said of a certain judge that he
was so reserved in his manners that one
would never suspect he had any.
	WHEN Richard III. was "himself again"
of course we knew who he was; but who
was he when he was not himself?
	WHAT word is it, the first two letters of
which are male, the three first female, the
first four a brave man, and the whole word
a brave woman?—Heroine.
	DEFINITION of a baby:—A palpitating
tiny bunch of nothing rolled up in flannel,
with the one faculty of almost automatic suc-
tion.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call will [---] the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget.
					17, East Temple street.
				TEMPLE OF FASION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1876.	NO. 11.


TWILIGHT REVERIES.

The shadows rest upon the mountains high,
	And blue and purple [-]aze enwraps them now,
And clouds, fantastical, pil'd 'gainst the sky,
	Wreathe quaint, odd garlands round the mountain's
		brow.

How gently twine shadows and clouds so gray,
	Changing to dullness things but late so bright,
Yet from the beauteous west the closing day
	Casts glim'ring glances of its fading light.

Oft have I watch'd the phantoms twilight made,
	Dissolving day and night in one another,
And in similitude my fancies play'd
	With light and shade, and blended them together.

The soft breeze gently whispers in the leaves,
	In tones so musical, and sweet, and low,
The echoes thrilling me—'til mem'ry weaves
	The reveries of the hour with "long ago."

The visions of the past fill all my soul,
	And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
	Of forms and scenes familiar, though so dim,

I see the forests near my childhood's home
	And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem'ries come,
	And I seem wand'ring 'mid those ancient trees

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
	And sweet affection, with her myriad powers:
All these, I gather in the shadow'd scope
	Of fancy, as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
	Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd'ring pause, 'twixt happiness and fear.
	As the vast panorama is unrolled.

'Tis pleasant thus to view the path we've trod,
	And mark where here and there our feet have stray'd,
Where sometime fell a heavy, chast'ning rod
	And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth'd all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
	And list'ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
	Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
	Darken'd our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears;
	We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through
											EMILE.
	SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 30, 1876,


[Column 1]
		THE GRAIN QUESTION.

	During the past few weeks, I have heard
many questions and remarks, similar to the
following: Is it true that President Young
advises the sisters to buy and store up the
grain? But what can they be expected to
accomplish in a matter like this? It has
always been considered a woman's sphere
to cook the food; has it now become her
place to look after and provide it also? If
the women are to engage in such business,
what, indeed, will be left for the brethren
to do? How do we know but that, if we
undertake such measures we shall [--]come
speculators, as men are? Buy up large
quantities of grain at low figures, and as
the current fluctuates, turn round and sell
it at high prices, just as our brethren have
done.
	I am happy to find that in an editorial of
the last EXPONENT, nearly, if not quite all
these questions were carefully answered.
I hope, my sisters, you have all found the
same. If any of you have read that arti-
cle, entitled "SISTERS BE IN EARNEST!"
and have failed to drink its full meaning,
or to receive the spirit by which it was
given, please read it again. I did so, with

[Column 2]
profit; and I feel that I may also answer
some of my sisters' inquiries here, as one
deeply, vitally interested.
	Are our good, faithful brethren likely to
be left without plenty of employment, if
the sisters do all they can to assist in the
great Latter-day work? I think not, in as
much as temples are to be built, many of
them, in different parts of the land, the
gospel preached, and the plan of Salvation
carried on in its various ramifications. No
one need be troubled with the fear of hav-
ing nothing to do. There is abundance of
work for both men and women, in forward-
ing the progress of the Kingdom of God.
When we are told what to do, our whole
duty is to receive the message with meek-
ness and cheerfulness; and then go to work
"in earnest," as we have been told, and,
never wavering, honorably discharge the
obligation with which we are entrusted.
	The idea of women becoming speculators
is nothing to be dreaded. A woman has as
good a right to engage in honest speculation
as a man has; but there is no danger of the
Latter-day Saint sisters going into any
speculation with grain at this time, on ac-
count of the privilege opened to them, ex-
cept to buy up and store away all they can.
If any one doubts this assertion, let her
look abo[-]t her, behold the myriads of little
children in the land, and recollect that the
women who are now called upon to save 
grain, are their MOTHERS.
	O! my sisters, even now while I write, a
little chubby hand pulls my sleeve, two soft,
dark eyes look smilingly up into mine and
a pair of cherry lips ask me for some sugar.
Could I imagine those pure, baby-lips, which
with all a mother's tenderness I stoop to
kiss, asking for BREAD when I had none to
give, and yet sell one kernel of grain that
might be preserved at home! I tell you, I
have no fear of the sisters turning this
grain movement into a speculation. All we
want and all we need, is to be firmly united
in this as in every other effort; and with
the help of the Lord and His Spirit to guide
us, we will be wise as was Joseph in Egypt
and as successful. God grant that not one
honest heart may falter; and all the honor
and glory be ascribed to him forever.
							MABEL.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THE country where the Eastern war is
carrying on its dreadful devastation, there
are said to be many thousands of men, wo-
men and children almost naked and liter-
ally starving.
	MRS. S. Westman of Indianapolis, a lady
lecturer, has drawn forth the highest enco-
miums of praise for her eloquent and logi-
cal method of dealing with the subject of
Finance.
	THE INTRODUCTION of women clerks
into the goods offices of the London and
Northwestern Railway at Birmingham, has
proved so successful that the Directors have
been induced to try the experiment in oth-
er large centers of traffic. So say some of
our exchanges.
	MRS. LUCRETIA Mott, the venerable
quakeress and staunch supporter and beloved

[Column 2]
advocate for woman in her most true and
use[--]l sphere, was upon the platform at the
recent Woman's Congress held in Philadel-
phia, and in her speech before the house,
traced the development of woman's educa-
tion for the last thirty years.
	"MUSIC, AND Woman as a Musician,"
one of the papers read at the Woman's Con-
gress, is certainly an article of real merit.
It is decidedly the best article of the kind
we have ever had the pleasure of perusing,
and contains so many ideas of superior ex-
cellence that we feel would be appreciated
that we intend publishing a part of it in
our next number.
	IN THE Woman's Journal, Oct. 7th, there is a
short article headed "Put Yourself In Her
Place." This article refers to Lucy Stone
at Faneuil Hall, speaking of the absurdity
of refusing Suffrage to George Elliot, one of
the most popular English woman authors
at the present age. The Boston Sunday
Herald makes its comments upon this, and
considers that for such a great woman and
writer, it would be a waste of time. The
writer in the Journal carries the argument
further and asks "What should we think
of this logic?" by substantiating the name
of George Elliot for the name of William
Cullen Bryant, James Russell Lowell or of
some other literary man, equally gifted
and popular. "Would discussing politics
be a waste of time for them?"	"NOTES FROM the Lecture Field," pub-
lished in the "Woman's Journal" of Oct 21,
in alluding to the many reiterations of the
assertions "Woman Suffrage is unpopular;"
"Public opinion is against it;" Women are
its most bitter opponents;" advances some
excellent ideas. The writer, Miss Matilda
Hindman, a very staunch supporter of Wo-
man Suffrage and an eminent lecturer, says
"these things are so often repeated that
even many friends of the cause believe
them true;" whereas Miss Hindman asserts
"it is not unpopular among the most intelli-
gent classes." The press she says has gen-
erally been unfavorable, and consequently
"the cause has suffered from adverse state-
ments." Miss Hindman speaks of having
traveled thousands of miles through some
of the States, holding meetings by hun-
dreds, conversing with the leading men and
women in these various localities, and she
believes she has had ample opportunity to
judge the sentiments of the people on this
subject. She adds "men who stand the
highest intellectually, morally and socially
in their own States are the best friends of
Woman Suffrage."


MONEY is not all one has to give. The
poorest in purse may bestow real sympathy
and comfort, may minister to the sorrowing
and rejoice with the joyful, weep with
those that weep and add largely to the sum
of human happiness.
	THE every-day cares and duties which
men call drudgery, are the weights and
counterpoises of the clock of time, giving
its pendulum a true vibration, and its
hands a regular motion, and when they
cease to hang upon the wheels, the pendu-
lum no longer swings, the hands no longer
move, the clock stands still.—Longfellow.


82		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, Oct. 14. President Mrs: M. I. Horne
was present and after the reading of min-
utes from different wards addressed the
meeting on the various subjects now under
consideration. She exhorted the sisters to
encourage all home institutions, and above
all to live their religion in an acceptable
manner; she spoke of the sorrow mani-
fested by the people now that they could no
longer have the privilege of officiating for
their dead, and advised all those present to
beware of procrastination lest the Bride-
groom should come and find them unpre-
pared. Mrs. E. S. Barney gave some ac-
count of the recent visit she had made to
some of the settlements, and the success
which had attended their efforts. Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. P. Woodruff, and Mrs.
Margaret P. Young all spoke [-]pon the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and the testimony of
the Holy Spirit. The meeting was an in-
teresting one and the Spirit of the gospel
seemed to abound in the hearts of the sis-
ters.

	SELINA, SEVIER COUNTY, Oct 7th, 1876,
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The following is is a brief report of our
societies. The sisters are alive to their du-
ties and are trying to serve God in a right
and acceptable manner. Our Relief So-
ciety was organized Dec. 25, 1873, and Sis-
ter Margaret Rasmasen was chooson for our
president, but being called to move away,
Sister Margaret Anderson was chosen to fill
her place. We find her a good, kind presi-
dent and one who is trying to live her re-
ligion and help the sisters, and especially
the poor in all their needs for comfort or as-
sistance of any sort. A number of the
Saints here have been baptized for the re-
newal of their covenants, enjoying the
Spirit of the Lord, and He has blessed them
with an abundance of harvest this season.
The brethren have built a store-house to
store away the grain, and are very busy.
We meet every Fast day and every second
Thursday and converse upon the principles
of our religion. The teachers visit the dif-
ferent wards once a month and find out the
candition of the saints and where there
are any sick or poor that are in need we
give comfort and attend to their wants im-
mediately. We also have a Young Ladies
Society which was organized last Fall with
the following officers. Mrs. Mary Ann
Steele, President; Mrs. Hannah J. Spencer,
and Mrs. Sarah Casto, Counselors, Miss
Catharine Martin, Secretary and Mrs.
Martha Fenn, Treasurer. There are but
very few young ladies in our small place,
but there is a large num[-]er of small girls
from nine to twelve years of age, who love
to attend meeting, and we hope at some
future day to have a large and intelligent
Society.
	Wishing you success, I remain your Sis-
ter in the Gospel.
				HANNAH J. SPENCER

			MILL CREEK, Oct. 17, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society meetings are held
every second Thursday in each month.
Last month we had the pleasure of a visit
from some of the sisters from the city.
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D, Young,
Mrs. E. Davis, Mrs. P. Staines, and Mrs. E.
Howard.

[Column 2]
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke to us about home
industry, and of making substantial cloth-
ing such as we can manufacture ourselves;
she also spoke of the necessity of meeting
together often.
	Mrs. Zina Young spoke upon seri-culture,
showing how very easy we could raise the
materials, and that it would be for our good.
We had a good meeting and if we do not
do right it is not for the want of instruc-
tions.
	I will thank my sisters for their kindly
visit and good counsel, and may God bless
them in their labor.
	We are doing as well as we can in our
scattered condition. We have a good room
well carpeted and furnished. We take care
of the sick, and help the needy. The
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
is doing well under the presidency of Mrs.
Isabella Carlisle. They take the EXPONENT
and read selections from it in their meet-
ings.
	With best wishes for the advancement of
every good work and home manufacture,
we remain the co-workers of those who la-
bor for the advancement of the Kingdom of
God,
			MRS. MARY MCALLISTER,
							Pres't.
		MRS. ELIZABETH CARLISLE,
							Sec'y.

	VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., UTAH,
					October 16th, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	When we last wrote to you, in May, our
Retrenchment Association numbered thirty-
two; since that time it has increased to for-
ty members, and more are joining almost
every meeting. We hold our meetings
once in two weeks; we employ our time in
speaking, reading from the EXPONENT and
other good publications, and in working at
different kinds of work. On Friday, Oct.
6th, the Association met at the school house
for the purpose of quilting a quilt, the first
that had been completed in the Association;
the young ladies worked very diligently
till 12 o'clock, when all brought in their
picnic, and a table was set the length of the
hall, and at one p. m. about forty (including
a few of our mothers who had been invited
in) were seated at a very good dinner.. Af-
ter dinner the tables were removed, and
the quilt finished. Afterwards the Asso-
ciation held a meeting, to which the Young
Men's Association had been invited, and the
girls had been requested to invite their
mothers. After singing and prayer, Sisters
Maria Spendlove and Alice Isom delivered
lectures, which were listened to with great
interest, and which were truly encouraging
and edifying to the young. At six p. m. all
met at the hall to enjoy themselves in the
recreation of a dance, which closed at ten,
when all expressed themselves well pleased
with the evening entertainment. A good
spirit prevailed throughout the entire day.
	Hoping for the success of your valuable
paper, we remain as ever your sisters
	LUCINDA STRATTON,	}	Secretaries.
	ELEANOR JEPSON,	}


NATIONAL DEBTS:—France has a nation-
al debt of £900,000,000; Great Britain a
debt of £780,000,000. The United States,
£470,000,000; Italy, £390,000000; Spain,
£375,000,000; Austria, £350,000,000. The 
debt of Russia amounts to £340,000,000.
The German Empire £200,000,000; Tur-
key, £135,000,000; India, £130,000,000; 
Brazil £82,000,000 Holland £80,000,000.


THE GREAT JAPANESE "ALTAR
			OF DAILBUTZ."

	Dailbutz, meaning the "Great Buddha,"
a bronze idol is situated in the midst of a
plain, once the site of a large city, now only
surrounded by a thin grove of trees which
have outlived the more perishable temples
and shrines once included in these sacred
grounds, and of the city only a straggling
village remains, it is called Kamakura. Dail-
butz, meaning the "Great Buddha," is about
seventy feet in height, entirely of bronze,
and represents the god in his usual state of
profound repose, sitting cross-legged, the
eyes closed, and hands clasped, with thumb-
nails meeting. It rests upon a stone found-
ation, and in front of it, upon a stone altar,
are two large bronze vases, each containing
blossoms and leaves of the lotus, a sacred
plant of the Buddhists, perfectly carved in
bronze, and in front of both is the inevita-
ble cash-box. Climbing up the folds of the
god's garment, which form safe footholds
for some distance, we sat down on his im-
mense thumbs, and some idea may be
formed of the size of this statue by the
fact that three grown persons can sit com-
fortably on one thumb, between its end and
the second joint. This majestic idol, perfect
in its proportions, and sublime in its ex-
pression of an eternity of repose, was
placed in its present position many
centuries ago—so many that the exact
date of its erection is unknown. Two
wire-guarded windows are cut in the
back near the shoulders, and a door cut on
one side admits visitors. Inside is a good-
sized room, with images of various saints
on two rough altars, and incense burning
before them. Cut in the woodwork of the
altars, and written in Japanese ink, any-
where and everywhere about this interior
of the statue are innumerable names and
addresses of visitors.


Mothers have many serious cares: This
assertion is undeniable; the anxiety in-
volved in maternity is well understood by
all who have experienced its pains and an-
guish. The feebleness of the new born in-
fant, unable to express its wants or its pains,
continually beset by dangers to its frail life
from the very first, constantly appeal to the
mother's nature, when her own strength is
just slowly returning. The restless nights,
the attacks of sickness now and then, the
anxious watching and waiting, all tell upon
the mother. And when the baby can ex-
press its wants and its feelings how much
waywardness to be controlled and checked,
what ill tendencies to be subdued. And it
is seldom for one alone these energies and
sympathies are called into action, there is
usually a group, a little community, an em-
bryo kingdom, over which the mother has
sway, keeping, as far as possible, each in its
place, and giving to each the right which
is due. The variety of temperament is o[-]e
item which cannot be disregarded in the
government of the mother: due allowance
is necessary in order to guide and restrain
without repressing, and thus perhaps blunt-
ing some strong attribute which, carefully
guided, would constitute strength of char-
acter. Thus is the sphere of womanhood
equivalent to that of a queen, and she
should exercise her best and highest facul-
ties to sway such a sceptre as shall make
her a "queen without being a despot."


IN this simple fact that we cannot accu-
rately forsee the future, lies a refuge from
despair.—Lewes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		83


THE GOLDEN SIDE.

There is many a rest on the road of life,
	If we only would stop to take it;
And many a tone from the better land,
	If the querulous heart would wake it.
To the sunny soul that is full of hope.
	And whose beautiful trust ne'er faileth,
The grass is green and the flowers are bright,
	Though the wintry storm prevaileth.

Better to hope, though the clouds hang low,
	And to keep the eyes still lifted;
For the sweet blue sky will soon peep through,
	When the ominous clouds are rifted.
There was never a night without a day,
	Nor an evening without a morning;
And the darkest hour, the proverb goes,
	Is an hour before the dawning.

There is many a gem in the path of life,
	Which we pass in our idle pleasure,
That is richer far than the jeweled crown,
	Or the miser's hoarded treasure;
It may be the love of a little child,
	Or a mother's prayer to Heaven,
Or only a beggar's grateful thanks,
	For a cup of water given.

Better to weave in the web of life
	A bright and golden filling,
And to do God's will with a ready heart,
	And hands that are swift and willing,
Than to snap the delicate silver threads
	Of our curious lives asunder,
And then Heav'n blame for the tangled ends,
	And sit to grieve and wonder.
									—Ex.


For the EXPONENT.
			SPEECH.

	This is a theme we should do well to
study, for when we consider the millions of
words we utter that are vain and frivolous,
sometimes even wicked, it makes us trem-
ble when we remember that the Lord says,
"out of our mouth shall we be judged;" and
how large a number of this people have
covenanted in HOLY PLACES, not to use
vain, light or wicked language; words of
good sense ought ever to flow from the lips
of the saints. Not that we should always
speak in a serious or sombre manner, for
the best instruction may be conveyed in a
cheerful, easy and often mirthful conversa-
tion. For the young, I would recommend
this motto, "Be merry and wise." These
little words contain an epitome of wisdom.
	Speech, is one of the greatest gifts to
man and woman; it is the mark of Divin-
ity; no other creature has the gift of a audi-
ble speech. All creation speaks, but it is
with a silent eloquence; true they have
their tones, like a musical instrument,
when the chords are struck sound most beau-
tiful and harmonious, as the feathered
tribe, some deep and sonorous, as the lion,
the blood-hound, and cattle of inferior
kind, and in a less pleasing degree: but all
natural sounds are harmonious, and Scrip-
ture says, "There are many voices and
none are without signification." We can
fancy trees and flowers have a voice, but it
is the language of a book; and on their
leaves are the words,—God! Heaven! And
by their sweet perfume they make them-
selves tangible to us; who that has walked
down the rich and gay parterre, does not
thrill with gratitude to Our Father in heav-
en for the beautiful and delicious things
He has prepared and organized for His
children upon earth. The taste, the smell,
the eye, the ear is fed "with heaven's pe-
culiar manna." Yes! The spirit of our God
fills the atmosphere in such a spot, and the
mind is often soothed and comforted by the
feeling that heaven is around us; and we
know that these keep a celestial law unbro-
ken. But to turn more particularly to
speech as the grand medium of intelligence
amid the human family. There are mo-
ments when we crave silence in ourselves
and others and realize that solitude is best,
but in a general way, speech is the life of
society, and a delightful means of convey-
ing happiness and instruction. A silent
person has no charm for me, and I am sus-
picious of them, as I have often discovered
that such an one is taking items of the
words and actions of others, and hereafter
can freely criticize, perhaps satirize the
speakers of the company. The best feel-
ing is soon produced in a party where all
contribute, and I think there is a propriety
and good sense in the following lines which
a friend wrote on the fly-leaf of my album:
	"You may look in this album but learn [-]re you look
	That all are requested to add to the book.
	You may quiz as you please, but the penalty is,
	That you also leave something for others to quiz."
	It is astonishing how mind acts upon
mind, and spirit upon spirit, and I have
seen some that the moment they enter an
assembly, and begin to speak, the whole
company seem to arise to a higher degree
of intelligence and happiness.
	By the aid of speech we have the power
to convey instruction, amusement, comfort,
and consolation, and do a world of good;
if we pervert this God-like gift we can ex-
cite anger, disgust, revenge, sorrow, de-
spair and misery. When we meet in social
parties, it should be the duty of every one
to consider for a moment WHY we meet,
and what good will arise from the meeting,
and determine that we will try and say
something that will benefit some one. All
have talents, all possess knowledge on some
points that perhaps others have not acquir-
ed. Foolish jesti[-]g and frivolous talking is
not becoming to any woman or young girl
in company.
	We should be in our best spirits, our
brightest intellects, and the vehicle of these
should call forth our best manners; our cares
should be left out of the circle always. The
social party is for reunion, recreation, and a
a reciprocation of thoughts and sentiments,
and an interchange of talents, abilities and
the sweet amenities of life, and we retire
from such a circle refreshed and invigora-
ted in body and mind.
	When the Head of a House is the Con-
stellation of that Orbit we find order and
intelligence throughout, and all are made
happy for the time being, the cue being
naturally given and taken from such a
source, and spreads like a subtile perfume
throughout the assembly, and it is no hack-
neyed phrase or unmeaning assertion
when we say, yes, from our heart, it is
good for us to be here. Dryden says:
"Speech is the moving of the Soul, it
spreads its beauteous images abroad which
else lie furled in the clouded mind."
					HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Ex-Queens Christina and Isabella are
"lobbying" for the payment of heavy claims
on the national treasury.—Ex.
	A WORK of the late Madame George
Sands entitled "Dialogues Philosophiques"
is about to be published shortly, as a review
by "M. Renan."
	MISS Emily Faithful, in speaking of wo-
men asking men for work, remarks, that
"if they do they will get what they have
always got—the [-]ind men do not want to
do themselves." Miss Faithful is one of
the most earnest and sincere advocates of
Woman's Rights, and is undeniably practi-
cal in all her ideas of the woman question.
	MISS Alcott, the very famous writer for


little folks, has just published a new volume
"Silver Pitchers," and "Independence," a
Centennial love story. The volume con-
tains nine short stories, and is calling forth
much comment and considerable criticism
from the literary world. "Silver Pitcher" is
a temperance tale and contains a moral.
Miss Alcott's writings possess the intrinsic
merit of imparting a contagious happiness.
And in this respect are valuable for they
contain no objectionable arguments or doc-
trine. She looks upon life as wholesomely
as a child, and leaves no morbid impression
upon the youthful mind.
	GEORGE Eliott's last new story, which
has just been concluded in Harper's Month-
ly, "Daniel Deronda," is said to have been
the event of the month in literary circles.
No story for years has called forth as much
discussion and attention among educated
and cultivated people. The book has just
been issued in a complete volume. The
public are likely to know something more
of this celebrated author from a new vol-
ume just published by Messrs E. Moxon &
Co. It contains the biography and autobi-
ography of Elizabeth Evans, the alleged
original of Dinah Morris in "Adam Bede."
The book is entitled "George Eliott in Der-
byshire. It has upon the title page the
names of Guy Roslyn and George Bennett
Smith, and contains a letter from George
Elliot concerning her characters in "Adam
Bede."


SPLINTERS

		 		GENERAL.
	Samuel C. Lewis, who manufactured the
first bar of iron in the United States, visit-
ed the Centennial Exhibition......Mr. Pay-
son, the Government astronomer of Madras,
has his children christened with the names
of the chief celestial bodies he discovers
......Mr. and Mrs. Fleetwood of Texas, held
a convention and nominated Mr. Fleetwood
for President and Mrs. Fleetwood for Vice-
President......The Camille Urso troupe are
expected to perform in San Francisco during
November......The admissions to the Cen-
tennial Exposition keep up the usual ratio
......The Greek Congress will discuss the
Eastern question when the king gets home.

				PERSONAL.
	Edwin Adams is said to be dying in Aus-
tralia.........Miss Waldman, so successful as
Aida, is about to quit the lyric stage and
marry an Italian Count......Mr. Bayard Tay-
lor is the New York correspondent of the
"Cincinnatti Commercial"......The King of
Belgium is about to establish a penal colony
and institution in South Africa.........Abdul
Hamid II is spoken of as an enthusiastic
Mahometan, but of his [---] sympathies
people seem to be in ignorance......Henry
Jerome Bertini, the French pianist and com-
poser, is dead......Barry Sullivan is playing
Richard III at the Drury Lane Theatre,
London.


GRACE and glory are inseparably joined—
he that gets the one may be certain of the
other.
	THE best estimate of the population of
the American nation at the beginning of
its first century was 2,750,000. It has
now 44,675,000. The area of county has been
extended from 800,000, to 603,844 square
miles. Manufactures have advanced in val-
ue from 20,000,000, to 4,200,000,000. There
are only three nations which surpass the
United States in extent of surface; the
British, Chinese and Russian Empires.


84		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months;
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1876.


[Column 1]
		BE WISE AND HEARKEN TO
				COUNSEL.

	To the women of this Territory we make this
appeal in all sincerity, and after most serious
thought, on storing away grain while it is with-
in their reach. We wish if it were possible,
the subject might be agitated in public and
private until every mother and every sister
should feel the necessity of immediate action.
	Is it not presumptiom in the Latter-day
Saints to say they believe in the inspiration of
the work of the last days now commenced,
and that this people receive divine revelation
for guidance, and then pay no attention what-
ever to the instruction given through the ser-
vants of God who hold the keys of power upon
the earth?
	Why are the people so slow in acting, so heed-
less of those things which are the most essen-
tial? Why do they slumber and sleep when they
are continually invoked to arise and shake off
their lethargy and prepare themselves for the
great and eventful future? And will they not
be left to mourn and lament if they neglect
the things they have been told to do?
	A great and wise prophet in ancient times
said, "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt-
offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice
of the Lord? Behold to obey is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams."
This mighty truth is as much a truth to-day as
when it was first uttered.
	What is there that will so effectually appeal
to human nature as want—want of bread?
Surely, if there is a spark of true fire in the
hearts of the women of this Territory, after
the request President Young has made of them
reposing such confidence in their ability and
exertions, they will arouse all their dormant
energies to earnest, decisive and immediate ac-
tion. Should the time come (and it will) when
there will be a scarcity of bread, what will wo-
men care then for a little sarcasm? It seems
too trivial to call forth the slightest notice in
comparison with the momentous subject in
contemplation. It would seem that this peo-
ple's privations in times past would have so
thoroughly taught them the necessity of econ-
omy and of wisdom in obeying counsel, that
it would only be necessary to ask them to do a
thing which is so palpable, and they would un-
derstand it. The hundredth part of the suf-
fering among, even this small remnant of peo-
ple, here in these valleys in the times of
scarcity, has never yet been told; it is some-
thing too deep for empty words; then only to
picture a scarcity all over the land as has been
predicted, and the scene is too horrible to
bear looking upon. Let every mother be awak-
ened to a realization of the necessity of heark-

[Column 2]
ening before the time is past. Wh[--] i[-] [---]
that can feel these things as deeply as a moth-
er can; think what it would be to hear your 
little one cry for bread, and worst of all to know
you had trifled away the day of grace given
you, had thought lightly, or not at all upon the
subject. That men, as a class, are very tena-
cious of their rights and privileges, is "most
true;" but let them carefully weigh this mat-
ter and they will assuredly grant to woman
the right of self-preservation, for herself and
her posterity. It is argued by men that an-
cient history proves woman's inferiority and
servile state, in the days when God had His
prophets upon the earth; but do not the Scrip-
tures certify woman to have been not only
queen and prophetess, but Judge in Israel, as
witness Deborah in the fourth chapter of Judg-
es. Is there then anything so inconsistent in
women building storehouses and filling them
with grain?
	It has been remarked by some that Presi-
dent Young thought that by doing this, the
wives and daughters of this people would cease
to ask their fathers and husbands to dispose of
their grain for finery, or unnecessary articles
for personal or household ornament. But in
our opinion, men themselves in a general way,
dispose of as much means for tobacco; and such
products as tend to degeneration and degrada-
tion, as women do for vanity.
	Of what use would all the finest fabrics ever
woven be, or jewels and diamonds if there was
a lack of bread? How little in comparison
would these things seem, how insignificant
and worthless. We distinctly remember (for
these things are not easily forgotten) that in
our exit from Nauvoo, when we were about to
launch forth into an uncultivated wilderness,
the thoughts of the people were concentrated
upon food for subsistence, and they were glad
to dispose of such things as they could possi-
bly spare; carpets, shawls, silk dresses, gold
watches, chains, rings, and many other valua-
ble things were sent down into Missouri to ex-
change for wheat, corn meal, or any of the
staple products which sustain life, as well as
for oxen and cows with which to pursue the
journey.
	To those who have experienced the priva-
tions which the saints have passed through at
different periods since the organization of this
church, the words of President Young must
carry a double force, for they can not only see
the future in prospect but the past in retro-
spect.
	The Lord has brought this people from among
their kindred and friends, and has made this
desolate land a fruitful and desirable one, and
plentiful harvests have rewarded the husband-
man for his toil. Have they been prompt in
the fulfillment of those laws and principles
which have been in existence ever since time
began, whenever the Lord had a church upon
the earth? The law of tithes and offerings. If
women have been remiss in the past, if they
have been dilatory in doing the "Master's
work" slow in hearkening to counsel, and have
sought after vain and foolish things, let them
seek to make what reparation they can while
there is opportunity. This subject is not the
embodiment of an idle tale or romance, but a
stern and positive reality which must be met
and acted upon. God grant our sisters wis-
dom to carry out President Young's counsel,
and we trust that ere another issue of the EX-
PONENT we may have reports from different lo-
calities, representing the movements which
will, ere then have been made. Surely the
Lord will bless His daughters and give them
strength and fortitude in such a noble enter-
prise. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


A WORD ABOUT WOMEN.

	One can scarcely take up a book, magazine,
or newspaper nowadays without being aware
that women are "creating a sensation," they
are certainly getting themselves talked about;
are men beginning to fear and tremble, (I fear
some are) and is there "a woman at the bottom
of the mischief?" That is a familiar saying of
theirs. We are told that "in the last days men's
hearts would fail them," &c., but we had no
idea it would be attributable to women, yet it
is even so from the pulpit down; this is idol-
breaking by women, and though men speak of
her as silly, vain, and frivolous; they will per-
haps find ere long that woman is terribly in
earnest; that she is no longer willing to be
trammelled by narrow conventionalities, but
to step forward on a broader platform, undaunt-
ed by the sarcasm or even foul aspersions cast
upon her by those who have not the inspira-
tion of a potent power urging them to a noble
purpose. She can endure all the calumny and
reproach of those who are ready to attribute
to her the motives of revenge, spite or disap-
pointed love, knowing that the end will more
than justify the means, and be ample atone-
ment for any personal sacrifice.

	"Through slander—meanest spawn from hell—
	And woman's slander is the worst—
	And you whom once I loved so well,
	Through you my life has been accurst."

	I will not agree that woman's slander is the
worst, Tennyson to the contrary, notwithstand-
ing, and I venture to dispute the long estab-
lished dogma, of total depravity in women;
tradition has handed it down from the days of
Adam and Eve. I take the ground that slan-
der has no sex; the "poison of asps" is no more
under the lips of woman than of man, and the
unruly member that stirs up a great fire belongs
no more to one than to the other; I am not one
who thinks men and women are made of differ-
ent flesh and blood, not even that men are made
of dust and women are angels, but that wo-
men from their very infancy are guarded from
all outward contamination, so that the very
elements of the deadliest slanders are wanting.
	Woman untaught, in a vast majority, for
countless centuries in all arts save such as per-
tain to domestic life or "the wiles that charm,"
at best subordinate or inferior, to come and go
as she was bid, has been termed silly, vain,
weak and cowardly, but give her justice and
she is no coward, give her cause and she will
face fearful odds, as is abundantly proved at
the present time in her putting forward a claim
for the right of the ballot; we have as much to
gain or lose by good laws, or bad laws as men;
we should be well versed in law and under-
stand all that pertains to marriage, to divorce,
and to property; we have as much to risk by
law as men. Does it detract from their dignity
because women prove themselves capacitated
for the same positions as men, is this any usurp-
ation of power or of rights? If they are really
superior to us let them move on, "there is room
higher up." They have not reached the pin-
nacle of greatness yet, to which it is possible
to attain, let them look to it that they advance
if they would not have women too close up-
on their track, for there is advancement among
women; thought is growing, a[-]d m[--] should
turn their attention and bend their energies
to things of more weighty consideration than
woman's faults and a jealousy of precedence,
should look with pride instead of fear upon wo-
men who are seeking to elevate, inspire and
ennoble the sex, for they are the molders of
men, it is conceded; then as women advance,
so does it more surely perfect the future race of
men. Woman bears the impress of the seal of
immortality. 						EMILE.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		85


NOTICE.

	The Woman's Commission House, recently establish-
ed under the auspices of the Relief Society Woman's
Mercantile Association, is now transacting business on
commission at the Old Constitution Buildings, opposite
Z. C. M. I. Their stock consists entirely of home-
manufactures. They are well supplied with plaid, lin-
seys and waterproofs for winter dresses, wraps etc; and
shawls large and small, stockings and socks of all sizes
knit with machine or by hand, baby's socks, crochet
cuffs or wristers large and small. A dressmaker is
there, ready to make up material to order. There is a
good supply of men's and boys wear, of all the differ-
ent varieties manufactured here; an excellent tailor to
do all kinds of work in that line. There is also a full
stock of hats, straw and felt, and a miliner to attend to
that part of the work. They have also various other
articles to wear and use. All the standard church
books. Homemade soap, Jamaica ginger, ink, black-
ing and vinegar: also butter, cheese, and eggs. Among
the things noticeable are the lace and silk productions,
some of which are exquisite. The patronage of the
people is solicited for this institution, that Utah may
sustain by united effort the industry which is the pros-
pective wealth of her people. The women of this Ter-
ritory are making this almost unprecedented movement
to concentrate their exertions in one grand enterprise to
become self-sustaining, that they may free themselves
as a people, as soon as possible, from the shackles of 
Babylon!


[Column 1]
				HOME AFFAIRS.

	SEVERAL OF the missionaries appointed at the last
Semi-Annual Conference, started to-day on their jour-
ney. Some had left previous and others will start on
the sixth!
	THE DISTRICT Court seems unable to dispose of
some of the cases on hand, as there are so many crooks
and turns taken that these cases are likely to drag on,
until they shall be ruled out of Court, or assume the
character of cases in chancery.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 8, now issued con-
tains many excellent things. The editorial "Singing in
Schools" deserves to be widely read, and all interested
in the advancement of the young are sure to read it
with interest. The hints given on the subject are adapt-
ed to the situation of the people. The music is always
of a high order and tends to refine the taste. We hope
this journal will be well sustained. It has our best
wishes, especially as we believe it to be one step towards
the progression of Utah in musical art.
	THE MUSICAL and dramatic entertainment tendered
to Mr. O. F. Whitney, and given in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Wednesday evening Oct. 25th,
was very well attended. The whole performance was
creditable, and there were several parts which were exe-
cuted in such a tasteful and artistic manner that they
deserve notice made of t[-]em. These amateurs ought to
be congratulated for their efforts to please their friends
and especially for lending their efforts in a good cause.
Mr. O. F. Whitney tenders his sincere thanks to Prof.
Thomas, the Salt Lake Orchestra, the Union Glee Club,
also the young ladies and gentlemen who so kindly took
part in the performance.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through your paper I wish to announce to
the sisters who in days past have been associa-
ted with Sister Lovina Walker, the sad news of
her death which occurred on the 8th of Oct.
at half-past one, p. m., soon after having giv-
en birth to a fine son.

[Column 2]
	She fell asleep without a struggle, and per-
fectly conscious that her departure was near:
she seemed as calm as a summer evening, man-
ifesting neither anxiety nor regret. She has
left a husband and eleven children, with whom
we deeply and sincerely mourn the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and a fond and de-
voted mother. But for her there is no cause for
grief, for she had "fought the good fight and
kept the faith." Her work was done and she
has gone to her parents and friends.
	Here are very many who have known sister
Lovina from the days of her girlhood when
her kind and loving father, our beloved mar-
tyred prophet, brother Hyrum Smith, was
with us. She is his eldest child. It has been
my happy lot, which I consider no ordinary
privilege to spend many interesting and profit-
able seasons in listening to her descriptions of
scenes and circumstances connected with her
father's life.
	I first became acquainted with Sister Walker
in May, 1859; I with my two little children
and an elderly sister who was living with me,
had come from Philadelphia with the Emigra-
tion on my way to the Valley. I had expend-
ed my last means and had no provisions left—
we arrived in Florence at 9 o'clock p. m., it
was dark and raining, the brethren helped us
from the wagons into a vacant house and we
went to rest as soon as possible.
	Early next morning we we e awakened by
some one knocking at the door, the sister with
me opened it, there stood a little girl with a
cup of milk in her hand, she asked if "there
was a little woman there with two little child-
ren," the sister told her "yes" and asked her to
come in, she did so and when she saw me said,
"If you please, my ma wants to see you,
she has sent this milk to your little girls." I
asked her ma's name, thinking it was some one
I knew, but when she told me I knew no one
by that name—I accordingly went to her
mother's house; she met me at the door with
both hands stretched towards me in welcome.
"Good morning Sister Elizabeth," said she. I
told her she had the advantage of me as I did
not remember ever seeing her before. She said
"No and I never saw you before; I am Hyrum
Smith's daughter, my father came to me three
times last night and told me that you were a
child of God, that you was without money,
provisions or friends and that I must help you.
The first time he came to me, I awoke my hus-
band and told him, not liking to be disturbed,
he told me I was dreaming, that it was only
fancy. My father came to me again and told
me your name, he also told me to send my lit-
tle girl with some milk and prove to my hus-
band that it was not fancy." She requested
me to go for my children and the sister that
was with me to come into breakfast, and after-
wards, I learned that the last food she had in
the house was on the table that morning; after
breakfast she went to Bro. Johnson, told him
the circumstance and asked him to help her
provide for me while I was in Florence, which
he did directly, as I have since learned. When
I left Florence I did not see her again for thir-
teen years; then Bro. Hyrum came to me in a
dream and told me to go to Farmington and
help Lovina as she was sick; being unable to
go I sent my daughter to see her, who wrote
me to come directly as my dream was too
true.
	From that time to this we have not been
separated long, and I thank God our Father,
for the friendship that existed between us, and
hope to live the rest of my life so that when I
go hence there will be one happy greeting, one
dear friend ready to welcome me where sorrow
will be known no more.

[Column 3]
	And now, sisters let us not forget the depart-
ed one, but let us watch over her little mother-
less children and extend to them a loving,
helping hand to cheer them through the rough
journey of life, for our Saviour said, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these lit-
tle ones ye do it unto me."
					ELIZABETH DAVIS.
	17th Ward, S. L. City.


For the EXPONENT.
			SENSITIVE PEOPLE.

	By this, I mean those who are sensitive to
an extreme. All those who can lay claim to
this unenviable distinction are certainly ob-
jects of pity; for of all the throng that
moves in society, there are none who have
so much cause for misery. Hold, my criti-
cal friend, ere you arch your brow in scorn.
I do not mean that sensitive people have
more real trouble to bear than others, but I do
mean that their cause for trouble is greater,
yes, tenfold, because it is imaginary, and
imagination calls forth more misery, wretch-
edness and despair than all real troubles
that ever existed.
	A sensitive nature—some claim that it is
a mark of superiority—Hannah More has
said
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind,
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve and lives in all the heart."

	This may be so, but who is anxious for
the distinction? Who, for the sake of be-
ing thought a little more refined, would
sacrifice his peace of mind by the change,
if he could have it at will?
	The aim of life is happiness, but this class
of sensitive people destroy not only their
own share, but detract seriously from that
of others who surround them. A hasty
word, a careless expression of half digested
thought, or even a harmless witticism is
sufficient to cast them into the depths of
gloom and despondency.
	Happy are they who can live above such
trifles—who can move on just as gay and
light-hearted as ever whether the sun shines
or not. Who heed not the looks of the en-
vious, the tongues of the slanderous, and
the frowns of the haughty and proud. Who
can take the world as they find it and live
through it without repining—this is the
class to be admired. You sensitive, melan-
choly people do not think that you are bet-
ter than your fellows, because your feelings
are more easily hurt. You are in error. It
is a species of madness which afflicts you
and which, if you encourage, will be the
bane of your lives.
	Shake it off! Be good-natured and cheer-
ful, fight your natures and win happiness
as the reward.
							STOIC.


THE thing which an active mind most
needs is a purpose and direction worthy of
its activity.
	TEAR from a woman's life all else that
she holds dear and leave her love, and she
is rich; load her with jewels, clothe her in
costly stuff, let slaves wait upon her and
courtiers bow, and she is but a pauper, if no
one loves her.
	POETS know, and statesmen ought to
know, it is by sentiment when well direct-
ed—as by sorrow when well used—great na-
tions live. When sentiment dies out and
mere prosaic calculations of loss and profit
take its place, then comes a Byzantine
epoch, a Chinese epoch, decrepitude and
slow decay.—Kingsley.


86		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 13, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will tell you of a short chapter from
the lives of two of the women of Utah.
	Early Monday morning 18th of Sept. last,
Mrs. E. Howard and your correspondent
met at the Salt Lake depot, with satchels in
hand and preparation for journeying. In
the course of a couple of hours we reached
Ogden, where amid a great many people,
I thought certainly we had arrived at the
Metrapolis of the West. As we past the
hotels, we saw waiters hurrying about pre-
paring meals in such haste, as though ac-
tion was the only principle by which they
were allowed to live. We paid passage on
the Eastern bound train, and presently we
were seated in the cars, we heard something
said about an accident that had just hap-
pened, which we afterward read, of a man
dropping a double-barrel gun, and the dis-
charging of both barrels into a man and
woman who were walking along, and it was
thought the wounds would prove fatal, we
a few minutes previous had passed over the
same ground.
	At Peterson Station we were met by Bro.
Jesse Haven and wife, whom we accompa-
nied to their home at Enterprise, a small
place which had suffered, in times past,
from grasshoppers and frost, and considera-
ble destruction of cattle by the cars, but by
the energies of the people they have suc-
ceeded in establishing homes and have a
pleasant town-site, with a small white
school-house which seemed to over-look
everything else.
	In the afternoon we crossed Weber River
to Peterson settlement; Bishop Peterson's
son was lying sick with the typhoid fever,
but he had all faith that he should recover
in time to go to conference.
	We met in the evening with the sisters,
and I told them the object of our visit, that
we were traveling in the interest of the
Silk Association, and as Agents for the
WOMANS' EXPONENT and other sundry
items.
	Bishop Peterson related to us his success
in making a splendid article of cheese
which was done upon a co-operative princi-
ple; in two months and ten days, they had
made six thousand lbs. I told him I could
not see the policy of our importing cheese
when that of a superior quality could be
furnished at home.
	Five miles further at 10 a. m., on the
19th, we met with the sisters at Milton.
One particular feature of this place was a
nice house built and owned by the High
Priests. Here the people were all very ac-
tive in taking care of what crops the frost
had left them. We learned that all the
settlements through Morgan, Summit and
Wasatch Counties had been visited with a
cutting frost on the 9th of August, which
had naturally affected their wheat crops,
the altitude is such that their seasons are
very short, having late springs and early
falls; they were just threshing their grain
in many places where we visited. Half a
mile further, was Littleton. Bishop W. G.
Smith accompanied us on to South Morgan,
two miles ride brought us to Bro. Eding-
ton's. At four o'clock we met with a full
house and after meeting, Bishop Smith in-
vited the people to accompany him
to North Morgan; in the evening at 7
o'clock, we found another full house,
we returned to Bro. Eddington's and enjoy-
ed their hospitality for the night. In the
morning of the 20th, Bishop Smith came
along and accompanied us up Canyon Creek

[Column 2]
three miles to Richville, where we met the
people of the settlement in a meeting house
and about a million wasps. Nearly all the
meeting houses that we entered, as we
continued up the valley were inhabited
with them, also some dwelling houses.
	Two miles further, at West Porterville,
we held a meeting at two o'clock p. m.
Bishop Smith invited the people to accom-
pany us to East Porterville and attend a
meeting at 7 o'clock. The meeting was
held at Mrs A. Porter's the President of the
Relief Society. From this place, Bishop
Smith was obliged to return home; he told
us he felt our labors were effecting a great
deal of good among the people. There was
a crowded house both men and women and
we were listened to with attention and in-
terest.
	The morning of the 21st we came down
the Creek to Morgan City again. Went up
the Weber about a mile and a half and
came to little sunny "Round Valley" appar-
ently large enough to make half a dozen
good farms. Here we solicited and urged
the raising of the mulberry trees which to
all appearance could be raised successfully.
The sisters here, as in other country places
seemed to be endeared to the sunbonnet,
we endeavored to show them the utility of
making and wearing home-made straw hats.
Here we met Bishop Edward Hunter's son,
he had a nicely located piece of land, and
a foundation for what I should call a New
England farm.
	We continued up the Weber ten miles
over a very rough road to Croydon; on this
road is the "Devil's Slide," it is on the side
hill about half a mile long with a couple of
perpendicular rock walls about twenty feet
high leaving a space of a few feet be-
tween. We passed the tunnel which seem-
ed at the distance to be no more no less
than a black hole in the mountains
where some wild animal had his den.
From the bushes, as we traveled along,
we gathered choke-cherries, haws, and au-
tumn leaves. We arrived at Croydon feel-
ing very tired. There was a meeting at
four o'clock; after a refreshing repast of
tender beefsteak etc. at the house of Prest.
Ellen Thackeray (which I wish by the by
that half our young girls knew how to cook
as well,) and somewhat rested, our spirits
were more buoyant, and we hurriedly
improved our time; the sisters expressed a
regret for the brevity of our visit. At sun-
set we left for Henneferville, three miles
further, stayed all night at Bishop Rich-
en's. 
	We met with the Relief Society at 10 a.
m. The Prest. Anna Bunot had bur-
ried her infant twins; she seemed beloved
by all; and her spirit appeared as if it was
almost too feeble for this mundane sphere.
After meeting, the Bishop took us through
Echo to Coalville. We arrived later than
expected, and the meeting was nearly over;
but there was one appointed for the next
day at 10 a. m., at which time we assem-
bled with the Saints and enjoyed a refresh-
ing time, attended to business &c. We
then went three miles to Unionville and
met with the sisters at 2 p. m. The Presi-
dent, Ann Lowe, is sixty-five years of age,
is full of spirit and hope, the inhabitants
are scattered and she was obliged to walk
three miles to attend meeting, she also
walked six miles to attend a meeting at
Coalsville. The same evening we arrived
at Sister Susan S. Richards, at Wanship.
There we went to the Sabbath meeting, but
Sister Howard was quite ill.
	Monday 25th, at 10 a. m., we met with
the sisters at meeting, also visited a sick
sister. On entering one sisters house, we

[Column 3]
were interested with an evergreen vine
that was trained from a couple of windows
into the four corners of the room and from
thence forming a complete net work on the
ceiling. Three and a half miles further, at
Lockport, we met with the sisters at 2 p. m.
The girls had decorated the house with
lovely autumn leaves. Everything spoke
of order and neatness. The President,
Mrs. Bryant, is a sister to Mrs. Wheeler,
President of the Society of the 2nd Ward,
S. L. City. She was full of zeal and en-
ergy.
	We passed on to Peoa, four miles further,
and at 7 o'clock met the sisters in another
well filled house. We met in several pla-
ces where the floors were wet from recent
scrubbing. How unwise for delicate wo-
men and girls to assemble in halls, under
any circumstance, on wet floors, it causes
much lamentable sickness and distress.
Bishop Marchant, a jolly, good man,
seemed quite elated over our meeting; said
if we had been told the condition of the
settlement, we could not have made more
appropriate remarks. This shows that the
Lord is with His handmaidens to help them
in their weakness.
	On the 26th at 10 a. m., we were in Masell,
where we were met by the Bishop and held
a meeting in a private house. Went on to
Kamas, where the people assembled in a
large fine hall, but not yet properly seated.
The appearance of the place bespeaks that
the people have more energy, or their fac-
ulties are far in advance of some of the
settlements we have visited. The Bishop's
wife seems well adapted to lead out, is gen-
tle and kind, and co-operates with the en-
ergetic sisters she presides over. We as-
sembled with the sisters in their Society
House, at 10 a. m. on the 27th. The house
is made of logs nicely whitewashed, and
the floor covered with a carpet of their own
make. The sisters expressed themselves
well paid for meeting. We journeyed
seventeen miles further to Heber City, with
Bishop Samuel Atwood. The roads were
good, but as we went down many hundred
feet from the summit we could realize a
great change in the atmosphere. As we
traveled along our eyes wandered over the
picturesque scenery that lay on our way.
It seemed to me that the many thousand
miles over which I had traveled, I never be-
fore saw all nature clothed with such beauty;
every color of the rainbow could be seen
among the autumn leaves, and foliage that
covered the hills in groups, and clusters; it
appeared as if the God of Nature had been
forming bouquets to decorate the hills. Al-
though the air seemed soft and balmy as a
summer's morning, I found from the cold I
had taken from the wet floors that I had
quite lost my voice, and was obliged to talk
in a whisper. We reached Heber, which is
quite a city, with many well finished public
buildings, painted and grained, stores, etc;
great contrast to the farming towns. We
arrived at Bishop Hatch's. Relying upon
a higher power, and through the prayers of-
fered in my behalf, I was supported with
sufficient voice to address an audience one
hour and a half, in a large beautiful hall.
Sisters Howard also bore a strong testimony.
The Bishop appointed a meeting at 10 a.
m., on the 28th, for Sister Howard and my-
self to speak more particularly to the sisters,
after which we went to Midway about five
miles directly west of Heber, and a couple
of miles northwest of this place we visited
some great curiosities of Nature's works.
There were warm springs and many mounds
that had formed from the lime in the water,
as it boiled up over their pots. One large
hill was sending forth lime water over its


edge and down its side and still continu-
ing its work of building. At Midway, the
people were about one half Germans. This
place was particularly noticeable for some
very fine brick houses, the corners of which
were laid up of white lime stone rock and
then whitewashed which added very much
to the beauty of the buildings. Our even-
ing meeting was well attended, some peo-
ple having come from Charleston. Bro.
Watkins of Midway, has a quantity of canary
seed which he said could be raised here as
well as paying an expensive price for the
imported; he took us to Charleston and Bro.
Nymphas Murdock took us to Wallsburg,
where Sister Wall gathered her little flock
together at three p. m., and we talked to
them. At seven in the evening we met in
a beautiful, well-furnished meeting house,
built and kept expressly for worship, with
easy stationary seats. This was the last of
23 meetings which we held in twelve days
	Saturday we commenced our journey
down Provo Canyon, the roads were very
rough, but the waterfalls and the scenery
was altogether magnificent. We arrived
at home Sunday morning, Oct. 1st,
feeling we had accomplished some lit-
tle good.
						E. S. B.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


FROM HAWAII.

	EXTRACTS FROM SEVERAL LETTERS BY
SISTER JANE E. MOLEN TO HER FRIENDS.

			LAIE, OAHU, June 19, 1876.
	We left Ogden May 10th; had a pleasant
ride on the cars, lasting two days and nights;
spent a day and a half in San Francisco.
We sailed on the Steamer Zealandia on the
24th; had a very successful voyage; arrived
at Honolulu June 1st where we met Bro.
A. L. Smith, waiting with conveyances to
bring us to this place, the distance being
thirty-two miles. We found a hearty wel-
come waiting us, both from our folks and
the natives.
	The natives seem well pleased with their
new President, Bro. Pack, and show great
love for Bro. Smith, who has done a great
deal towards bringing them together and
uniting them.
	I am well pleased with this place, also
with the people. The children show a great
desire to learn English.
	Sister Mildred Randal has started a nice
little school. I hope that I may be able to
continue the work and be an instrument in
the hands of the Lord in doing good.
	Sisters Woolley and Lambert wish kind
remembrance. They are good Latter-day
Saints, and feel to exercise patience and
faith.
	I think this a very healthy place. There
is a continuous breeze, from the sea, and one
does not feel the heat so much as at home.
If this place were our home, and our dear
friends were all here, I should think it beau-
tiful. We have a nice large school room,
larger than our school room at Hyde Park.
It is the meeting honse.
	I like the pupils; they are like our chil-
dren at home—some more studious than
others.
	The natives grow very pretty flowers.
The geranium grows wild here, pink, scar-
let, sweet-scented. Many of our choice
plants grow here without water except the
rain. There are but few of the natives, as
far as I have become acquainted, who care
enough for anything like refinement to grow
flowers. They are, mostly, the most de-
praved people that I ever heard of. I have


come to the conclusion that if a virtuous
people ever grows out of the people here, it
will be through their gathering to Utah.
There are a considerable number wanting to
go.
	I sometimes think how pleasant it would
be to meet with all my dear friends at home;
but I desire and pray that I may be patient,
and fulfill my mission honorably. It would
seem very lonesome when my husband is
away, but the Lord strengthens me and I
enjoy a peaceful spirit.
	This is a strange people. They are well
educated in their language. The little boys
and girls will read the newspapers as read-
ily as their parents can. Children twelve
years of age have good educations. The
Government compels them to go to school.
			To be continued.


SPELLING IN OLD TIMES.

	In the reign of Henry V. good spelling
and clean shirts were equally rare luxuries.
Leicester, says Disraeli, spelled his own
name in eight different methods, while the
family appellation of Millers, in deeds and
documents relating to the house, is spelled
in at least a dozen. Mainwaring passed
through 131 orthographical permutations,
and is even now, if spelling have aught to
do with pronunciation, spelled incorrectly
at last. The immortal bard himself, not to
speak of what others did for him, changed
his own mind some thirty times, according
to Halliwell, as to the letters and the se-
quence of the letters composing his illustri-
ous patronymic. Elizabeth wrote sovereign
in as many ways, as she knew languages—
that is, seven. The young Pretender, fol-
lowing his own sweet will, and entirely
free from any s[-]rvile bondage to the letter,
writes of his father as a certain Jems or
Gems. In those palmy days, when every
man was his own speller, when military ex-
aminations were not, little attonishment
would have been raised by such arbitrary
orthography as lately adorned the paper of
a candidate for one of her Majesty's appoint-
ments in the line. That candidate spelled
elegy leg, and ingeniously evolved pash-
shinger out of passenger. Much ingenui-
ty, nay imagination, inspired another, who
framed Indian eras out of engineers.
	But what are such trifling irregularities
as these to the caprice of—say her Grace
the Duchess of Norfolk? The Duchess was
one of the most accomplished ladies of the
sixteenth century, the friend of scholars,
the patron of literature. She wrote to the
Earl of Essex, thus:—"My ffary gode lord,
—her I sand you in tokyn hoff the neweyer
a glasse hoff Setyl set in Sellfer gyld. I
prayou tak hit An hy wer hable het showlde
be batar," &c. The patron of literature
has ingeniously contrived to spell I and it
each in two different ways in as many lines.
What this friend of scholars intended the
Earl to understand by Setyl is very obscure.
There is a Scotch word something like it,
signifying "a disease affecting sheep in the
side," but this the most accomplished lady
can scarcely have intended.—Cornhill Maga-
zine.


DAVID A. WELLS ON COMMERCIAL
			DEPRESSION.

	The following extract from the address
of David A. Wells, the well-known statis-
tician; delivered by him before the conven-
tion of social science, of which he is presi-
dent, and which recently met at Saratoga,
will, we think, be of value at this time in


furnishing some solution for the oft-repeat-
ed question "Why are commercial interests
so depressed?"
	It is evident from examination, that the
present condition of the country is not due
to natural causes. It is due to artificial
causes, and, as such, can be removed. The
first point that strikes attention is the uni-
versality of the present depression in busi-
ness. It is world-wide, though slight in
particular nations, as in France. It is the
greatest in the United States. This does
not teach however that the depression is
due entirely to causes acting universally,
but investigation will show that the general
result we recognize has been due rather to
the current action of very many causes,
originally, local, and which, if nations had
been isolated to the extent they were a
hundred years ago, would have been ex-
ceedingly limited, or endemic, in their in-
fluences, but which, under the close rela-
tionship into which nations have been
brought by improved means of intercom-
mnnication, have become all-pervading or
epidemic, in their influences. Of such gen
eral causes originating in one country, but
coming into action and producing disturb-
ances throughout the whole circle of civiliz-
ed states at nearly the same time, I can
think of only one that is entitled to be thus
classified, and that is the steady and exten-
sive introductoon and use of labor-saving
machinery and processes. A more import-
ant influence, however, is the aggregate
loss of capital which for ten or fifteen years
the world has been experiencing. These
losses are due to bad investments in railroad
bonds, the colossal war expenditures of the
world (the national debts of the world have
increased ten billion dollars since 1861,
making their aggregate now twenty-five
billion dollars,) the panics and mercantile
failures of the world, the brnkruptcy of
governments, and the enormous increase
of taxation, particularly in the United
States.
	Another agency, which has operated con-
jointly and even more powerfully than war
expenditures and an excessive irredeema-
ble currency to impair the aggregate of na-
tional abundance, by diverting labor from
productive to unproductive or less produc-
tive employments, and which is even now
in full continuance, has been, and is the
wholesale recognition and practical appli-
cation since 1860, of the doctrine of ex-
treme protection as a part of our national
fiscal policy. And the loss of capital and
the waste of labor which we have experi-
enced, and are now experiencing in conse-
quence of this policy, have contributed
more than any one thing, in my opinion, to
make us poor, and it will continue to keep
us so, so long as it is continued.—Eclectic
Magazine.


FLOWERS.

	THE best friends are those who stimulate
each other [--] do good.
	GREAT works are performed, not by
strength, but by perseverance.
	THE man who contents himself to-day
with that which he has will content himself
to-morrow with that which he may have.
	People who suppose that a good prayer is
preferred to a good act, doubtless imagine
that God has more hearing than eyesight.
The end, we fear, will show that they rea-
soned from false premises. The poor are
oftener prayed for than helped. The rea-
son is, we believe that air is cheaper than
bullion.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S HEART.

	It is my opinion there is a period in the
early life of every true woman when moral
and intellectual growth seem, for a time to
cease. The vacant heart seeks for an occu-
pant. The intellect, having appropriated
aliment requisite to the growth of the un-
crowned feminine natures, feels the neces-
sity of more intimate companionship with
the masculine mind, to start it on its second
period of development. Here, at this point,
some stand for years, without making a
step in advance.
	Others marry, and astonish, in a few
brief years, by the development of higher
and holier emotions, their sweet tempers,
their new physical and mental beauty,
their high accomplishments, and their noble
womanhood, those whose blindness led
them to suppose women devoid of such lov-
able traits of character.
					MRS. DR. RHUGO.
S. L. City, Oct. 14, 1876.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Lime-water and milk is said to be a most useful
compound for sick or delicate infants, and also for
persons at a later period in life, when the functions
of digestion have been seriously impaired. A
tumbler of milk and four tablespoonfuls of lime-
water is about the requisite proportion for a grown
person, and will afford proper nourishment when
almost everything else fails.
	It is asserted upon the authority of persons of
great experience in sickness and disease, that in
many instances men and women who have suf-
fered from nervousness until their hands shake
like leaves on a tree in a windy day, and others
who have become so affected as to cause irregular-
ity of the pulsations of the heart which produces
undue excitement, have been effectually cured by
the daily use of celery eaten at meal times.
	A medical lady of some repute tells us that
thousands of people create lung disease from their
own willfulness and ignorance, from the effects of
a pressure on the lungs through the habit of sit-
ting, standing and walking with the head drawn
forward and stooping; this prevents the lungs from
filling with air naturally, as they otherwise would.
Stand erect and throw your shoulders back if you
would preserve your health and life.
	An excellent cough powder may be prepared
from skunk cabbage root, comfrey root and white
sugar. Take equal quantities of each, pulverized,
and mix together, and use one-half dram for a
dose in a little water three times a day, or morn-
ing and evening. The skunk cabbage is a peren-
nial plant growing in boggy swamps. The root
has anti-spasmodic properties and is very useful in
chronic colds, coughs and asthma, and should be
prepared as a powder.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To prepare a counterfeit cream for tea and cof-
fee, take one egg, one half cup of sugar, one half
cup of sweet milk, one half cup of cornstarch, beat
well together.
	White Fruit Cake.—Take one cup of butter, two
of sugar, one of sour milk, the whites of three
eggs, the whole of one egg, one teaspoonful of soda;
two of cream tartar, and one and a half cups of
raisins stoned and floured.
	Cookies.—Two cups of sugar, one of butter,
one egg, one half cup of sweet milk, two teaspoon-
fuls of cream tartar and one of soda, add nutmeg.
Take sufficient flour to mix, and roll out. Sprin-
kle sugar over the top and roll it in before cutting
them out. Put them on a paper to cool before
piling them up to store away.


Old-Fashioned Fried Cakes.—Take 1/2 cup sugar,
1/2 cup shortening, one pint sour milk, one teaspoon-
ful saleratus, season with allspice or nutmeg; mix
with sufficient flour, but not too hard. Have your
lard hot enough to make the cakes a darkish
brown. These cakes can be made very quickly,
and will keep a long time in cool weather and do
not get stale or dry.
	Home Prepared Citron for Cakes and Pud-
dings.—Take the citron, cut and prepare it in the
ordinary way except to boil the syrup until it is
quite thick, but instead of closing up the jars,
leave them open for the air to enter, taking, of
course, every precaution against dust or damp.
The preserve will then dry gradually, and you
have an excellent substitute for the imported arti-
cle, which will answ r the same purposes. Now
is the time of year, and there are plenty of citrons
for sale very cheap. Another year perhaps many
housekeepers knowing this recipe may raise their
own citrons at home.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
	IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOLLEN GOODS,
		SUCH AS
FLANNELS,
	LINSEYS,
		WATERPROOFS,
			JEANS,
				DOE-SKINS,
					YARNS,
						STOCKINGS,
							GLOVES,
								LADIES' JACKETS, &c.
									FANCY ARTICLES,
[-]ATS, SHOES,
	BRUSHES,
		BROOMS,
			BUTTER,
				CHEESE, EGGS,
					FLOUR, CIDER,
						VINEGAR,
							INK, SOAPS,
								LAUNDRY
									BLUEING,
		ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
		INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
		AND THE
Oil of Artemisia,
	OR WILD SAGE.
ALL HOME MANUFACTURE.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fasions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
price.				17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1876		NO. 12.


For the Exponent.
				OBEDIENCE.

	How holy the joys from obedience springing,
	Eternity's treasures unfolding to view,
	New songs of salvation God's people are singing,
	Renewing their vows to be faithful and true.

	Yes; those who are truly God's kingdom adorning,
	 Will part in the First Resurrection obtain,
	Arising immortal on that happy morning,
	Like Joseph the prophet, with Jesus to reign.

	Love, virtue and peace in these homes are united,
	Angels rejoice when they minister there,
	Come let us press on since all are invited,
	And strive by obedience these blessings to share.

	Welcome to us, then the trials which heaven,
	In wisdom dispensing our pathways surround,
	Faithful and true till the promise is given,
	Which the righteous may claim, may we ever be
		found.
							ELLEN H. WALLACE.
Salt Lake City.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN AS MANAGERS OF
BUSINESS.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	Order, thou eye of action! wanting thee,
	Wisdom works hoodwink'd in perplexity;
	Entangled reason trips at every pace,
	And truth, bespotted, puts on error's face.
		AARON HILL. 
	Many inferences are drawn in relation to
women as practical and methodical mana-
gers in business affairs. It seems the world
are only just becoming conscious that wo-
men possess the faculties to qualify them to
adjust such matters as relate in a general
way to the commonplace transactions, by
which trade and commerce are carried on.
The idea is a novel one, to some who have
not been cognizant of the growing status of
woman in relation to finance, and when any
phenomena in illustration of the fact of wo-
man's practicability clearly elucidates itself,
men open their eyes in wonder, and imme-
diately set their wits to work to solve the
problem in some exceptional way, instead
of attributing it to the real genius or inher-
ent qualities of woman's competency. It
seems perfectly consistent that women
should be able to arrange and carry out sys-
tematically and effectively plans of action
which would operate successfully in business
affairs. The many phases of woman's house-
hold work require order, method, prompt-
ness and executive ability; if women did
not understand, by habit and intuition, the
easiest, quickest and best modes of dispatch,
they could never bring quiet, peace and
harmony to the domestic habitation. How
much careful study, thought and practice
are brought into requisition by the compli-
cation of circumstances which every house-
hold develops. All these different entan-
glements by being unraveled, smoothed
and harmonized teach useful lessons, which
to the woman who knows how to apply the
knowledge she gains, so as to make it a
means to an end, works out or solves the
great problem of commercial interests by
the application of her own private expe-
rience in domestic economy. Who is there
that has to practise more thorough disci-
pline, or be more accurate in management
than the woman who is supervisor of her

[COLUMN 2]

own household affairs? The work which
devolves upon the mother and wife requires
the most perfect method in arranging so as
to ensure any degree of home-comfort, and
it will bring to its aid tact, energy and
skill, in order to evoke an organization com-
plete in the fulfilment.
	Then through this very process do women
become initiated into the very channels
which are the most available for the trans-
action of business; their capacities expand
with their facilities for action, and the very
elements which bring to the home circle the
genius of an inspiration for making every-
thing adaptable are those which will best
assist women in the transaction of affairs
which will eventually help them to estab-
lish industries and manufacturies for the
general interest of communities.
	The arrangement of family and house-
hold affairs requires as nice order and meth-
od, as does the management of a store, or
an office. In this respect there would no
doubt be as much difference in women, as
there is in men, and probably no more.
The woman who is not prompt and ener-
getic, is not the one who will succeed in
business, and in any and all of the private
walks in life will always cause more or less
confusion, dissatisfaction and dislikes. She
consumes the time of others and gives them
reason for thinking that she looks upon them
as not of sufficient consequence to make her
punctual; method is the soul of business;
and order in every and all departments of
business, or of life, is one of the most im-
portant matters to be impressed upon man
or woman. Pope says:
		"Order is heaven's first law; and this confess'd,
		Some are, and must be, greater than the rest."
	We often hear it said, that "to the busi-
ness man, time is money," and to the busi-
ness woman time is money, and so is
method.
	That there are women who look upon
their time as of very little consequence there
is no doubt, but are there not thousands of
men who waste their own time and that of
others in a more shameful and wicked man-
ner than women do? One need not go far
to prove this assertion; here on the corners
of the streets, in the stores, the saloons, the
hotels, on fences, steps, everywhere that
there is room enough for a knot of men to
collect, they are in the habit of gathering
to talk, smoke and so forth. There are
some who never seem to do anything else.
Men are very fond of saying women get to-
gether (even in their meetings) to gossip
and backbite, but in the name of common
sense, what do so many men huddle togeth-
er in little caucauses at the corners of streets,
etc., for? To discuss politics and the state
of the government, and a variety of other
interesting topics, so they say; but in my
opinion they would be doing the world a
great favor by going to work; and if they
cannot find any other employment, they
could help their wives, sisters or mothers
to cook their food and tend the babies, for
women not only never have any idle time,
but are often worked beyond their strength.
	There are a few individuals who summer
and winter may be seen loitering around
corners; wherever the sun shines in winter,
and where there is a shade in summer; how

[COLUMN 3]

they get their living is a mystery. Such
men are not capacitated for business of any
sort, any more than women who have not
been disciplined in habits of industry, tact,
accuracy and punctuality; yet they are men,
and they can vote, and discuss politics, and
carry the world on their shoulders, figura-
tively speaking, that is one might imagine
so to hear them talk.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ABOUT ONE hundred specimens of an-
cient pottery, which were dug up in the
State of Missouri have been recently presen-
ted to the Museum of Yale College. It is sup-
posed they are about 2,000 years old. In
our opinion this is another testimony to
substantiate the validity of the Book of
Mormon.
	THE EMPEROR of Brazil is about to pub-
lish a book of travels. The first volume,
now finished, contains an account of his tour
through the United States. It will be pub-
lished in December in Paris. Although
written in Portugese, it has been translated
into English, French and German.
	THE SALE of the Old South Church in
Boston, which has been so much talked of
by the women of that city, has at last been
formally completed. The purchaser, Mr.
B. M. Pulsifer, gave a bond to the commit-
tee of ladies which if they raise the money
within a reasonable time will entitle them
to a deed of the property.
	THERE WAS a reception given to the Wo-
man's Congress which recently assembled
in Philadelphia by the Woman's Centennial
Committee. The affair was to all intents
and purposes a brilliant one of its kind,
and yet without any ostentation or display,
even in the matter of dress. Everything
being arranged with simplicity and ele-
gance. It is much to the credit of all wo-
men that this extraordinary occasion, for
an example, furnishes one incident notice-
able, and which, it is greatly to be hoped,
will be extensively imitated elsewhere; it
is this, there was no wine upon the table.
	AN OLD CUSTOM.—This season, the cere-
mony of opening the Nile, near Cairo,
Egypt, took place in the presence of the
principal ministers and officials and several
thousand persons. The ceremony is held
when the river attains a certain height.
An opening is cut to admit its fertilizing
waters to the numerous canals spread all
over lower Egypt. The effigy, of a woman
in gorgeous apparel, and bedecked with
jewelry, is floated down the stream, and
money is distributed to the natives present,
in token of the riches and abundance that
will result wherever the Nile flows.


LEAVES seem light, and useless, and idle,
and wavering, and changeable—they even
dance; yet God has made them part of the
oak. In so doing, he has given us a lesson,
not to deny the stout-heartedness within,
because we see the lightsomeness without.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Oct. 28, was well attended. The
minutes read on that occasion from the dif-
ferent societies deserve praise; they were
full of wise and choice remarks from the
young members of the different or-
ganizations. The blessing, which have al-
ready accrued from these institutions can-
not be estimated. President Mrs. M. I
Horne spoke upon the grain question princi-
pally, suggesting to the sisters the propriety
of entering into some understanding that
would facilitate the accomplishment of the
object. Counselors E. R. Snow and Sarah
M. Kimball both spoke on this subject and
other general ones—the principles of eter-
nal life, the increase and multiplicity of
cares and burdens; said that those who were
not living in the line of their duty would
scarcely be able to endure all that was laid
upon them to bear. Counselor E. Howard
spoke in reference to her recent journey
among the Relief Societies, and the great
desire they manifested to hear instruction,
and the courtesy shown by Bishops and pre-
siding men in the places she visited. Coun-
selor B. W. Smith spoke of the woman's
store, of the great good to be derived from
an institution of home manufactures; if
carried out upon a systematic plan for the 
public weal.

WALLSBURG, WASATCH CO., Oct 31st.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Friday, Sept. 29, we had a pleasant
visit from Sisters E. Howard and E. S. Bar-
ney, who, by their teachings and instruc-
tion, greatly encouraged the sisters of this
little burg. Our Relief Society is in a
flourishing condition, and a majority of the
sisters are trying to live their religion.
	Wishing success to every enterprise for
the good of Zion, and the blessings of God
to attend you in your labors, as well as all
who are working for the spread of truth,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel,
	NANCY WALL, President,
		SARAH GLENN, Secretary.


[COLUMN 1]

BE CONSISTENT.
	The young are very apt to think that
mothers and aunts want to lecture them;
somehow even the boys are more on the
look-out for these prosy little side thrusts in
the form of advice from elderly women,
than from the fathers, uncles, or elder bro-
thers. One would naturally imbibe the
idea from these grounds that it was woman's
province to check, and restrain, and tone
down, through this lecturing process, the
extremes into which the young are apt to
be led. I love dearly to give little im-
promptu lectures to the young whenever I
get an opportunity, somehow it seems nat-
ural, although it may not be always pleas-
ant for the young folks. Many of them
run away from long sermons, and they never
read long articles on any of the subjecis
which are essential for them to understand,
so it is absolutely necessary for some one to
take them in hand and tell them in some
inadvertent manner, of their inconsisten-
cies.
	I do not know whether to address girls or
boys in this article (I'll try and make it
brief); they both need training, they get so
many false ideas of life, its duties and re-
sponsibilities. There are so many of them
that get the impression that when they are

[COLUMN 2]

older, and especially if they marry, they'll
find a balm for every wound, and that, like
the hero or heroine of a romance, the
troubles are all ended, and there will be not
more need of exertion to make onesself hap-
py, for bliss supreme will be the crowning
portion of married life.
	Now we would not for the world shatter
your little castle of fairy splendor, nor dim
its lustrous brilliancy, but we would only
ask you to be thoroughly consistent with
yourself and see whether you have so disci-
plined yourself in body and mind as to fit
you to fill a sphere more advanced than the
one in which you are now graded. Every
step we take higher requires careful prepa-
ration, and attention to its higher laws, just
as surely as does preferment in a school.
Our whole life is symbolical of a school; it
may well be termed one. True marriage is
a rank above single life, and is indeed to be
desired, but do not think for one moment
that you will not need to exercise all your
faculties to render you competent to fill
this higher position; just so surely as you
enter it without careful consideration of all
it involves, and a correct understanding of
its being another prolific source of manifold
developments, so surely will you have to
feel the sting of disappointment.
	If you have heretofore been nursed in
the lap of indulgence, and had every desire
of your childish heart gratified, then be-
fore you take into your keeping the affection
and welfare of either a husband, or wife,
pause—for you must be prepared to exer-
cise self-denial—school yourself well in this,
if you would not shed many bitter tears of
sorrow, if not remorse, when you find the
one to whom you have given so much (your
dear untutored self) requires you to be con-
sistent.
	My dear girls, don't think I am overdraw-
ing the picture. There is a way to be hap-
py, certainly, but that girl who marries to
become more happy, who does not know
how to create happiness in her father's house
is but illy prepared to make it in her new
and untried sphere. Cultivate all those
graces of mind and character that are en-
durable, not the "arts and wiles that charm"
but the solid and sterling qualities which
enhance the value of every good and true
woman, and are a more precious dower to
bring to the marriage altar than the wealth
of Croesus.
	I do not say men or women are to blame,
but that many erroneous ideas are entertained
on this subject; girls are very apt to think,
and they are not in fault, custom has taught
them, that their husbands must overlook all
their imperfections and weaknesses, that the
very fact of maternity is sufficient to entitle
them to all compassion and sympathy; but
how is it? Women find themselves totally
unqualified to enter upon these arduous du-
ties, which come perhaps almost unawares
upon them, and then they are ready enough
to come to mother, or aunt, or some good
friend they have proved, for advice and
comfort. Thank God for the advancement
of knowledge and wisdom and light upon
these subjects; that mothers have at last
realized the necessity of training their
daughters to comprehend the high and holy
offices of wife and motherhood.
	The idea that marriage of itself is to lift a
woman all at once above the necessity of
exertion, and that through this means one
obtains ease and happiness, cannot too soon
be dispelled, for such a delusion is sure to
result in unhappiness, domestic discomfort
and wretchedness, if not divorce. These
feelings are entirely incompatible with or-
dinary marriage relations. It is doubtless
owing to the false notions of complete and

[COLUMN 3]

perfect wedded bliss that there has been of
late years so many suits for divorce, and so
much dissatisfaction in the married state;
and much of this is owing to the excess of
novel reading, sensational and extravagant,
diametrically opposed to common sense
ideas. This generation profess great wis-
dom and enlightenment, and science is
making rapid strides, and one fancies that
mankind are approaching very near to per-
fection in many things, but there is still a
great deal to be guessed at in regard to the
assimilation of human nature in man and
woman. And no doubt while we live on
the earth we shall always have need of char-
ity for each other's shortcomings and incon-
sistencies. But if we can save young peo-
ple from any excess or error, which our ex-
perience has taught us to avoid, if they can
be induced to steer clear of breakers which
have wrecked those who had not been pru-
dently and carefully trained, let us do so
in all earnestness. And to the young peo-
ple we would say, look life straight in the
face and do not expect too much, but bear
in mind that every person is the architect
of the structure which surrounds life with
beauty, gladness and peace, or with misery
and squalor. If one wishes to build well,
let him carefully observe the architecture of
others, and cautiously lay a firm foundation
first, afterwards ornamenting and adorning,
and remember that it requires patience,
will and energy to complete any arduous
undertaking. In every part or portion of
life one essential item is strength, which
gives a firm support. However beautiful any
edifice may be, however charming any idea
or principle, if it lacks strength it is liable
to fall. Then, my dear young friends,
strengthen your lives by the development
of all the substantial qualities of head and
heart; and, girls, do not forget that mother
has had an experience which qualifies her
to give you just that counsel that will help
you to govern and control your ofttime
restlessness, and moderate your inconsis-
tencies.
	AUNT EM.


REFINEMENT.

	Refinement is not fastidiousness. It is
not luxury. It is nothing of this kind. It
is far removed from excess or waste. A
person truly refined will not squander or
needlessly consume anything. Refinement,
on the contrary, is always allied to simplic-
ity and a judicious and tasteful employ-
ment of the means of good and happiness
which is at command. It seeks to divest
itself of superfluities and aspires continu-
ally to the utmost purity. Refinement
leads to personal cleanliness and elegant
neatness, good taste and simplicity in dress.
All "loudness" or "flashiness" is repugnant
to its spirit. In its home and surroundings
—whether palatial, affluent, or humble—
the same chasteness and natural grace are
maintained. The abode of genuine refine-
ment and a mere pretender to it, are very
different. In the former you will find no
excess, gaudiness or false glittering; but the
latter abounds in it. In personal manner,
refinement is most conspicuous. A man of
refinement is always polite without flourish,
gentle without effeminacy, and considerate
without stiffness. Display and ceremony
are not identical with refinement and are
poor substitutes for it. There is, of course,
no refinement like that of the heart, which
impels its possessor to show on all occasions
a thoughtful and kindly regard for the feel-
ings of others. No adherence to etiquette
can compare with it for the spontaneous ob-
servation of true and gratifying politeness.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent
AARON'S ROD.

Hist! Jehovah speaks! Moses, his servant,
With his brother Aaron, bend to listen
To that voice, from which love had cast out fear—
They, waiting to receive, and then obey
The mandates from the voice of God:
"Lo! a miracle will Pharaoh ask of thee—
Then say to Aaron, take thy rod, and cast
It down before King Pharaoh's feet, and lo!
It shall become a serpent, 'neath his gazing eye."

Enthroned sits Pharaoh, servants waiting round,
When lo! the servants of a higher King,
A greater Potentate—but drop at once
All vain comparison, where none can be!
The servants of the God of earth and heaven,
The King of kings and Lord of Lords, present
Themselves before proud Egypt's king,
Bearing an edict from that God he brav'd,
But which he cannot with impunity resist.
No pompous forms, or courtly etiquette
Precede these men of God! but prompt to do,
surely and simply, the bidding of their King.
With brow serene, and calm, majestic mien
The brother of Moses, Aaron, lifts his arm,
Nerv'd with the Spirit of the living God!
And hurls his rod before King Pharaoh's eyes;
E'en that proud, stubborn spirit quails before
The mighty reptile springing into life
From out the mystic rod that left his hand;
To spring to life, alone its mission seemed,
And there it lay before king Pharaoh's eye,
And the eyes of Pharaoh's servants, alive:
A living, panting, breathing, monster thing,
Waiting the mission it was sent to fill
Then rose the passionate, wicked, daring king,
And called his sorcerers and his wisest men,
Magicians of proud Egypt's magic realm,
And bade them use their cabalistic charms;
In like manner, they with their enchantments,
Cast down, every man to earth, his rod;
When lo! they sprang to life, and serpents they
	became.
Marvelous power of infernal art!
The mind can scarcely grasp the horror
Such a scene could throw around, and cause
The stoutest heart and eye to shake and quail.
Pharaoh exults, and feels his art equals
The God of Moses, and of Aaron too.
But wait! not long has he for exultation
Before that serpent God has sent, by him
Chosen and ordained, and fitted by Himself
To show His wonders to the world of men,
The mighty reptile opens wide his jaws
And swallows up the puny worms around!
That God still lives! His servants live to serve
His bidding, and to work His will; and He
Again has spoken, in these latter times,
And in another dispensation—Yes,
Pharaohs still are on the earth, and Moses
And his brother Aaron also have their types
Upon this earth of God! Yes, blessed truth!
Holy writ abounds in types and parables—
And in my simple mind a thought springs up,
Which takes a form embodied, palpable—
I see with Daniel's eye—or rather,
Reading him, I drink into his spirit,
And clearly see that in the Latter days
A kingdom shall arise, and stand forever!
And that it shall consume and break in pieces
All other kingdoms, as the rod of Aaron
Which became a living thing that swallow'd up
The counterparts and counterfeits of Satan.
So shall the last days' work gather up
All things in One, and that One shall be Eternal,
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City.


[COLUMN 1]

WOMEN IN LITERATURE.

	The above heading is that of an article
in "The Woman's Journal" of Oct. 28th,
read at the recent Woman's Congress. We
have copied a few scattering paragraphs
from it as illustrative of our own ideas on
the subject. The article in its complete
form is an excellent one, is highly interest-
ing and contains many excellent sugges-
tions, and plain and truthful statements in
relation to the subject.

	Through all the ages, exceptional women
have been poets, historians and novelists.
But if we look back only for thirty years,
we will realize that it is only in our own

[COLUMN 2]

generation that women have obtained a rec-
ognized and a thoroughly respected posi-
tion in literature. The term "blue stock-
ing" applied to all women who used the
pen, did not lose its sting until a very re-
cent period. And it was more than hinted
that such women not only had ink-blacked
fingers, uncombed hair, and slipshod feet,
but that they must necessarily be neglect-
ful of all recognized womanly duties.
	Thirty years ago there were two or three
woman editors in the world. To-day there
are scores of them; while reporters and spec-
ial correspondents of the same sex are like
daisies of the field for multitude.
	The field of literature is conquered for
women. There are no longer bars or ob-
structions of any sort in the way. A wo-
man who has anything to say, is privileged
to say it; and if it is worth hearing, the
world will lend an attentive ear.
	Women also tell us that because they are
wives and mothers they have neither time
nor opportunity, What folly! Have not our
best women-writers been wives and moth-
ers? And are not our men-writers husbands
and fathers? If they are not they should be, if
they would gain the clearest, truest percep-
tion of human affairs, so that they may be
qualified to speak words of wisdom to the
world.
	First of all it will be well to disabuse wo-
men in general, of their erroneous ideas
concerning a literary career. A woman
must not expect to find any play when she
adopts literature for a profession. A prac-
tical writer leads a life of BONA FIDE drud-
gery. She may, now and then, find her pet
poems, or finely written stories or essays, ac-
cepted and paid for; but if she would make
an actual living of the business she mnst
devote herself to it, just as she would to 
dress-making or dish-washing.  The profes-
sional writer must compel the inspiration,
or write without it.  A woman who writes
for a living must hold herself in readiness
at any time and at all times. She must be
ready to write upon any subject, and in any
style. She must send a poem by return
mail, if required; or write up a whole geo-
graphical division, without previous knowl-
edge of it, and with nothing but a guide-
book and a dictionary of dates for referen-
ces; and yet have her article interesting,
and read as if unlimited information was
withheld solely for want of space. If she
be a reporter, she must be able to write on
the wing, and in the midst of crowds and
confusion, which would bewilder the intel-
ligence of either the ordinary man or wo-
man. If she be a correspondent she must
be at her pen, headache or no headache, when
her more favored companions are resting
from the fatigues of journeying or sight-
seeing. She cannot afford to be either
wearied or ill until after the inevitable let-
ter has been written and posted.
	Next to be considered is the kind of
training a woman needs. She must have
had experience in life. Without it she will
have nothing of value to offer. We never
learn from the experience of others as we
do from our own.	There-
fore until we shall have had a moral, emo-
tional or intellectual history, we can have
little to say worth hearing.

	There is no trade or profession which re-
quires so long practice before it becomes re-
munerative as that of literature. A wo-
man would have time to learn any manual
occupation twice, while she is preparing
herself for a frequently doubtful, and al-
ways precarious career in literature; I am
speaking absolute truth; and I wish every

[COLUMN 3]

woman who has founded false hopes on her
pen, might hear and heed me. There
would be fewer disappointed women in con-
sequence.
	After all this is surmounted, comes the
next difficulty. Has the woman anything
to say? Has she any fresh earnest thoughts
of her own, that the world will care to
hear? Or has she the happy faculty of ab-
sorbing, assimilating, combining and popu-
larizing the abstract and abstruse thoughts
of others? If she can say yes to any and all
of these questions then God speed her.
	Granted that a woman possesses the in-
tellectual culture, the practical experience
with the pen, and ideas; now comes the last
question; does she feel an irrepressible de-
sire to write? Can fancied want of time
prevent her? Do difficulties of any sort
hinder her? Can discouragement daunt
her? If so the crown of authorship was
never destined to rest upon her brow. If
she is inclined to fritter away her time in
trifles, let her fritter it away—her vocation
is not writing. If she is not actuated by a
powerful overwhelming impulse to write—
an impulse which will not be denied, and
which causes her thoughts to rest upon her
like undesirable burdens, which can only
be shaken off by the aid of the pen—and
which compels her to commit them to pa-
per in spite of every obstacle—she has not
the strength of character, and the fervor of
inspiration, which indicate that writing is
her especial undoubted vocation. The writ-
er will write and must write. Denial, ob-
stacles, difficulties, hindrances, only devel-
op more strongly the power which accumu-
lated behind them,
	Those are the men and the women to
whom the angel says "write" and when
they have written, the world will gladly
read what they have to say.
	E. B. DUFFEY.


Among the anecdotes of George Sands
with which the Paris papers have been re-
cently filled, the following is quite piquant.
"In the modest dwelling at Nohant, where
she died, her hospitality was not more deli-
cate than ample, and it not unfrequently
happened that a guest arrived and made
himself at home without having any claim
upon the author of "Mauprat" stronger
than the friendly commendation of an ac-
quaintance. One day such a visitor arrived
—call him Bakor—and from the moment he
crossed the threshold comported himself
with altogether Egyptian ease. He was
passionately addicted to cabbage, and in-
structed the cook to prepare for dinner on
the day of his arrival an immense dish of
that vegetable, which he conscientiously
devoured. Next day there was cabbage in
the soups and cabbage in the stew, and by
the third day the whole culinary depart-
ment, was conducted on the basis of cab-
bage. The mistress of the household, not a
little surprised, made inquiries, and dis-
covered that M. Bakor was responsible for
the revolution. After a week's stay, the
guest announced his intention of departing,
and just before starting waited upon his
hostess to present his respects. He found
her in the garden—the kitchen garden.
'Madame,' he said, 'may I not hope that,
after having been the guest of so distin-
guished an entertainer, I shall not be suf-
fered to depart without a souvenir of the
visit?' Madame Sands looked at him with
surprise; and then, inspired with a wicked
idea, called the gardener—'Baptiste!' The
gardener hastened to her. 'With pleasure,'
she said to M. Bakor; adding to the gar-
dener, 'Baptiste, one of your finest cab-
bages, for this gentleman.


92		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULU GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1876.


TEMPORAL SALVATION.

	The above phrase has been quite a hobby
with many practical people in this church and
kingdom. Now the attention of, at least the
women of this people, is called to the subject
of a temporal salvation in a real and tangible
form: the buying and saving of grain. Do not
neglect the opportunity of commencing in this
enterprise if you would preserve yourselves
and families from want. Whatever the future
has in store the contemplation of it will be
more satisfactory to every prudent, far-seeing
person, if there is a good supply of the needful
on hand in the form of breadstuff.
	Whatever lack there may be, there is none
to equal the scarcity of the food which strength-
ens and imparts life. If history repeats itself,
which wise men aver, and the masses of man-
kind believe, then somewhere in the future, as
in the past, will famine with all her train of
attendant miseries and consequences, spread
blight and desolation in her path.
	This people were driven out beyond the
boundaries of civilization by the hands of their
enemies, but God works in a mysterious man,
ner, and who knows, but even as Joseph was
sold into Egypt by wicked and false brethren,
yet eventually it proved their salvation, and
he their temporal savior, to preserve them and
all their father's household from starvation by
famine; even so, perhaps, may the Lord prove
His watchcare over this people, by giving to
them the opportunity of heaping coals of fire
on the heads of those who sought to betray
them into the power of savages and wild
beasts.
	It has been prophesied, scores of times, to
different ones of the Latter-day Saints, that
their relatives and friends who cast them out
and scorned them, should yet come begging
for bread; then be wise, and prepare yourselves
with bread in abundance to feed the hungry.
It is something that will always be marketable
and there is little danger of its becoming a
drug in the market even should there be plen-
tiful harvests in the future for seven years to
come; surely there is as much faith and confi-
dence in the word of the Lord now, as there
was in the days of the Egyptians.
	The sisters have had the opportunity given
them to lead out in this noble work; let it not
be said they lack ability or ingenuity to devise
methods of action. [handwritten] E. B. WELLS


STORE UP GRAIN.

	AT THE regular General Retrenchment
meeting, held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, Saturday Nov. 11, the subject of
arrangements in regard to the Grain Question
now being agitated, was brought before the


meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow, who was
presiding over the meeting in the absence of
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, proposed that
the officers of the several Relief Socities act
in the capacity of a committee to collect means
to buy and store up grain; that besides these
committees of separate organizations in order
to facilitate the work, there should also be a
Central Committee for counsel and reference
and to take cognizance of all these grain mat-
ters, that there might be perfect order and a
united movement for the universal good of all
interested. She read a communication from
Bishop R. W. Burton in respect to storing the
grain in the General Tithing Office. The dif-
ferent wards that have not suitable storehouses
can store their grain there, but will be expect-
ed to attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare time.
	Miss E. R. Snow proposed to the assembly,
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, as chairman of the
Central Committee; no objection being made,
the motion was seconded and carried unani-
mously. It was then moved that the chair-
man choose a committee of two to act with her
in this capacity constituting the Central Com-
mittee; accordingly Miss Eliza R. Snow and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith were selected and
the unanimous vote of the assembly given to
sustain them.
	It is not possible for too much to be said on
this important subject to inspire zeal and ear-
nest efforts in the matter; and let every exer-
tion be made to secure grain immediately. The
business demands careful thought and consid-
eration, for it is one that involves great conse-
quences. That God will impart to his daugh-
ters great wisdom to aid them in this vast and
noble enterprise is our earnest and humble
prayer.
	The Central Committee will expect to be
kept posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements in the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled move-
ment, and a complete system of management.
				[handwritten] E. B. Wells


WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE.

	The Relief Society Mercantile Association
have established a house for transacting busi-
ness in all home products and manufactures
on altogether a different basis to any other
here, or of which we have any knowledge. It
is considered by all practical persons, some-
thing requiring wisdom and experience, as well
as capital, to enter upon any mercantile busi-
ness transaction and make it successful; but to
do this without capital and without any ap-
propriation being made, to take hold of it
earnestly and without any expectation of re-
muneration, is something that would seem
entirely inconsistent to any one except a Lat-
ter-day Saint; and that women are found ready
to step forward, and for the sake of establish-
ing a principle which they believe will develop
into the ultimate good of the community, give
their time and ability to this work and keep
themselves, seems no more nor less than a mir-
acle. At any rate, it proves the devotion and
self-sacrifice of women to a very great degree.
When men go into business of almost any sort,
they anticipate, at least, a certain percentage
for their time and labor; but this store is be-
ing established to create a fund to sustain
itself: meantime, those who work for its wel-
fare are working for the Institution without
money and without price. This is certainly
laboring for the building up of Zion. The sis-
ters have commenced by selling goods on com-
mission, and it is to be hoped this people will
sustain the movement of this united effort,
both by their custom and influence.


"OUR OWN."

	Inasmuch as our kind readers were informed
concerning the coming of our little daughter,
it seems appropriate that they should also be
made acquainted with the event of her depart-
ure.
	Mary Greene Richards, our "Household
Treasure," left her earthly home for a safer
and better one, on Monday, the 6th inst., about
half past 10 p. m.. a brief illness with scarlet
fever being the occasion. She was two years,
four months and eleven days old.
	It is not our object in making this announce-
ment, to excite the sympathy of friends.
Rather would we offer words of consolation to
those who mourn and grieve.
	A short time ago, for parents to bury their
little ones, seemed to us among the most try-
ing and terrible things that commonly occur.
But in passing through the ordeal, a new gleam
of the true Gospel light seems to have beamed
upon our understanding. The Lord in great
mercy has sent to us, the Holy Ghost, the
Comforter. It now appears to us, that the
Latter-day Saints, with the knowledge they
have, and may have by seeking it, should
cease to think and speak of these things as
great misfortunes and irreparable losses; and
rather regard them as the dealings of an al-
wise God, Whose hand must be confessed in
all things. We have not lost our little girl.
She is safe in the best possible keeping. And
if we remain faithful and worthy of her pure
remembrance, we know she will sweetly and
patiently await our coming. We shall receive
her again, not only in spirit but, in the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection, the same beloved
and lovely little form which now rests in the
quiet grave, will come forth, filled with glory
and immortality and eternal life.
	Oh priceless hope! Oh sweetest, best assur-
ance! Mothers, our pure, bright gifts from
God, our precious babies, our treasures, our
darlings—although they slip away from our
clinging embraces and leave our arms all
empty for a time—are still OUR OWN.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG and party left
Salt Lake City Wednesday morning, Nov. 1,
enroute for St. George, and arrived at their des-
tination Friday evening, Nov. 10, all well and
having had a pleasant journey. The President
designs spending the winter in St. George.
	NO POSITIVE conclusion has been arrived
at as yet in regard to the presidential election.
It is one of the closest contests known. It is
impossible now to guess how the scale will turn.
As Utah has no voice in the matter she will
not in this crisis be able to render the country
any service, but should Utah become a State
her bearing would be a noticeable one, for her
people are united and they would by their con-
centrated efforts be a strong power for the side
they espoused.
	THE WOMEN of Utah are about to publish
a book representing them truthfully in the
past and present; this book will contain
many interesting incidents connected with the


[Column 1]
lives of different individuals who have been
extensively engaged in establishing and as-
sisting in building up, the church and king-
dom of God, and carrying out the sacred prin-
ciples and ordinances given by divine revela-
tion. The book will be written by Mr. E. W.
Tullidge author of the "Life of Brigham
Young, or Utah and Her Founders;" Mr. Tul-
lidge is a brilliant writer, a man naturally gift-
ed with such qualities as make an author en-
tertaining, and has a very clear and happy style
of portraying his subjects. It is expected the
book will be published almost immediately.
Some chapters have been already written.
The women of Utah should all have an interest
in this book, as it will probably throw alto-
gether a different light upon their lives and
motives of actions.
	A MOST DISTRESSING accident occurred in
this city, Friday morning, Nov. 10, to a little
boy about four years of age; son of R. V. Mor-
ris; nineteenth ward. He, with his brother, a
little older than himself was crossing the street
from the corner of the Deseret News Building,
to the opposite one, and were trying to avoid
being run over by a wagon just then passing the
car track, when the car came along just catch-
ing the child and throwing him under the
wheels; one wheel passed over his legs just be-
low the knee; one leg was almost severed and
the other very badly cut. The broken leg was
amputated almost directly by Dr. Benedict, to
whose office the child was immediately con-
veyed. All the assistance possible was ren-
dered momentarily, and the sad news carried
to the afflicted parents. It is expected the
child will recover, as he is to all appearance as
comfortable as possible under the circumstan-
ces. We extend to the agonized parents our
heartfelt sympathies and trust our Heavenly
Father will soften the sudden blow, and re-
store their dear one to health.
	It is said by those who were witnesses of this
sad accident, no blame could be rightfully at-
tached to the driver of the car, who is over-
whelmed with sorrow that such a fearful catas-
trophe should have occurred.
	ON MONDAY evening Nov. 6th, the regular
monthly meeting of the Sunday School Union
was held in the Council House. The meeting
was crowded and great interest was manifested
in the subjects discussed. One item brought
before the meeting was the raising of means
for the Floral Committee, to be used to decor-
ate the Tabernacle for the yearly Sunday
School Jubilee. One scheme proposed was to
raise the money by means of a party, but as
this seemed impracticable in consideration of
various circumstances, it was decided to raise
it by donations of five dollars each, from the 
several ward Sunday Schools; and as most of
these number about one hundred pupils, it
would only amount to about five cents apiece.
The subject of suitable singing books, and ap-
propriate books for pupils was also dilated up-
on, but no definite conclusion arrived at. This
subject is worthy the attention of all who are
interested in the advancement of the kingdom
of God. The music of any people is an inspir-
ation, and the children of Zion should receive
the highest cultivation in this inspirational
art. There is a pathos and melody imparted
by the songs of little children which often-
times strikes a chord in the human soul, where
all the eloquence of oratory has failed to find
access. Then this people of all the nations of
[-]he earth should have songs, hymns, and an-
thems adapted to the ideas and principles
which they hold so sacred.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-

[Column 2]
tion met at the Firemen's Hall, Wednesday,
Nov. 1st. Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. young said that the reel had arrived
and was now being worked in Logan, by an
Italian lady, who, previous to coming to Utah,
had worked at the business from early youth,
and was a first-class reeler; also that Miss Mary
A. Rockwood had gone from this city to take
lessons, so as to be able to reel silk here and
teach others, and thus extend it through all
the settlements in the Territory. Mrs. Young
was in hopes that she would have some speci-
mens of silk at our next meeting. Now was
the time to plant out our trees or cuttings.
She urged those who were doing so to put
out a few more than they needed for them-
selves, as there might be others that would
want some, and thus keep extending this
branch of home industry.
	Mrs. Barney said that we had got a good
foundation laid, and hoped that we would keep
on building until it became a mighty struct-
ure. She felt satisfied with what had already
been done; said it was reported that the so-
ciety were only giving one dollar per pound
for cocoons, which was a mistake; they are
giving two dollars per pound.
	Mrs. E. Baker said that she was used to
working among silk, and could teach seven
branches from the cocoon.	The question was asked, where can we get
our trees and cuttings?
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that she had been
informed that Mr. John Reading, of this city,
could furnish them at very reasonable prices.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Wednesday
in December, at this place.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
		DEATH OF COL. JACKSON.
	A dispatch from St. George announces the
death there, Monday morning Nov. 1st, of
Col. Alden A. M. Jackson. On the 15th
of last February he was first struck with ap-
poplexy, which affiiction has now proved fatal.
Col. Jackson was a Colonel in the regular army
under Gen. Scott. and subsequently located in
Southern California, where he practiced law as
an attorney. In 1860 or [-]61 he removed to St.
George, where he resided up to the time of his
death. He was an intelligent, highly respect-
ed citizen, whose death will be mourned by
many warm friends. He was sixty nine years
of age.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


NOTICE.

	The Woman's Commission House, recently establish-
ed under the auspices of the Relief Society Woman's
Mercantile Association, is now transacting business on
commission at the Old Constitution Buildings, opposite
Z. C. M. I. Their stock consists entirely of home-
manufactures. They are well supplied with plaid, lin-
seys and waterproofs for winter dresses, wraps etc; and
shawls large and small, stockings and socks of all sizes
knit with machine or by hand, baby's socks, crochet
cuffs or wristers large and small. A dressmaker is
there, ready to make up material to order. There is a
good supply of men's and boys wear, of all the differ-
ent varieties manufactured here; an excellent tailor to
do all kinds of work in that line. There is also a full
stock of hats, straw and felt, and a millinerto attend to
that part of the work. They have also various other
articles of wear and use. All the standard church
books. Homemade soap, Jamaica ginger, ink, black-
ing and vinegar, also butter, cheese, and eggs. Among
the things noticeable are the lace and silk productions,
some of which are exquisite. The patronage of the
people is solicited for this institution, that Utah may


sustain by united effort the industry which is the pros-
pective wealth of her people. The women of this Ter-
ritory are making this almost unprecedented movement
to concentrate their exertions in one grand enterprise to
become self-sustaining, that they may free themselves
as a people, as soon as possible, from the shackles of
Babylon.


MIXED EDUCATION.

	Among the good things which will assur-
edly grow out of the "Woman's Rights"
clamor will be an enlargement of the sphere
of female education, giving the girls equal
opportunities with their brothers to acquire
knowledge and achieve scholastic honors;
and beyond this to attend the same schools,
and thus receive and confer the blessings
which must always attend upon intelligent
and prudent intercourse of the sexes. If
there is one idea as to education more falla-
cious than all others, it is that, to preserve
purity and healthful intellectual progress,
the sexes must be separated. As well
might one argue that there should be no
"mixed" families—when the commonest
observation shows that the most symmetri-
cally developed men and women are those
whose lives have been rounded and toned
by early and familiar contact with the op-
posite sex. A boy who has no sister to love
or care for is quite sure to go to one of two
extremes—he will either, in his yearning
for such companionship, wholly overrate its
beneficence or become inflated with an un-
due sense of his superiority. Nothing is
better for a self-contained coxcomb than to
have his vanity taken out of him by a
smart girl—and there are so many of them
who can do it! A noble, whole-souled boy
is proud of an intelligent sister; and, unless
his good sense is tampered with by that
most unjust but powerful agent, ridicule, he
will never dream that it is beneath him to
counsel on even terms with her, or to ac-
cept and act upon her advice. And what
is true of families is equally true of schools.
There is no one good reason why the sexes
should not be educated together; while in
support of the mixed system reasons are as
plenty as black berries.—Selected.


"PARADISE LOST."

	M. Edmond Scherer, a French writer,
gives the following criticism of Milton's
"Paradise Lost" in a recent work:—"'Para-
dise Lost' is a false, grotesque, tiresome
poem; not one reader in a hundred can go
without smiling through the ninth and
tenth books, or without yawning through
the eleventh and twelfth; it does not hold to-
gether; it is a pyramid balancing on its
point—the most frightful of problems re-
solved by the most puerile of means. And
yet, 'Paradise Lost' is immortal. It lives
in virtue of some episodes which will re-
main forever famous. In opposition to
Dante, whom we must read altogether; if
we wish really to possess his beauties, we
must read Milton only in fragments. But
these fragments are part of the poetic pat-
rimony of the English race."


WHAT ARE TAXES?

	THE axle on which the wheels of the
State coach turn.
	Periodical bleeding, prescribed by Gov-
ernment.
	Feathers plucked from all birds to line
the nests of a few.
	The Nation's little account for board and
lodging.


94		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				EXTRACTS.

	MUSIC AND WOMAN AS A MUSICIAN.

	(READ AT THE WOMAN'S CONGRESS.)

	BY MADAME FANNY RAYMOND RITTER.

	Notwithstanding the eulogiums of the
Greeks, music, as we understand it scarcely
had an existence prior to the establishment
of Christianity; its feeble germ, nursed in the
rocks and caverns where the early Chris-
tians took refuge, fanned by the sighs and
watered by the tears of the persecuted, de-
veloped into existence as the Ambrosian
and Gregorian-chants, and spread through
storm and transition into the life of the
people, as the troubadour, minstrel, and
folk-songs, and dance music, until it gradu-
ally became what it now is, the reigning art
of the present day, the most consummate
flower of modern civilization and artistic
culture.
	It is the most transcendental of all arts,
for it is a purely metaphysical outward man-
ifestation of the inward soul; it is the most
complex of all arts—vague, indefinite and
yet infinitely precise; it is the most ideal of
all arts, for—almost a religion in itself—it
is the exquisite embodiment of unshaken
faith in continual progress towards perfec-
tion. In the evanescent, intangible form of
music, from material the smallest, from pos-
sibilities the most vast, the human heart
and mind has gradually evoked a language,
an art, a science, compared with which the
miraculous, fabulous creations of the ma-
gicians of antiquity appear pale, cold,
empty, and meaningless.
	Woman's practical career as a musician
only began with the invention of the opera,
about 1600. It was not until her superior-
ity as an actress and singer had been unde-
niably and triumphantly established on the
stage, that she was allowed to resume her
musical participation in church services.
	And what a position as an artiste, wo-
man has established for herself during the
past two hundred years! The very names
of those songstresses whose fame still echoes
through the halls of musical history, are in
themselves romances, recalling, as they do,
the charms, gifts, caprices, accomplishments,
charities, errors, virtues, and adventures of
their possessors.
	One of the first of these ladies mentioned
in history, is Vittoria Archilei, a musician
at the court of Florence in 1600, who took
part in the first opera that was represented
in public. Who has not heard of Fanstina
Bordoni, born in 1700, a songstress in whose
name medals were struck, while societies
were founded in honor of her! Her rival,
Regina Mingotti, whose portrait, painted
by Rosalba, now stands in the Dresden gal-
lery, astonished Dr. Budney by her fresh-
ness of voice at an advanced age, as well as
by her power of conversing equally well in
five languages. Madame Mara, the favor-
ite singer of Frederick the Great, and Marie
Antoinette, delighted Europe for nearly fif-
teen years; Caterina Gabrielli, the pupil of
Metastasio, excited her audiences to alter-
nate frenzies of admiration and anger by
her voice, beauty, and caprice. It was she,
who, when Catherine of Russia complained
that her salary was higher than that of the
Field Marshals of the Empire, replied
"Let your Majesty try to make the Field
Marshals sing in my place, then!" Mad-
ame Catalani, born in 1779, possessed a
trumpet like power of voice. In London,
she received twelve hundred dollars for
singing the solo in "God Save the King,"
and twelve thousand dollars for assisting

[Column 2]
at a single musical festival. Mrs. Billing-
ton was accused by the superstitious Neapol-
itans, of causing, by her wonderful voice;
the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 1794;
M. Thiers has translated her autobiography
into French. Mrs. Sheridan, wife of the
dramatist, charmed by her poetic gifts and
personal graces, almost as much as with her
thrilling voice.
	Though we find little trace of Woman in
the annals of composition, that songstresses
existed, capable of interpreting the works of
composers in an almost independent man-
ner, the scores of old operas prove. In
many of these, the melody, is reduced to a
mere thread, in order to give the songstress
perfect liberty in varying the theme accord-
ing to the exigencies of the action, and the
passion of the poetry she had to interpret.
And what may she not have accomplished
in a secondary character, as friend, consoler,
inspirer of the composer? Would Goethe
have accomplished all that he did, if, in his
Weimar circle, he had not found such wo-
men as the Duchess Amalie, Mdme. von
Stein, Bettina, and the singer Corona
Schraeter? Who does nor recall the exalted
friendships of Vittoria Colonna and Mich-
ael Angelo, of the Countess of Albany and
Alfieri, and many other interesting exam-
ples? So, among the friends of the compo-
sers, Mdme. von Breuning was a sort of in-
tellectual mother to Beethoven, in her kind-
ness to and care for him; Mdlle Boselli was
Haydn's inspirer; Mozarts wife, whose
name, Constance, he gave to the heroine
of his opera, "The elopement from the se-
raglio," was his best friend; the closest in-
tellectual comradeship existed between
Mendelssohn and his sister, Mdme. Hen-
sel; and the list of women who have made
a beneficent and inspiring use of their in-
fluence over composers, is a long one, through
less so than that of the lovers and friends
of the poets and painters.
	It is, nevertheless, difficult for the most
ardent advocate of Woman's progress, to
point to such a galaxy of celebrities among
feminine composers, as may be placed, with-
out losing their brilliancy, beside the names
that add lustre to womanhood in other
branches of art, and in literature. In com-
position we cannot boast stars of such pre-
eminent distinction as Sappho, Aspasia; Hel-
oise, Vittoria Colonna, Madame de Stael,
Dora d'Istria, Mrs. Siddons,, Fernan Cabal-
lero, Miss Cushman, Miss Bronte, Rosa
Bonheur, Miss Thompson, Mrs. Browning,
Mrs. Lewes, and the rest. The list of fem-
inine composers is a brief one, and most of
its members are now living. There was
Leopoldine Blahetka, daughter of a profes-
sor of mathematics in Vienna, a famous pi-
aniste who published more than seventy
songs and pianoforte pieces, some of which
were greatly admired by Beethoven; Jos-
ephine Lang, the friend of Mendelsshon;
who composed many charming songs; Mad-
ame Hensel, the sister of Mendelsshon;
Louise Puget, whose vocal romances en-
joyed an enormous popularity in France;
Elise Polko, who, carefully trained as a
singer, lost her voice prematurely, and
wrote many pretty novelettes, and now ap-
pears before the world as a song composer;
Madame Dolby and Virginia Gabriel, the
English ballad writer. Madame Schurman
and Madame Garcia have both composed
some fine works, though few in number.
But women have not hitherto realized what
long years of severe mental discipline and
scientific training are necessary in order to
master the art of composition. This is not
much to the discredit of their patience and
courage, for very few among musical stu-
dents of the other sex are, in America; will-

[Column 3]
ing to devote themselves to such a self-sac-
rificing study; too many, when they begin
to understand the amount of labor required,
become discouraged and abandon it; and
none among them yet, have acquired such
thorough early training as will insure per-
fect development to their talent for compo-
sition, and lasting fame to its results.
Mathematics, acoustics, psychology, foreign
languages and literature, the theory and
practice of many instruments, as well as
the science of music itself, must all be mas-
tered by the composer, and gradually,
through the application and assimilation of
long years of study and practice, become
the "second nature" of his mind.
	Genius, talent, irrespective of sex too,
receives the highest emoluments and hon-
ors in this art; then let Woman, whose suc-
cess has been so signal as an exponent of
vocal art,—the art of passion, persuasion;
emotion—make a further effort, now that all
opportunities are open to her, and endeavor
to compose for immortality. But, to do this,
she must abandon the idea that composi-
tion is an affair of instinct; the highest nat-
ural gifts demand the highest cultivation,
and without it they are unproductive, in-
significant, useless. It may be some en-
couragement to the aspiring student to
know that the grandest original idea of a
Handel or a Beethoven demanded more per-
fect working out, more patient polishing,
than the smallest fancy that issues from
the brain of the ballad writer demands.
	And let not women overlook one of the
most beautiful qualities of music; it pene-
trates not only to the intelligence, but to
the heart also, thus widening and vivifying
the faculties, and rendering them better
prepared, by sympathy, to receive humane
and elevated impressions. For this reason
we shall find music one of the most import-
ant factors in the coming era of universal
civilization, brotherhood, and equality.
Music possesses a lofty ethical significance;
the very heart of humanity beats in its
rhythm; and heart speaks to heart even
more completely than brain to brain. Music,
too, is based on the social sentiment of
mankind; it is the annihilator of egotism,
the most complete expositor of the life of
mankind in unison, the art whose truest
mission is to express the warmest, noblest,
most generous of human feelings,—love,
faith, patriotism; the art of order, unity,
harmony; the art that is destined to become
in some far distant but glorious day, the
universal language of humanity.


LEAP YEAR.

	Remember, O, maiden fair! two months
more and leap year is gone!—for you, per-
chance, forever-gone! How inexpressibly
sad—how inconceivably heart-touching—
the thought! But within two months,
brief though the period be, much may be
accomplished. Pick out judiciously, and
with an especial eye to his total abstinence
from those patent air-brakes to the aspiring
youth, beer and tobacco, the lordly leal and
liquor-contemning young man upon whom
you would lavish your gushing affections.
Where is the girl, whether fluttering in the
brocade of a princess or wearing the calico
polonaise of the laborer's daughter, who
would be told that for her three months are
not time enough for the wooing and the
winning of as good a husband as may be
wooed and won by any other girl with no
better faculties for the business? It is Shaks-
peare who somewhere says—and it is un-
questionably Shakspeare who knows—that,
"that man who hath a tongue, I say, is no
man, if with that tongue he cannot win a


woman." This is scarcely less true, perhaps,
than gospel. If it be true that any man
who hath a tongue can win a woman, it
would seem to follow, from a purity of reas-
oning, as the cheap disputants of some of
the religious newspapers have it, that the
woman who hath a tongue of her own—and
there be few of the sweet, delicious sex to
whom this gift is denied—must be very 
nearly akin to no woman if she cannot win
a man—and win him in less than two
months, too, and be ready with the assur-
ance in the end that she won him and
didn't half try. But enough.
	"Canst thou love me gentle stranger?"
		Blushing like a rose she stood:
	And the youth at once acknowledged
		That he rather thought he could.
			Selected.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		95


PROPHECY OR VISION.

	The following prophecy, handed us for
publication, may be a sort of testimony that
there are others who are looking forward
to the fulfillment of ancient prophecy be-
sides the Latter-day Saints.
	WHAT MAY HAPPEN IN LESS THAN A
		HUNDRED YEARS HENCE.
	First.—About the year A. D. 1848, or '49,
there will be in Europe a revolution, either
in France, Italy, or Austria, and then com-
mences the "beginning of the end" spoken
of by the Prophets. New governments
will arise on the earth, and we shall have
wars and rumors of wars.
	Second.—Scarcely has the turmoil in Eu-
rope expired before our own America will
have taken up the tumult, and about A. D.
1860 or 1861 there will be a division in the
United States. The South will go to her-
self, and then war, famine and pestilence
will stalk abroad over the land—murders,
arson, incest, theft, and all other crimes
will be rife in the land. Hope will depart
from every human breast. Governments
that had been deemed impregnable will
topple and fall; but the end is not yet.
	Third.—Thirty years from the "begin-
ning of this end" will pass away, and upon
the broad earth there will exist no Govern-
ment such as now exists, or which may ex-
ist up to that time—all will be overturned
—all will be destroyed. Those then on
earth will return to the Government of the
Patriarchs, and the sire of many descend-
ants will rule and govern as in the days of
Abram, Isaac and Jacob, and servants and
slaves likewise will exist as in those days.
	Fourth.—Forty-five years of this Patri-
archial rule. and then comes the glorious
day—the Millennium—and the return of
Jesus Christ to the earth, here to reign as
temporal Prince three hundred and sixty-
five thousand years. Happy is he who
may be on earth, or who may have arisen
from the earth, fitted as a subject to live
under the mild government of such a Prince
and King.
							AMINADAB.
	Delaware River, 3rd mo., A. D. 1780.
	P. S. The above item, originally published
in the "Pioche Record, by one John Smith, he
avers to be an old American M. S. S. of the Re-
volutionary period.


"GOOD ENGLISH."

	A flippant phrase, which is most fre-
quently used by those who know least of
its practical significance. It is so easy to
say of a person whose sentiments do not
please us, or who is getting more of the
world's attention than we think becoming—


or, at least, more than has fallen to our own
lot—that he or she "does not write good
English." There is such a sweeping de-
nunciation in the charge, and it means so
much that its exact meaning may safely be
left to each one's own inference—each one,
of course, accepting without protest the
proffered office of umpire, and being fully
persuaded in his own mind that what he
does not know about "good English" is
hardly worth the knowing.
	It is scarcely possible that literary criti-
cism will ever become an exact science, or
that the individual tests which are so freely
applied will ever be more reliable or just
than at present; and while this is so—leav-
ing the final judgment to individual taste
and individual feeling—would it not be
best to accept as a fair test of "good Eng-
lish," that use of our vernacular which
shall convey most readily and surely to oth-
ers the very shade of thought which
prompts expression. It is a fact no less re-
markable than demonstrable that the most
frequent complaints against a lack of purity
in English composition are leveled at that
class of writing which is the most positive
and clear in its statements, and the least
likely to be misunderstood or misapplied.
Inelegant it may be, and unclassical; but the
English tongue is neither elegant nor classi-
cal, and is always best and purest when most
simple and expressive.—Ex.


WOMEN'S FACES.

	Somehow or other the women whose life
and grace of face are remarkable—so re-
markable as instantly to attract and fascin-
ate—almost never approach the ancient or
modern types of beauty. If you were to
take one of the women out of the pages of
Le Follet, and give her twenty times the
genius of George Elliot, she would still look
a fool. No power of brain could conquer
the simpering stolidity of the perfectly
regular face. Yet if pressed for an answer
as to what they consider the perfect type of
modern beauty, these men would think of
one of these women in a book of fashions.
There are the clear outlines of nose, mouth
and chin; the smooth forehead, small ear,
rounded cheek and accurately-placed eyes.
A man suddenly confronted with such a
face admires it; he is not moved by any in-
stantaneous sympathy toward it. Perfectly
beautiful women (there are not many, even
if we accept the low type mentioned) are
much caressed by society. They adorn din-
ner tables, are magnificent at balls, and
make good matches. (Regular lucifers,
sometimes[--].—Ed.) But they do not break
hearts; and the memory of their face, tor-
tured with pouting or glowing with the
quick joy of meeting, does not haunt a
man's life. A plain woman with a cultiva-
ted brain and good taste, ought always to
hold her own against merely pretty women.
—Ex.


IDLENESS is the nursery of crime. It is
that prolific germ of which all rank and
poisonous vices are the fruits. It is the
source of temptation. It is the field where
"the enemy sows tares while men sleep."
Could we trace the history of a large class
of vices, we would find that they originate
from the want of employment, and are
brought in to supply its place.


A POPULAR writer, speaking of the ocean
telegraph, wonders whether the news trans-
ported through the salt water will be fresh.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A good method for cooking rice, is to first put
it in cold water with a little salt, put on the fire
and let it boil five minutes, then drain and put
on a dish in a steamer and let it steam one hour.
	To clean glasses, bottles and decanters brightly,
break a few raw egg shells in the article to be
cleaned, with a little cold water,—if greasy, warm
water, and a little soda; shake well, rinse with
plenty of cold water, and the effect is perfect.
This is a common practice in France.
	In preserving, it may not be generally known
that to boil the fruit some time before adding the
sugar is very economical, because the bulk ot the
scum arising from the fruit is free from sugar;
boiling without a cover allows the water to evap-
orate, and so the fruit is firmer and better flavor-
ed.
	Veal Cutlets.—Cut the veal in good, fair sli-
ces, salt and pepper them and dip each slice in a
well-beaten egg, then in rolled crackers or bread
crumbs. fry in a good supply of hot butter or lard
until they are a delicate brown. Some prefer
them partly fried first and then covered with the
bread crumbs.
	Cement that will render india-rubber adherent
to glass or metal: pulverize some shellac and then
soften it in ten times its weight of strong am-
monia, this will become a transparent mass, and
after keeping it some little time it will become a
fluid without the aid of hot water. In three or
four weeks the mixture is perfectly liquid and
when applied will soften the rubber; for cement-
ing the rubber sheet, or the material in any shape,
to metal, glass or other surfaces, this cement is
strongly recommended.
	Pressed Beef.—Pickle the best piece of a thick
flank of beef in one pound of salt, and one ounce
of salt-petre; let it remain one week turning it
every day, after that add one half ounce of cloves,
the same of allspice, black pepper and coarse su-
gar; then let it remain a fortnight. Boil it with
onions, or whatever seasoning is preferred; until
it is tender; then place between flat dishes with
a heavy weight upon it, and let remain a day or
so; cut it when ready for use, the size of the dish
you wish to use, and pour over it jelly of what-
ever kind preferred, cover it over, and when served
it will present a very tempting appearance.
	Veal Pie.—Take a breast of veal, stew with
just enough water to cover it and season with pep-
per, salt and celery. When the veal is done, slip
the bones from the meat and remove the meat,
leaving the bones in the liquor the veal was stew-
ed in, so as to make a strong jelly. Take your
pie-dish, lay in it slices of veal, and between the
veal at intervals, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs,
and balls made of sausage meat, sprinkled over
with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, pour the
gravy in the dish and ornament the top with
leaves cut out of pastry, brush it over with the
yolks of a raw egg and let it bake for one hour, or
untilth e gravy boils, and the crust is firm on the
top. Some prefer ham mixed with the veal.


THE LIVING HUMOR OF MADNESS"—A
gentleman visiting a lunatic asylum went
up to a distinguished-looking man sitting
moodily alone, and said to him—"How do
you do? I think I have seen you before'
may I ask your name?" "My name!" re-
turned the other fiercely. "I am Alexan-
der the Great!" "Why" said the visitor,
who suddenly remembered having already
had a discussion with the man, "the last
time I was here you were St. Paul!" Yes,
of course rejoined the man quickly, "but
that was by my first wife."


96		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Cream of Tartar for Small-pox:—Take one
ounce of cream of tarter to one pint of boiling
water, let it stand after mixing and give it to the
patient in broken doses of a teaspoonful at a time.
It is said by those who have used it, to be one
of the best medicines ever used.
	The celebrated Dr. Greene in his comments on
the problem of health, in reference to laughter,
says: "There is not the remotest corner, or inlet
of the minute blood vessels of the human body
that does not feel some wavelet from the convul.
sion occasioned by good hearty laughter. The life
principle is shaken to its remotest depths, and
sends new tides of life and strength to its surface.
The blood moves more rapidly and conveys a dif-
ferent impression to all the organs of the body, as
it visits them on that particular mystic journey,
when the person is laughing, from what it does at
other times. Every good hearty laugh, tends to
lengthen life, conveying new and distinct stimulus
to the vital forces." The influence of the mind
upon the vital forces of the body can scarcely be
over-estimated. One writer in commenting upon
Dr. Greene's theory in regard to laughter, alludes
to an old school teacher who said "when child-
ren were laughing their minds were expanding.


DIVERSIONS.

	WHY are troubles like babies?—Because
they get bigger by nursing.
	THE saying, "Excuse haste and a bad
pen," has been attributed to a pig who ran
away from home.
	SOME one who believes that "brevity is
the soul of wit" writes, "Don't eat stale
Q-cumbers. They'll W-up." Other speci-
mens. "4tograph," (photograph.) "11-
worth;" (Leavenworth.) '10-a-C," (Tennes-
see.)   "Y-&." (Wyandotte.)
	WHAT a strain that is!" said Mrs. Part-
ington, as she heard an air from "Lucia"
sung in the highest style by a young lady
where she was visiting. "Yes," was the re-
sponse; "it is operatic!" "Upper attic?"
questioned she. "I should think it was
high enough to be on the top of the house."
	"WELL Sare," said a Philadelphia Cen-
tennial restaurant keeper, shrugging his
shoulders, when a customer, from Arkan-
sas demurred to paying a dollar for a cup of
coffee and a roll, "ze price he may luke
large—zat I admete, but zen, sare, reflect
zat you nafer have anozzer chance like zese
for one huntret years."
	SELF DISCIPLINE.—Costly apparatus and
splendid cabinets have no magical power to
make scholars. In all circumstances, a man
is, under God, the master of his own mind.
The Creator has so constituted the human
intellect that it can only grow by its own
action; and by its own action and free will,
it will certainly and necessarily grow.
Every man must, therefore, educate him-
self. His book and teacher are but helps;
the work is his. A man is not educated un-
til he has the ability to summons, in an
emergency, all his mental powers in vigor-
ous exercise to effect its proposed object.
It is not the man who has seen most who
can do this; such a one is in danger of being
borne down like a beast of burden, by an
overloaded mass of other men's thoughts.
Nor is it the man who can boast of native
vigor and capacity. The greatest of all
warriors in the seige of Troy had not the
pre-eminence because nature had given him
strength and he carried the longest bow,
but because self-discipline had taught him
to bend it.


[Column 1]
		WOOLCOTT'S
	PAIN PAINT
			IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing.		Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises. Wounds, Colds,
				Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
		A HOME PREPARATION.
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's [-]th Ward
Cooper's 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

		AGENTS WANTED
	No Capital but Bishop's Reccomend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
FLANNELS,
	LINSEYS,
		WATERPROOFS,
			JEANS,
				DOE-SKINS,
					YARNS,
						STOCKINGS,
							GLOVES,
								LADIES' JACKETS, &c.,
									FANCY ATRICLES,
EATS, SHOES,
	BRUSHES,
		BROOMS,
			BUTTER,
				CHEESE, EGGS,
					FLOUR, CIDER-VINEGAR,
						INK, SOAPS,
							LAUNDRY,
								BLUEING,
		ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.
ALL HOME MANUFACTURE.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

[Column 2]
	DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
	
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
			Manufacturers of
	ESSENCE OF JAMAICA GINGER,
	TOILET SOAP, (Highly Perfumed,)
BATH SAND TABLETS,
		Indispensable to the Toilet and Bath Room.
SCOURING SOAP,
		A great Saving of Labor to the Housekeeper.
SUPERIOR WRITING FLUID,
	One of the best flowing and durable Inks ever made.
	We Warrant our Articles Pure.
			JOSEPH L. BARFOOT, Chemical Director
Addres		R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Lock Box, 1064.		Salt Lake City.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1876.	No. 13.


THE CHILDREN.

If the earth would be dreary without them,
	The world all a desolate waste,
What wonder bright angels about them,
	Call home to the Father in haste?
Oh mothers! your treasures most holy,
	Which seem not a virtue to lack,
Almost like "The Lamb" meek and lowly—
	What wonder God wishes them back?

What wonder he chooses the purest,
	The happiest, dearest, most blest?
In His home all things must be surest—
	He wants but the truest and best.
He plans for us immortal pleasures,
	As emblems our babies are giv'n
He kindly secures us our treasures—
	He knows we should want them in Heaven.

And wanting them, how we should murmur,
	Grieving ever as here for a day!
It is well He is wiser and firmer,
	Whose mandates we can but obey.
It is well he can bear with our weakness,
	And courage and comfort restore,
And teach us through patience and meekness,
	To find our loved darlings once more.

Think; mothers, when with them you've parted
	For a few short hour's time on the earth,
How at meeting they made you glad-hearted
	With their welcoming kisses and mirth;
And oh think! in the blest Resurrection,
	What joy to embrace them again.
How could such a scene be perfection
	Were the actors all women and men?

Oh! the children! our light and our blessings,
	Without them the world would be nought:
Through Nature's rich chambers and dressings
	Would sweetness all vainly be sought:
Our hopes and delights were all riven,
	We should know only doubt and despair:—
who would ask for a portion in Heaven,
	If children were not to be there?
		LULA.


AUTUMN WINDS.

		Air—Autumn Leaves.

Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	That sweep so sadly,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	How hollowly ye sigh!
		Your ghostly, mournful music rolls
			Across the stubble lea,
		Like solemn notes the death-bell tolls
			When grand lives cease to be.

Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	Why must ye always mourn,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	In wailing billows borne?
	
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	My spirit with you grieves;
Autumn winds, autumn winds
	Your tale my soul believes—
		This green-robed earth must naked be,
	And life of hopes be shorn,
		And broken hearts as lone as ye
	Thus bitterly must mourn;
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	Like you of heavenly birth,
Autumn winds, autumn winds,
	They find no home on earth.
								LU DALTON.


[COLUMN 1]

OUR MODERN DORCAS

	There are, in our day, women whose
deeds compare favorably with Dorcas, who
lived in the days of Jesus' Apostles, who
was so beloved of the people; and whose name
has been perpetuated as synonymous with
benevolent associations down to the pres-

[COLUMN 2]

ent time. Writers of the day refer to this good
woman (Dorcas,) as a pattern of humility;
"doing what her hands found to do with all
her might;" which is no doubt a just con-
clusion, but to say she had no aspirations of
a higher nature, no thought of what her
work was accomplishing, that her brain was
not exercised as well as her heart and
hands, seems simply absurd. Women in
those times were endowed with intellect
and wisdom, and no doubt Dorcas under-
stood her vocation and worked with a pur-
pose, as the good sisters work in our day.
	This is perhaps merely an assertion, but
it has as much to sustain it, as the conclusion
drawn by the writers, who bring Dorcas for-
ward for such women to imitate, as have a
desire to vote, to legislate or "orate." She,
they affirm, had no ambitions for any of
these things. Now how do they know?
They were not there, and all they know of
her is a few words recorded in the Bible
from which they draw their own inference;
but being a woman and understanding a
woman's feelings, I should say she worked
for a purpose, no doubt that purpose was a
great one, and she was governed and guid-
ed by the circumstances of the time in
which she lived, and her devotion to the
cause she had espoused. The Savior when
upon the earth; taught the Gospel in its ful-
ness, and set the pattern for all to follow; in
many instances recorded in the New Testa-
ment, He manifested His great reverence for
women, and upon every occasion spoken of,
women were treated with affection and ten-
derness. This is particularly noticeable in
all His life and teachings. I am very will-
ing to believe that Dorcas was full of pious
zeal, that she worked with her hands and
made coats and garments for the poor, that
she comforted and blessed with good deeds
and acts of real kindness and loving words,
the widows and orphans. How beautiful is
such a life; how Christ-like the memorial of
such charity. "And all the widows stood
by him weeping and showing the coats and
garments which Dorcas made while she
was with them."
	How blessed is the work of such as live
to minister to others, forgetful of self, live
for God and His Kingdom. Surely the an-
gels have joy in watching over these prec-
ious, chosen ones, whose lives are devoted
to the noble and holy work of elevating,
purifying and refining the human family.
	In the Scriptures written by the Apos-
tles they recorded the things which
seemed most essential, but the acts and
charaties of women were almost left out,
although here and there they are mention-
ed in a casual manner, showing that their
good deeds were of common occurrence,
otherwise when these things were mention-
ed, the facts would be much more explicit.
	From the reading of the paragraph in re-
lation to Dorcas, one might infer that she
had filled some important position. There
is no doubt Dorcas had charge of some or-
ganisation for the poor, the widows and the
orphans, that her work was a great one, and
that when she died, they felt there was no
one to fill her place, and accomplish so much
good as she could have done. She was so
beloved by the people because she was ex-
tensively known for good works; as one that
ministered to the needy and desolate. Mod-

[COLUMN 3]

ern writers want us to believe that Dorcas
whom they hold up as a pattern for emula-
tion, stayed at home and stitched away for
the love of Jesus without any ambitious
ideas of what she would accomplish; "she
knew how to sew" which I suppose is inten-
ded as a hit for the Dorcas of modern
times, who does not sit and sew all day
and night too, and wear out her life, si-
lently and unobtrusively. I believe that
women should know how to sew, but I do not
believe in incessant stitching, and perhaps,
after all Dorcas may not have put in all those
stitches herself personally. We say Solo-
mon built the Temple, but we do not mean
by that assertion that he did it with his
own hands, but that he had charge of its
construction.
	There are those like Dorcas whose works
are manifest among us now, who are devot-
ing time, talents and means to the noblest
ends. Women whose names will be held in
remembrance, not only now, but hereafter.
Women whose deeds will shame those who
have had more abundant opportunities and
have not improved them. Is it not consist-
ent to honor these women whom we have
in our midst, who labor diligently with
head, heart and hands to promote the high-
est interests of the whole human family?
I believe it to be not only consistent but a
duty. Then while we esteem the Dorcas who
dwelt upon the earth so many hundred
years ago, let us also reverence those who
live in our day, who are giving their all
towards the work of benefitting and bless-
ing and preparing the earth for the millen-
nium.
	It is the custom of the whole world, to
extol the names of the dead and enumerate
their virtues, and let the living go unre-
warded; forgetful that they too are deserv-
ing of honor, and that a word of kindness
or appreciation, an acknowledgement of
their manifold labors would be far more ac-
ceptable to them while living than any trib-
ute to their memory after they are dead.
	It is recorded of Dorcas that she was
known for her "good works and alms'
deeds." Blessed record to be handed down
to her future generations; but there is a
duty to the living, and it would be well to
bear in mind that there are those in our
midst who have devoted themselves exclu-
sively to good deeds, and shall we wait un-
til they are dead to do them reverence?
Let it not be said of us who profess so much,
that we immortalize the names of the an-
cient Dorcas and yet we lack in doing our
duty and showing proper reverence to those
who are with us; if not, then what better
are we than the world? "Do not even the
publicans, the same?" We are said to be a
peculiar people, let us prove it by cherish-
ing those who devote their lives to the
work of the kingdom of God.
	THYRA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21, 1876.


No true artist ever worked yet for ambi-
tion. He does the thing that is in him to
do by a force far stronger than himself. The
first fruits of a man's genius are always free
from greed.


98		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	The meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment Association in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 11,
was one which significantly illustrated in
its movements not only the "signs of the
times," but the implicit confidence the GOOD
SISTERS place in the teachings of their be-
loved Prophet and President. In the ab-
sence of the President of the Association,
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselor E. R. Snow
presided over the meeting, and after the
reading of minutes from the different wards,
and other formula connected with a meet-
ing of this kind, Miss Snow called the at-
tention of the sisters to the proposition of
President Young to them as to the buying
and storing of grain. Miss Snow thought
it necessary to have a Central Committee,
who were chosen then and there and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Miss
Snow made many appropriate remarks up-
on the subject, referring to the prophecies
of ancient and modern prophets, and to the
coming of the grasshoppers during the pres-
ent year. Her words were precious, and
would they were engraven on every heart
that more care and economy might be mani-
fest in the daily lives of the Latter-day
Saints. Counselor Zina D. Young spoke
upon this subject, also upon the persecutions
the Saints had endured in Missouri and
other places; said she wanted to see the sis-
ters become a mighty phalanx, giving
strength and support to the kingdom of
God. Counselor B. W. Smith, and Mrs. R.
R. Grant, President of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, expressed themselves in
reference to the great labors now being
performed by the sisters, and advanced
many good ideas in regard to the grain
movement. The subject of the Woman's
Book was laid before the meeting by Miss
Snow, and the sisters' aid solicited in be-
half of the publishing of it. The sisters
were also requested to hand in to Miss Snow,
or the author, Mr. E. W. Tullidge, any spe-
cial items in their lives, or spiritual mani-
festations which had been given them
which they considered strong testimonies
upon the principles of the gospel.
	These meetings become more and more
interesting and all who can make it conve-
nient to attend them will be able to form a
very good idea of the great work being done
by the women of Utah, and will be enabled
to receive such teaching and encourage-
ment as will direct their minds in a safe
channel, and help them to withstand temp-
tation.

			CENTERVILLE, DAVIS Co.,
					Nov. 17, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	On the 15th our Relief Society was fav-
ored with a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow
and E. S. Barney; they fed us with the
words of life, pointed out many duties that
rested on the women of the Latter-day
Saints to arouse a feeling of higher and ho-
lier purpose above the cares of every day
life; said that we had gathered out of Baby-
lon and we should leave Babylon behind,
and unite in the general good of Zion, and
be helpmeets to man in very deed; they
laid before us many items of business—lay-
ing up grain against a day of need, to assist
in publishing the Woman's book, to sus-
tain the Woman's store, silk-culture and all
home industries, anything that helps build
up the kingdom of God, all of which we in-
tend to do to the best of our ability.
	They were inspired with the Holy Spirit

[Column 2]
and infused it into the hearts of the audi-
ence; it truly seemed like angels, visits and
we trust the fire kindled will continue to
burn in our hearts till we are enabled to
perform all that is required of us. Our
Bishop was present, and bore his testimony
to the truth of their remarks; was pleased
that the sisters had come, and wished the
Society to prosper.
	At 2 o'clock p. m., the same day, we had
another meeting; Sister Snow organized a
Young Ladies' Society with twenty-five
members, including officers. We have se-
cured a few bushels of grain as a nucleus
to gather to. We have quilts, carpet, stock-
ings, socks, and some cash we intend to
donate to the temple; we attend to the
wants of the poor though we have but few
in our midst. We wish to bear our testi-
mony to the sisters and to the world that
the Latter-day work is true, including co-
operation and plural marriage; that it will
bring happiness to all who will live up to
its requirements.
	Wishing your valuable paper a circula-
tion in every home, we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARGARET RANDALL, President,
		REBECCA A. PORTER,	} Counselors.
		EMELINE SMITH.		}

		MALAD CITY, ONEIDA Co.
					Nov. 1st, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in a prosperous condition,
the sisters wish to do right so as to keep
the spirit of the Lord with them. We feel
the need of teachings from the Fountain
Head, as there are not many here that have
been in a society before, and we are but
young in experience. We will write again
soon.
	From your sisters in the Gospel,
					JANE PRICE, Prest.
				ELIZABETH JENKINS, Secy.

	CENTERVILLE, DAVIS Co., Nov. 20, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Last Wednesday, the 15 inst., Sisters Eliza
R. Snow and E. Barney visited our settle-
ment and organized a "Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association." They met with
the ladies of Centerville at 2 o'clock, p. m.,
and appointed the following officers for the
association:
	Mrs. Kate Dalrymple, President,
	Mrs. Frankie Randall,	}
	Miss S. L. Smith,		} Counselors
	"	Hester Ford,		}
	"	M. E. Smith,		}
	"	Kate M. Chase, Secretary,
	"	Mary Parish, Assistant Secretary,
	"	Addie Woolley, Treasurer.
	Sister Wadoup was appointed Superin-
tendent.
	Our first meeting under the new organ-
ization was held at 2 o'clock on Saturday,
the 18th. There were present at the meet-
ing, beside the members, Mrs. M. Randall,
President of the Relief Society, and her
Counselors. Excellent and appropriate re-
marks were made by the President, Super-
intendent, Counselors and others. A lively
interest was manifested by all in the so-
ciety, and it promises to mature into a pleas-
ant and profitable institution.
	Forty members answered to roll call,
which is a fair indication of the desire felt
by all to assist in the progress of all such
enterprises as tend to instruct us, and facil-
tate the advancement of divine intelligence
among us.
			Yours Respectfully,
				KATE M. CHASE, Sec'y.

[Column 3]
				MANTI, Nov. 12, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In accordance with your expressed wish-
es, I take the present opportunity of inform-
ing you that the Relief Society of this place
has responded to the call in relation to stor-
ing grain.
	We have about fifty bushels on hand for
that purpose, and we intend to continue in
well-doing.
	We have a small store, organized last
April, with a capital of $200,000, which is in
a flourishing condition, notwithstanding
hard times, opposition, and other adverse
circumstances. We paid a dividend of 34
per cent for our first six months, ending
Oct. 21st. We have increased our capital
considerably by taking new shares, and hope
by wisdom, economy and the blessing of our
Heavenly Father to continue to prosper. We
also have ample means on hand to assist the
needy and destitute whenever we are call-
ed upon; and all things considered, our so-
ciety was never in a more prosperous con-
dition than at present.
	A good spirit prevails in our meetings,
and we feel that we are greatly blessed in
our endeavors to do good.
	Wishing you success in your laudable en-
deavors to arouse the sisters to a realizing
sense of the great responsibilities devolv-
ing upon them, I remain,
				Very Respectfully,
					A. L. Cox, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The 19th Ward Relief Society held their
annual meeting Sept. 26. Sisters E. R.
Snow, M. I. Horne, Zina D. Young, B. W.
Smith, Presendia Kimball, Mercy Thomp-
son and Bishop A. H. Raleigh addressed
the meeting. Their remarks were replete
with words of instruction and encourage-
ment, and the counsel given, would, if fol-
lowed, aid us in bringing up our children in
a righteous manner, and help us to live
more faithful to our religion and to each
other. We were cautioned as mothers in
Israel never to speak lightly of the holy
and eternal principles of Plural Marriage,
for by that we are to gain our exaltation in
the Celestial Kingdom of our Father and
God. Our duty at the polls, the opening of
a store for the sale of home-industries, and
seri-culture, were also spoken of as matters
claiming our present and earnest attention.
	The yearly report of the society was read,
also the amount of donations and disburse-
ments of the society since the organization
of the society in 1869, which was as follows:
	Donations.......................... $ 2,138 61
	Disbursements..................    1,747 71½
	Balance...............................       390 90 ½
	For loan of Temple clothes        96 55
	There were others present, that we were
sorry time would not permit us to hear
from. At the close of the meeting, all pres-
ent were invited to partake of a picnic pre-
pared by the sisters of the Ward, and they
accordingly adjourned to the tables spread
with the bounties of the earth.
	With best wishes for the success of your
valuable paper—"OURS," as we consider
it,
	We remain yours, etc.
				A. A. PRATT, Pres't.
					A. E. NEAL, Sec'y.


MISS Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, has been
giving a series of lectures before the College
of Liberal Arts of Boston University, upon
"Representative Modern Fiction." The
Woman's Journal says George Eliot has been
discussed in four lectures."


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
AUTUMNAL THOUGHTS.

	The sad days come
	When to the tomb
Are borne the sweetest flowers,
	Which when in bloom,
	Threw rich perfume
Around this home of ours.

	It seems they're given
	As types of Heaven,
Those fragrant, beauteous flowers!—
	My soul's delight
	Is the cheering sight
They shed round summer hours.

	They have a voice,
	A silent voice,
That whispers to my heart,
	And to my brain
	In sweetest strain,
From which I sigh to part.

	How much we meet
	Sublimely sweet,
That's never told or written!
	But folds us round
	In bliss profound,
By heavenly breezes smitten!

	Now birds and bees
	Have ceased their glees,
All nature seems reposing;
	A moment, I
	Reflect and sigh
On the young eyes I've seen closing.

	And one stands chief,
	In bold relief,
Departing with the flowers!
	We laid her down
	In her floral crown
And returned to forsaken bowers.

	But spring will again
	Bring life in her train,
And the flowers their beauties resume,
	And the lov'd will arise
	With their glorious eyes,
And go forth in eternal bloom!

	When the resurrection
	Restores perfection—
Oh! day of consummate beauty!
	For it we can wait
	Yes, at any gate
With pleasure—and not "on duty."

	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
	GENERAL MEETING OF CENTRAL
		AND WARD COMMITTEES,

		ON THE GRAIN MOVEMENT.

	The meeting was held in the Social Hall
on the 17th of November 1876. Called to
order, and opened with prayer by Mrs. E.
Howard. President of Central Committee,
Mrs. E. B. Wells, remarked as follows: "It
is very generally understood that this meet-
ing is called to discuss the GRAIN QUESTION,
It would be well to let our thoughts and
words be concentrated on the subject; we
want to make the best use of our time and
use all dispatch, that the sisters may get
home in good season. We would like the
Presidents of Relief Societies to let us
know what their ideas are on the subject.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: It is a very im-
portant occasion that has called us together,
probably such as never occurred on the
earth before. The Lord, through his pro-
phet, has called on the mothers in Israel to
prepare for a famine, which makes the sub-
ject we are called on to discuss a grave one.
We are well assured that the time is fast
approaching when the Lord will pour out
His indignation on this country, and al-
though we should escape, we will feel the
effects of it in a National capacity. Our
hearts must be hard indeed, if we will not
feel for those who may come to us for help.
The Lord showed his servant Joseph that
such things would come, and it was of such
a nature, and so distressing and revolting

[Column 2]
to humanity to witness, that he asked the
Lord to close it up. We can see, from what
has passed, that the predictions of the Ser-
vant of God, have been fulfilled to the let-
ter. He has now called on the women of
Zion to purchase and take care of wheat,
and I hope we may act with wisdom, that
the blessing of God may rest upon our la-
bors. We want to decide how to procure
the grain and take care of it; and whether
we will act in Wards or in a general capac-
ity; we have been told that there is room
in the Tithing Office to store it. But per-
haps some of the Wards have a good place
for storing; if so, and they prefer it, they
can do so.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Bishop Hunter told
me we could store the wheat in the Tithing
Office, and that the wards could also if they
wished, as there was plenty of room unoc-
cupied now; but whatever we do there, we
will have to employ help, as the brethren
who labor there are all fully employed.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball said: We have ap-
pointed a committee to visit in our ward.
They report that the feelings of the people
have been liberal and good. All we want
to know is what steps we are to take in or-
der to push the work forward. I feel that
the Lord will bless us in our undertaking.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells asked if any of the
sisters could inform the meeting where
wheat could be purchased.
	Mrs. W. East: I expect Mrs. Horne can
tell us where we can buy wheat, when
she returns from the South. I have been
told that the brethren residing in the coun-
try places, are awakening up, and see the
utilily of saving grain, and it may not be
a very easy matter for the sisters to procure
it. We held a meeting in the 14th Ward a
short time ago exclusively for this ques-
tion. The sisters feel the importance of the
mision and will do all in their power to ac-
complish it. We feel that the Lord will
open up the way for us to get wheat; and
that he will bless us in our efforts.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Goddard: I have heard
that wheat can be bought for a dollar a
bushel; and I think it would be well to take
flour also, it can be kept good in sacks for a
long time.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: I can report from
three counties where they have no grain
for sale; Morgan, Summit and Wasatch,
were distressed with an early frost, which
destroyed nearly all their wheat; but feel
sure that we can make this business a suc-
cess.
	Mrs. R. Grant: The 13th Ward intend
saving grain. We have had a large bin of-
fered us for that purpose, which we will ac-
cept. It has long been preached that the
brethren should prepare for a day of famine;
it now seems as if the women were to have
a hand in it, and I hope the Lord will give
us strength to perform our work nobly.
	Mrs. Sarah Howard: I feel it is a priv-
ilege the Lord has given us, and we will try
and be united in it. For my part I will try
and do all I can, and I feel that the Lord
will open a way whereby we can obtain
grain, although it is late in the season.
Our Retrenchment Association has com-
menced a fund for that purpose, we will
work in concert with the 20th Ward Relief
Society.
	Mrs. Savage said: In the 20th Ward,
they intend doing the best they can to help
in this work, but just at the present time
there are no funds in the Treasury.
	Mrs. M. M. Hyde, 17th Ward, said:
We intend to build a hall for the use of our
Society; when we heard of this grain busi-
ness, we talked the matter over, and think
of making the hall smaller, and putting up

[Column 3]
a bin for wheat in part of it. I would just
suggest, that in the States, wheat some-
times spoils, through dampness, but our at
mosphere being so dry, I expect it would
keep good for some time."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: President Young said
the sisters were to solicit help from their
husbands and the brethren, for this purpose;
by that means we would be able to get
funds to purchase the wheat with.
	Mrs. Reid, of the 16th Ward, said: The
sisters of our Ward are willing to do all
they can to carry out counsel.
	Mrs. L. G. Richards: I think that if
we unite our means, and have one energetic
sister to buy up the wheat; and by hav-
ing one, two or three hundred dollars, quite
an amount could be procured, and I think
would be better than being mixed up in
wards.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: What I have to
give, I intend putting it with the bulk. I
know no separate interest. I hope energet-
ic sisters will be appointed to attend to it;
one or two in each ward say, or a commit-
tee be formed, as may seem necessary.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells remarked: I presume
all the boards of the Relief Society will co-
operate in this work, and I think it will be
well for us to unite.
	Mrs. Chase of the 1st Ward: I have
talked on this subject in our meeting, and
we intend to unite with the rest in what-
ever plan they may suggest. I have a large
bin in which a great amount of wheat
could be stored; perhaps all we could get
this year. We have quite a number of
poor, but will be able to help some in all
good calls. At one time my husband put up
a good deal of wheat but after some time
the weevil spoiled it. But I hope we can
plan some way to take care of that which
the Lord will bless us with.
	It was then moved and seconded that a
general committee be appointed to purchase,
but that will not hinder wards from hav-
ing ward committees.
	The following ladies were elected as a
purchasing committee: Mrs. E. S. Barney,
Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: Let every sister
secure and store away every bushel of
wheat that it is possible for her to obtain.
She also said it will be necessary to have a
Treasurer in some central place. Mrs. P.
M. Staines was sustained as Treasurer.
	It was proposed that a record be kept of
the proceedings in each ward, every name
and donation put down in a distinct man-
ner.
	It was suggested that we commence at
once and have no delay about it. In Manti
they have put up 60 or 70 bushels, and we
can't be too prompt in this matter. Many
of the brethren seem to wish to help us.
	Mrs. Mercy Thompson [---]: Flour that
is well sacked and kept in a dry place would
keep as well, if not better, than wheat. I
have some flour now using, that has been
sacked four years, and it is as good, if not
better than new flour. I know that the Lord
will bless us in our undertaking.
	Considerable business was transacted in
regard to the Woman's Book about to be
published; and the propriety of the sisters
making a carpet for the Historian's Office
was taken into consideration and the sisters
donated liberally for that purpose.
	Meeting adjourned until Nov. 24th, at 3
o'clock p. m. Sung "The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning." Benediction by Mrs.
Rachel Grant.


IN, what ship has the greatest number of
people been wrecked?—Courtship.


THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		Editors.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms. One copy one year, $2.00, one copy six months,
[---] Ten copies for the price of nine; Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHERS, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

THE NATIONAL PUZZLE.

	First, who is elected President? And second-
ly, how is the fact to be demonstrated? Third-
ly, is it to be determined by the civil powers,
or by military force? No wonder people are
becoming confused on the subject, for confus-
ion reigns supreme, and if dissolution is not the
result of haranguing for reformation and
amendment, constitutionally why then Amer-
ica is surely exceptionally lucky. If only
some good fairy would whisper in the anxious
listening ear of some popular editor, whose
nerves are strained to the highest tension, or
touch, with magic hand the Electric Telegraph
and send the news throughout the length and
breadth of the country, now anxiously waiting
the grand national denouement, it would be a
most commendable and praiseworthy action.
Alas! the people of this highly enlightened
nineteenth century are too matter-of-fact to
believe in fairies or magic, and too self-confi-
dent to put their trust in an over-ruling power
who the Scriptures affirm, holds the nations in
His hand, and Who has declared he will turn
and overturn until the kingdoms of this
world become the kingdoms of God. So peo-
ple will go on wondering and puzzling and
querying what is to be the result of this pecu-
liar crisis in national affairs.
	It is not strange that people get muddled in
trying to solve the mystery, for there never
was a more vexatious riddle propounded to the
American nation.
	All the reports which have been received
from the different states since the Tilden party
were so positive of his election have been con-
tradictory ones. On every side arises difficulty
in determining the facts, or arriving at a just
decision, and the only way out of it, is to de-
clare the law, pertaining to presidential elec-
tors incomplete.
	This is the only policy left them to pursue
that will not implicate the governing powers.
One party may of course cry out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other, but when
both know themselves to be equally in fault,
what policy so clear as to lay the fault of the
evil issues upon their predecessors who formed
for them a government and constitution of
laws, surpassing all other existing forms, and
yet, (for their wicked purposes,) inefficient.
	And so the great American nation has made
such gigantic strides in advancement (corup-
tion) that they need another amendment to
meet the emergencies of this case. All these
things to those whose eyes are open to "the
signs of the times" are direct indications of
the approaching crisis, which will eventually
result in the final overthrow of all govern-
ments. Some powerful agency which the
world cannot understand is now manifesting

[COLUMN 2]

itself and producing sensations of fear
among the masses of the people, and some
have been so strangely impressed with fore-
bodings of evil, they have recalled the fire-
side tales told them in their childhood, and
shrink with trembling at the anticipation of
another political revolution. The wisest and
shrewdest of political men express themselves,
that when the truth is ascertained about the
election then something may be foretold in
regard to the work which will come be-
fore the House of Congress the ensuing season;
but when the scale will turn or what may yet
transpire, with all the party feeling that now
pervades the public mind still remains inexplic-
able. One thing is apparent to those whose
minds are opened to the light of truth, and
that is that the adversary is striving for mas-
tery in the hearts of the children of men, that
instead of peace, he will, if possible bring war,
and as a natural consequence of war, famine,
pestilence and plague. If this nation would
receive the testimony of the servants of God
many of the difficulties might be avoided; but
they are wise in their own conceit and harden-
ed in their hearts, and as kings and rulers of na-
tions refused to listen in ancient times, so do
they now reject that which would bring them
prosperity and happiness. But Babylon must
fall, and everything seems conspiring to bring
about the fulfillment of the prophecies quickly.
Already are nations of the greatest power and
strength preparing for war and ultimately a
war in which all nations will become engaged
will be the result. In contemplation of these
fearful occurrences the saints should be wise
and seek more than ever for the spirit of God
to direct them, that they may indeed become
not only saviors of individuals, but assist in the
protection of the rights and privileges of na-
tions.
	It may seem to our readers that we have
wandered from the subject, but a question so
momentous in its issues may admit of elabor-
ate discussing.
	It has been advised by those who are anxious
to assist in arriving at the adjudication of the
great question now pending, that caution and
quiet would be "the better part of valor" that
both parties are weakening their own side by
making charges of dishonest dealings; that
positive proofs are the only real specific. If
these wise men can succeed in lulling the great
political tumult and clamor, we hope it may
not prove the precursor of a tremendous na-
tional thunder-bolt that will split asunder the
two opposing parties, so effectually that it will
be impossible to cement them together again,
without, as brother Heber C. Kimball used to
say, "throwing the clay all back into the hopper
and grinding it over.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	C. W. [-]ENROSE, editor of the Ogden Junc-
tion, and S. W. Sears, produce and grain mer-
chant, are gone on a business trip to San Fran-
cisco.
	WE HAVE recently received, through the
courtesy of the editor who was in Salt Lake
City a short time ago, as an exchange, "The
Watchman," published in Boston, Mass. It is
the second oldest newspaper in the State.
	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon, the people's Del-
egate to Congress, left this city for Washing-
ton, D. C., Tuesday morning, Nov. 27th. We
wish him a pleasant trip and success in his
efforts to maintain the national rights of the
people of the Territory of Utah.
	CORRECTION: IN THE EXPONENT OF NOV. 1,

[Column 2]
we published a report from Mill Creek Ward,
Salt Lake County, in which two mistakes oc-
curred accidentally: every second Thursday,
should read Tuesday; and the name of the pres-
ident of the association, instead of Mrs. Isabel-
la Carlisle, should read Mrs. Isabella Walters.
	THE UTAH Musical Times, No. 9, which we
have received, contains some choice and inter-
esting articles. "Write Your Thoughts," is one
which expresses clearly the true system of
writing for the press. The music is of home
production and speaks well for Utah's musical
talent. It gives many late dramatic notes
of interest. Utah may be justly proud of this
periodical.
	WE HAVE received a specimen copy of the
"Daily Hotel Gazette," a new publication in
San Francisco, California. It seems from its
variety of advertisements of business &c., to
be valuable for reference to travelers, etc.
They are using Miller and Richard type which
they strongly recommend. This manufactory is
a Branch of the Edinburgh Type Foundry,
and has on hand, beside Hard Metal Scotch
type, presses, and printing materials. Office,
No., 521 Sacramento St., San Francisco.
	AT THE General Retrenchment Meeting,
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Sat., Nov.
25, Elder Junius F. Wells, recently returned
from a mission to the United States, addressed
the assembly briefly. He expressed great joy
at the work in progress among the sisters, and
contrasted their ideas, feelings and knowledge
of the future, with the women of the world.
He manifested great interest in the Woman's
Book, believing it would open the eyes of an
enlightened class of society to the facts in re-
gard to the motives by which the sisters were
actuated.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have taken meaaures
to secure the publication of a BOOK which will
combine in one volume, the lives and testimo-
nies of the sisters as far as possible, from the
time of the rise of the church in Kirtland up
to the present day. Such arrangements have
been made as will ensure to every sister ample
returns for all money invested either in her
own name, or in connection with a Relief So-
ciety. It is expected this book will reach
many places, homes and individuals where
the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints, in what-
ever form presented, would not be tolerated;
for that reason it will do the most efficient
preaching to a certain class of people. Some
enthusiasm upon this subject would not be
amiss to assist in forwarding this laudable
work. The women of Utah certainly should be
able to publish their own lives. We hope to see
the sisters come forward and subscribe for this
immediately, that the work may be speedily
published and circulated.
	WE HAVE received from the author, a new
publication entitled "Overcome." The book
is published by Lovell printing and publish-
ing Co., New York. The writer is an Ameri-
can lady of prepossesing appearance and pecu-
liarly gifted in conversation. We had the
pleasure of meeting her here, when on her way
to San Francisco; she ran down to Salt Lake
for a day or two to see the "City of the Saints."
We return her our thanks for the book, and the
favorable notice given us in the "Chicago
Tribune." Her book is a gem in its way,
drawn from real life. It is a true tale, calcula-
ted to touch the heart, told in a charming and
pathetic style, and bears a similarity to many
incidents occurring in households all over the
country. If mothers and sisters can be in-
duced (and this is the author's noble design)
through earnest entreaty and the influence of


[COLUMN 1]

women of talent and their example, to discour-
age the drinking of wine, beer, or liquor in any
form at dinner-parties, social gatherings and
New Year's calls, a great deal might be accom-
plished for the cause of Temperance; for many
a young man, as the writer says, can trace his
downfall from all that was good and pure, to
the first taking of the social-glass. Mothers
and sisters, especially women of the Latter-
day Saints, let us entreat you to use all your
influence to do away with this foolish Gentile
custom, lest your hearts shall some day ache
as sorely as many hearts do now, throughout
the whole world from the effects of intemper-
ance.
	AT A MEETING of the Central and Ward
Committees, on the Grain Movement, held in
the Social Hall, Friday, Nov. 24th, many im-
portant ideas were advanced in a clear and for-
cible manner by those who spoke upon the sub-
ject. Reports from different wards were given
in regard to the movement and such sugges
tions as seemed applicable to the time an
place, from many presidents of Relief Socie-
ties from the several wards. It seemed that in
several of the wards they had good granaries
to store in separately, which will of course; be
an advantage in some respects, for there wil
be a better opportunity of preserving it from
damp, or mice, or weevils, or any of the an-
noyances that attend the storing of grain in
large quantities together.
	Miss E. R. Snow, of the Central Committee,
in her remarks, referred to having recently
visited Brigham City, and that her brother,
who is president there (Lorenzo D. Snow,)
thought this movement of the sisters a step in
the right direction. Br. F. D. Richards, of
Ogden had said to her, he thought what the
sisters did this year in regard to buying grain
must be done immediately as there could be
nothing done after Christmas. There are many
of the brethren in authority, Bishops and oth-
ers, who have spoken kindly and favorably to
the sisters, and given the movement their
hearty endorsement. A spirit of energy and
enterprise is manifest among the sisters to in-
vest their means in such a manner as shall be
approved by heaven. Not all the laces and
silks in the world could compare with bread
stuff in the time of scarcity.
	Mrs. W. East of the 14th ward, when she
rose to speak, said she was sure that the Lord
had called upon the sisters to act in this ca-
pacity. Spoke of a brother who had a speci-
men of wheat he had kept for twenty five
years, and that it was perfectly good. Those
who are not of us, scoff and sneer, but the sis-
ters should be independent of all outside influ-
ences, and take hold of the subject with that
fortitude and courage that will warrant suc-
cess.
	FARMINGTON, DAVIS Co., Nov. 24th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. I.
Holmes, I send you a report of what we are do-
ing in regard to the grain question. At our
meeting two weeks ago last Wednesday, she
read the editorial containing President Young's
counsel and suggestions and some other pieces
from the Exponent, explaining to the sisters
what is required of them; said she felt like
commencing right off, so that we should not
be behind in this great work. At first it was
thought best to build a granary that we might
have a suitable place to put the grain collected;
but afterwards, through advice and the kind-
ness of the brethren, one was found already
built which we can have the use of, therefore
saving the means which it would take to build
to buy grain.

[COLUMN 2]

	At the meeting it was suggested that a com-
mittee be appointed to visit the men in the
ward to see what they would do to help us;
the suggestion was carried and a good report
brought in. The majority of the brethren en-
tered into the spirit of the mission, and either
donated means or labor.
	Some of the brethren felt quite humbled to
think the women should undertake what the
men had failed to do; but I feel to offer a word
of encouragement to all such. The words of
Prest. Heber C. Kimball, which come to my
recollection, I think should suffice, wherein he
prophesied that the time would come when
the sisters would store up the grain and pota-
toes. I do not think that any good woman
would take the praise to herself, or think she is
better than her husband, on account of this
move that has been made. I feel that we
should work together, for the man is not with-
out the woman in the Lord, nor the woman
without the man; which is according to Scrip-
ture.
	The Society of Farmington have some grain
on hand and means to buy more, and do not
think of slackening up their energies in the fu-
ture.
	I wish to speak a word in favor of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association in this place.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, and hold their meetings once a week;
they also have a paper of their own composi-
tion, called the "Index" which is both instruc-
tive and interesting. They also read selected
pieces in their meetings. The younger portion
of the members are quite zealous, so much so,
that they can hardly be induced to stay away
from meeting under any consideration.
	Excuse me for being so lengthy.
	Yours &c.
		A. S. ROGERS, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		101


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The new movement in regard to grain is one
which should receive the hearty commenda-
tion of the Latter-day Saints. It is part of our
religion to practice consistently the laws of
life and health. If we do not do this we are
not sustaining the laws of God. for He has
made all laws devolving upon each other so
perceptibly, that if we transgress one, we are
sure to infringe upon others. We could not
possibly carry out the design of our Creator
unles we preserve our bodies, for the first great
commandment given to man after the creation
was to "multiply and replenish the earth."
In order to do this we must have well preserv-
ed faculties and physique, otherwise we are de-
generating and falling away from the pattern
given us to follow. "And God created man in
His own image." It seems to me that to be
made in the likeness of God is something
which every individual should hold in rever-
ence, and it ought to be an incentive to purity
in the preservation of life, and thus give us op-
portunity for such knowledge as shall help us
to obtain a part in that higher life which will
be the ultimate result of our being upon the
earth.
	The Lord caused the earth to bring forth of
her fruits for the sustenance of the beings
which He placed upon it, and it has been ful-
filling the laws of its creation for many thou-
sand years. But we who believe the Scriptures
and the prophets of our own day know that
great changes are to take place, before the rev-
olution of all things which will usher in the
millennium. One of the most distressing of
those changes will be famine, and we have
been warned and forewarned of its coming,
yet the people, as in the days of Noah and oth-


ers, reject the testimony of the Servants of
God, and still pursue their every-day life, care-
less of the future, and regardless of the teach-
ings and testimonies vouchsafed to them for
safety.
	It is sufficiently apparent to every sensible
woman that if the famine were right upon us,
we are not prepared to sustain our own people
here in this Territory, and that we should feel
it as severely as others. But if we heed the
call made upon us by the servant of God, ap-
pointed to dispense His word unto the people
in due season, then we shall act wisely while
we have a day of grace given us; but let us not
dally or trifle away time and opportunities,
but seek with all diligence to store up an
abundance of grain for ourselves and our friends
who have jeered and ridiculed us and our re-
ligion. Let us exercise that charity that will
not only feed the hungry, but make the need-
ful preparations beforehand, that we may min-
ister to them in a substantial and proper man-
ner.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells
								EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 24, 1876.


THE LAW OF NEWSPAPERS.

	1. Subscribers who do not give express no-
tice to the contrary are considered as wishing
to continue their subscriptions.
	2. If any subscribers order the discontinuance
of their newspapers, the publisher may con-
tinue to send them until all arrearages are paid.
	3. If subscribers neglect or refuse to take
their newspapers from the offices to which
they are directed, the law holds them responsi-
ble until they have settled the bills, and order-
ed them discontinued.
	4. If subscribers remove to other places with-
out informing the publisher, and the newspa-
pers are sent to the former direction, they are
held responsible.
	5. The courts have decided that refusing to
take newspapers from the office, or removing
and leaving them uncalled for, is "prima facie"
evidence of intentional fraud.
	6. The postmaster who neglects to give the
legal notice of the neglect of a person to take
from the office the newspapers addressed to
him, is liable to the publisher for the subscrip-
tion price.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN SOME of the places where women are
not permitted the right of the ballot, they
have made public demonstrations of their
sentiments in political matters by "flinging
to the breeze" flags bearing the names of
the candidates for the presidency, of the
party they wished to sustain. In one or
two places, they held political meetings and
discussed the subject and the probability of
its success.
	THE GREAT CYCLONE.—This terrific
wind storm that recently devastated a large
tract of country in the East Indies, com-
pletely submerging three large and four or
five small islands, is one of the most fearful
calamities ever known; and should be an
effectual warning to the living. The loss of
life is estimated by some at about a quarter
of a million. The destruction of property
is incalculable, but added to all this, and
the most heart-sickening, is the famine
which inevitably follows such unlooked-for
occurrences. The atmosphere, too, near
where the dead bodies are, is so polluted
that pestilence is almost sure to result.


102		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DESCRIPTION OF CHRIST

	LETTER OF PUBLIUS SENTILUS TO THE
			SENATE OF ROME

	There is a man among us who is called
Jesus Christ. He is accepted of the people
as a prophet. His own disciples say he is
the Son of God. He heals the sick, restores
sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, and
raises the dead. In conversation he is mild
and amiable; his carriage is graceful and
modest; in reproving he is terrible, yet gen-
tle and forgiving. In person he is tall and
comely; his nose and mouth are beautifully
formed; his chin a model of Grecian Sculp-
ture underlaying a heavy beard; his eyes
like diamonds, indicating great wisdom
and penetration, comprehending everything
at a glance; bespeaking great compassion for
the poor and unfortunate. His hair waves
in flowing curls over his shoulders in orien-
tal style after the manner of the Nazarites.
He has not been known to laugh, but fre-
quently weeps; in short his whole form and
carriage are without blemish and his exte-
rior beauty surpassing all the sons of men.


FROM HAWAII

EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS BY MRS.
JANE E. MOLEN.

[CONCLUDED]
	It is Saturday, but I shall teach, to make
up for last Monday, which was the "Twenty-
Fourth." Our good brethren celebrated
it in honor of the arrival of the Pioneers
at "Monopohoko"—(Salt Lake.)
	I often look down the pasture, and think
how good it would seem to see a white face
approaching; that is a sight seldom seen
here. But I am quite busy trying to learn
the language, and have no time to get lone-
some. I shall not have so good a chance
to learn when Simpson goes away, he is so
patient in teaching me. He will soon start
for another island, and will be gone until
conference time.
	The natives are thick around me, so that
I can scarcely write. They are gathering
to make arrangements for a feast; our house
is their place of gathering for such affairs,
and it is generally very lively with their
noise.
	We have eight rooms, three verandas, a
nice large cook house, and no mud. It may
rain for hours and as soon as the sun comes
out, you may walk out without soiling your
feet. Grass grows even on the rocks. You
may spade your garden, and in a few days
grass springs up and looks green. I never
saw so clean a place. The water is as soft
as rain, very warm, but I do not notice it
now. I am getting used to everything ex-
cept doing without vegetables. Sorry we
did not bring seeds with us. The brethren
have not tried to raise a garden. Simpson
has been trying to get a few seeds here and
there, and has a garden started. I have not
seen a melon, or anything but sweet pota-
toes in the vegetable line since we came.

	It is seventeen years to day since I took
the marriage vow, and promised to be a
true and faithful wife. And as the mission-
aries are to start again tomorrow, we have
had a dinner, the first good meal I have
had the honor of cooking. There were of
us, brothers Lambert and wife, Woolley and
wife, Pack, Stringam, and Molen, myself
and little Millie. For dinner, I made a good
loaf of bread, a nice cake sweetened with
very brown sugar, four apple pies, (from ap-
ples that my dear mother dried,) stewed


two chickens which I bought of a native
woman, and made a nice gravy. Then we
had salt beef, sweet potatoes with butter
and pepper, and "poi."
	I imagine you laughing at my dinner,
but you need not. I saved things for over
two weeks, preparing for to-day. Brother
Wooley made me a present of some nice
pine apples, cocoanuts and a paper of figs.


[COLUMN 1]

	For the Exponent.
MATTER AND SPIRIT.

	In a late number of the EXPONENT, I no-
ticed a finely written article upon the beau-
ties of Nature. I am greatly in sympathy
with the writer of that effusion. From a
child I have been much given to contrast-
ing the works of man, with the works of
His Maker. By bringing even the tiniest
specimens of heaven's designing hand un-
der the microscope, and noting how precisely
according to the exact rule of its formation,
the smallest flower, for instance was organ-
ized. How certain its progress too, spring-
ing into life, blooming into its delicate
beauty for awhile, then fading, dying and
vanishing from sight. Yet in its disinte-
gration there falls from its minute but nu-
merous chalices an almost infinite number
of atomic germs of life—of flower life eter-
nal. Going out and upward from these
small thoughts, my eyes were opened upon
the fact, that in all the works of Deity, the
law of composition and of decomposition
is always the same under the same circum-
stances, that though He
	"Forms the shining worlds,"—or
	"Makes the cricket sing,"
still the fact of law of order of all atoms
and all masses, is an inevitable conclusion.
Then I said to myself, this being so, that an
inviolable law that cannot be changed, rules
all matter, that everywhere, like must
cleave unto like; that the chemical affinity
of substances are resting on the condition
and properties of each and every ultimate
atom of matter that enters into the struct-
ure of the vast Universe of the great Crea-
tor. That inert atoms must construct them-
selves by their own self-possessed forces and
characters into such masses as they were
made to be associated with, and cannot
combine with those elements which are not
of their kind, or endowed with such cor-
responding forces as shall bind them togeth-
er. If all these be so exactly held by the
laws of their creation, what then shall we
say of the immortal, or quickening element
of life in vegetable, animal, or man. Leav-
ing the two first we are most concerned in
the high powers and endowments given to
that being which, we are told, was formed
in the likeness of God—male and female,
man and woman—and who was first quick-
ened into life by the breath of the Al-
mighty. Even so, and more also shall not
God know the beings He has so created.
Has He not made, and will he not contro
those children of His by a law as just, as de-
terminate as the law by which the worlds
were poised in such position as should cer-
tainly induce in them movement, which
those orbs must make, in order to follow
the orbit marked out for them when He
drew the circle in the heavens, and calcu-
lated the just proportion of every force and
power which should keep them in the track
which He had assigned to them.
	Not to follow this subject further at this
time, for I never have much leisure, my
conclusion has been this. In view of all
the visible acts of God, I must conclude—
first, that every law of God is just, His acts

[COLUMN 2]

are laid in great understanding, that His
decrees are inevitable, that which He has
ordained must surely come to pass, that
though the heavens and earth fail, not one
jot or tittle of His word shall fail, that He
is Omnipotent as well as Al-wise, and hav-
ing said "the just shall live by faith, and
that not of themselves—it is the gift
of God." That no one can enter into
His kingdom who is not both just and faith-
ful.
	M. I. CORAY.
Coray's Ranch, York Station, Nov. 14, 76.


THAT OTHER WILLIE.

BY BELLE FRENCH.

	"Willie, why don't you go and play with
the boys and not be forever stuck at my
feet?"
	Such was Mrs. Gray's impatient question,
one day, when her little son came and seat-
ed himself in the parlor when his mother
was conversing with a visitor.
	"I would rather be with you than with
the boys," he answered timidly.
	"Oh, I never saw such a baby!"
	"Is it wrong to wish to be near you, moth-
er?" said the child, and his nether lip trem-
bled as he spoke.
	"Wrong? of course not. But you are old
enough to have some manliness about you.
See, yonder are Will and John Gowdy on
the ice. Run and keep them company. I
want to talk to Mrs. Brown."
	"Isn't he a queer child," she asked.
	The other raised her sad eyes and fixed
them with such a painful expression on the
mother's face, that for a moment Mrs. Gray
almost felt offended. She was a sorrowful
looking woman this Mrs. Brown.
	"I had a son once, but he's gone," she
said at last, and there were tears in her
eyes.
	Mrs. Gray gazed at her wonderingly.
She had not known this before.
	"It is a bitter thing to tear open partially
healed wounds," Mrs. Brown continued,
"but I will tell you my story:
	"Several years ago I was about to give a
party; a grand affair it was to be, and my
head was almost turned in making prepara-
tions. My Willie, (his name was Willie
too,) was about 16 years old. He had never
been to school, I had educated him myself.
At home, he was all a mother's heart could
desire; but he was shy, and when I forced
him into company he appeared so awkward,
that I often felt ashamed of him. This was
one reason of my deciding to give a party.
If he was obliged to act the part of host he
would overcome his bashfulness, I thought.
But Willie never approved of it.
	"I shall be so glad when the party is
over," he said one day; "for since you have
got it into your head, I have lost my moth-
er."
	"Poor little baby!" I responded, slightly
provoked at his lack of interest. "I won-
der how many more years I shall have you
tied to my apron string?"
	I spoke sneeringly, and a proud flush in-
stantly overspread his face.
	"I will be tied there no longer," he re-
turned, "I will seek other company in the
future."
	I was frightened at the result of my
words. Still I made no response. My son
putting on his coat and hat, went out. It
was the first time in his life he had gone
out without informing me where he was
going.
	In good time the party came off. It was
a gay affair, and none were gayer than Wil-


[COLUMN 1]

lie. He was a sort of extremist, and took
no medium stand. After that his books and
work were neglected, and his days, as well
as evenings, were spent abroad. Fast young
men became his constant companions. I
was left alone to mourn over the change I
had wrought. At first he made it a rule to
be in at night by ten o'clock, but after a
time he began to stay out later; and day-
break sometimes found him from home.
I tried to expostulate, tried to win him
back to his old habits, but my efforts were
unavailing. He had got a taste of a new
life and it held him by a charm. Well do
I remember the first night he came home
in a state of intoxication. It was his seven-
teenth birthday, just a year from the time
I gave the party. I had seen him under
the influence of wine once or twice before,
but this night he drank so deeply that some
of his companions had to help him home.
	The hours of that night were dreadful
hours of self reproach and agony. I was so
glad when morning came to dispel the
gloom—so glad when reason returned to my
erring child. He was very much ashamed.
He said again and again he would do bet-
ter; but his resolves were worthless. Two
nights later, he was again brought home in-
toxicated. After that it was a common oc-
curence. He fell lower and lower, squand-
ered all my ready money and, when I re-
fused to mortgage my property, that he
might have more, he left me with an oath.
	That night a large firm was robbed and
it was discovered that Willie was one of
the perpetrators of the deed. The next
morning the town was alive with excite-
ment, and I almost crazed with anxiety,
for my boy had fled. The news passed from
mouth to mouth; my house was searched,
and my son called a villain, but I had no
power to prevent either. No one gave me
a word of sympathy.
	"You have only yourself to blame," said
a blunt old woman, who called during the
day. "The boy was happy at home but you
drove him into bad company."
	That night at the hour of twelve, as I sat
alone, a window was opened softly and Wil-
lie stepped into the room. With a glad cry
I sprang toward him, but he pushed me
rudely away.
	"Can you hide me anywhere," he said,
"The bloodhounds are after me. Had you
given me the money yesterday, this would
not have been."
	"Oh, Willie!" I cried.
	"Yes, mother," he said sternly, "you
have made me a criminal. I want to tell
you I have secretly married Kate Hastings.
God knows what will become of her."
	Kate was a pretty little creature, only 16
years old, innocent as the violets which
grew around her home—My bleeding heart
gave a quick painful throb as he continued:
	"The world will not believe we are mar-
ried. She will be scorned by all. Hark!
they are coming. Mother, I am too young,
too wicked to die, but I must die. Fare-
well!"
	I saw his purpose now, for his hand
clutched a revolver and springing to my
feet I threw my arms about him to shield
him from himself. But he shook me off.
The next moment the loud report of his
pistol echoed through the house. One glance
showed me his lifeless form stretched on
the floor. Then existence was a blank to
me.
	"When I awoke to consciousness the
morning sun was shining and the house
was filled with people. But even justice
was satisfied, and I was left alone with the
dead. All day, tearless and motionless, I
sat beside that mangled corpse. Some peo-

[COLUMN 2]

ple kinder than the rest, came in to make
preparations for the funeral; and passed si-
lently out, but I did not heed them.
	Kate Hastings came just after dark. She
was dressed in deep mourning, and her face
was so ghastly that it startled me.
	"You, too, have come to reproach me," I
said.
	"No, mother. You suffer enough with-
out my reproaches. I have come to watch
with the dead."
	"I wish to watch alone," I said.
	"It is I who will watch alone," she re-
tuened. "It is my right, I am his wife."
	How calm she was! There was not even
a tremor of the voice to tell how she suffer-
ed.
	"Yes, it is your right, my poor child!" I
said. It gives me another pang to give
him up even to you my daughter; still I do
it.
	She looked up quickly.
	"He has told you?"
	"Yes."
	"Yet you speak kindly to me and do not
condemn us."
	A sad beautiful smile for a moment light-
ed up her features. She raised one of my
hands and kissed it reverently.
	"Thank you," she said. "Some time
you will be glad for having shown this
kindness to one so much in need of it.
Now, mother, leave me."
	I left the apartment but did not retire.
All night I sat on the floor outside the door,
hoping that Katie would bid me enter; but
no such summons came. Daylight returned,
and the busy world again moved, still I
head no movement in the chamber of
death. At last my anxiety became so great
that I opened the door and looked in. The
girl knelt by the side of the corpse, appar-
ently asleep. Softly I stole forward and
raised the drooping head. But no sad eyes
met my gaze, nothing but the white face
and staring orbs of a corpse. Katie had
died by her own hand, as a bottle which
she clutched proved.
	The next day they buried the pair; my
erring son and his child wife, in one grave;
and as the clods fell on the coffin, the
brightness of my life went out forever.
	Mrs. Brown could say no more, for sobs
choked her utterance. Her listener, too,
was deeply affected, as her pale face and
tearful eye showed.
	Leaving the bereaved mother for a mo-
ment, Mrs Gray stole softly to the door and
called—
	"Willie!"
	The child heard her and came quickly to
her side.
	"What is it, mamma?"
	"It is so lonesome without you, darling,"
she said, drawing him to her.
	A smile lit up his face.
	"Then, do you love me, mamma?"
	"Love you? Oh, Willie!"
	Her arms were about him now and she
was sobbing on his shoulder.
	"Did somebody tell you about those bad
boys?" he asked wonderingly. "They have
got a flask of whiskey, mamma."
	"Thank God! You are saved, my dar-
ling, she cried, hysterically.
	She drew him closer to her, she clung to
him, she showered kisses on his wondering
face. But never, until he was a man, with
a son of his own, did she tell him the story
of that other Willie, whose childhood and
his had been so much alike, and how, by
the knowledge of that other Willie's un-
fortunate career, he had been saved by her
perhaps from a like fate.—Peterson's Maga-
zine.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S RECORD.

	Miss Susan Fletcher Smith, an American
lady, has just made a will, assigning her
body, after death, to the Royal College of
Surgeons, on the ground that it is the duty
of every member of the human family to
devote the body after death, to scientific
examination, until the principles of physi-
ological science are thoroughly established.
It seems to us this woman possesses the ele-
ments of true benevolence and heroism.
	Mrs. M. E. Marshall, of Brooklyn, N.
Y., has opened an institution in that city,
for the benefit of working women, which is
designed to be self-supporting, and inde-
pendent of any donomination or sect. She
has opened an evening school for girls who
cannot attend the day school, where trades
will be taught, in addition to English
branches and music. A fee of fifty cents
per week is charged. The amount received
above expenses will be devoted to provid-
ing a home for homeless children, and girls
who are out of employment. A select
boarding agency has also been connected
with the institution for the benefit of the
pupils and inmates." Such an enterprise
as the above mentioned, thoroughly syste-
matic and business-like, yet in its nature
truly consistent with womanly sympathy
and generosity, is a positive demonstration
of the ability and method which women
are capable of exercising.
	"MRS. Martha Bremington, of Trenton,
Mass., recently deceased, accumulated an
independent property, in a way truly re-
markable. Although she was in business
but a few years, and at that almost a girl,
and without assistance, she left an estate
which will reach nearly 40,000. Her in-
vestments were shrewdly made and were
often exceedingly remunerative, As a
shrewd buyer of goods she had no superior
in the market. Her energy and applica-
tion to business was tireless. The deceased
made a will before her death, and is said to
have left all, or nearly all her estate to her
present husband, Mr. William S. Breming-
ton."


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To make Cream Cake.—Take one pint of boil-
ing water and add to it one tablespoonful of lard;
while this is at boiling heat stir into it a little salt
and sufficient flour to form a stiff dough, and then
when cool beat into the dough five eggs. Butter
a dripping-pan and drop in the dough in separate
quantities about the size of a walnut, it will puff
up and rise and be hollow inside; bake in a very
quick oven. Prepare the cream thus: take one
quart of milk and let it boil, while boiling take
sufficient cold milk to stir in two table spoonfuls
of flour and three eggs, add this to the milk while
boiling, as you would make gravy, put in half or
two thirds of a teacupful of sugar and season with
lemon, then when the cakes are hot open them
and fill them with the cream.
	Egg Blanc Mange.—Two thirds of a box of
gelatine, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, six
eggs, salt and flavoring to taste. Put the gela-
tine into the milk set it on the back of the stove
until it is dissolved, and then add the sugar, beat
the yolks of the eggs until they are very light, add
a gill of cold milk when the milk on the stove is
scalding hot; put the eggs in; stir constantly until
it is done which will be in a few minutes. If al-
lowed to remain too long on the fire it will curdle.
Take from the fire and continue to stir it gently
until it is quite cold, then put the mixture into a
mold and set it on ice, if the weather is warm.
This is to be eaten with cream.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	About Sleep.—How much sleep is necessary
to health and activity of body and mind it is hard to
determine except by individual experience; medi-
cal men and women and scientists have come to
this conclusion, after a variety of experiences and
experiments. The difference in individuals is
greater than inexperienced persens would imag-
ine. It is very generally conceded that children
should be indulged to the extent of their inclina-
tions.
	In the "Journal of Commerce" we find the fol-
lowing interesting items on this subject. Dr. Cooch
mentions a man who sleeps only fifteen minutes a
day and enjoys good health. Blaine mentions a
a man who during an active campaign, never, for
more than one year, slept more than one hour in
twenty-four; and the same is related of Charles
XII of Sweden, during his wonderful career.
Jeremy Taylor, during a part of his life, slept
only three or four hours out of the twenty-four;
and Napoleon during his military career slept only
four or five hours out of the twenty four; but he
was able to fall asleep any time in the midst of
his work when he felt drowsy. John Winter,
the great surgeon, slept four hours at night, and
one after dinner. Sir John Sinclair gives the his-
tory of a man who had reached the age of ninety-
one, and all his life had slept but four hours in
the twenty four. Sir Walter Scott said he was
not entirely himself unless he passed seven hours
in total unconsciousness. Southey required ten
hours, going to bed at ten and rising at eight,
Sir William Jones laid down the rule of life for
students in the couplet—
	Seven hours to books, to soothing slumber seven—
	Ten to the world's a[-]lot, and all to heaven.


COLERIDGE was once out on a particular
ride. The horse and the get up of the rider
were alike open to vulgar criticism. A low
wag appreciating the general effect, asked
the poet if he had met a tailor just like
himself. "Yes," was the reply; "and he
said he had lost his goose." After this
lowly triumph, his road brought him with-
in hail of a more distinguished party of
horsemen, one of whom, a sporting M. P.,
known to have been bribed by the Minis-
try, stopped him to enquire the price of
horse and rider. "The horse," was the
answer, "is a hundred guineas; as for the
rider, as he is not in Parliament yet, I have
not fixed his price."


IMPROMPTU EFFORTS.—Although pains-
taking writers produce the best work, as a
rule; it cannot be denied that some of the
most popular things in literature, especially
hymns and short poems, with now and
then a story, have been written almost
without forethought, and printed with but
little alteration. As, for instance, the mis-
sionary hymn, "From Greenland's Icy
Mountains," which Heber wrote at a few
moment's notice. And "Sheridan's ride"
has a history as felicitous. It is said of it
that its author, Reed, had Murdock the ac-
tor, for a guest, and while at breakfast, saw
in the morning journal an account of Sheri-
dan's exploit. He withdrew to his own
room, and in about an hour came out with
that poem, which Murdock read at the ben-
efit the same evening, and which in the
course of a few weeks appeared in half the
newspapers in the land.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
			WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.
	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNFLS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1876.		No. 14.


THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS.

	Don't forget the children, "Santa,"
		Come with baskets round and large,
	With no thought of feeling scanty
		O'er the gifts you keep in charge:
	Picture-books and dolls and dishes.
		Quiet horse and gentle dove,
	Tops and knives and dogs and fishes,
		You know what the children love.

	Don't yo[-] talk of wages meager,
		Not a dollar or a dime—
	You were once a child as eager
		For the coming Christmas time;
	Dear old Christmas rule! don't break it—
		You are not obliged to buy!
	Think of something, earn or make it,
		You can do so if you try.

	When I was a tiny maiden,
		Don't I know how glad I was,
	When I found my stockings laden
		With the gifts of "Santa Claus?"
	Then some hints of hard times taught us
		Never to complain a word,
	For we knew he always brought us
		Just the best he could afford.

	Once a home-made ball for brother,
		Buckskin cover, neat and strong;
	("Santa" knew how much our mother
		Deemed to slight the children wrong.")
	Candy birds from beet molasses.
		Ah! we thought them extra nice:—
	Fairy childhood! how it passes,
		Once forever, never twice.

	Youth is but a narrow isthmns,
		Linking infancy with age—
	Let the young folks have their Christmas,
		Bright as any pictured page.
	Older folks can reason better,
		If they crosses have to bear:
	Never, never be a debtor
		To the child that's in your care!

	Ere another year has found us,
		When such tokens may be giv'n,
	Thousands of the darlings' round us,
		May have joined the hosts in Heav'n;
	Thousands more will then be with us,
		Entering life's uncertain track;
	But their presence cannot give us,
		One departed darling back.

	Do without the roasted turkey,
		Things more costly or less dear;
	Though the sky be fair or murky,
		Keep the children's spirits clear:
	Fill up every little stocking
		Let it be a merry day;
	With your "lambs" about you f[---]king,
		Bless them, "Santa," while you may.
										LULA.
S. L. City, Dec; 13, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.

	Ambition is certainly a laudable passion,
when rightly cultivated and controlled, and
little is accomplished without it. Many
persons mistake, or misunderstand those
who possess it, and call them proud. Many
persons pass for being very humble when
in fact true humility does not not belong to
them; so much are we apt to misjudge our
fellow creatures. The TRULY ambitious
are alone the truly great, and such are ever
the truly humble. We see this beautifully
illustrated in the character of Esther. She
was ambitious that her kindred shonld not
become the outcasts of Israel through the
mean jealousy of a bad man, and set herself
to work to bring about their deliverance;
she fasted and prayed and commanded all

[Column 2]
her people to do the same. In order to at-
tain her aim, she had to break an impera-
tive law of the king, her husband; kings
were absolute monarchs in those days, their
whims and their words were alone the law.
Read her history, and see how beautiful
and touching is her humility, which em-
bodies strong faith in the God of her fath-
ers; her ambition and humility are both
conspicuous and harmoniously blended; and
her devotion to her cause is that of a mar-
tyr. After I have done all I can "If I per-
ish I perish!"
	It is in vain to look for a really noble char-
acter, without a fruitful and cultivated mind,
which probably "the schools" have nothing,
or very little, to do with. The foundation
must be laid in early life—yes indeed even
in the anti-natal stage of our existence, by
her who bears to us the noble name of
MOTHER, and all this is done in such mi-
nute processes that no language could por-
tray, or pen delineate; truly it is the un-
written philosophy of a life! Like the an-
cient Jewish code it is oral, or voice without
sound! O woman! thou little dreamest of
thy power for good, or for evil! Thou main
spring of a world mental, moral and corpo-
real! Molded, and fashioned, and endowed
by thy Father—God! A veil has been over
thy mental vision, and the glory that be-
longs to thee has been hid from thine eyes!
Awake from the weak and frivolous dreams
of many centuries! Awake to the glorious
realities of the present! When the gospel
light is beaming on those who have obeyed
and live to its precepts; and when the rev-
elations of heaven are for us and for our
children!
	Sacred and profane history show us noble
women; from Palestine, from Rome, Greece,
yes, every country has had its model, its
representative women, and they stand as
exemplars to all who live on the earth to-
day! What constitutes greatness? Virtue
and righteousness with all the refinement
they ever bring. Did not the ancient no-
ble women give to their conntry a race of
noble sons? Did they not rear and nurture
them to fill high and commanding stations?
Was not their ambition shown and exem-
plified in those living oracles? Did they
not exhibit their own cultivation by their
self-controlling power, often the perfect ab-
negation of self—and demonstrated they
were worthy and understood the art of
training children for Time and Eternity?
Their pride was shown when like Cornelia
they presented their children before the
vain and frivolous devotee of fashion, hung
in chains of gold and studded with bril-
liants, and in the brief but full-meaning lan-
guage of truth from a mother's heart said
"These are my jewels!" Such a woman
was fit to be the "mother" of the Gracchi,"
the Scipios, the Catos, and others of like
notoriety! I think I may assert without
fear of contradiction, that few men have
ever been truly great unless they had a
mother who sowed the germs of greatness
in their infant minds. Many great men
have borne noble testimony to their moth-
er's training—set her on the highest pinna-
cle they could place her; Napoleon, Lamar-
tine, Bulwer, and a host of such like men
has each exalted his mother as a peeress
among women.
	I do not want to see woman step out of
her sphere—that would be ridiculous—her
sphere is so large she has no need to tran-
scend or get beyond its bounds. Let her not
fear the sarcasms of those who have never
studied the matter, but let her illustrate
Miss Edgeworth's beautiful and expressive
Epitome of a Woman's Mind—or rather
what it should exhibit—"That the tide of
learning had passed over it by its general
fertility." Now let me sing a little, I have
no time for precision.

	Oh! Woman! woman "know thyself,"
		And know thy mission, too—
	Thou camest from thy Maker's hand
		A mighty work to do!

	A ministering angel, thou
		Wert sent to man to be,
	As wife, as sister, and as friend,
		A work devolves on thee!

	The mother of his children be,
		The co-mate of his care,
	In sorrow cheer, in danger rouse
		And save him from despair.

	Thou canst uphold and comfort him,
		In virtue urge him on;
	Thy love should be his rich reward,
		Thy faithfulness, his song.

	In prosperous days his greatest wealth,
		In triumph's joyous hour
	His fairest laurel thou shalt be,
		By Love's almighty power.

	Oh! may our Father, thine and mine,
		Send wisdom from above,
	That we in honor may fulfill
		The mission of His love!
						HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Dec., 1876.


FEMALE DELICACY.

	Above all other features which adorn the
female character, delicacy stands foremost,
within the provisions of good taste. Not
that delicacy which is always in quest of
something to be ashamed of; which makes
merit blush, and simpers at the false con-
struction her ingenuity has placed upon an
innocent remark—this spurious kind of
delicacy is far from good sense—but that
high minded delicacy which maintains its
undeviating walk among women and the
society of men; which shrinks from no nec-
essary duty, and can speak, when required,
with seriousness and kindness of things on
which it would be ashamed to smile or
blush; that delicacy which knows how to
confer a benefit without wounding the feel-
ings of another—which gives alms withont
assumption, and pains not the most suscep-
tible being in creation.


Z. C. M. I. has a most elaborate display of
fancy goods and toys, groceries and confec-
tionary. They have quantities of all these
articles sufficient to supply the demands of
the country merchants. There is every
size and quality of doll, dressed and un-
dressed, from the queen doll—an elegant
wax figure with real golden hair—down to
the tiniest specimen possible. The newest
and rarest articles are John Gilpin on his
horse in his wonderful ride to London, cap-
able of twenty-four different changes, and a
petite gymnast performing on the horizon-
tal bar, going through all the different atti-
tudes and positions when wound up with a
crank.


106		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Nov. 25, was one of special in-
terest to all who are interested in the ad-
vancment and progression of WOMAN.
Counselor E. R. Snow presided, and after
the general exercises she addressed the au-
dience in her able and earnest manner.
She contrasted the position of the sisters
now, with what it was ten years ago, and
expressed her gratitude at the change which
had been effected, and gave much excellent
counsel; her words were "as apples of gold
set in pictures of silver." Counselors Zina
D. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells each expressed their feel-
ings in regard to the labors to be performed
by the sisters, and exhorted all present to
diligence. They also gave their views upon
the Grain Movement and the Woman's
Book. Some other sisters bore similar tes-
timonies. Elder Junius F. Wells then ad-
dressed the sisters for a few minutes. He
related some incidents that had come under
his observation while upon his mission, and
congratulated the sisters upon the superi-
ority of their knowledge, and their favor-
able condition viewed through the under-
standing they have of the Gospel. He bore
a strong testimony to the truth of the Gospel
revealed in this "the last dispensation of
the fulness of times."

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., Nov. 29, 1876.

EDITORS' EXPONENT:

	We held our annual meeting on the 20th
of this month. A good spirit prevailed
among the sisters and all of us are willing
to carry out the counsel of President Young
in regard to storing up grain. We have
commenced already to purchase the staff of
life while we can get it at a low figure.
Bishop Bradley has kindly lent us a gran-
ary to keep the grain in until our good
brethren can build us one. He has also ta-
ken  vote of the brethren that the pro-
ceeds of all the parties during the winter
shall be appropriated for the benefit of our
society; it was unanimously carried. We
as a society desire by the help of our Fath-
er in heaven to exert all our energies to se-
cure the precious grain that will be a tem-
poral salvation to us and our little ones.
Our Savior has said that nation shall rise
against nation, and kingdom against king-
dom; and there shall be famine and pesti-
lence in the last days; also those holding
the priesth[--]d of God in our day, declare
that it is even at our doors: and the time is
near when those who have persecuted us
for righteousness sake will come bending to
our feet, a[-]king us to give them bread that
will preserve life lest they starve with hun-
ger.
	Dear sisters let us be faithful stewards
over what the Lord has put in our hands, and
not give our "children's bread to dogs;"
and if we are "faithful over a few things,
the Lord will make us ruler over many."
	Ever feeling desirous for the welfare of
Zion, and the promotion of truth, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
						JANE BAILEY.

				HILLSDALE, Nov. 15, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Perhaps there would be no harm in tell-
ing you how we are getting along in this
little village as a branch of the Lord's
church, and a few of my thoughts. We
have no Relief Society here yet, but the

[Column 2]
young folks' Mutual Improvement Associ-
ation is alive, and there seems to be a de-
sire for improvement in our midst, and to
march along with the kingdom; yet in my
experience I have seen it necessary that
every individual, before doing any good in
this kingdom, must humble themselves be-
fore their Maker, acknowledge their un-
worthiness without His guidance and help,
and it seems to me that unless we have the
Spirit of Christ to guide us in our thoughts,
words and actions, we are of no more use
than the moth or worm. But if we seek to
imitate His life we will know of His doc-
trine. And may we as sisters seek to be
guided by Him that we may help to bring
about peace, union and love is the prayer
of your Sister &c.,
					JULIA D. WILSON.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

				SALINA, Nov. 24th, 1876.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the privilege of conveying a few
lines to you. It seems presumption in me
to assume to write to a paper, especially the
EXPONENT with its sea of intelligence. I
cannot help but notice the growth of the
sisters intellectually, from reading that pa-
per; it does one good to read it, and I re-
flect, who would do without it, were it pos-
sible to be obtained, or who would deny its
privileges? I feel, this morning, to greatly
rejoice, yea! in the spirit of testimony; this
is what compels me to write. I can bear
testimony that we have a man at the head
of this church (even President Young) who
is inspired by the Holy Ghost and is watch-
ing over this church for good, and gives us
line upon line in the due season thereof.
Now the word has come to the sisters from
our living Head to save the grain, I know
for myself he is dictated by the spirit of
God. He has called upon the Elders for
many years to lay up grain. Have they
obeyed this counsel? They can answer for
themselves I shall not condemn them.
Then sisters, mothers in Israel shall we look
up on this thing lightly and count it but a
puff of wind? O no! we will go at this
work with all our might, mind and strength,
praying God to prosper our labors. There
is a grand speculation in this, which will re-
sult in blessings upon us, our children, and
friends, even those that may be afar off.
We remember our respected Brother Kim-
ball, he said the time would come when a
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold, and I believe it, and many other
prophecies made by him.
	Now sisters, I believe that the time is
nigh at hand, when the Lord will visit His
people, some in blessings, some in scourg-
ings; those who have been wise virgins
and have oil in their lamps will be prepared
to meet the emergencies. Now is the time
to arouse ourselves and awake and trim our
lamps and keep them burning. There is
plenty of oil within our reach, it is flowing
through the land in abundance. If we are
the children of Joseph through the loins of
Ephraim, shan't we then, like our father do
the same work? He laid up grain to save
all Egypt and his father's house.
	The sisters of Selina have already com-
menced the work, and our Bishop has very
kindly offered us a place in the United Or-
der Store-house to store away our grain;
which we have gladly accepted. I see no
need of being discouraged in this matter.
If we are but the despised women of Utah,
we will yet show to the world that we live
in the Gospel light, and will protect our-


selves and not be caught unawares. Where
do the queens and great women of the
world receive revelation from, to prepare
them for the calamities that are coming up-
on the earth?
	Sisters let us be humble, prayerful and
thankful for the things we do enjoy; for
prophets and apostles, and for the privilege
given us, to lay up grain for our temporal
salvation.
		I remain your loving sister,
			CATHERINE FAHY MARTIN.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sauce for Dressing.—Two eggs, one half cup
of sugar, butter the size of an egg, four table-
spoonfuls of boiling water. Flavor with wine or
brandy.
	English Pudding.—One cup of chopped suet,
one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of molasses,
one cup of sweet milk, five cups of flour, one tea-
spoonful of soda. Steam three hours.
	Celery Slaw.—One-half head of cabbage, the
tender part of one bunch of celery, two hard
boiled eggs, all chopped fine, mix with it two tea-
spoonfuls of sugar, two of mustard, one half tea-
spoonful of salt and pepper. Moisten with vine-
gar. 
	To Cook Celery.—The outside leaf stalks of
celery may be utilized, and a very savory dish
made by cutting them in small pieces, and boiling
in salted water until tender. Then turn off the
water and add milk, butter, and flour enough to
form a thick gravy. Serve hot.—Mrs. Rustic. 
	Horse-Radish Sauce for Roast Beef.—Mix
four table spoonfuls of grated horse-radish with
one teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt,
one-half teaspoonful of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of
made mustard. Mix thoroughly. Then, moisten
with sufficient vinegar to give it the consistency
of cream. Add four tablespoonful of thick
cream. Heat (not boil) it, for hot roast beef, and
for cold meat serve the sauce without heating.
	Piccalilli.—In answer to request of "Young
Housekeeper," I send the following recipe: For
one gallon of sliced, green tomatoes, (salted and
drained) take one quart of cider vinegar, one
pound of sugar, one tablespoonful each of mustard,
cloves, and sweet fennel seed. Place all in a por-
celain kettle over the fire, until the tomatoes are
cooked tender; then drain them out, and boil the
syrup down till just enough remains to cover them,
they do not need sealing. Onions may be added
if liked.—Mc.
	Bread Making.—At night take luke-warm wa-
ter, according to the quantity of bread required,
and stir in flour until it is about right for pan-
cakes, then stir in a tea-cup of lively yeast, cover
it and set in a moderately warm place to rise. In
the morning it will be light. Then mix up hard,
kneading it well. Return the bread to the pan
and let it rise, when light mold it down, repeat-
ing this three times. Then make into loaves and
when sufficiently light, bake carefully. Good
dough may be spoiled in the oven, by too hot or
too slack a fire. The molding-down process may
seem like too much trouble, but it is not in prac-
tice. The addition of some warm milk, when the
bread is mixed up hard, makes it whiter and
more tender, but it also dries up sooner. The
season makes some difference about the trouble of
making bread, as in winter it is harder to keep the
sponge of the right temperature. One of the
best bread makers I know, uses a small tin pail
to mix her sponge in and then hangs the pail
from a wire over the stove, which keeps it warm
and makes the rising speedy. In very cold
weather it is best to mix sponge in the morning,
unless one has a house that keeps moderately
warm through the night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		107


HIGHER.

Higher—'tis lisped by the little one
Whose earthly journey is just begun,
While his eager hands are stretched above,
And bright eyes plead with looks of love,

To mamma or to sister dear
To lift him to the window near,
That out his restless eye may look
On bird and sky and running brook.

He's burst the cradle's love-linked chain,
And gained the floor—the baby's plain;
Explores the same, then mounts on high,
And fain would reach the azure sky.

Higher—'tis now the schoolboy's cry,
And comrades are all passed swiftly by;
How wide and fair is the prospect now,
As he gains the mountain's lofty brow.

He can see where the brook flows on, away,
That he loved when a little child at play.
He has climbed far up towards the azure sky,
Where he watched the white clouds sailing by,

And he feels as he stands on this airy height,
And drinks at the fountain sparkling bright,
A joy so pure his soul within,
The monarch would give his crown to win.

Higher—'tis breathed in the midnight hour,
By one of thought from the student's bower;
He would grasp all that science and art can give,
He would win for himself a name to live.

Wisdom and knowledge must yield their store,
And the soul still pants for more, still more;
For higher to soar in the realms of thought,
The loftiest prize most eagerly sought.

Thus spirits immortal can ne'er be at rest,
'Till they hold in their grasp the purest and best,
Until highest they stand in that ransomed band,
And join in the joys of our Fatherland.

Then higher—be ever our watchword and aim,
God and the right let us ever maintain;
Shrink not, nor falter, be fearless and bold,
And press on—it will lead to the City of Gold.

										HOPE.


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITORS EXPONENT:

	I am hardly vain enough to think that
any one else but myself, and perhaps your-
self has noticed how long it is since any of
my scribbles have found their way to your
valuable little paper. But I should most
assuredly have written long enough ago
had not the destroying angel cast his dark
shadow across our happy threshold. But
thank God, through the administrations of
the priesthood, his hand has been lessened
and we are almost free from his presence.
Every one of [--] our little family has felt
his power, and my babe is still quite weak
and low. Excuse me for taking up so much
space in talking of my own affairs; but I felt
it my duty to explain my seeming neglect
of promise.
	In accordance with the promise in my
last letter I will endeavor to give your read-
ers a faint idea of the grandeur and beauty
of the greatest curiosity in U. T., viz., the
Temple in this city.
	Perhaps it would be well to give some
idea of St. George, its surrounding, and its
principal buildings. We will fancy that in
traveling here, we reach Washington about
5 o'clock p. m., where we stop a few mo-
ments to water the thirsty animals and take
a look at the Factory. Then onward we
proceed, riding due west; passing through
Middletown, going over rough, rocky dug-
ways, and sandy bottoms, until about half a
mile of the city; when suddenly wheeling,
we ride directly south for another quarter
of a mile. All this while we have not had
a glimpse of the city, although we have
seen for some moments past the green fields
at the southern end of the valley, with the
Rio Virgin lazily wending its way from
east to west in the center of the fields.

[Column 2]
Thumping over rocks, dragging through
the sand—we see just ahead, a little hill
aronnd which the road winds, then swing
round the little bluff facing directly west
once more, when, Presto! Here you are,
within a few rods of the much talked
of city of St. George. Stop the horses
a moment, and give us time to look at
this beautiful little city; remember we
are at the north-eastern extremity of the
valley, with the settlement directly facing
us.  (In the north is a line of red-sand hills,
terminating at the north-western extremity
of the valley by a picturesque, perpendicu-
lar cliff. There is a pass here, through
which we go to Santa Clara, Pine Valley,
and other adjoining settlements. On the
west is a line of black hills, the duplicate
of which comprises the eastern boundary;
while on the south, the eye is relieved by a
glimpse of blue, old fashioned mountains.
This is quite a small valley, being but two
miles square. The attention is then at-
tracted from these uninteresting hills and
mountains to the fair loveliness of the pure
white Temple, contrasted as it is with the
green foliage of the city, the red sand of
the valley, and the deep blue of the even-
ing sky. One pearly cloud is sailing over-
head, while the evening sun is casting its
farewell beams upon the white dome; we
might fancy, that in the stream of mellow,
golden light, we see angel forms flitting to
and fro from their heavenly dwelling-place,
to this, their Master's House on earth; and
we are almost sure, that, in the calm, still,
evening air, we hear angel voices chanting
praises to Almighty God for His infinite
goodness and mercy.
	We are reminded by the sun dropping
out of sight, behind the black ridge, it is
time to drive into town. We can but no-
tice however, as we pass along, that St.
George is cozily nestled right up against
the red hills, forming the valley boundary
on the north, in fact some houses are creep-
ing up the hills. We are quite tired now,
and fully appreciate the hearty welcome we
are sure to receive from the hospitable
brethren and sisters of this goodly city.
	Next morning, anxious to get a nearer
view of the noble edifice that stirs such
indescribable feelings within the breast.
We are rather surprised to see so substantial
and fine looking buildings "way down in
Dixie." However we spend little time in
speculating on it, but wend our way to the
Temple Block. Riding south on the prin-
cipal street, we pass on the right, the St.
George Hall, Telegraph Office, Co-op Store,
Bakery and Tithing Office; on the corner of
the next block we see the Tabernacle,
which, permit me to say, with the excep-
tion of the Temple, is the finest building
in the Territory. This building together
with the rest of the public buildings in this
little city, are built of red sand-stone and
present a very beautiful appearance. The
tabernacle faces east, and at that end has a
square tower on which rests a tall, graceful
spire; as we look down the street going
west, the sign of one of our old friends,
swinging lazily in the wind, announces that
Dr. A. B. Dunford is following his profess-
ion of Dentistry. On the street looking east,
is the Post Office. Going a little west of
south, there is nothing worthy of special
mention, except perhaps, that the people, as
an almost universal rule, build story and a
half houses, instead of raising them a lit-
tle higher and making them habitable,
which would cost but a trifle more.
	About ten minutes ride finds us on the
open space surrounding the Temple. If we
were charmed with its beauty at night, we
are awed by its grandeur in the day. Un

[Column 3]
der the shadow of its massive walls we feel
a[-] though we are in the presence of some-
thing so holy and sacred that our tongue
represses its utterance. We are incapa-
ble almost of thinking. We can only feel
ourself an atom in the greatness of the
presence that overshadows these walls.
	The main entrance faces east. There are
two, one on each side of the tower. The
steps are made of red sand-stone, each step
being one massive rock. They are wide
and sweeping, and give the building a free,
noble look. The buttresses between each
window, the parapets on top, and the large
tower at the eastern end, add more to the
picturesqueness and grandeur of the build-
ing than can well be imagined. It is built
of red sand stone, (the foundation of black
rock) and is plastered over with a clear
white. It stands on a rising swell in the
center of the valley. The tower is sur-
mounted with an octagon dome. The win-
dows are 12 ft. high on the first floor, above
these are circular windows about 3[-] ft.
square. Still above these are another row
of long windows, the same heighth as the
lower ones, and crowning these, comes an-
other row of circular windows. There are
two main halls 27 ft. high and 99 x 78 ft.
across. On each side of the arching roof
above the main rooms are eight rooms on
each side, 32 rooms in all. The main stair-
ways are in the north-east and south-east
towers and are circular, also several private
stairways connecting the different floors.
There is a cistern under the main tower
which will contain when full, 12,550 gal-
lons of water. There are three square rooms
in the main tower, which are perhaps in-
tended for vestry rooms. The rooms are all
beautifully finished off with plaster of paris
cornices and centre-pieces, (some of the fin-
est work in the western country.) The
whole of the wood work is painted a spot-
less white. The doors in the outer courts,
leading into the separate rooms are chaste
and elegant; no flashy carving, but all fin-
ished off with the nicest skill. Altogether
it has a simple yet grand, quiet but impos-
ing appearance, that is quite in keeping
with the purpose for which it has been de-
signed. Passing out we can but reflect that
it looks like a fair pure bride, almost ready
to receive the crowning presence of her
Lord.
	The feelings that have been awakened in
the heart are too profound for expression;
and we go from the edifice with the holiest
emotions, determined to live a purer, better
life.
	In another letter I will try to give a de-
scription of the famous Johnson Gardens,
and other principal objects of interest here.
	Remembering myself to my friends in
Salt Lake, I will close; ever praying for the
success of the EXPONE[-]T. I am,
			Yours respectfully,
							S. Y. D.


A GENERIC DIFFERENCE.—School girls
out for a walk: 1st schoolgirl—"I am so
tired of walking along by two and two in
this way; it's as bad as the animals that
went into the Ark." 2nd school girl—"It's
worse, for half of them were masculines."
	FOR DOCTORS.—"Massa, can you tell me
de fust ting a doctor does when he goes to
see a sick man?"
	"Why he looks at his tongue, of course."
	"And can a doctor tell what's de matter
wid de man by looking at his tongue?"
	"Of course he can."
	"Den I want a doctor."
	"Are you unwell, sir?"
	"No, but I have got a wagon dat got
someting de matter wid it, and de wagon
is got a tongue.


108		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
[--]MELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. DEC. 15, 1876.


UNITED WE STAND, DIVIDED
				WE FALL.

	If this saying, so oft repeated and so often
verified in many instances which come under
general observation, is applicable to the condi-
tion of the government of the United States at
the present time, then surely it is bound to
fall. It is apparently so equally divided that
the majority cannot be determined upon with-
out introducing some new experimental meas-
ures. Experiments in many cases are in-
jurious and injudicious. In testing govern-
ments, it seems to us they would be peculiarly
so. A government that cannot be maintained
in an emergency in and of itself will scarcely
be improved by new measures.
	The President's Message seems most indiffer-
ently and unsatisfactorily worded, and the re-
ports from different sources, though conflicting,
still lead to one strong conclusion in the minds
of the people, that is, that this stupendous
fabric, the glorious constitution, is about to be
crushed in the great collision of the two politi-
cal parties. Telegrams say South Carolina has
two houses and two governors. Is the United
States to have two houses and two Presidents?
If they could only look consistently at the
final result of such immoderate language as
they are using towards each other, they could
see how it would stir up strife, and strife wag-
eth war.
	"The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the
children's teeth are set on edge;" this applies
admirably to the present national condition;
they have gone on corrupting public offices,
trespassing upon the peoples rights, commit-
ting governmental frauds, until it is no longer
bearable, and each party wants to implicate
the other, and as in thousands of other cases so
in this, one story is good till the other is told,
and when you hear both sides you wonder how
Congress and the House of Representatives
have sustained their position at all on such
hypocritical and unsubstantial BASING. In
contemplation of the present and future it be-
hooves the Latter-day Saints to look well to
themselves, and put their trust in the arm
that is powerful to save, and if in any possible
way they can avoid being party to any of the
schemes for ruining and overthrowing the
government, then are they favored of the Lord,
for surely the Lord has said judgments will
come, but wo unto him by whom they come.
"Let him laugh who wins," the saints can af-
ford to wait, and in the intervals of peace and
plenty prepare wisely for the day of trouble
and scarcity. Seek diligently unto the Lord
to be taught in His ways lest any be led astray
and partake of the plagues and scourges pro-
nounced upon the ungodly.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


WOMEN'S COMMISSION HOUSE.

	This house established recently upon a self-
sustaining principle, without capital, for the
sale of home products and manufactures, thus
giving encouragement and further promoting
facilities for home industries, ought to receive
the patronage of every person who has the
best interests of Zion at heart. It is one of
the noblest schemes ever devised and those who
are laboring so diligently to establish it should
receive the most hearty commendation. It is
an enterprise which will be the nucleus of a
great culminating system of financiering with-
in the Territory. Many hands make labor
light, and union is strength. Then let the wo-
men of Utah prove to the world by their unit-
ed co-operation in this and other matters that
they are equal to any enterprise they may un-
dertake.
	The Woman's Store recently received a beau-
tiful assortment of artificial flowers suitable
for hats, bonnets, head dresses caps etc. The
patronage of the ladies of Utah and their in-
fluence is solicited for the Woman's Commis-
sion House. Ladies please call and examine,
see what Utah is capable of producing at home.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CHRISTMAS IS coming, and in anticipation of
its arrival the indefatigable Mr. James Dwyer,
whose efforts to cater to the tastes of the citi-
zens and children of Salt Lake City, have
hitherto been so eminently successful, has open-
ed his holiday stock of goods making the most
brilliant and elaborate display of his style of
goods which has ever been made in this city,
in honor probably of the Centennial Christ-
mas of America. On the evening of the open-
ing Dec. 11, the store and side-walk in front of
it were crowded so that it was almost impossi-
ble to obtain egrees. He has a full stock of all
the standard poets, novelists and historians,
and works upon science and art. He has also
many choice works upon all subjects, and a
full supply of the school books now in use;
every variety of paper pencils etc. Russian
leather goods of all descriptions and beautiful
designs. Perforated card board with or with-
out stamping. Ladies' fine cutlery, elegant
card cases, writing desks and work-boxes of
nearly every variety from the most elegant,
down to the plainest workmanship. In short,
he has got in his assortment any and every
article of fancy goods suitable for Holiday
gifts. Go and examine for yourself and you
will be sure to find something suited to your
taste and resources.


OBITUARY.

	The many friends of Sister CAROLINE
AUGUSTA JACKSON, of St. George, will be
pained to hear of her death, which occurred at
half past seven o'clock on the morning of the
7th inst., in that city, of pneumonia.
	Sister Jackson was born at Hampton, N. H,
and was aged 50 years, 4 months, and 23 days.
She embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ at the
age of 17 years, leaving her father's house as
the cost, and in February 1864, embarked upon
the ship Brooklyn, with her husband and in-
fant daughter, arriving in California six
months later, to endure the terrors of war and
famine for many months. Enriched by the
gold discovery she gave liberally to the poor,
and kept for twenty years open house for the
traveling Elders of the Church. She collected
sixty children made orphans by cholera, and
bore their entire expenses for six months,


meanwhile exerting her influence successfully
toward the foundation of the still existing
Protestant Orphan Asylum in San Francisco,
and was one of the first board of managers."
	During Buchanan's administration, Col.
(then), Thomas Kane passed through San Ber-
nardino, Gal., and was searched for by a mob
who divined him and his mission; she render-
ed him such service that he ever after held her
in devoted remembrance, and when, four win-
ters ago he met herself and husband in St.
George, his tears, rather than his words, ex-
pressed his emotions.
	The evening before he left St. George, he
called late to bid her good-bye. She went with
him to the door; the night was dark, windy,
and raining. She gave him her shawl, which
he wrapped around him: Extending his hand,
he said, "this night is like the political horizon.
Stay you in camp, eat roast beef and rest; I
will go in the storm, and stand on picket guard
for you" Good-bye, thrice repeated, and he
was gone into the dark night.
	After her arrival in Utah she settled in St.
George, and was the first Treasurer of the St.
George Relief Society, and afterward appoint-
ed Secretary. She was an agent for the EX-
PONENT in that city.
	Her name had been mentioned as one of the
sisters to labor in that Temple, and she had
extended the offer of a home to certain of the
brethren called to labor in the Temple. Her
last work was the writing of her testimony for
The Woman's Book; after which she went to
the gate with a friend, receiving a cold which
ended her life one week after, passing away in
sleep, and without pain.—COM.


TOOELE CITY, NOV. 10, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We the sisters of Tooele would like to repre-
sent ourselves in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. I
can say that peace health and prosperity pre-
vail, for which we are thankful to our heaven-
ly Father. We meet in the new meeting
house every two weeks, where we enjoy the
society of one another and get our spiritual
strength renewed. We hope soon to have our
new hall finished, it is progressing slowly; we
want to get it covered in as soon as possible so
that we can give parties in it this winter in or-
der to raise means to help defray the expenses.
Our President, Sister Micklejohn is most un-
tiring and energetic in her labors and has the
full confidence and love of all the sisters. The
spirit and blessing of our heavenly Father is
with us. Our new hall is for a Library and
Reading Room and one room is expressly for
the Relief Society. Sister Delamare and my-
self raised a few silk worms this summer for a
beginning in Tooele, and hope that this will not
be the last of it, as there are plenty of mulberry
trees here and plenty of little girls that could
lend a helping hand. We had a very pleasant
visit from Sister Howard two weeks ago at the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Meeting. She
gave some very valuable instructions to the
young ladies; but was very sorry to see so few
in attendance. We highly prize the EXPO-
NENT for it is full of the purest gems of light
and love; we get a feast when it comes. I am
thankful that I am numbered among the Lat-
ter-day Saints, and it is my humble prayer that
we may all endure faithful to the end.
	I remain your sister, etc,
							ANN TATE.


SERICULTURE.

	Minutes of a special meeting of the D. B. As-
sociation, held in the Fireman's Hall, Dec. 7,
Mrs. Barney presiding. Mr. P. A. Schettler


felt proud of our success the past season. He
exhibited some fine specimens of silk that had
been reeled in Logan, which went to show
that those interested in this branch of home-
industry are making rapid progress. He stat-
ed that this season from the small expense of
forty-five dollars for the raising of the cocoons,
he received a profit of eighty dollars, receiving
two dollars per pound for cocoons; and that
amount of cocoons when reeled into raw silk
would bring a net profit of one hundred and
twenty dollars, paying at the rate of three dol-
lars a pound for reeling. Some samples of silk
had been sent to Patterson, New Jersey, and
other places, and an answer received that it
was worth twelve dollars per pound, which
was very encouraging to the society and ought
to give us more courage another year; those
wishing to secure mulberry cuttings should get
them now and keep them in the cellar until
the frost is out of the ground next spring, and
then set them out.
	Mrs. Barney said that the prospects of our
home industries were brightening and espec-
ially that of silk, and this association hoped
that all those who might have felt discouraged
by not finding a market for their cocoons,
would take new courage as we could now reel
our silk at home, and get a remunerative price
for it. All of our farmers [-]hould set out mul-
berry trees next spring. By doing so they
would be helping one of the home industries
that ere long will rank among the best, and be
enriching themselves and the community,
by keeping hundreds of dollars at home which
is now sent out of the Territory every year.
	The meeting was addressed by others and
all felt encouraged.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in January, 1877, at the Firemen's Hall.
				R. SIMPSON, SECRETARY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		109


[Column 1]
	NOTES FROM A CORRESPONDENT.

	You asked me in your last, to give you all
the political information I could. Now the
political matters of this nation are one stupend-
ous fraud from beginning to end; but as this
does not preclude the possibility of telling the
truth about it, I will endeavor to respond to
the requirement as far as my natural abil-
ities will permit. But, to come to the point,
there is one thing which has come under my
notice while here, whether it will bear a polit-
ical construction or not I leave you to judge.
One thing certain though, political and legis-
lative tyranny is the cause. The matter to
which I allude is the hard times now so preva-
lent throughout the country, and which, poor
people are deluded into the belief will change.
Aunt Em, the "good time coming" to this na-
tion as a body, is a myth and delusion which
the rich and proud are in the habit of using to
beguile the minds of the poor and hard-work-
ing classes while they bind their oppressive
chains the tighter.
	The state of affairs in this region, at the
present time is the state of affairs throughout
the United States. Corruption and tyranny
are the characteristics of those who are in
power, poverty and misery those of the work-
ing classes.
	The branches of industry, the more remuner-
ative ones, are in the hands of, and con-
trolled by a few rich men who beside this are
the members of the legislature; and they in-
stead of working for the good of the people at
large are banded together for self and use the
power placed in their hands, for the purpose of
robbing the poor and enriching themselves.
It might be said that the whole state itself,

[Column 2]
is owned by these few; for not only can
they control the capital of the country, but
even the lives liberties and consciences of her
citizens.
	As an instance. Among the branches of in-
dustry here, coal mining is the most im-
portant; especially in the place where I now
am is this the case, and the companies who
work the mines also own or control the rail-
roads.
	In the adjoining large cities, large store
houses are built and constantly supplied with
coal, as the demand increases or diminishes.
While the demand is equal to the supply all
goes well, the rich man pockets his dividend,
and the poor miner can support his family.
But should the state of the market change,
and the coal on hand begin to accumulate
while the owners dividend decreases corres-
pondingly, the order is given, the owners shut
down, discharge their hands who depend on
the employment for their daily bread, and the
coal houses and yards, or rather the superin-
tendents advance their prices till they pay the
same dividend, 10 per cent. for coal is always
in demand to some degree; thus you see,
while the rich man loses nothing by the
change, the poor man is in danger of starva-
cion. And not only this, but when they can-
not keep their own increase up to the estab-
lished line, they lower the wages of their em-
ployees, or let them lay idle half the time.
All this time provisions are as high as ever,
wages may lower, but provisions are the same
or higher. And the worst is this, that it is the
poor man's fault. They dare not vote for other
men than those who employ them, they would
be discharged, and thus this system of coer-
tion is the means of placing these tyrants in
power, while the laboring classes, not being
united, forge the very chains they are groan-
ing under. If the superintendent of a mine
votes for Hayes and Wheeler, or vice versa,
his employees dare not do otherwise; their
bread and butter are at stake and they submit
to having their liberties stripped from them,
their consciences violated by being obliged to
uphold men whom they fear and despise, and
their rights trampled on by the laws of a coun-
try which boasts of freedom and equal rights
to all.
	Who can view this picture without disgust-
Does it not foreshadow something terrible?
We can but come to this conclusion, the hand
of Almighty God is on this nation, and the
day of their destruction, which has been pre-
dicted by the holy prophets is close at hand.
They are nearly ripe in iniquity, and the
wrath of the Almighty is but staid, in mercy,
to give them a chance to repent.
	Woe betide those who harden their hearts
against the truth, for the edict has gone forth
and the Lord has spoken.
	Good honest men as rulers make "good
times." This country cannot boast of either
at this time.


THE BLESSINGS OF RETRENCH-
		MENT ASSOCIATIONS.

	In the first place we never realized our
positions or mission on the earth until these
institutions were brought forth by the in-
spiration of heaven. Can we imagine what
would have been the condition of the
Daughters of Zion to-day had not the Lord
in His mercy conferred this blessing upon
on us. It certainly could not have been as
favorable as it is. Many can look back to
their first associations in these societies as
to the dawning of a new and happier life,


because of having become acquainted with
their heavenly Father, and the principles
of the holy gospel which bringeth joy and
and peace that the world can neither give
nor take away. A continual growth in the
things of God can be observed in those who
have been faithful to their duties in these
societies from the first. They have learned
to govern self, and have to a great degree
gained power over the evil propensities of
their nature, and temptations of daily life,
have learned to seek the good of their fel-
low creatures, and have proven that their
greatest happiness consists in ministering
to the comforts of others. We have learn-
ed that heaven must be begun at home, that
if we ever truly enjoy a heaven, we must
exert all our powers to assist in making it
ourselves, and help establish the principles
of truth and righteousness upon the earth,
that there may be a people prepared for the
second coming of the Lord and Savior
when He comes to take vengeance upon
the wicked and all who know him not.
We can also comprehend something o[-]
that charity of which Paul speaks, "which
suffereth long and is kind, thinketh no evil,
is not easily provoked, hopeth all things,
endureth all things," to make the allowance
for our fellowbeings that we desire they
and the Lord should make for us; consid-
ering that when we have striven to our ut-
most we are yet unprofitable servants. We
are taught to keep the Spirit of God
continually with us, to purify our every
thought and feeling, that we may have
claim upon the blessings of the Lord. In
fine, the instructions we receive include
everything that is pure, noble and exalting,
and are calculated to make those who ac-
cept them and carry them out in their lives
great and mighty women in the kingdom
of God, and finally exalt them in His pres-
ence. Then should we not be grateful for
this boon? Yes, we should give thanks daily
to our Father, and prove our appreciation
of this blessing by being faithful to all the
covenants we have made, carrying out in
our lives every commandment that is given
through the servants of God, being willing
that ourselves and all we possess shall be
used for the [-]urtherance of His righteous
purposes, "For what doth it profit a man if
a gift is bestowed upon him and he receiv-
eth not the gift, Behold he rejoiceth not in
that which is given him, neither rejoiceth
in Him who is the Giver of the gift." [Doc-
trine and Covenants, p. 99.] Dear sisters,
let us receive and rejoice in the opportuni-
ties given us through the Retrenchment
Associations, which will, if improved, bring
u[-] knowledge and happiness both here and
hereafter.
							MARY A. E. [handwritten] [---]
	S. L. City, Oct. 18, 1876.


Spanish Cream.—One half box of gelatine, one
quart of milk, four eggs, beaten separately, one
cup of sugar. Take a small quantity of the milk
to soak the gelatine, put on the back of the stove.
Let the remainder of the milk boil. Mix the
yolks and sugar together and stir quickly into the
scalding milk, let boil about a minute, then take off
and stir in the soaked gelatine, put aside for fif-
teen or twenty minutes, then stir in the whites of
the eggs, by the spoonful, slowly and thoroughly,
and flavor to taste with vanilla. Dip your molds
in cold water and pour in the cream to cool.


Lemon Jelly.—Take one package of gelatine,
add one pint of cold water, juice of six lemons;
let them stand one hour, then add one pint of boil-
ing water, two lbs. of white crust sugar, strain and
cool.


110		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BELIEF AND UNBELIEF IN GOD.

	READ BEFORE THE WASATCH LIT-
			ERARY ASSOCIATION.

	This may seem a peculiar theme for one
of so little experience as myself to com-
ment upon, yet in consideration of my in-
terest upon the subject it is not at all inap-
propriate.
	I find there are many whose minds ought
to be firmly established on this matter, who
waver, and doubt, and query and wonder
and do everything almost, except humble
themselves and ask help from a divine
source; even this it will be said requires
some faith in God to do, and this belief it
will be averred, is not strong enough in the
heart to warrant it. Then there is something
serious the matter; for every intelligent
person is born with inherent principles of
reverence for a Supreme Being, unless they
are heathen who worship idols, or perhaps
in rare instances the children of ungodly
parents.
	In this kingdom we are all taught from our
earliest childhood to believe in God, and it is
something which we should cultivate and
retain after we arrive at years of discretion,
instead of encouraging doubt and uncer-
tainty upon the subject, and arguing to find
out whether we really are believers or not.
	The great end and aim of life (very gen-
erally conceded) is the pursuit of happiness;
the whole world will tell you there is neith-
er perfect rest nor happiness upon this earth
in its present condition.
	Then shall we admit we are pursuing a
phantom which eludes us when seemingly
within our grasp, or shall we so harmonize
ourselves with our individual being and
surroundings as to be able to bear all things
philosophically, looking forward to that hap-
piness in the eternal, which shall more than
compensate us for endurance of trials here.
	The Author of our existence would not
leave His children without a law, when He
has so firmly fixed the laws and order of all
inanimate things, so that they fulfill the
laws of their creation and bring forth in
due season and keep their appointed times.
Judging from nature as we term it, we may
draw this conclusion, that a God who would
so carefully devise and plan the workings
of the most minute specimen of that which
possesses not an immortal gem, would by
His care for that which must exist forever,
devise the most perfect laws by which they
may through their own agency attain the
highest degree of glory and everlasting
happiness. Perhaps you will say I have
taken the ground that there is a God with-
out proving it. I grant you so much, for
there is a testimony of His existence dwell-
ing within me which it shall be my first
duty to retain. This very witness, or faith
which I have in His existence, aids me in
contemplating His purposes, in understand-
ing some little of His laws and the princi-
ples laid down for those to follow, who
would be like unto Him and arrive to that
perfection which should, in my opinion, be
our highest emulation. I can see no beauty,
no happiness, no merit of any sort in unbe-
lief; consequently, to my mind the very
idea tends downward.
	There are so many ills and crosses in life,
so many disappointments, so much that is
disagreeable and unpleasant to be borne,
that one needs all the stimulus of the no-
blest qualities and highest aims to pass
through life unscathed. There are beset-
ments on over hand to draw aside the un-
wary, and tempt them from the paths of
rectitude and honor; and human nature is
weak and prone to err; therefore there is

[Column 2]
need of some strong support and where
does it lie? Can we find balm in Gilead?
Is there perfect trust in any source except
our faith in God? I think not. Death may
snatch from us the nearest and dearest treas-
ures, those in whom we place the most im-
plicit confidence often prove false to us in
our greatest need, our hearts misgive us,
feeling our weakness and insufficiency, and
unless we have faith in God we are liable to
fall at any moment.
	Therefore my friends and companions,
you whose welfare here and hereafter is
dear to me (and I trust, to one another,) let
me entreat you not to allow yourselves to
get into darkness and unbelief, lest in an evil
hour the Holy Spirit which has been given
to all who have obeyed the Gospel, should
be grieved away and you be left to wrestle
with temptations, alone, unaided by Him
who has said "His spirit will not always
strive with man."
	The pathway of duty is the safest road
to happiness, and we owe a duty to our
parents which we can never repay if we
grieve them through unbelief. This should
make us cautious in acccepting any other
principles unless we could feel assured with-
in ourselves that we should through those
principles become capable of doing a great-
er amount of real good.
	I know it is customary to talk of being
led blindly, and having no knowledge for
one's self, but what sound reasoning is there
for the sceptic? Is not that all uncertainty
and doubt? And supposing even one actu-
ally reasons one's self out of the belief in
God what comfort or satisfaction is afforded
by it or what benefit is it to mankind?
	On the other hand the consciousness of
the hope one has in the justice and mercy
of an alwise Father and His constant watch-
care and guidance which will not allow
even a sparrow to fall to the ground with-
out His notice, is always under, all circum-
stances of however painful, or distressing a
nature, a solace and panacea which affords
more real consolation than all other things
without it.
	Too much controversy stupefies us, and
we may be overwhelmed with a confused
jumble of sophisms and truths and be so
perplexed thereby as to distrust everybody,
which would be the most dangerous state of
the human mind. We who live in the
days of Gospel light, whose parents have
sought so faithfully to train us up in the
nurture and and admonition of the Lord,
cannot afford to wander after the doctrines
and theories of men and forsake the Lord
and His ways. Therefore we should seek
to retain the Holy Spirit, the Comforter,
whom Jesus said He would send to guide
us into all truth.
							[-] M.
		[handwritten] Emma Wells
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 6, 1876.


For the EXPONENT.
				WOMAN.

	How few there are who realize that every
thought, word or deed go to make up their
general appearance and true character, and
leave their inevitable mark upon their face
as well as help clothe the soul in light
which is from God, or darkness which only
comes from a depraved condition of the
heart.
	How few there are that can conceive the 
good or evil that may come from even se-
cret thoughts the influence of which are as
lasting as time, and may be as boundless as
eternity. She that thinks, talks and acts
nobly, she that strives to live up to her

[Column 2]
high privilege, she who is truly what God
made her, a Woman, is one of the greatest
works of the Creator, a blessing to all both
high and low; her influence for good is as
boundless as the sun's light, and her power
is something wonderful. Look at a true
woman as wife, mother, or sister, and say
who or what can bound her influence, or
who can weigh her power, for though she
rules with love, which is God-like, yet her
love is more powerful than the sword or all
the engines of death combined. When in
her presence we feel her hallowed influence,
and though we may but look upon her, we
go away feeling truly blessed that we have
been permitted to receive of that wealth of
loveliness which can only come from a pure
fount, and we in a measure impart to oth-
ers the sweet influence which lingers with
us, blessing those with whom we associate.
Why woman should be called "the weaker
sex" I know not, unless it be her deep and
pure love which gives her the lasting faith
(of which men so frequently take the ad-
vantage) for she being pure thinketh no
evii, until her eyes are opened to see that
she like "Another Eve" has been deceived
by Satan appearing in form of man instead
of a serpent, and when once deceived she is
often left like the vine torn by ruthless
hands, dragged from its lofty place upon the
branches of the towering oak where it has
climbed to bask in the warm sunlight, to
the ground from whence no one cau[-]re-
place it, or even tries to lift it up, and is left
to be trampled under foot and die[---] Thus is
woman when betrayed and left with no one
but God to pity or see that a soul is lost or
saved, and though she lies far beneath the
sphere for which she was made, like the
flower that in being crushed imparts its
rich perfume even under the foot of its de-
stroyer, her soul ofttimes goes out in earnest
prayer in behalf of him who has brought
her low—he whom once she loved as only
woman can love.
	But what is woman to man? To some
she is only a toy to be put aside when tired
of; to others she is a gay butterfly whose
colors they admire, to another she is but an
object or convenience to keep his home in
order and attend to his every care and
want; to some she is a pretty thing as is a
favorite horse or dog, for her sweet face or
form which others admire, he is proud to
say she is his wife, and to the man who can
appreciate her, woman is what vegetation
is to the earth, what the sun is to the flow-
er, what the rose is to the thorny bush,
what the diamond is to the gold in which it
is set, or what the sight is to the eye. She
is what God intended her to be, a part of
his very life, that abundantly enters into all
that is good in him, bearing an impression
for both time and eternity.
	The chords of her pure love twine around
his heart and bring out his noble manhood,
raising his aspirations to things that are
great and good, and when he is about to
faint or fall, she in her rich wealth of good-
ness imparts to him of her strength of soul
by her helping hand, encouraging words,
good counsel, or by but a look from the
love-lit eyes, (which appear to him the win-
dows of heaven) and he is encouraged to
make a greater struggle, strengthened by
the aid of her noble nature, and perchance
attains the goal which may be his salva-
tion.
	A man's name, often goes forth as one of
tne great and honorable men of his age, by
the help given him through woman's influ-
ence; or if he stands among men as does the
giant of the forest among its smaller neigh-
bors, and by storms of adversity is felled to
the ground, [---] like the v[--]e which still


clings to the trunk of the great tree, bud-
ding and putting forth its bright foliage,
making it if possible, more beautiful than
when standing, honors him by placing
around his name the laurels he has won.
	The picture is not too highly colored,
and though all may not be able to attain
greatness here, yet their good works are
none the less important.
	How many there are whose whole life
seems to be composed of beautiful thoughts,
words and deeds; whose souls so expand
with charity that they take  in the whole
world with their love for God and His crea-
tures, forgetful of self are ever able to help
in some way all who are brought within
their godlike influence, until their whole
being is one great song of praise to the
Creator and blessings to their fellow man,
and it may truly be said of such a woman
"a thing of beauty is a joy forever."
	R.
S. L. City, Dec. 5th, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SOMETHING ABOUT HOLIDAYS.

	Little children always expect something
new and pleasant at Christmas time. I rec-
ollect perfectly when I was a little girl how
I used to tease my mother and big sisters
and everybody else, even grandpa, to tell
me stories and sing me songs about fai-
ries and all sorts of funny things, including
Santa Claus and his wonderful maneuver-
ing. I always like to interest myself in the
children. I know that the time we bestow
upon them is not wasted time, if we are in-
culcating in their young and tender minds
such germs as shall expand and grow into
principles of truth, and knowledge of right
and wrong. Mothers do not grudge the
time you bestow in preparing surprises for
the little folks. How beautifully nature has
ornamented the city for the advent of our
yearly holiday. Can any lover of the pic-
turesque fail to admire the tasteful and
graceful ornamenting of the trees, shrub-
bery, and crystal glass? All these furnish the
most delightful winter landscape in the val-
ley, and looking afar to the tops of the ma-
jestic mountains, how sublimely grand their
hoary tops tower above us like the "ever-
lasting hills." It seems as though the king
and queen of fairyland had been decorating
the city and all its surroundings for the me-
morial of the birth of the blessed Redeem-
er, leaving only the work of preparing our
own dwellings and a sanctuary in our hearts
fit to cherish His love and His life. If we
would imitate Him whose birth we Christ-
mas-day commemorate, we must be full of
charity and loving kindness, doing good
deeds, be they in ever so simple a way.
	Let no frowns be upon the little faces,
but smiles and joyous words, songs full of 
praise and rejoicing for all the manifold
blessings given us here. Cheer every one
around you with the gladness of your happy
childhood; if yon have not the very gift
you longed for, be grateful for that which
you have, and think how many little chil-
dren there are in the world who would be
glad to have even a comfortable home and
warm fireside, and if you know any who
are not as well provided for as you are,
any little orphans, or lonely; sorrowful ones,
let it be your first errand to share with
them your own gifts, and see if it does not
prove the truth of the Savior's words, "It
is more blessed to give than to receive."
When I was a little girl we used to deco-
rate our homes with evergreens and all the
varieties of scarlet berries, which abound
profusely in the New England woods, but
in this new country we have not yet all

[Column 2]
the varieties of winter vines and shrubs,
but all in good time; we have many things
we can beautify our homes with, and every
year prosperity increases in these vaileys,
and if we can teach our little children to
be grateful to the Giver of all blessings the
time will come when no good thing will be
withheld. The city in its frosty adorning
reminds us of the land of enchantment; and
is most peculiarly adaptable to the season of
holiday enjoyment.
	There are many pleasant games for indoors
suitable for the children which we hope
they will appreciate with merry laughter,
glad voices and happy hearts. Think of all
your sweetest songs to sing on the anniver-
sary of that blessed morning when Jesus
was born in Bethlehem, and let the merry
Christmas welcome spring from the depths
of your joyous hearts, to usher in the first
glad morning of the winter holidays. Do
not let one frown on your face darken the
light of your home, but laugh, and shout, and
sing merrily. And do not forget the poor,
nor the sick, nor even the dumb animals,
feed and pet them—your dogs and cats, or
your little canaries, and throw out plenty
of crumbs for the little snowbirds, and love
every creature God has made, for He pro-
nounced them all good. Remember "A
Merry Christmas" to all, and if you like to
hear from me, you shall have another letter
for the glad New Year.
	Perhaps some of my little readers who
are very fond of humorous and funny things,
will think my style too dull and tame for
such a jolly time of year, but I will tell
them that while I was hurriedly jotting
these few items, I was busy performing an-
other part in a drama, so new that even the
import of it is scarcely discernible to those
who have been chosen to take the most
prominent parts. Shall I tell my young
friends that one of the good sisters, who la-
bors for Zion, and myself were looking after
the hauling and storing away of grain, and
while we waited around the platform and
walked up and down, back and forth, to at-
tend to that business, I was writing this ar-
ticle, so you see while I was writing for you
little folks; I was laying up grain in case of
future emergency, lest any dear little ones
like you should ever suffer for bread.
	Hang up your stockings and see what
"Santa Claus" will bring this Centennial
Christmas; of course he is wild with delight
like all the great people, and he will show
it by his extravagance, else he would not
be a fair specimen of the type of his class—
the fun-loving, holiday-making, alms-giv-
ing, jolly-eating, precious good fellows, who
shower down their treasures through the
chimney, or jump in through the cracks and
crevices as soon as every-body sleeps.
							AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Dec. 13, 1876.


[COLUMN 1]

SURPLUS WOMEN.

AND WHAT THEY ARE TO DO.

	Bessie Bramble, in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," discourses on the "Surplus Woman"
question after the following fashion, taking
for her text the announcement in that jour-
nal that there are in Great Britain 900 000
women in excess of men:
	900,000! Gracious goodness! Just im-
agine 900,000 slim, stiff, staid, starched old
maids, and no fault of theirs; 900,000 maid-
en aunts more or less "fussy;" 900,000 wo-
men, who by a mysterious dispensation of
Providence are unprovided with husbands
to "support them;" 900,000 ivies without
any oaks to twine on; 900,000 "lone roses

[COLUMN 2]

to pine on the stem"; 900,000 Juliets with
"nary" a Romeo; 900,000 "weaker vessels"
and nobody to lean on; 900,000 "social fail-
ures," as Sir Henry James calls them; 900,
000 women out of their heaven ordained
sphere; not from choice, perhaps, but be-
cause they cannot get in; 900,000 women
who cannot ask their husbands at home,
when they want to know anything, as St.
Paul teaches; 900,000 women who must
"hoe their own row;" 900,000 women who
stand no chance of being harassed and wor-
ried out of their lives by good-for-nothing,
mean men, and finally, to be brief, 900,000
women in Great Britain, alone, left "out in
the cold," although the wise men tell us
that God and Nature have ordained that
woman's "true sphere" is home and house-
work with a husband to "support her."
With this the most of women are, doubt-
less, disposed to agree, but what can be
done about 900,000 exceptions to the rule?
	Carl Schurz tells us that women should
be educated for wives and mothers, and all
education for girls should tend to husbands
and housekeeping. This would be all very
well, perhaps, if the supply of husbands
would "hold out," but statistics tell us there
are over 900,000 surplus women in Great
Britain, and over 30,000 in the State of
Massachusetts alone, and heaven only knows
how many elsewhere.
	Now in view of this tremendous fact, we
call upon the philosophers and learned men,
who profess to know all about the chief
end of women, to explain what is to be done
with these surplus women who are fixed, by
fate, out of their true sphere?	Oh, but the education of women should
tend to "husbands and housekeeping," says
Mr. Schurz; but he doesn't tell where the
husbands are to come from, or where wo-
men are to get the houses to keep or the
money to keep them, and housekeeping is
not a business that pays, as every woman
knows. Now if Parliament, in lieu of hus-
bands, would furnish each of these 900,000
surplus women with a house to keep and an
adequate income, we have no doubt the
most of them would be content—even with-
out a husband—to go on keeping house to
the end of the chapter, and would show no
disposition whatever to crowd their way in-
to the businesses that pay. But as long as
these women have to make their own
money or starve, they will reach out, just as
men do for whatever will pay best.
	A woman who has discovered that she
can make three thousand a year and keep a
carriage, as a doctor, is not to be scared
back into the kitchen for board and clothes;
if she should find, by dint of pluck and per-
severance, that soft seats were not reserved
for men alone, it is not likely she will dig
and delve in the depths of drudgery, for
five dollars a week; if she should discover
that fat fees followed fine ability and full
knowledge of the law and gospel, without
regard to sex, it is hardly probable she will
sew shirts for a shilling a piece or darn
stockings for nothing. The philosophers
and wise men may talk till all is blue about
woman's true sphere, but as long as hun-
dreds of thousands of women are com-
pelled to shift for themselves, they will do
what they best can for the best pay, sphere
or no sphere. The time is gone by when
they can be hooted away from the profess-
ions or the trades, because to enter these
will, as men say, unsex them.
	Mrs. Swisshelm says, "The philosophers
seem to know that hard work never unsex-
es a woman, only wages can do that." A
woman may toil like a beast of burden, as
in Germany; she may work in the harvest
field all day and do the house work at


night, as in Pennsylvania; she may work
eighteen hours out of the twenty-four any-
where, but there is no flurry about her be-
ing unsexed until she reaches for the same
wages as man in the capacity of a doctor, a
lawyer, a preacher or a legislator. Ay,
there's the rub
	That's where the howl comes in! But
women who have to take care of them-
selves are learning to disregard howling.
Experience teaches them, as it does men,
that they must strike out for themselves or
go to the bottom. They soon find that
while it is very pretty and poetical to con-
sider woman an angel and man as her pro-
tector, yet when the question comes down
in plain prose, to the "bottom facts," of
bread and butter, they must look out for
"number one." And when a brave, true-
hearted, high-spirited woman makes up her
mind to take the bull of public opinion by
the horns, ten chances to one she wins.—
The Golden Dawn.
	We do not believe there are any surplus
women; there is not one too many in all
the world. It is only the consequence of
man-made laws and misconstructed gov-
ernments. The writer calls upon philoso-
phers and learned men to explain what is to
be done with these surplus women, who are
fixed by fate out of their true sphere. We
will give her some ideas upon the subject in
our next issue of the EXPONENT, as it was
crowded out of this.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Headache From Eye strain.—Dr. Weir Mitch
ell, in the American Journal of Medical Sciences
observes that few but opthalmic surgeons are
aware of the need of interrogating the eye for an-
swers to some of the hard questions which are put
to us by certain head symptoms; and he wishes to
impress upon the profession: (1.) That there are
many headaches which are due indirectly to disor-
ders of the refractive or accommodative apparatus-
of the eyes. (2.) That in these instances the
brain symptom is often the most, and sometimes
the sole, prominent symptom of the eye trouble,
so while there may be no pain or sense of fatigue
in the eye, the strain with which it is used may
be interpreted solely by occipital or frontal head-
ache. (3.) That the long continuance of eye trouble
may be the unsuspected source of insomnia, verti-
go, nausea, and general failure of health. (4.)
That in many cases the eye trouble becomes sud-
denly mischievous, owing to some failure of the
general health, or to increased sensitiveness of the
brain from moral or mental causes. Several illus-
trative cases are given, and the moral is: Be
careful not to strain your eyes.


On the evening of Dec. 5, the most tragi-
cal event ever known to transpire in any
theatre took place in Brooklyn, at the Brook-
lyn Theatre. The last act in the play of
"The Two Orphans" was being enacted,
when an alarm of fire was given from be-
hind the stage. The wildest confusion pre-
vailed immediately, and nearly three hun-
dred persons were burned and crushed to
death.


Fannie—"Why, Susie, what a queer
way of doing your hair—just like a snail."
"Well, my dear, I don't think any one can
call that a 'fast' headdress."


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1877	No. 15


For the EXPONENT.
THE NEW ERA.

	Now, with the dawning of the glad new year,
Comes thoughts of other days and mem'ries dear
How thrillingly the finer senses glow
As retrospective visions come and go:
And lo! we grasp the shadow's quiv'ring ray,
And blend it with the REAL of to-day.

And once again, we wander as of old
'Mid scenes which radiant fancies now unfold,
Where loving friends around the cottage hearth
With song and jest pour forth their joy and mirth:
We summon to our thoughts the friends we knew
And linger fondly o'er the good and true.

Oh! hush the throbbings of the pent up heart!
Why will the tears of long-gone sorrows start?
Banish the griefs—put miseries aside—
Let joy replete in merry measure glide—
Yet, pause! methinks I hear the people say,
Another era has begun to-day,

And those who see a few more years go by
Will know Messiah's coming draweth nigh.
E'en now the signs of judgments in the land
Should cause the wise to wake and understand;
That this proud nation's cup is full and more,
With rank corruption, which is running o'er.

Ye great and high ones! for the nation's sake,
Repent, reform, and restitution make,
Lest those whose happiness should be your care,
Are driven to the depths of dark despair
By war and famine's desolating hand,
Marring the beauty of this goodly land.

Woman, awake! as mother, daughter, friend,
Thine energies and earnest efforts lend,
To help thy country in her hour of need—
Prove thy integrity by word and deed.
For woman's star is lighting up the dawn,
And rosy gleams presage the coming morn.

Yes, woman hath a mission to perform,
Embodying the germs of true reform.
For her a nobler era, broader sphere;
Then banish shadows, doubts, and ev'ry fear;
The inspiration of a clearer light,
Will strengthen thee, and nerve thee for the right.

S. L. City, Jan. 1, 1877.	E. B. WELLS


CLOSE OF THE CENTENNIAL
YEAR.

	It came and it has gone! The year so
lately new, so long looked forward to and
labored for, anticipated, dreamed and prated
of, is now but simply like its fellow
years, a monument of history, of memory,
of the past. We look about us, and with
startled breath, pronounce the old year
dead! and wonder that its days have passed
so soon. But wherefore marvel? Days and
years, like men are born to die. And men
must stamp alike their times and names,
by works of good or ill, with light or
shade.
	Now comes the query, what events will
mark the period just closed? Have indus-
try and true ambition had free exercise, for
good and noble deeds? Have men in high
positions in this land made manifest an in-
nate sense of honor? Has virtue's progress
been their generous aim? Has God been
in their councils? Has his voice approved
their course? Has His justice character-
ized their movements? The present aspect
of our national affairs, answers too plainly,
too profoundly NO! The hundredth birth-
day of American Independence is shame-
fully disgraced by shameless men. The
grand Centennial year is darkly shaded; no
wonder 'twas in haste to fill its time.


The glory of America is surely gone.
Political intrigues, official cheats, bold, law-
less demagogues with vile intent, hypocri-
sy and tyranny and crime, have rendered
her high courts corrupt as Hades and as in-
famous! Where justice once with Godlike
wisdom reigned, now dire confusion rages
frantically. There is no purity, no reason
left.
	The fierce and heartless cry of "Crucify!"
again seems rending the perverted air.
"Polygamy!" "Polygamy!" is the note
that's sounded from the very head of gov-
ernment. "The Mormons must be punish-
ed for their sins." But mark! These men
so zealous in the cause of forcing others to
their form of right, will yet concede they
have enough to do among themselves, to
quarrel with and tantalize each other.
Their dreadful work of preparation for the
land to be laid waste and desolate, moves
rapidly along. And soon will sound abroad
the mournful wail, the sad and terrible and
wild lament—America, the great, the proud,
the FREE, is fallen! fallen! fallen!
	But will this seal the closing scene of her
great destiny? No! when iniquity is swept
away, then will commence the glorious
reign of peace. The good and true from
every nation will continue to be gathered,
to build, to people and inhabit here. This
choice, promised land will be o'erspread
with cities of the Saints, and dotted with
superb and lofty Temples, built to the name
of Israel's Most High God. Another hun-
dred years will, doubtless, bring a brighter
day for fair beloved America, than ever
yet has dawned.				INEZ.
	S. L. City, Dec. 31, 1876.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	AN EXCHANGE says that "Dr. Forbes
Winslow records the startling fact that over
10,000 persons of unsound mind are confin-
ed in the lunatic asylums of the United
States, driven mad from over excitement
on the subject of spiritualism, and that in-
sanity from the same cause is prevalent in
England and increasing every day."
	AN INTERNATIONAL Retrospective Ex-
hibition of Curiosities of all kinds, from in-
struments of prehistoric times to objects of
art up to to the year 1800, will be specially
held at the Paris Exposition of 1878. An
Archaeological Committee has been institut-
ed for that purpose, under the direction of
M. de Longperier, of the Institute. The
collectors of the world are invited to parti-
cipate in the interesting enterprise.
	THERE is in London a "Women's Print-
ing Society," which, it is said, affords more
facilities for girls to become proficient in
typesetting and other branches of printing
which are practicable for them than ordina-
ry workshops of this sort. They go on
trial for one month, after which they enter
upon a three year's apprenticeship, receiv-
ing small weekly wages which are increased
in equitable proportion. It has been pro-
posed that when the women employed by
the Society shall be competent workers
they receive the ordinary trade rate of re-
muneration, so as no unfair competition
with men's work can result from it.


PETITION OF SUNDAY SCHOOL
CHILDREN,

	We publish the following touching peti-
tion in full, which we consider indicative of
the sentiments and expressions of the
children of Zion, "the hope of Israel."

Salt Lake City, Dec. 1, 1876.
	To the Honorable the Mayor and City
Council:
	Gentlemen:—We, the undersigned, Teach-
and Scholars of Sunday Schools of Salt
Lake City, respectfully, yet earnestly, peti-
tion—That your honorable body will use to
the fullest extent the powers with which
the law invests you, to control, restrain and
reduce the traffic in intoxicating liquors,
which at the present time is growing to
such alarming proportions in the midst of
our highly favored city.
	We do this, because we know that drain-
shops, with their kindred resorts, where
liquor is sold, are too often the cause of our
youth taking the first step to moral degra-
dation, infamy and destruction; because we
know their open doors are an ever present
invitation to the unguarded to sin, and a
detriment to those who are seeking to re-
form; because we realize that in these sink-
holes of iniquity not only are habits of in-
temperance formed, but also others equally
degrading and repulsive; that not only are
they the schools of the drunkard, but also
of the gambler, the thief, and often the
murderer; that they are the pest houses
that corrupt society; that they, more than
any other cause of evil, fill the prisons of
our country with felons and its almshouses
with paupers, and they even rob the tem-
perate and sober of their earnings by in-
creasing the taxes of every citizen.
	We most heartily desire to see these evils
averted from ourselves: Therefore, we, as
the youth of Salt Lake City, with those so
much interested in our temporal and eter-
nal welfare, sincerely trust that you will aid
us all in your power and, as we have been
ever taught to pray to our Heavenly Father
to "leave us not in temptation," so do we
now ask of you, the Fathers of this City, to
remove, so far as your power and authority
extend, these causes of temptation and
thus aid us in our efforts to live lives of
temperance, virtue and sobriety and to be-
come law abiding and worthy citizens of
our much loved Utah.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WHAT goes first in at the church door?
The key.
	WHAT is that which is often found where
it is not? Fault.
	THE longest periods in a boy's life.—
Those between meals.
	"Borrow as you go" is popular, but "bor-
row all you can and then go" is more so.
	AN old author quaintly remarks, "Avoid
argument with the ladies. In spinning
yarns among silks and satins a man is sure
to be worsted and twisted, and when worst-
ed and twisted he may consider himself
wound up."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

			ALPINE CITY, Dec. 19th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Desiring to be one with our sisters, I
write a few lines to the EXPONENT, that
you may know the intentions of our Relief
Society in regard to the saving and storing
of grain. The sisters are responding to the
call by donating liberally of the small
amount of means at their command. It is
the intention of the sisters, as fast as means
can be obtained for this purpose in the So-
ciety, to use the same for buying grain.
The sisters are interested, and desire to
make the business a successful one.
	We remain your sisters in the covenant,
	Margaret McCullough, Prest., Ann Wal-
ton, Angela Vance, Counselors.

			LAKEVIEW, Dec. 12, 1870.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The members of the Relief and Retrench-
ment Societies are generally all alive to
their duties, we each have our meetings
every two weeks; we have made a com-
mencement towards the laying up of grain.
The sisters of our ward held a social party
last Friday evening, nearly all the members
of our ward attended. We all partook of
supper at four o'clock which had been pre-
pared for the occasion; after the tables were
cleared away, we enjoyed ourselves in danc-
ing, singing and also had some very ap-
propriate speeches from our invited guests;
among whom were Sister Mary Micklejohn,
President of the Relief Society of Tooele,
Bros. Robert Micklejohn and Abel Parker,
who are acting presidents of Tooele in place
of our much respected Bishop who has gone
on a mission; also Bro. Hugh Gowans who
is acting as Bishop, and Bro. Delamare.
We all enjoyed ourselves very much, and
the party closed at 11 o'clock. We had no
round dances, never have had any since our
Retrenchment Association was organized
by Sisters E. R. Snow, M. I. Horne and
Elizabeth Howard, nearly three years ago.
						I. G. M. 

		BEAVER CITY, UTAH, Dec. 12, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We enjoyed a rare treat during the recent
visit of Mrs. M. I. Horne. She held three
meetings in this place which were well at-
tended by both young and old of both sex-
es. Her instructions, principally, were to
the ladies of the Relief Societies and Re-
trenchment Associations, but were of a
character to benefit all who heard them.
	The subjects most spoken upon were the
necessity of laying up grain, sustaining the
EXPONENT, assisting in the publication of
the Woman's Book, and patronizing home-
manufacture. She advised the sisters to in-
terest themselves in silk-culture, and gave
good counsel on many subjects pertaining
to our every-day duties.
	Mrs. Caroline Shipp, also from Salt Lake
City, was present and made a few excellent
remarks.
	There was a change in the organization
of our Relief Society last June, occasioned
by the resignation of the President, Mrs.
Lucinda Houd. The organization now
stands as follows:
	Mrs. R. W. Tyler, President.
	"	Eliza W. Hawkins,	} Counselors.
	"	Annie Louie,		}
	"	Mary E. Ashworth, Secretary;
	Miss Harriet S. Shepherd Ass't Sec'y.
	Mrs. Almira H. Murdock, Treasurer.
	The following is a report of the disburse-

[Column 2]
ments of the Society since the first of July
of this year, all of which has been received
by donations during that time.
	To assist in reparing public
	meeting house........................... $ 42 45
	To the Temple............................    14 50
	To the poor.................................	   36 50
	Work done for those in need...     21 85
			Total.............................   115 30

			14 WARD, S. L. CITY,
					Dec. 22, 1876.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Our esteemed Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne has
requested that I send you a brief report of
our ninth annual meeting which was held
at the Society Hall, Dec. 13, 1876.
	More than the usual number of sisters
were in attendance, and we were also hon-
ored with the presence of Bishop Thomas
Taylor, and Counselor G. H. Taylor; after
singing prayer, and roll call, the Secretary
read the Annual Report as follows:
		Donations during the year.
	Cash............................................ $ 46 55
	Sundries.....................................     61 37
	Articles sold...............................      42 60
	Loan of Temple Clothes...........      38 70
	Rent of part of our building......     55 15
	Interest on money invested......     25 50
								  ———
	Total.............................................   269 87
			Disbursed during year.
	To the needy................................ 159 78 1/2
	Materials for work, etc...............	33 50
	Washing Temple Clothes...........	17 90
	Repairing Hall after Explosion,           14 60
	Book, "Life of Brigham
		Young"...............................	          3 00
	Wheat Central Committee.........	  5 00
									———
	Total.......................................... 233 78 1/2
	Balance on hand.......................	36 08 1/2
	We have donated to the Temple in quilts,
	stockings, shirts, clothing etc...... $	77 25
	To Woman's Commission Store..	 7 65
	We are also making preparations to in-
vest seventy-five dollars in the purchase of
wheat.
	After the Report had been unanimously
accepted, Prest. Mrs. Horne addressed the
meeting in her usual earnest and energetic
manner, upon storing our grain, the Wo-
man's Book, and other subjects of business.
	Bishop Taylor being called upon, ex-
pressed himself pleased to meet with us, al-
so pleased with our reports and method of
doing business. Thought the storing of
grain a very wise movement, and proffered
room in the basement of the Ward Hall for
our bins. Said we had his best feelings and
confidence and that he would assist us all in
his power. Counseled us to be temperate
in all our movements, even in our sympathy
for the poor, but to help and bless all who
are really needy.
	Elder G. H. Taylor and Sister W. East
also made some timely and interesting re-
marks.
	The same spirit of unity and good feel-
ing prevailed which has always character-
ized the meetings of our society.
	That the blessing of God our Heavenly
Father may be upon you to assist you in
your high and holy calling, is the prayer of
your sister &c.
				ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
								Sec'y.


"A MAN should always live within his in-
come," says an American, "even if he has
to borrow money to do it."


NOTES FROM MARY CLEMMER'S 
LETTER.

	Some time when I am old and the glory
of the past shall come back to me, to light
up the gray shadows of many years, I shall
see this picture of the Centennial. Not its
booths and bazars, its noisy Turks, its peace-
ful Chinese, its endless throngs, and illimit-
able displays; but this: the sun sending his
lengthened rays across a wilderness of
bloom and shooting myriad arrows of fire
through the lofty oaks, elms and chestnuts
clustering above the Gothic roof of Horti-
cultural Hall. I shall recall the glory of the
grounds when the marvels of the miles of
show-cases have faded out of sight. Lands-
downe Valley, with its glancing rivnlets,
its profuse vines, touched with the first vi-
vid scarlets of autumn, its native giants of
oak and elm, maple and sycamore, is a mar-
vel of beauty that seems cut straight out of
Naure's heart, while a whole letter could
not paint the glory of the gardens. When
I came here the scarlet and rose geraniums,
verbenas, hydrangeas were at their bright-
est. Wandering through the broad inter-
esting avenues, far as the eye could reach,
on and on, the emerald sod was shot with
these broad bands of flaming color; while
beside them—"like moonlight unto sun-
light"—were the softly-shaded beds of
pale yellow, green and white, the pampas
grasses nodding their silvery plumes, the
pale English ivies dappled and white-edged.
Then the tamarisk stretched forth its bright
green wands, and the weigelia waved its
white and scarlet blossoms, and the homely
flowers of home were everywhere beside
our feet. The ragged robin, marigold,
Joseph's coat, larkspur, fox glove, spider
plant, snapdragon, the morning glory, the
clematis, old-man, love-lies-bleeding, the
mourning bride, bergamot, petunias, and
dahlias—all were here, with their memor-
ies of home, childhood, and youth. How
gay they looked one evening, how glad, as
I sat down on a seat by the way, just before
the gates closed. It was then the sun
spread out his rays gathering all this beauty
into his splendor and made my picture for
all time. I came back in the morning, and
"the brightness of their smile was gone
from upland, glade, and glen." In the night
"the frost fell from the clear cold heavens,"
and suddenly the fervor of color was
quenched. The flowers were dead. The
dahlias hung to their blackened stalks. The
long ramparts of bloom that stood so brave
and glowing yesterday, were shriveled and
fallen now. The meek sunlight of these
Indian Summer days draws the subtle
sweetness of the waning year out of these
sepulchers of the flowers. The air is odor-
ous with their dying fragrance. Here and
there a late, late rose still dares to bloom in
the face of the menacing frost. The wax
balls hang amid their crisp leaves. Here
and there a cluster of scarlet berries show
ruddy against a gray back-ground; but the
amber skies are crossed by leafless boughs.
The gay umbrage of the park is sodden un-
der our feet. "The year smiles as it draws
near its death" and it has almost "had its
day"—the great Exhibition.


IT is stated upon good authority that
"George Elliot" has already received $5,-
000 from the Harper Bro's for "Daniel De-
ronda."
	MOTHER: "Now, Gerty, be a good girl,
and give Aunt Julia a kiss, and say good-
night." Gerty: "No, no! If I kiss her,
she'll box my ears like she did papa's last
night."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE GOD WE WORSHIP.

	[From the San Francisco Chronicle]

We choose all substance: what remains
The mystic, blind sectarian gains:
All that each claims may each possess,
Nor grudge each other's happiness.

An immaterial God they choose,
An immaterial Heaven and Hell;
For such a God we have no use;
In such a Heaven we cannot dwell.

We claim the earth, the air and sky,
And all the starry worlds on high;
Gold, silver, pearls and precious stones,
And bodies made of flesh and bones.

Our God like us can hear and see,
Taste, smell and feel eternally:
Immortal brain He has to think,
Organs to speak, and eat, and drink.

With man on earth or heaven He dines;
His heart is cheered with fruits of vines;
Of Sara's bread and Abram's calf
He ate and drank, 'till Sara laughed.

The foremost in all branches He
Of useful art or industry;
To plant, to build, or dress the field,
Or make old Eden's garden yield.

A farmer, architect and scribe,
A tailer and all else beside;
He taught old Abram how to farm,
And make him coats to keep him warm.

Noah He taught to build a ship,
And Moses how man's record keep;
He introduced the heavenly plan,
Of architecture unto man;

By which stupendous worlds were reared,
And courts on earth for Him prepared,
That when from heaven He chose to come,
He found on earth a heavenly home.

Such is our God, our Heaven, our all.
When once redeemed from Adam's fall
All things are ours, and we shall be
The Lord's to all eternity!


[COLUMN 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

LANCASTER CITY AND CO., PA.,
	Dec. 16, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	This mission has fixed in my mind a con-
clusion which to your readers may be both
new and novel. I allude directly to the
immense amount of good the Orthodox
ladies of Utah could do abroad with their
husbands or father's, in allaying the deep-
seated prejudice there is against our—WILL
BE—most popular institution, viz., "Celes-
tial Marriage." Throughout this country
the people have been treated with periodi-
cal doses of "pen dente lite," "Tell it all,"
"Fifteen years among the Mormons," and
numerous other trashy, lying, sensational
effusions, gotten up by designing men for
money-making purposes. They have not
seen or heard a "Mormon" Elder for a great
many years in this, and no doubt most other
counties of the State, and I am sure that a
hopeful, thorough Elder, with the presence
of a faithful, devoted wife, or daughter,
would accomplish as much or more good
than two Elders traveling together. I feel
pretty certain that the feeling of confidence
in the ability and integrity of the ladies of
Utah is rapidly obtaining in Zion, hence the
confident appeals to them to treasure up
wheat, nurse home industries, such as the
manufacture and sale of home products, and
the vast amount of good they are doing
through the Relief Societies. That God
may speed them success is my humble
prayer. I would suggest in this connection
that the Elders had better look to their
"laurels," or they may lose the credit of
being Saviors on Mount Zion. A popular
writer referring to a universal prejudice

[COLUMN 2]

says: "Such has been the crushing effect of
public sentiment that women almost feel
like apologizing for being on the earth at
all." I witnessed a striking illustration of
the greater susceptibility of women over
men in religious matters a few evenings
ago, in Strasburg, in this County, while at-
tending a distracted Methodist meeting.
Out of the goodly number that knelt at
the "anxious seat" not a single man was
present, and yet there were numbers in theroom that might have gone up to that man-
ner of chaff and husks with profit to them-
selves and families.
	I need not inform you that everybody
and his neighbor is anxious to learn all
about the "peculiar institution," and that
questions on that subject are always first in
order. But I will tell you that I have had
but little trouble in removing much of that
prejudice at all times when a fair opportu-
nity is given.

	I expect Bro. O. F. Whitney to join me
here in a day or two; will try and retain
him with me, as I much need his help.
	That the Lord will always bless your ef-
forts in disseminating the truth is the
prayer of your
	Brother in the Gospel,
		A. MILTON MUSSER.

SALT LAKE CITY, Dec. 18, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In company with my husband and daugh-
ter, I left home on the 11th of Nov. last to
visit my children who reside in the coun-
try, and also to meet with the Relief Socie-
ties in different settlements through which
I might pass, and give them such instruc-
tion and encouragement on the various sub-
jects that are now being brought before the
sisters, as I was capable of doing with the
aid and assistance of my heavenly Father
upon whom I humbly and implicitly rely
for strength. The subjects most dwelt upon
by me in talking to the sisters, were, the
laying up of wheat, the raising and manu-
facturing of silk, sustaining the Woman's
Store and all other home-industries, also to
subscribe more liberally for the Woman's
Exponent, and invited the sisters to take
shares in the publishing of the Woman's
Book. During my journey I met with the
Relief Societies of Beaver, Fillmore, Scipio,
Gunnison, Nephi and Santaquin. In Beaver
the Relief Society has a full lot of land and
a good substantial brick building on it. I
advised them to set out mulberry trees over
the ground, and thus commence the silk-
culture. In all our meetings a good spirit
prevailed, and the people received us every-
where with marked cordiality. The Bish-
ops of the several settlements met with the
Relief Societies in the meetings, imparting
good counsel and encouragment and wish-
ing the sisters success in their united ef-
forts. The sisters everywhere were very
earnest and active in the storing up of
wheat. It is a subject which seems to have
taken hold of the hearts of the women and
they are determined to carry out this coun-
sel of the servant of God. I sincerely hope
that some good may result from my visit to
these settlements; they have not the same
advantages and opportunities that some of
us have, and are anxious to be co-workers
with those who labor for Zion.
	Trusting the seed sown may produce good
fruit in the hearts of those who desire to
keep the commandments of God, and pray-
ing always for the welfare of the Saints at
home and abroad, desiring to live to pro-
mote knowledge among the daughters of
Zion, and to be useful in the work of the

[COLUMN 3]

last dispensation, I will now close this let-
ter to my sisters.
	Truly Yours,
		M. I. HORNE.


ATTEND OUR MEETINGS.

	To all the Saints I say, let us attend our
meetings. There is no privilege or higher
duty resting upon us than this; we call it a
privilege because it is productive of great
benefit, and again it is a duty the neglect of
which will involve as much loss, as the
observance of it will gain. Meetings are
fraught with great blessings and tend to
build up the faithful Saints, or strengthen
their desire to serve the Lord and to en-
large their understanding of the doctrines
of our most holy faith; it is simply absurd
for persons who have embraced the truth, and
having begun to taste the fruits thereof, to
vainly imagine that after having conformed
with the first principles of the Gospel, they
are sure of the possession of all those
heavenly enjoyments which are due to the
faithful and diligent alone; for the posses-
sion of those promised gifts, men and wo-
men, after having found the way of salva-
tion, and commmenced to walk therein,
should continue in the line of duty and
seek to acquire sufficient knowledge of the
grand principles of the gospel which must
necessarily be understood and carried out
in our daily lives. To neglect our meetings
is ignoring our lessons in the various
branches of the gospel; it is there we are
taught not only from the lips of God's ser-
vants, but by the Holy spirit which influen-
ces and dictates the minds of those who
meet together in His name; the Savior has
said, "where two or three are gathered to-
gether in my name, there am I in the midst
of them." No matter how few the number
may be of those who meet together, the
Lord has promised to be there, and as we
are commanded to cleave unto the Lord,
and as Paul says, that we might walk wor-
thy of Him, being faithful in every good
work. Thus increasing in the knowledge
of God, our attendance to worship and per-
formance of all duties pertaining to the
"new and everlasting covenant," should be
constant and faithful, so far as possible; the
individuals who do not attend their meet-
ings will fall asleep spiritually; neglecting
this one duty leads to further and greater
negligence.
	Step by step, men and women have
fallen into darkness, and it has often been
preceded by the neglect of their meetings;
the man or woman who walks up to every
obligation resting upon him or her can nev-
er retrograde in the knowledge of the gos-
pel; such persons are all the time on the
march of improvement, and are filled with
joy and satisfaction and hope of eternal life;
they are learning, while those who neglect
their meetings are losing ground and are
looked upon as dull and idle scholars or la-
borers in the Lord's vineyard.
	I therefore say again to all the Saints, at-
tend your meetings and be humble and the
Holy spirit will be with you and manifest to
you the gifts of the gospel; you will pro-
gress with the truth and be prepared for
greater responsibilities, consequently a
greater reward will be yours and happiness
in this life and the life hereafter.
					FRANCES B. HART.
	Alma, Weber Co.


MRS. Ingelow, the mother of Jean Inge-
low, died on the 10th of Dec., at her resi-
dence in London, in her seventy-fifth year,


116		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

LULA GREEENE RICHARDS,	} Editors
EMMELINE B. WELLS.			}

	Pub[-]ished semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday,
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. JAN. 1, 1877.


COMPLIMENTS.

The following came by Deseret Telegraph:
	"ST. GEORGE, Dec. 24, 1876.
"MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS AT SALT LAKE
AND ELSEWHERE:
	"The compliments of the season; wishing
you all a 'Merry Christmas' and 'Happy New
Year.' May you live to accomplish the work
given you to do of our Heavenly Father, and I
pray you may do it faithfully, that you may be
prepared to dwell eternally in the heavens.
May God grant it. Amen.
	"BRIGHAM YOUNG."


[Column 1]
		THE PAST AND PRESENT.

	Some wiseacres say "live in the present,"
yet it is natural to look backward at certain
times, and wonder too, what the future will
be, and draw comparisons between that which
was, and that which is, and form from these
certain significant, though perhaps unreliable
conclusions.
	Another year has told its tale, delivered up
its record and sealed it in the archives of the
past until the great day of reckoning: and be
the record good or evil in the balance, it must
stand—it is gone beyond recall. Every thought-
ful person must have serious reflections, as he
or she enters upon each successive year, per-
chance like this, have the deeds of the past
been such as may be disclosed without the
blush of shame? How is it with this nation,
the glorious land of liberty and freedom?
	What has brought disunion and discord into
the halls of the Capitol? Have the sins of the
people gone before them to judgment. and is
the Lord pouring out upon the nation the vi-
als of His wrath? Verily it seemeth so.
	From the east and west, north and south,
the cry of dishonesty, injustice, oppression and
all the evil results of wrong-doing are echoed
forth until "the ear is pained" and the soul
sickened with the recital of wrongs. Inevita-
ble are the consequences which result from the
breaking of God's commandments and reject-
ing the Gospel of His Son. In the unchange-
able and immutable laws of nature, causes
produce effects, and this nation have sewed
the wind and must reap the whirlwind.
	There are times when national matters, as
well as many others of a less grave nature, seem
to have reached a climax, where they require
some direct and powerful force or agency to act
upon them, to bring them into subjection or
even to rend them asunder. Wrongs and mis-
takes seem to have been accumulating in the
affairs of this nation until the wit and wis-
dom of the most profound statesman and di-
plomatist seems incompatible with the resist-

[Column 2]
ance brought to bear against right. What pow-
er is there left that can be made to react and
avert the terrible calamities that seem about to
overtake the nation. The past year has been
one of unusual note in many respects. The
Centennial year of American Independence
has been marked by many strange incidents
and fearful dilemmas in different parts of the
earth; therefore the contemplation of it as it
passes away and takes its rank among its pre-
decessors, gives thinking people questions to
solve, that puzzle the stoutest brain and the
quickest intellect. They are amazed at the
events which are transpiring and wonder what
the future will bring about. Naturally enough
some try to believe that a change of politics
might quell many disturbances and allay some
of the grievances here in the United States;
others that an empire or kingdom would be
more suited to the condition of the various peo-
ples who have gathered here under the protec-
tion of a government that seemed to possess
all the elements and strength necessary to
maintain justice and equal rights for all, Jew
or Jentile, black or white.
	The words of the Savior in the New Testa-
ment show plainly that in the last days men
should hasten to destruction, that the time
would be so short that great events would fol-
low each other quickly; this seems to have
been particularly the case during the year now
past. "Men hurrying to and fro," is not this
scripture literally fulfilled? To what the great
and universal excitement is tending the world
do not discern, but the times are ominous, if
not prophetic, even to them. Many who do
not comprehend clearly the "signs of the
times" are looking to this year and the new
administration as an augury of asupicious ris-
ing, but "Alas for my poor country," as has
been sung in other lands, unless some all pow-
erful hand is reached forth in mercy to save,
soon will this sentiment so pathetically signifi-
cant re-echo through America.


A SINGULAR DREAM

	We have been requested by sister Diantha
Billings, of Provo, an aged and venerable lady
to publish the following dream; the lady who
had this singular dream is the daughter of the
late Elder Isaac Morley.
	MANTI, SANPETE CO.
DEAR AUNT DIANTHA:

	I have had quite a curious dream and I
should like to tell it you in person, but as I
cannot do that I will write it; I have had a
strange feeling ever since, I do not know what
it can mean. I will try and describe to you
what I saw in the heavens. I thought it was
evening and I was out looking at the stars, all
at once I saw something moving in the sky,
I watched it until it formed a circle, and in
this circle was inscribed, "God and 1888, or 7 or
5," I cannot tell which, but it was one of these
three. I called my mother, she came and we
watched together, and outside this circle other
circles formed until there was a large complete
diagram as it were, interlined regularly at in-
tervals. It seemed to cover a place larger than
our house. I started to call my husband and
others to look, when my mother said hush!
the Lord is coming and we have no oil in the
lamp, and I said, oh mother what have I done
that I feel so bad, and my mother said again
hush! the Lord is coming, and this means
worlds without end; and as we stood there,
reading seemed to form all over the circles
formed in this diagram, in red and brown col-
ors. And then I dreamed I went into the
house and woke the folks up, and felt so bad
because there was no oil, and the sky all seem-
ed to become a dark brown with a border of
red, and to come closer and closer to the earth
or to us, and it covered the whole wide canopy
of the skies with reading all over it. Then I
heard the sweetest singing I ever heard in all
my life, and mother saying "The end is near,
the Lord cometh worlds without end;" and I
awoke. At first I could have told what all the
figures were, but I cannot remember them
now. I would like to know if it is a warning,
or what it means.

	MARY L. M. HANSEN


HOME AFFAIRS.

	CORRECTION.—In a former issue the report
of the Manti Relief Society investing two
hundred thousand dollars in starting a small
store, should have read two hundred dollars.
	WE HAVE many articles contributed to our
columns that we had not room to publish in
the present number. We cordially thank our
contributors for their favors and hope to merit
their future efforts.
	WE ANTICIPATED furnishing an article for
this issue giving our ideas on Surplus Women,
but had not space, so must defer it until Jan 15.
It is a subject which has many bearings and
ought to be fully descanted upon: We would
be glad to hear from some of our correspond-
ents on this subject.
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR to our patrons and
friends and especially the little folks. The
Centennial Christmas has come and gone, and
the people have feasted, and rejoiced in the
song and dance, and in the various amuse-
ments which characterize the "Winter Holi-
days." For this people there seems to have
been an abundance of good things and to spare.
Surely those upon whom prosperity has lav-
ished her bounties have bestowed liberally and
made glad the hearts of the poor. A univer-
sal song and prayer of gratitude should arise
from all hearts to the Most High, who has
caused the earth to yield rich harvests, yea,
"the desert to blossom as the rose." If the
saints forget the Giver in the day of prosperity,
He will not lend a listening ear in the day of
adversity.


DESTITUTION IN SCRANTON, PA.

 	        HUNGER AND DISTRESS AMONG
			THE UNEMPLOYED. 

	     FEARS OF FAMINE ENTERTAINED. 

	The condition of affairs among the poor peo-
ple of the coal regions is assuming an alarm-
ing aspect. Thousands, who have neither work
nor bread, nor the prospect of obtaining any
for themselves and families, are on the verge
of starvation and do not know what to do or
which way to turn. The destitution is wide-
spread and distressing and is not confined to
the laboring classes alone, as there are num-
bers of skilled mechanics who have been idle
for many months and whose little store has
long since been exhausted. There are hun-
dreds of families in and about Scranton, and
not in this city alone, but in every settlement
throughout the coal regions, who do not know
where to get to-day's dinner, and who would
be shivering by cheerless firesides were it not
for the heaps of coal dust that lie scattered
along the valley and from which they draw
their supply of fuel, such as it is. So many
poor people, or such intense downright despair-
ing distress has not been seen in this section
of the country for many years. It is actually
painful to witness the want and sorrow extant.


[COLUMN 1]

Unlike the great cities, toward which the
wretched of all classes tend and in which pov-
erty is seen at all periods, the towns of the in-
terior are generally free from any considerable
share of needy people in prosperous times, but
a change has come over the land, and men who
a year ago would deem it a disgrace to ask for
assistance under any circumstances, are abso-
lutely famishing for the ordinary necessities of
life. Mechanics, too, men in receipt of wages
varying from $2.50 to $3.50 per day at the open-
ing of the Centennial year, are now reduced to
the verge of pauperism, anxious to earn fifty
cents a day if they can get anything to do.
		MEETING OF THE DISTRESSED.
	They talk easily of their distress and no
longer make any effort to hide their poverty,
and at a meeting of their number held the oth-
er night, asking the city authorities to furnish
them with work and bread, some sad stories
were related. The pitiable pictures presented
at their homes are touching, and in some in-
stances would wring tears from the most cal-
lous heart. It is a sad spectacle to see a bro-
ken spirited husband in the midst of his little,
feeble family, for which he is unable to pro-
vide bread, even though their appeals are like
so many daggers to his heart. The patient
mothers invariably seek to stifle their own
grief, and whenever I have called they have
endeavored to hide the poignant features of
their sorrows. But the wan face, and prema-
turely old and haggard looks have told a story
that the eloquence of the sweetest voice could
not gainsay. It is remarkable how patient in
most cases the women have shown themselves
wherever I have been. In the same homes
where despairing men raved incoherently and
cursed corporations and the government, as
well as their own bitter fate there was an air of
quiet resignation and meek submission on the
faces of the women, that was truly heroic. It
is the fact that women endure more in any
great ordeal and endure it better. Where a
burly man will go howling about with a big
sorrow, showing it to his neighbors, a little
woman will set her face against fate and hide
it in her breast. The sorrows that kill men
only bring out the sweetest, noblest natures of
women.
		INDUSTRIES IDLE.
	Various industries of the city are idle, and
will continue so for many months to come.
The extensive iron and steel works of the
Lackawanna Iron and Coal Company, upon
which the poor of Shanty Hill, a thickly pop-
ulated portion of the city, are dependent for
the means of support, have suspended opera-
tion until the 1st of March, and, as a conse-
quence their employees, who at the best of
times found it a difficult matter to sustain
themselves; are fairly dismayed and disheart-
ened at the gloomy prospect. Pinching, pallid
poverty sits by many a fireside to-day, and the
indications are that the coming Christmas
will be the saddest ever experienced in the an-
thracite coal regions of Pennsylvania.
		THE BITTER COLD.
	The recent heavy fall of snow and accom-
panying bitter cold have made the situation
felt more keenly, and the scantily clad and
starving people are reduced to the lowest
depths of despair with not a single ray of hope
in the immediate future to light their footsteps
along the dismal and weary way. The coal
industry, too, has recently been falling off,
and in many of our settlements mining has
been suspended altogether. Merchants and
small dealers who were wont to encourage the
miners and laborers from time to time with
credit, are compelled to refuse them now for

[COLUMN 2]

their self-protection, and this superadds to
their sorrow and intensifies the bitterness of
their cheerless and unhappy lot.—Sunday
Free Press.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		117


[Column 1]
		A WIDOW'S PARTY.

			S.L. CITY, July, 1876.
						16th Ward.
	Opened by singing, "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Prayer, by Bro.
Riser. Singing, "We thank thee, O God
for a prophet." Bishop Kesler then made
remarks, expressing his pleasure in meet-
ing with a company of this kind. All pres-
ent are widows with but one or two excep-
tions, and yet not over half of those who
reside in the ward are here. He had never
met on an occasion of this kind before and
it brought a great many reflections to his
mind. Many of the partners of these
sisters had stood by his side and labored for
the cause of Zion. The Lord has a great
work to do in this dispensation; He called
Joseph Smith to do a mighty work. These
sisters husbands, when living, spent a por-
tion of their lives in this work. God has
set up His kingdom as Daniel saw, and the
honest in heart are being gathered from all
portions of the earth, and great is the work
to be performed in connection with our
dead. The wicked will be wasted away
and cut off from the earth, and some of
them are our relatives by blood, and they
cannot be brought out of prison until they
have "paid the uttermost farthing." To
look at this in one way it seems hard, yet
if we view it in another light, it is all right.
In Noah's day the people would not accept
the gospel and were destroyed, but Jesus
went and preached to them in prison, show-
ing that there is an opportunity for pardon
after death, providing the unpardonable sin
has not been committed. We can also be
baptized for our relatives as far as we can
trace their geneaology, and there will be a
great work during the Millennium. And
my sisters your husbands have gone to per-
form a portion of this work. Bro. Brigham
has said when the Temple is built, angels
will come to it and bring the names of those
who wish us to be baptized for them; then
we shall know who are willing to obey the
gospel and we shall in reality be "Saviors
on Mount Zion. What a blessing it is that
we have the privilege to gain celestial glory.
All will not attain it, because they will not
accept the terms; but all will get a reward
according to their works.
	I rejoice that the day has come for the
Lamanites to obey the gospel; and he hoped
the day would soon come when our ene-
mies would have no power over the saints.
	We have met together to-day to have a
social party and to be instructed. We all
carry an influence with us wherever we go
either for good or evil, and we should set
an example in everything as Saints of God
and bind up the broken-hearted and com-
fort those who mourn; it is our duty to do it;
and not seek to pull each other down, and
then trample upon the weak and fallen. I
can realize our surroundings to some extent;
the evil spirits are trying to lead us from
the straight and narrow path, and decoy us
from our duties and they will continue to
try until we are tried as Abraham was; he
was tried as close as was possible for mor-
tal to endure; have any of us been tried
equal to that? The Savior was tried, He
went through the most trying ordeals He
was a wanderer on the earth, and he passed
through these trials in poverty; but as Paul
said "if in this life only we have hope, we
are of all men most miserable." We have

[Column 2]
been cast out from among the world but the
Lord has been with us, and will continue to
be if we are faithful. Many of you sisters
will soon pass through the veil and meet
your husbands, what a joyful meeting that
will be.
	The Lord is very merciful to us, and looks
over many of our weaknesses; and the best
way is for us to be prayerful and do our duty
in all things, both to the living and the
dead. The judgments of God are being
poured out upon the nations; you have only
to read the news to be aware of it; there
will be many calamities this year, and they
will still grow worse; but the Saints should
rejoice for the work of God is progressing,
and the righteous will go onward and build
a Temple unto the Lord, and His glory will
rest upon it for He has promised it.
	You widows may ask what can we do?
Why you can prepare to meet your hus-
bands behind the veil, and let your wills be
swallowed up in the will of God; we have
got to do it before we can come into His
presence. Pray as the Savior prayed, he
prayed and wept too. Call your families to-
gether to pray, and observe the Sabbath
day and not speak evil of your neighbors.
We all have failings, but there is a balm in
the gospel for every ill. Keep the Word
of Wisdom, and observe the duties of to-
day, and not let the sun go down before
we have faithfully fullfilled our daily du-
ties, thus we will be saved each day.
	I exhort you to do these things, so that
you may meet your husbands and Father in
heaven. This is my best wish for you in
the name of Jesus.
	Brother Riser said: I am pleased to meet
with you on this occasion. It is our privi-
lege to meet together often, for we need to
be reminded of things that we would for-
get otherwise; our vision will be extended
if we live in the light of the spirit of the
Gospel. There is a crisis near at hand, and
already men's hearts begin to fail them, the
world has gone to the extreme with wick-
edness, and unless we are faithful we will
not be prepared for what is coming. He re-
lated considerable of his experience both
before and after embracing the gospel, and
bore a faithful testimony to its truth, and
the healing power which he had seen mani-
fested. Said he never regretted the step
he had taken in obeying the gospel. The
prize of eternal life is before the Saints and
if we pursue the path our Bishop has
marked out, we shall be able to meet our
faithful friends who have gone before us.
	I ask God to bless you all in the name of
Jesus, amen.
	Benediction by Brother Riser.
	All present then partook of refreshments
which had been bountifully prepared for
this special occasion, and the season spent
together was one of peaceful enjoyment.
	The company then adjourned to meet 
again.		SARAH CUMBERLAND
								Sec'y.


TO THE LACE MAKERS:—Those who
wish to purchase bobbins for lace making,
can obtain them by sending orders to Mrs.
E. Davis, "Woman's Commission House,"
S. L. City. Bro. Crompton, a bobbin maker
from England, will be ready to fill all or-
ders at a low figure.


ANNA Dickenson seems to have been
warmly applauded in her recent appearance
upon the stage in St. Louis, yet she is se-
verely criticized by newspaper writers and
journalists; they have an idea that she is
too much herself, and does not give suffi-
cient dramatic effect.


118		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MORE EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS
			FROM HAWAII.

			LAIE. Oahu, Sept. 30, 1876.
	I have been standing on the porch to-
night looking toward the loved home of my
many, many dear friends and associates and
thinking of the great water lying between
us, and the many changes which may per-
haps take place before we meet again. We
are well and feeling in excellent spirits,
with good feelings toward all mankind. I
am teaching the Laie school, have thirty
odd pupils who seem to be learning very
fast; I am also a pupil learning their lan-
guage, and I fear not a very apt one, "aka
hoas mau" (but I continue to try). Millie
talks very good for the time she has been
here, is quite contented and appears very
much like a native. I like the natives
much better than I imagined I should; they
are very kind to me; and take great pains
in teaching me their language.
	I have had quite an experience since I
come here. I was eye-witness at a death-
scene which took place shortly after our ar-
rival. I had called to take a sick woman
some rice, thinking something nourishing
like that would be relished. I saw she was
struck with death, and told her husband as
much. I had not been in the house more
than half an hour when she breathed her
last, as quietly as if going to sleep; I closed
her eyes and tied her chin, and looked to
see what her parents were doing when a na-
tive sister came up to me with a shroud
which they had been busy preparing against
her death. I assisted in putting it on, and
spread a beautiful "kapa" to lay her on (her
husband never leaving her side;) when all
was ready for her to be seen by her friends,
as many were gathered, I stood looking at
the corpse, when I was almost raised from
floor to ceiling by the most dreadful wailing
I ever heard. I gave one glance about the
room and saw how fast it was filling with
mourners, and will leave you to imagine
how long I was getting home, which is
about a quarter of a mile. They keep their
wailing and feasting up all night. I had
forgotten to tell you that they always pre-
pare a great feast in honor of the dead.
	I have also been a guest at a grand wed-
ding, had the pleasure of eating with the
bride and groom. The food consisted of
"poi" pork and beef, which all ate with a
relish, using fingers instead of knives and
forks.
	I enjoy myself in many ways here, but
nothing compares with our mountain home.
					Sunday, Oct. 1st.
	We have been on the Island four months
to-day. We arrived on the 1st of June, after
seven and a half days at sea. We enjoyed
ourselves a great deal in the same way as
many of our friends before us, by being very
liberal to the sharks. I was very sick the
first three days, in fact I was quite misera-
ble until we landed. We were well provid-
ed with everything for our comfort and one
of the best stewardesses; she was like a
mother to me. I have been to meeting the
most of the day; it is our fast day; we hold
it the first Sunday in each month.
	I want to tell you of our ride in the hills
yesterday, thinking it will show you a lit-
tle how we feel. Brothers Wooley, Molen,
and wives with children, on horse back, took
picnic and went up in the canon to get a
breath of fresh air. We rode native style,
(now don't laugh) as it was safer; riding
over rocks and brush, over hills that looked
impossible for horses to travel, but we found
a nice cool place and better than all a cool

[Column 2]
spring of water. We took with us papers
from home, and read, visited, ate, and some
of us slept, but not your correspondent.
	We are living at the Plantation house. I
am chief cook and house cleaner; I am kept
very busy teaching and keeping house, and
find very few idle moments. My health is
much better here than at home. I believe
I could eat my rations of Irish potatoes, and
pork, beans and cabbage, had I the chance.
Not wishing you to think I suffer at all, for
we live good enough, and what we have we
relish, I can eat quite a meal of meat and
"poi"; we try to have flour on hand all the
time. I will have quite a yarn to spin when
I get home.
	I begin to think we as a people do not
know how to appreciate comforts when we
have them.
						Oct. 7th.
	This is the second day of Conference. I
thought as the mail would leave in the
morning I would finish, I will not be able
to give you the news of to-morrow. I do
not know where Simpson's lot will be cast
in this missionary labor. Bros. Lambert and
Stringam have not been able to get here
for Conference on account of high winds,
which has caused quite a disappointment.
The natives are turning out well and seem
to enjoy the spirit of the Lord. Their fa-
ces glow when they sit and hear our breth-
ren talk. I think this mission has a com-
pany of as good men as you generally come
across. I do think the young men here
have been faithful and performed a good
long mission, and when they get their re-
lease they will not feel to complain.
	Please remember me with much love to
all my friends and acquaintances, not for-
getting Sister Wells and family. Tell Un-
cle Charles I want his prayers now, more
than ever. I am very tired now; there are
eight of our good folks stopping with us,
beside our own family. Bro. Richards
boards with us when at Laie.
	Remember me to all. I will re[---]e as it is
after ten o'clock. Good night, a [-]pleasant
dreams.				JANE E. MOLEN.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Baked Omelet.—Boil half a pint of cream, or
rich milk; beat six eggs thoroughly—they will be
nicer if the whites and yelks are beaten separate-
ly; have a deep dish hot and buttered; stir the
beaten eggs, with a little salt, into the cream; put
all quickly into the dish, and bake from five to ten
minutes, depending upon the condition of the oven.
It should be lightly browned, and taken directly
to the table in the dish.
	Scalloped Oysters.—Have ready an earthen
baking-dish well buttered, sprinkle in a layer of
rolled crackers, then a layer of good fat oysters, a
little pepper, salt, and bits of butter, another
layer of crackers, another of oysters, then sea-
soning as before, and so on until the dish is filled;
have the top covered with crackers; turn over it a
cup of the oyster liquor. Set it in the oven for
thirty or forty minutes.
	Suet Pudding.—To two coffee cups of flour with
a heaping teaspoonful of baking powder stirred
thoroughly through it, add one coffee cup of finely
chopped suet, one teaspoonful of salt; one well-
beaten egg; one pint of sweet milk. Grease a
tin pail, pour the mixture into it, cover, set it in a
kettle of boiling water, and let it boil constantly
two hours. Renew the water as it evaporates with
boiling water from the teakettle. Send to the ta-
ble hot. Serve with wine sauce, or lemon sauce.
	Children's Pudding.—Fill and earthen baking-
dish with finely chopped apples. Season with
sugar and nutmeg; add a little water. Set it on
the back of the range until the apples are tender.
Then make a crust of one teacup of sweet milk,
one tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, one tea-
spoonful of baking powder, flour enough to roll
out. Lay the crust on top of the apples and
bake. To be eaten hot with sweet sauce, flavored
with lemon or vanilla. Other kinds of fruit may
be used in the same manner.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	For Wakefulness at Night.—Take about 20
grains of carbonate of soda in half a glass of wa-
ter before going to bed. The best remedies are
hygiene diet, cold water, exercise, brisk walking
and gymnastic exercise for half an hour before go-
ing to bed.
	To Cure a Felon.—As soon as the part begins
to swell, wrap the part with a cloth thoroughly
saturated with tincture of lobelia, and the felon is
dead. It is said this never fails to cure if applied
in season.
	Another: The following simple remedy is said
by an exchange to be a sure cure. Take common
rock salt, dry it in an oven, then pound it fine and
mix it with spirits of turpentine in equal parts.
Put it on a rag and wrap it round the finger, and
as it gets dry put on some more, and in twenty-
four hours we are assured the felon will be dead.
	And Another: Take half a gill of strong vine-
gar, dissolve in it a teaspoonful or more of salera-
tus; heat it as hot as the flesh can bear; soak the
felon in it as long as desirable. Repeat the ap-
plication as often as the pain returns, and a cure is
certain. This remedy must be applied in the first
stages, as it is of no avail after the finger is greatly
swollen.
	Insanity.—The principal causes of insanity are
the result of an inordinate mode of living, eating
and drinking those articles which coagulate the
blood, and consume the natural forces; and also
the effect of medicines, which have for the last
half century been taken into the human system


under all circumstances. Study the emanations of
physical laws and adhere to the requirements of
the circulating medium, which moves the wheel of
life and carries in its force of action the finer ele-
ments thrown upon the tissues of the brain. If
this circulation becomes impeded, especially through
the brain, it creates an obstruction which destroys
the equillibrium, and insanity must ensue in a
greater cr less degree. Opiates and other concen-
trated medicines, which are now so freely used
are often the cause of insanity. It is possible for
insanity to be brought on by suffering, but unless
the brain had previously become diseased from
some other cause, I am inclined to think physical
force would succumb to suffering before the intel-
lect. Live in accordance with the finer elements
of life and health, and then nature will sway the
sceptre of her utmost power.
						Mrs. C. Van Cort.


PARAGRAPH FROM A GENTILE
LADY'S LETTER.

TO MRS. M. A. BOISE, ONEIDA CO.,
IDAHO.

	I get the WOMAN'S EXPONENT regularly,
and tongue can not express the thanks I
have to offer you for sending me such a val-
uable paper. You cannot know what solid
comfort I take in reading it. I see the util-
ity of your good Relief Societies there in
the Mormon Church. Where is there an-
other church where the women work for
each other's benefit like the women of
Utah? This paper is, in a great measure,
removing the prejudice from some who
thought that there was no good among the
Mormons.
	HARRIET M. PURVINES.
Petersburg, III., Dec. 15, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		110


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

						Dec. 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to your request I write to in-
form you of the feeling existing in our set-
tlement in regard to the Grain Question.
We feel with the rest of our sisters to obey
counsel; we have met together and talked
upon the subject, we intend to take meas-
ures to secure some grain, if not much; we
have not a great deal in our settlement; we
were visited by early frost which cut our
crops short. We feel to make some united
effort, and do all we possibly can, then leave
the result to the Lord. I will write to you
again after we have ascertained or decided
what we can do under the circumstances.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH CLARKE.
	Weston, Oneida Co., Idaho.

			SALEM, UTAH, Dec. 17, 1876.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The EXPONENT becomes more interesting
as it grows older, particularly the last num-
ber excels all the rest. I do not wish to
miss one number as I have taken it from
the first. It makes my heart feel thankful
to God when I read the doings of the sis-
ters, and may God bless them in their
glorious undertaking, and when gaunt hun-
ger stalks abroad may their bins be over-
flowing that none may call in vain on them
for assistance.
	Success to the EXPONENT, and all con-
nected with it is the constant prayer of
your sister in the Gospel,
				MATILDA. P. KILLIAN.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Amid the cogitations of my mind I have
dwelt with amazement on the title which
has been placed upon the societies of wo-
men. The word Relief fills my soul with
reflections such as how shall I with dignity
fill such a responsible calling; viz., to make
my home comfortable, to make those going
from home happy and contented, relieving
the wants of a large family circle in sick-
ness or trouble; responding to the require-
ments of my husband in his every day busi-
ness, and instructing the household that
they be economical and discharge their du-
ties faithfully, so as to relieve the father
and husband of unecessary costs etc; and if
I think I will while away an hour or two in
gossip, and rest my mind a little, just then
my attention is called to one who is in need
of relief, perhaps sick, or in trouble or des-
titute of the comforts of life, that perhaps
I may relieve a little in word or deed; then
I must omit my anticipated gossiping, con-
sequently I fear I shall not be posted in my
neighbors business, and the interesting
chit chat, which the Apostle James tells
us about in giving his description of the
tongue, will have to be put off. Then
comes a paper, perhaps the EXPONENT, of
course I am anxious to read that, here I find
reports from the several branches of the Re-
lief Society which are organized and set
apart to relieve the wants of the afflicted,
and those who are unfortunate and down-
cast. And as I have a responsible calling
in this Relief Association, I ask myself,
how shall I honor this calling? I must
cease to portray and represent the weak-
nesses of others, I will not assist to bind
down the broken hearted, I must not be
hasty in giving my decision on hearing a
rumor, as they often arise from misunder-
standings only, while a hasty reply is the
cause of many difficulties; nor will I say

[Column 2]
that the commandment of saving grain,
given by our honorable president is a spec-
ulative one, but rather will I say I have
been a participant of hard times in the past
and will exert my energies with those of
my sisters who are trying to make better
the future. In this life-giving counsel, we
have a chance to exhibit relief beyond our
present comprehension. I am happy to say
that our honorable bishop and others of the
brethren are willing to assist us in procur-
ing and storing away grain, and we as a lit-
tle band of sisters are united in this sub-
lime matter; and let us chime in together
with the poem: "Hard times, Hard times
come again no more."
	With congratulation, I am
					Yours Truly,
							M. A. BOICE.
	Oxford, Dec. 2, 1876.


CHURCH HISTORIAN'S OFFICE,
	Dec. 19, 1876.

To Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, E. R.
	Snow, and all others who contributed in
	any way to the present to the Historian's
	Office:

	Please to accept of our hearty thanks and
gratitude for your Christmas present to our
office, in the shape of a handsome home-
made carpet. Wishing you every blessing
the Almighty can bestow, together with a
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year,
	ORSON PRATT, Sen.,
	GUS M. CLARKE,
	JOAN M. CAMPBELL


HUMILITY.

	Humility is the subject before the meet-
ing, and it is very important that we study
and reflect so that we may comprehend it
in its true light. We should all live hum-
ble and prayerful that the spirit of God
may dwell in our bosoms, and so that there
be nothing to grieve it from us. The Lord
says "if ye are not as humble as little
children ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven." Then let us examine our-
selves and see if we are sufficiently humble
and that we remember His words, for the
Lord means just what He says. He is the
same yesterday, to-day and forever. How
shall we then keep this spirit of humility
with us? Will it be by neglecting our du-
ties and by forgetting God and letting our
thoughts be carried away with worldly
things? No! I think not. We must seek
the Lord often in earnest prayer, and ask
Him to endow us with that spirit of meek-
ness that will bring to our hearts true joy
and lasting happiness. We know that God
is no respecter of persons, but acknowledges
every honest heart, no matter whether the
possessor dwells in a hut or a palace. Our
Father in heaven knows our motives and
desires, and is not pleased with outward
display.
	We are striving to assist in advancing
the kingdom of God on the earth, and we
cannot do this except we cherish this spirit
of humility. Then my sisters let it be our
aim to serve the Lord with all our might,
mind and strength if we expect to be num-
bered with the chosen. We cannot serve
the Lord with one hand and Satan with the
other. We must be saints in very deed.
Our whole souls must be in the work, other-
wise we can accomplish but very little good.
It will not do to say we will accept this and
reject that. True saints must embrace
every principle pertaining to salvation, ad-
vanced by the servants of God, and try to


live in accordance with the same. There
is nothing too hard for us to do in order
that we may obtain our exaltation. God re-
quires nothing of His children that they
are not able to perform, but we must be
determined, and pray for strength and it
will be given us. The Lord is very merci-
ful; He is always more willing to bestow
than we are to receive and obey. Our re-
ligion brings to us sweet and holy feelings
and we will obtain eternal life through its
teachings if we seek for it truly, and is it
not worth working for, and enduring all the
little trials of this life?
	Let us be obedient to those who are
placed over us, and the Lord will bless us;
and especially let us carry out the wishes of
our president, and do all we can to encour-
age her, and sustain her with our faith and
prayers. We have a glorious work to ac-
complish here below. We each have a
mission to perfect ourselves, and prepare
for the great hereafter.
	Sisters let us then be united, for in unity
there is strength. Let us sustain each oth-
er and devote all our time and talents to
the building up of the kingdom of God, so
that we may have His spirit at all times.
					JOSEPHINE MYER.
	11th Ward Relief Association, Sept., 1876.


VERDI thus describes the fashion in
which he composes: "I first study thor-
oughly the characters of the dramatis per-
sonae. Then I commit the libretto to mem-
ory, and, girding myself for the task, work
away for eight or nine months, and more
if necessary, until the opera is completed.
Meanwhile I only live in my imagination;
hence my irritability, ill-humor, and inciv-
ility; for, though I am a bear by nature, at
such times I become more of a bear than
ever." Verdi rarely attends the theatre,
especially the opera. It is said that he nev-
er witnessed the representation of his
"Ballo in Maschera" until ten years after
its first appearance upon the stage. A man
of culture, he is a connoisseur in art, is
thoroughly versed in Italian, French and
Spanish literature, and is familiar with the
best German and English authors. He has
frequent recourse to the original source of
his inspiration, the Bible. Though he styles
himself a "bear," and often alludes with a
spice of pleasantry to his peasant birth, he
is courteous though simple in his manners,
easy and fluent in his conversation, and per-
sonally a great favorite among his more in-
timate friends. A Senator of the Kingdom,
he betrays no ambition to shine as a parlia-
mentary leader.


When Professor Aytoun was making pro-
posals of marriage to his first wife, a daugh-
ter of the celebrated Professor Wilson, the
lady reminded him that it would be neces-
sary to ask the approval of her sire.
	"Certainly," said Aytoun; "but as I am a
little diffident in speaking to him on this
subject, you must just go and tell him my
proposals yourself."
	The lady proceeded to the library, and
taking her father affectionately by the
hand, mentioned that Professor Aytoun had
asked her to become his wife. She added,
"Shall I accept his offer papa? He says he
is too diffident to name the subject to you-
himself."
	"Then" said old Christopher, "I had bet-
ter write my reply and pin it to your back."
He did so, and the lady returned to the
drawing-room. There the anxious suitor
read the answer to his message, which was
in these words: "With the author's compli-
ments."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"I THINK I will have Autumn leaves on
my new hat," said she. "I am glad of it,"
said he, "for Autumn leaves are falling."
	A would-be gentleman, the other day,
called at the post-office, and displayed his
ignorance of natural history or the French
language, or both, by requesting to be sup-
plied with a stamped antelope!
	UNEXPECTED HARMONY.—He was carv-
ing at dinner, and thought he must talk to
the aesthetic-looking angel on his right.
"How do you like Beethoven?" asked he,
at a venture. "Well done," said she
promptly, interested in the business at
hand.
	It was sometimes the custom of the poet
Wordsworth to ramble about the country in
his neighborhood composing poems aloud.
The estimate placed on that sort of thing
by those of the vicinity may appear by the
answer of a poor man who was breaking
stones on the Rydal road. A gentleman
who knew both him and Wordsworth found
him at work one day, and greeted him
with, "Good morning, John. What news
have you this morning?"
	"Why, nothing very particular, only old
Wordsworth's broken loose again."
	And when the poet died, a sympathizing
neighbor suggested, as an alleviation for
the affliction, that "the mistress is a clever-
ish sort of body, I reckon she can carry on
the business."


LANGUAGE OF FINGER-RINGS—In case
of a gentleman wishing to marry—literally
in the market with his heart—he wears a
plain or chased gold ring upon the first fin-
ger of the left or heart hand. When suc-
cess attends his suit, and he is actually en-
gaged, the ring passes to the second finger.
After marriage it passes to the third finger.
If, however, the gentleman desires to tell
the fair ones that he not only is not "in the
market," but does not design to marry at
all; he wears the signet upon his little fin-
ger, and all ladies may understand that he
is out of their reach. With the fair sex
the "laws of the ring" are: A plain or chased
gold ring on the little finger of the right
hand implies "not engaged," or in plainer
words, "ready for proposals, sealed or other-
wise." When engaged, the ring passes to
the third finger of the right hand. When
married, the third finger of the left hand
receives it. If the fair one proposes to defy
all seige to her heart, she passes the rings
on her first and fourth fingers—one on each
—like two charms to keep away the tempt-
er. It is somewhat singular that this dis-
position of rings is rare,


THOMAS C. JONES, of Salt Lake City,
brush maker, requests the people of Utah
who are killing pigs this winter to save the
bristles, and when they come to the city be
so kind as to bring them and leave them
with David Hilton, butcher, at the Tithing
Office. Bro. Jones can't give pay for them
as the work of preparing them will not af-
ford it, and so asks it as a favor.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.
[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1877.	No. 16.


HOROSCOPE.

My baby sleeps: his precious head is laid
Upon my arm close to my happy heart.
In all the beauty of sweet infancy,
And heavenly innocence, and undefiled,
Angelic purity, he nestles close
Within my sheltering arms; and, gazing now
Upon thy fair, unconscious face, my son,
And feeling deep within my love-rapt heart
The countless worth of one pure infant soul,
My spirit kindles with the living glow
Of prophecy; to-night I could withdraw
The close-drawn vail between the fleeing now,
And that bright realm of hope futurity,
And say, dear child, what life will bring to thee.

My mother-heart, with all its love and pride,
Would crown thee king in heart and mind and soul,
Without one mortal frailty strong enough to chain
Thy heavenward aspiring soul to earth.
It pictures thee so strong that thou canst lend
A helping hand to all the weak and frail;—
So brave that courage shall ignite anew
The failing fires of hope in many a heart
Whose lamp of faith is flickering dim and low,
And from whose failing arm the strength is gone;—
So great the meanest never fear to claim
Their little due, their modest consequence;
So pure that gold, though seven fold refined
Is base alloy beside thy spotless worth,
And Christ himself, though Lamb of Innocence,
Might well delight to share with thee His crown.
Oh, joy! I will the mystic vail unclose
And feast my soul upon this vision bright,
And bask in light thus shining from afar,
And bless my motherhood thus glorified!

But stay! a shadow gloomy, strange and chill,
Falls o'er the glowing presage fancy wrought,
And bids me, sorely 'gainst my willingness,
See, what might be the bitter opposite—
My noble giant weak, and frail, and vile;
Speed like mad charges to the gulf of death;
This lily hand, which I so fondly kiss,
Imbued in some weak brother's welling blood;
This seraph brow black with the brand of Cain.
This incense breath hot with the fumes of wine;
And, reeking with the foul narcotic weed,
These censer lips pollute with blasphemy;
Woe! shame! My brain grows sick and wild
My tortured fancy shrinks aghast—appalled
I dare not look! Oh, draw the curtain close,
Lest I be seared in heart, and brain, and eye.
Thou God of love, and could it then be so,
That this white soul could grow so black and vile?
Oh! rather take him to thy heart of love,
mind leave me on the earth without a child.

I strain my cherub to my bursting heart,
And shower tender kisses, fervent prayers,
And tears of grief and love upon his head.
Love is so strong, and yet so powerless
To hedge the loved one in from danger dire!
I can but pray; 'tis he—this child—alone
Who must the fearful conflict win or lose.
I can but feebly arm the unskilled hand,
Almighty God, but thou canst make it strong.—
The waves of thought sweep swiftly on and on
Till, through my love-born, deep anxiety,
Unto my troubled heart the "still small voice"
Breathes low and sweetly, "Peace, be still!"

Though earth be overrun with craft and guile,
And men defile their bodies and their souls,
And say God sleeps, and neither hears nor sees
Their deep iniquities, I am awake!
I have reserved unto this fearful day,
Unto myself a chosen noble few.
To come forth now—to shine on earth
A living light that all who will may see.
Let thine be one: and do thou watch and pray,
And pour into his soul my living word
To be his spirit's light 'mid deepest dark,
His sure defense whatever foes assail;
His arm of strength to raise my fallen ones;
His heart of grace the weakest ne'er to scorn;
His rock of faith which shall forever stand;—
Do this, O mother, and be strong of heart,
For all who trust in Me shall surely find
My word returns not void; nor one true soul
Will I forsake:—Remember I am God."
	LU DALTON.


[Column 1]
				LETTER.

						Dec. 28th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A sense of gratitude impels this attempt
to address you, and a species of gratitude
that only the "absent one" can feel for
aught which speaks of home and its beloved
associations. I do not wish you to think
your little paper is unappreciated; it is a
regular and truly welcome visitor, and its
contents I peruse with the deepest interest,
especially the accounts of the noble efforts
of our sisters to carry out the counsels of
our President. How nobly they are work-
ing: and truly the results of past endeav-
ors have proven what the united efforts of
faithful women can accomplish. Who can
but recognize the important role played by
WOMAN in every community. No organiz-
ation is complete without her influence, and
whree is her influence more potent and
more freely acknowledged than among the
Latter-day Saints. The world regard Po-
lygamy as degrading and lowering, and as
the great circumscriber of the intellectual
faculties of woman, but how well do we
know the contrary to be the truth, and un-
derstand the great advantages of a family
organized upon this elevated plan. Every
wife is benefitted both temporally and spir-
itually, and her sphere becomes broader,
grander and holier. Not only can we per-
form the sacred duties of wife and mother,
so dear to every true woman's heart, but
our usefulness can extend to other great
and glorious fields, and we can be as co-
workers with our brethren in rolling forththe great work of the Latter days.
	In addition to the counsel to organize in-
to Relief and Retrenchment Societies—the
great blessing of which all Israel can but
acknowledge—we have had many other im-
portant counsels, which the majority of our
sisters have faithfully endeavored to put
into execution, and the results have gener-
ally proven satisfactory, because our Father
is the great instigator of all.
	Cultivate the mulberry and manufacture
silk; make your own hats and bonnets, and
"let your adornments be the workmanship
of your own hands." In short the idea is,
sustain home manufacture in every sense of
the word, by your faith, your prayers, your
patronage, and by conducting and sustain-
ing an institution wherein home products
may be bought and sold.
	And now the word is, "Sisters, go thou to
and save the grain." What a mission! Do
we feel sufficiently the responsibility? Truly
it should be regarded as the "word of the
Lord," and we should understand that all
assist in this enterprise by retrenching
from every superfluity and practising wise
economy.
	Then let us all be gleaners, that the great
Reaper may not be forced to chastise us for
extravagance, or indolence, but seeing our
faithfulness and diligence, will, as in that
harvest time of old, leave for us "a few
bundles by the wayside."

	Then, sisters, work with woman's will,
	And all the bins and gran'ries fill;
	Yes, every mother, sister, wife
	Save grain for "bread—the staff of life."
	That when the time so long declared

[Column 2]
	Shall come, we'll not be unprepared;
	Save every penny, nickel, dime—
	Lay by your frills and ribbons fine,
	Retrench from all that will not give
	Results to teach us how to live
	According to the counsels given
	By noble men inspired of Heaven.

	Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and all other efforts of our sisters to obey
counsel, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
							I. V. H.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CONGRESS RECEIVED on Tuesday, Jan. 2;
the staues of Adams and Winthrop, as
the gift of the State to the Pantheon in the
old Hall of Representatives at Washington.
	"HISTORY AND Description of the Cen-
tennial Exhibition.". In a very attractive
volume, Edward C. Bruce condenses a his-
tory of the late Centennial Exhibition; and
by the aid of pen and picture brings the
whole event before the reader in a living
panorama. It will be of great interest to
those who visited the Exposition.
	AS HAS been mentioned, the next Inter-
national Exhibition will be at Paris; con-
tracts for the buildings and other works are
already given out, and it is announced that
the opening will be on the 1st of May, 1878.
The Prince of Wales has authorized the
British amdassador at Paris to declare, in
his name, that he will send for exhibition
the fine collection of interesting and pre-
cious objects that he brought with him from
the East.
	TEMPORARY STARS are occasionally dis-
covered in the heavens which suddenly
flare up with intense brightness, remain
shining a while, and then dwindle down to
very small stars or disappear entirely. On
November 24 a brightly radiating star was
seen in the constellation of Cygnus by an
astronomer at the observatory in Athens,
Greece. On December 20 this new star was
found and examined at the Litchfield Ob-
servatory of Hamilton College. It was
then greatly reduced in size from what it
was when first seen. The most remarkable
temporary star on record is the Nova of
Tycho Brahe, that appeared in 1572 in Cas-
siopeia. It became bright as Venus, and
was even visible in the daytime. It could
be seen with the naked eye for seventeen
months.
	REFERENCE WAS made some time ago to
a plan for the fertilization of Africa, by the
submerging of the desert of Sahara through
a canal which would let in the waters of the
Mediterranean. This seems to have been
abandoned, as it was feared that very great
meteorological changes might be produced
thereby, which might be prejudicial. It is
now proposed to submerge a part of North
Africa by a canal from the Gulf of Gabes,
letting in the waters of the Mediterranean
westwards, over the lake region of Djerid;
and this scheme is said to be not only prac-
ticable, but likely to prove remunerative;
the area being comparatively small, and the
meteorological changes likely to be slight,
quite local, and beneficial.


122		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS

	The General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Dec. 23rd, 1876, was presided
over by Mrs. M. I. Horne, who had been for
some time absent, and who expressed her-
self gratified to be again at home with the
sisters, who were co-workers with each
other in the great work of the improvement
of the spiritual and temporal condition of
the saints. She called the attention of the
sisters to the many duties to be performed,
and the necessity of diligence and faithful-
ness; she referred to the preparation the
sisters had been called upon to make in re-
spect to the future, when famine, pestilence
and destruction would visit the nations.
She exhorted the sisters to pray for wis-
dom, and listen to the still small voice bear-
ing witness in their hearts to the words of
eternal life. She referred the sisters to the
subject of the closing year, and entreated
them to consider well their opportunities
and blessings, and desired that each one of
those who had taken upon them the name
of Saint should honor it and improve
every good gift or talent, and devote them-
selves to the great work of reformation and
redemption. She told the sisters God had
revealed His relationship to the children of
men, and it devolved upon all to seek
mightily to carry out the Savior's golden
rule, "To do unto others as we would they
should do unto us," and overcome the self-
ishness which has become so general all
over the world, and penetrated into the
church and kingdom of God.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow then address-
ed the meeting upon the subject of punctu-
ality; said it was not only the key to busi-
ness but to the confidence of the people; it
is one of the essential traits of character to
cultivate, and should be carefully observed.
Counselor Zina D. Young and herself had
been North and held meetings in Harris-
ville, Mariot, and met with the brethren
and sisters in Kaysville. They found the
people waking up considerably to the inter-
ests and welfare of Zion. She spoke con-
cerning the Lamanites, and some manifest-
ation s that had been given to the sisters,
and gave much valuable instruction.
	Counselors Zina D. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith and several other sisters spoke
upon subjects which are applicable to the
present time.

				TOOELE, Jan. 5, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We wish to say a few words to our sisters
through your columns, to let them know
how we are prospering, and if possible to
give some poor encouragement to others
who are trying to walk in the same narrow
path. We opened our new Hall on the 22d
of December, to help defray some of the
building expenses, and I can say our party
was quite a success. We partook of supper
prepared by the several sisters in the school-
house opposite the new Hall; about seventy
sat down to the tables which were luxuri-
antly supplied with the good things of the
earth. A good spirit and feeling prevailed
throughout the entertainment; those who
participated in the dance enjoyed it ex-
ceedingly, and harmony and union charac-
terized the assembly. The sisters in every
ward donated liberally in the way of provi-
sions and delicacies, and there was an abun-
dance left to distribute among the poor and
also to the poor Indians, who have not yet
learned the art of cultivating the soil, and
supplying themselves with the comforts
they see us enjoying. Nothing was lost or

[Column 2]

wasted, and a great deal of good must be
the result of such gatherings.
	On the 25th another party was given for
the same purpose, viz., to receive means to
help defray expenses of the building of
the Hall. The sisters of the Relief Society
are alive to their duties; we have some-
thing near one hundred bushels of wheat
laid up for a future day, for those emergen-
cies which have been predicted. We feel
thankful for the knowledge given us through
inspiration, that we may prepare ourselves
and thus escape some of the many calam-
ities which will transpire in the last dispen-
sation. We meet every two weeks in the
new meeting house, when we enjoy the
Spirit of the Lord, and those who attend
regularly feel desirous to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of redemp-
tion. Our President, Sister Micklejohn, is
earnest in exhorting the sisters to become
united and live their religion to its truest
sense and spirit. Your excellent paper is
read with great interest, and the best
wishes are expressed for the advancement
of every good work.
	We remain your sisters &c.,
		EMILY WARBURTON, Sec'y.
			ANN YATE, Ass't Sec'y.

	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Co., Dec. 13, 1876.
	By request of our President, Mrs. S. A.
Petersen, I send you a report of what the
sisters in Ephraim are doing about the
"storing of Grain." The Sisters of the re-
lief Society went out in the harvest field
one day each, to glean; they gleaned fifty
bushels. They have also made cheese and
and jeans which they have sold; and pieced
up patch-work quilts and obtained one hun-
dred and seventeen bushels more, making
one hundred and sixty-seven bushels be-
longing to the Society.
	In addition to this our President has pro-
posed a plan, that as many sisters as choose
to co-operate together and take shares, one
bushel of wheat being a share, the wheat to
be untouched until a time of famine. This
wheat to be earned by the sisters them-
selves not troubling their husbands about
it at all; and strive to increase the amount
of their shares until famine puts a stop to
their exertions in that line. Several sisters
have taken shares, some one, some two,
some five, according to their ability. The
shares already taken amount to one hun-
dred and thirty-three bushels; so we have
altogether, three hundred bushels. The
Bishop has promised us a bin in the new
store-house when it is finished. The sis-
ters are alive to their duties in the Gospel,
and in all the labors pertaining to the
kingdom.
	I will close with best wishes for your
happiness.
	AGNES ARMSTRONG.

	PAYSON, Jan. 4, 1877.
Editor Exponent:
	At a meeting held by the Relief Society
Dec. 6, 1876, B. J. Simons was chosen
President of the Purchasing Committe,
Mrs. Martha Simons, Mrs. Susan Fair-
banks and Mrs. Clarissa Moore to solicit do-
nations and purchase grain, Mrs. Ann Mat-
tison and Mrs. Sarah Ann Reece Assistants,
Mrs. Agnes Douglas Treasurer, Mrs. M. A.
Hardy Secretary.
	We have on hand nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat with a prospect of more;
the sisters feel with our President and
Counsel that the move is a grand one; and

[Column 3]

they all desire to be one with their sisters
in Salt Lake City and throughout Utah in
aiding, with all their might and strength,
to roll on the great work in which we are
all engaged; they join with me in love,
wishing you a happy New Year.
	I deeply sympathize with our dear sister
Mrs. L. Greene Richards in the death of
her little girl, having buried five children
myself. How sweet were the words that
flowed from her pen in the Exponent of
Nov. 15th; may our Heavenly Father bless
and comfort her
	Your sister &c.,
		M. A. HARDY.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

			PLAIN CITY, Jan. 6, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	We have just had our first meeting, to
talk about the call there was made on us to
store up grain as helpmeets in the kingdom
of God. We are all willing to do the best
we can with the little means we have; our
President says we can afford to buy fifty
bushels at ninety cents per bushel. We
have got a good bin to store it in, and hope,
by the help of God and of our brethren,
we will still add to it an abundant supply
in the future. Thare is no sickness in our
place, nor starving poor.
	God bless you and all who try to do right
is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				A. C. HEDVIG HANSEN.

				SANTAQUIN, Jan. 3, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In accordance with your wishes, I write
to inform you that the Relief Society of
this place has responded to the call in rela-
tion to storing grain. A good spirit pre-
vails among the sisters, and all feel willing
to carry out the counsel of President Young
in regard to storing up grain.
	Bro. August Tietgen has kindly given
us the use of one of his wheat bins, until
our good brothers can build us a granary.
The sisters have nobly and liberally given
according to their circumstances, and have
donated at present sixty-five bushels, and
the stream still continues. We feel willing,
with the help of our Father in heaven, to
do all we can in storing up grain for our
temporal salvation; and, dear sisters, when
we have secured the grain, let us be faith-
fnl stewards over the same, and, putting
our trust in God, leave the event with Him.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
				ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY.

			BEAVER CITY, Jan. 3, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I wish to add to the testimony of my sis-
ters a few thoughts and suggestions in re-
gard to the interests in which the women of
Utah are engaged. I feel a great interest
in the EXPONENT; I would rather miss a
meal of victuals daily than be without it.
Times are dull and money scarce, but I know
the feelings of the greater number are that
the EXPONENT should be sustained as well
as to attend to every other call made upon
us now—the laying up of grain, assisting
msssionaries, caring for our own poor, the
Woman's Book, and sundry other duties
and responsibilities. We have built a gran-
ary sufficiently large to hold four or five
hundred bushels of grain, and have placed
a small quantity of grain in it, and we in-
tend to add to it as fast as it is in our power,
and also to build a larger building when
needed for our increased supplies.
	Your sister &c.,
					RUTH W. TYLER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		123


For the EXPONENT.
A VOICE FROM AN ABSENT ONE.

The wintry day, now drawing to its close,
Invites all wearied nature to repose,
And shades of night are falling dense and fast,
Like sable curtains closing o'er the past.
Pale, through the gloom, the newly fallen snow
Lays like a shroud upon the earth below;
As though, in mercy, God had spread the p[-]ll—
A symbol of forgiveness to us all.
The flood of thought, which struggles to be free,
Now opens wide the gates of memory;
Love lights the way, and, guided by its beam,
My soul floats on the surface of the stream.
I cannot go to rest, but linger still
In meditation at the window sill,
While, like the twinkling stars in heaven's dome,
Come, one by one, sweet memories of home.
And wouldst thou ask me where my fancy roves
To reproduce the happy scenes it loves?
Where hope and memory together dwell,
And paint the pictured beauties that I tell?
Far, far away, among the Western hills
And gardens watered by the mountain rills:
Where giant peaks uprear their heads so high
The cloud capped-summits seem to pierce the sky;
Where smiling valleys, from the desert torn,
Redeemed, are waving with their golden corn;
Where virtue, truth and innocence, allied,
Are held in veneration—far and wide;
Where sweet religion in its purity
Invites all men to its security:
There is my home—the spot I love so well—
Whose modest worth and beauty few can tell—
Away beyond the prairies of the West,
Where exiled saints, in solitude, were blessed;
Where industry the seal of wealth has set
Amit the peaceful vales of Deseret.
Unheeding still, the fiercest blasts that blow—
With tops encrusted by eternal snow—
The peaks, with bases set on rock-bound sod,
Stand, types of freedom, reared by nature's God.
The winter snows melt, part, in summer's beams,
And from the canyons rush the crystal streams—
Our God protects the church of His first born—
And winds are tempered to the lamb that's shorn—
Divinity the bounteous means supplies
A desert to reclaim and fertilize.
Throughout this place, for nine and twenty years,—
Since, first, the little band of pioneers
Explored the waste, and opened up the way
For those who followed at a later day—
Have lived a people, honest, firm and g[-]o[-];
Who, by their mighty faith in God, withstood
The wrath of man and nature, in a cause
Which comprehended His eternal laws.
The wilderness that naught, before, could yield,
Is now become a fertile, fruitful field:
Where roamed at will the savage Indian bands,
In pride and wealth a peaceful city stands.
All men who seek the truth are welcome there;
All followers of Christ their bounty share;
And all, who cast base prejudice away
And let impartial judgment bear the sway,
Will find a virtuous people, falsified
To whom a freeman's just right is denied. 'I
Sweet Mountain Home! The refuge of the world—
Though persecution's rage is at thee hurled,
Thou shalt stand firm, for God in thy defense,
Will waste thy foes with war and pestilence.
This is His promise—will He break it? No,
We've proved Him oft, and know it must be so.
Then be we brave as lions—meek as doves—
For such our Father, in His wisdom, loves.
Heed not the slander of the evil tongue,
Nor doubt, the hand of God is o'er us hung.
Has He not said—"The weak of earth I take
The power of the worldly wise to shake?"
And has he not, in many scenes now past,
Proved that he will be with us to the last?
Then let each simple daily action prove
That we are striving to deserve His love.
"Feed and clothe the poor, comfort those who mourn"
And heal the wounded heart by sorrow torn,
Keep His commandments—to all men be true,
"Do unto others as we'd have them do;"
And let our faith and trust unaltered to
In God—through time and all eternity.
									O. F. W


"AM you familiar wid de Talmud?" asked
a literary African of a sable brother; to
which the latter responded, "De tall mud?"
"Yes, sah, to de tallest kind ob mud. I'm
a native of New York and to de mud and
manner born."


[Column 1]
		NOTES ON TEMPERANCE.

	TO THE SUNDAY SCHOOLS OF AMERICA.

	We are sometimes told that total absti-
nence is not temperance. What is tem-
perance? Let me give you a short reply.
Temperance is the lawful gratification of a
natural appetite. Is the appetite for intox-
icating liquors a natural appetite? No.
Therefore temperance is total abstinence
from intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
	This principle is a sensible principle.
When you are as old as I am, you will re-
gret many things you have learned in the
past; but you will never regret that you
did not learn to use intoxicating liquor. I
have never met a person, nor do I believe
you can find the person in the world who
would say, "I am fifty years of age, and
never drank a glass of liquor in my life;
and I regret that I did not learn to drink it
when I was young." No. When you meet
with one who has never drank, he tells you,
"I am glad of it," or, "I am proud of it."
A man once called on me, and said; "I am
not a reformer. I care little for reforms, or
missions, or Sunday schools. They are all
very well in their way, but they are not in
my line. I have been an actor since I was
eighteen, and I am now forty-three, and I
never drank a glass of ale, wine or spirits in
my life. What do you think of that?" I
am pooud of it. He had little care for re-
form, but he never drank liquor in his life,
and was proud of it.
	Dear children, you would be shocked if
you could read some of the letters that lie
in my desk, and that have been written to
me by persons of all grades of society—
young men, old men, lawyers, physicians,
ministers of the Gospel, teachers, mechan-
ics, clerks, and some ladies—who have ac-
quired the appetite for strong drink. One
says, "Dives in hell never longed for a drop
of water, as with all the power there is in
me I long for drink." Another says, "Is
there any hope for me this side of the
grave?" Another says, "God knows how
near I have been to self destruction through
drink," and so on.
	One poor man, actually holding my feet,
cried out, "O! help me out of this hell,
Drink is my curse." Yes, dear children,
the cry comes from the inmates of the lu-
natic asylums, "Drink is my curse;" from
the state prisons, "Drink is my curse;"
from innocent victims—wives, mothers,
children, "Drink is my curse;" from the
burning lips of the dying drunkard comes
the despairing cry, "Drink is my curse."
There are broken hearts, blighted hopes,
blackened characters, crushed intellects,
and lost souls as the results of strong drink,
and not a single individual but rejoices in
his escape from it.
	Is not the total abstinence principle sen-
sible? "But all who drink do not become
drunkards." I know that; but if fifty
young men begin to drink, some will assur-
edly be rnined by it. Then there is a risk.
Now we all desire safety and security.
Suppose you desire to travel from New
York to Chicago, and there were two lines
of road—one on which there were accidents
constantly occurring; on every train some
disaster, passengers killed and wounded; in
short, a very risky road;—and on the other,
never since its opening had there been the
slightest accident. Which road would you
take? If you are sensible, and regard your
own welfare, you would take the safe one.
Suppose some one should tempt you to take
the risky road, by telling you how much
more beautiful the cars were, and what a

[Column 2]
jolly company you would find on board the
train. You would say, "I care not so much
for the gaudy cars and jolly company as for
my safety. I want to be safe." Now it is
your safety we seek, when we urge you to
abstain entirely from strong drink. There
is no certainty that you will become vic-
tims if you begin to indulge, but there is a
risk.
	Some say, "I can govern myself; I have a
mind of my own." What would you think
of a captain of a steam vessel who would
put on a full head of steam, and then knock
down the man at the wheel? Or, of a con-
ductor on a railroad, who would let on the
steam and then disable the engineer? You
would say he was a reckless man. The
steamer or the engine might get through
without accident, but it might go crashing
to destruction. So when a person, using
that which weakens the power of his will,
depends on his weakened will to serve him,
—using that which warps his judgment,
and then depends on his warped judge-
ment to guide him,—using that which af-
fects his self-control, and then trusts his de-
ranged self-control to keep him from dan-
ger—he is reckless. Simply because some
men drink and do not become drunkards,
can you? I once saw a man stand on
a small platform outside the spire of a
church, and looked down on the pavement
150 feet below. Because he did it, can you?
Think of these things before you run the
risk, ank remember what the risk is.
	You have, under God, the future in your
power; your destiny in your own control.
Remember there is no one evil in the world
before which so many fall, as the evil of in-
temperance.
	I most earnestly desire that the youth of
our country, especially our Sabbath-school
scholars, shall give all their influence
against this great evil. May God help you
to avoid the perils in life's journey, and the
traps that are set for your feet, so that from
your place of safety you may reach out
your hand to help the tempted who are
sturggling in their chains, and may by self-
denial be enabled to "fulfill the law of 
Christ," by helping some poor, burdened
souls into the higher life of purity and
freedom!—Messenger of Peace.


A POPULAR "SAVING'S BANK."

	An exchange says:
	"A saving woman at the head of a family
is the very best savings bank yet establish-
ed."	Possibly, but there is small incentive for
a woman to establish these banks, for after
a long life of rigid economy and careful
painstaking the entire accumulations are
beyond her reach and belong solely in law
as well as in name to her husband. The
use of one-third during her lifetime, and
the "bank" building rent free for one year
to live in after the death of the husband is
by men's laws and enactments deemed suf-
ficient compensaaion to the woman to whom
by common consent is accorded the credit
of saving the whole. Women who have to
"pray the court for relief" in the shape of a
monthly stipend for the support of them-
selves and children and find this doled out
to them from their own "savings bank,"
according to a stranger's judgment of their
needs, understand this matter. While
present customs obtain, we don't advise
any woman to deny herself anything that
the finances of the firm will purchase, in
order to build up a future over which she
has no control.—Ex.


124		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one-year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
		WORK FOR A PURPOSE.

	There has just arisen for man and woman-
kind another year; with each successive year it
is customary to take a g[-]ance of retrospection
over the past one and contrast it with what
one had previously thought to accomplish.
There seems to be allotted to all persons a cer-
tain round of duties which some seem bound
to perform faithfully, and others dally over or
neglect. To the diligent it is always a source
of unpleasantness not to be able to do all that
seems necessary. If men or women resolve to 
approach a certain standard of excellence and
catch up all the little tangled threads dropped
inadvertently as they travel on the great high-
way of life, they must exercise all the energies
and fortitude they possess and even then it 
will be no easy sask. One great advantage the
diligent and constant worker has, is a freedom
from melancholy; regular work cheers the 
spirits and enlivens many otherwise lonely
hours. It is an antidote for sadness and de-
spondency. People live longer and enjoy life
more completely who have a settled object in 
view.	There is a great work to be done in this gen-
eration and those who are interested in the 
welfare of posterity should be willing and anx-
ious to take up their share of duties and respon-
sibilities and become co-workers with those
who are laboring-assiduously for a great pur-
pose.
	Was there ever a time when there were
more noble incentives to prompt men and wo-
men to action than now? The great vineyard
of the Lord needs more laborers; the bv-ways
and highways are thronged with idlers who 
hinder the workers from accomplishing their
duties and tasks, and offer all sorts of reasoning
and excuses for neglects, and sneer at and r[-]d-
icule the patient, earnest ones and reach out to 
them inducements to falter and linger and
neglect the field of labar. "There is no need
of me" is echoed here and there, "I can pur-
sue my own course and it will be quite as re-
munerative and more congenial, why should I 
trouble myself about the general welfare of
others. I can lead my own life." Yes a pur-
poseless one so far as eternity is concerned,
but pause, all mankind owe the world the best
solutions drawn from varied experiences and
phases of life. All these incidents help to an-
alyze the mysterious problem of the truest
aims and surest success in life. We do not
mean to be understood as alluding to success in 
monetary interests, but to the wisest most judic-
ious and safe control and guidance of all the 
gifts of God to mankind. He has placed His
children here to learn certain lessons, to gain
knowledge of high and exalted principles, and
work out such problems as shall best subserve

[Column 2]
His truest interests. The human body is in all
probability the finest workmanship of the great
Master Architect; and to understand the uses
and applications of all functions and faculties
God has given to man and woman, and make a
proper and just use of time, opportunities and
talents, is something greatly to be desired.
With all the eloquence each one possesses, let
him or her, if they aspire to eternal life
and exaltation, exhort and entreat in all hu-
mility, neighbors or friends, to be more awak-
ened to the special purposes of their creation
and mission upon earth. What need the true
and upright care for scorn or even censure from
those who have not the same noble aims to 
stimulate them? Work for a purpose and let it
be worthy all the sacrifice and endurance mor-
tals are capable of in this mundane sphere.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received for the first time as an
exchange The Utah County Enquirer, full of
County and other news, and seemingly well
adapted to its time and place.
	TENTH WARD.—The pupils of the 10 Ward
Sabbath School had a good time on Sunday.
A hundred and sixty prizes, embracing a wide
variety of articles, were distributed among
them. The teachers of the school also present-
ed a testimonial of respect to the superintend-
ent, Brother Jas. Woods.
	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the receipt [-]rom Wash-
ington of the "Congessional Record" of Dec.
30, 1876, containing the speech of Hon. H. W.
Blair in the House of Representatives. on the
manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors.
We would be glad to know that there were
many members of Congress as well as all other
public offices and positions, who would lend
their united restraining influence to abolish
this great curse of the country from the United
States. The speech is well worth reading and
gives many statements of facts and figures up-
on this important subject.
	"COMPILED LAWS of Utah."—This volume,
a work of about 900 pages is now completed.
It contains all the general statutes of Utah
now in force, and also the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, the Constitution of the United
States, the Organic Act of Utah, and all the
laws of Congress especially applicable to this
Territory: The work is arranged in regular
legal form, the c'assification of the acts, with
titles and chapters, head and marginal notes, a
complete, clear, and comprehensive index,
show that the legislative committee on compi-
lation, Honorables A O Smoot, Silas S. Smith
and R. T. Burtan, have been most careful and
exact in the performance of their labors.
	The volume is printed in clear, bold type, on
an excellent quality of law paper, and is well
and substantially bound in law calf. The work
was printed and bound at the Deseret News
Office.
	CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL—The 10th Ward
Young People's Christmas Festival, was a most
pleasing affair. At 2 p. m, the gentlemen of
the Deacons' Quorum, and young girls of the
Retrenchment Association assembled at the
new meeting house with their baskets laden
with good things. The hall was beautifully
decorated with festoons made of evergreens,
which the boys procured in the canyons, inter-
spersed with bright-hued artificial flowers
made by the young ladies—the "workmanship
of their own hands;" and those who have a
"love for the beautiful," must surely have felt
a pleasing influence on that bright Christmas
day, as they entered the hall which looked

[Column 2]
truly lovely in its holiday dress. After par-
taking the refreshments luxuriously supplied,
lively games and music were indulged in,
which added hearty enjoyment to the festive
scene, and peal after peal of merry laughter burst
forth from the joyous throng, which proved
very beneficial to the digestive organs, and
created a fund of good feeling in the participa-
tion. At half-past six o'clock the quadrille
band arrived, and the remainder of the even-
ing was past pleasantly in the dance which
closed at a reasonable hour. Thus ended our
Christmos day, and we feel to acknowledge
that God has abundantly blessed us.
									M. P.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion held a special meeting Thursday, Jan. 4,
at the Fireman's Hall, Mrs. Zina D. Young
presiding.
	Mrs. Young said the object of calling the
meeting was to adopt measures to instruct the
people how to raise silk worms successfully,
and in order to do so she thought it best to get
the experience of those who had been success-
ful, from the hatching out of the worm until
it had spun its cocoon; especially the mode of
feeding, and then have the information print-
ed in pamphlet form. She also stated that the
Association had eight pounds eleven ounces of
reeled silk that had been reeled by Mrs Cardon
of Logan.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler stated that Mr. Joseph
Newman, silk raiser of San Francisco, had
paid us a visit on the 29th of December on his
way home from Philadelphia, where he had
been exhibiting silk culture in all its branches.
He gave us a good deal of useful information,
and said that though our reeled silk was not as
perfect as his, he thought we had made a good
start and ought to feel encouraged. He said
the principal object was to get our farmers to
plant out mulberry trees, millions of them.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in February, at two o'clock p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.

		NOTICE TO SERICULTURISTS
And all persons who have raised silkworms in
Utah. The Association would like them to
send their experience as to the best method to
pursue to raise the worms successfully.
				Address,
					Mrs. Zina D. Young,
							Salt Lake City.
		R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	SARAH SMITH Griffin, daughter of Hyrum
and Gerusha Smith, died Nov. 6th, in Ogden
City, leaving an infant three weeks old and
four other children with her husband to mourn
her loss. She was born Oct. 2d. 1837, in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Her mother died when she was
only eleven days old, her father being at the
same time absent from home, in Missou[-]i at-
tending to business pertaining to the Church.
She removed with the rest of the family to
Missouri in 1838, and was driven with the
Saints back to Illinois early in 1840; shared in
the exodus from Nauvoo in the dead o[-] winter,
in 1846, and removed to Winter Q[-]arters.
She came to Utah in 1848.
	In Jan. 1854, she was married to Charles G.
Griffin; and removed to St. Thomas, on the
Muddy in its first settlement, where she endur-
ed much suffering from privations and hard-
ships, which she bore with great fortitude and
patience. On their return from that place the
family settled first in Coalville, from thence
they removed to Ogden City in 1873. She was


the mother of ten children, five had passed
away before, ready to meet her when her hap-
py spirit took its flight to the regions of the
blessed. As a wife she was kind and affection-
ate, a helpmeet in the fullest sense of the word;
as a mother, indulgent almost to the extreme;
as a friend she was true as steel. She was
truly benevolent beyond her means, often im-
parting to others that which she really needed
for herself, not wishing to let her left hand
know what her right hand did. She was natu-
rally of a retiring habit, humble and unassum-
ing so that but very few knew her real worth;
"those who knew her best, loved her most."
	We would not recall her to a suffering world
like this, but let her enjoy the society of her
mother, her martyred father and uncle, with
an almost incalculaole number of loving and
beloved frinds. Truly the memory of the just
is blessed.
								COM.

	DIED, in Santaquin, Nov. 18, 1876; Eva,
eldest daughter of Peter N., and Charity An-
derson, aged seventeen years, six months and
twenty days. She was an active memder of
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
and held the office of treasurer until her de-
mise. She was obedient and dutiful to her par-
ents, lived her religion truly and consistently,
and was beloved by all who knew her and her
absence is great[-]y felt by all her friends.
						HANSINA SANBURG.

	DIED, at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, Nov.
29th, 1878, after a lingering illness of liver
complaint, Jason Elihu Howell, aged 39 years,
2 months and 28 days. Deceased was a faith-
ful member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Lotter-day Saints and well respected and be-
loved by all who knew him. He leaves a large
family and circle of friends to monrn his loss.
								COM.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		125


[Column 1]
			PRACTICAL CHARITY.

		"In faith and hope the world will disagree,
		But all mankind's concerned in charity."

										POPE.

	There are persons who cannot reconcile prac-
tical and helpful charity with the ideas they
entertain of unselfishness and disinterested-
ness. Charity they believe to be exclusively
an emanation of the heart independent of the
head. "Let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth" is often quoted in condem-
nation of practical organizations for charitable
purposes. I do not propose to bring forward
or expound Scripture to illustrate the opinions
or the ground I have taken, but I honestly be-
lieve the Savior's words in their truest sense,
would confirm my sentiments upon this sub-
ject. Charity loses none of its sweetness or
grace by being wisely directed, and how can
we be entirely and judiciously wise in bestow-
ing charity without thorough knowledge of the
circumstances of any given case unless we as-
certain facts in relation to it. Thus you may
perceive the necessity of investigation in all
matters which require action of the nature of
charity; and the process of investigating and
rendering assistance should certainly be sub-
mitted to an authorized committee, and the de-
cision should be free from prejudice, as it must
invariably be a strong point, and perhaps one
involving reputation, unredeemable faults, and
in many instances entailing misery and woe,
if not the loss of life itself. True charity is
compatible with all the gentleness of the sym-
pathetic heart, and the ablest executive ability
of the head, the combined strength of the head
and heart are es[-]ential to the most complete

[Column 2]
system of self-helpfulness which is one of the
leading characteristics of the charity which
loves its neighbor as itself.
	There should be of course, some living links
that connect the people with such associations
as are formed for the amelioration of the con-
dition of those who are subjects for charity in
any of the ordinary significations of the term;
and these persons should familiarize them-
selves with details in whatever manner pos-
sible; if it were in the power of those who
lead out in these enterprises to give to those
who visit, some special training for their work,
such instruction would be most serviceable;
but here we might say with some considerable
degree of consistency, how can these persons
holding positions, teach that which they them-
selves are not versed in? One qualification all
visitors of this kind should possess, in a large
degree is tact, want of it will make him or her
more offensive than the want of help would
be unpleasant; one admirable qualification of
individual life is adaptability. Enter into the
subjects which those understand, with whom
you have to deal in these grave matters, let
them feel you can be interested in those things
which they estimate as their best and truest
helps in life.
	I wonder if those who give these subjects
time, thought and means, consider how much
real and permanent good might be effected by
the influence of the casual association between
the helper and the helped. There are many
young ladies who languish and pine of "ennui"
who might thus render good service to their
fellow-beings; and their very gentleness and
refinement, even their gaiety and beauty com-
ing with true grace and respectful demeanor,
into the humble dwellings of the less fortu-
nate, would be like the genial rays of sun-
shine after the clouds had darkened the sky, or
the soft rain or refreshing dew to the parched
earth. Smooth the pillow of the sick with
your soft, loving hands; read to the aged, or to
the working woman while she knits or sews;
talk to them as if you understood and recog-
nized their temporal as well as their spiritual
needs. Show them that you have a heart that
can feel for them, and if you will do some of
these things you will be laying up treasures
in heaven, and doing similar works, in a hum-
ble capacity to those of the beloved Savior.
Give a little of your leisure, a little of your
strength, a few cheering words and smiles, a
tender and wise sympathy for trouble or sor-
row, and it will be a real blessing to the receiver.
There are many who need these things who do
not want your money or your gifts, they want
sympathy, they want love, they want knowl-
edge how to live, and resolution to put good
and sensible ideas into every day practice.
The Relief Societies are organized on a thor-
ough and true system, but the minor points
are left to the genius and tact of those who
minister in these matters. It is thought to be
an inferior position to be a teacher (or visitor)
but if those teachers would fully weigh the
matter they would certainly infer that as they
minister in all humility and wisdom, upon
them is the very foundation resting of the best
development of this holy institution.
								THYRA.
	S. L. City, Jan. 10, 1877.


LOVE is won by love, or not at all. There
is no money or pride that a true heart
knows. Its exchanges are not low equiva-
lents. They are gifts, or they are nothing.
They are unalloyed attachments of love to
love, of heroism to heroism, of enthusiasm
to enthusiasm. Love is a celestial attrac-
tion of souls.


THE OLD AGE OF SAMUEL ROGERS.

	Lady Morgan once told this story, which
has just been put in print: That when
Samuel Rogers was past ninety, and in an
almost unconscious state, she called at his
house with Miss——, to whom he had of-
fered marriage, in order to inquire after his
health, and leave cards. "His carriage was
at the door, and he was about to be lifted
into it for an airing. His faithful valet sug-
gested that we should accompany him on
his ride, adding that he would surely recog-
nize me, and that he would take it kindly
of me. Miss——objected slightly at first,
but we both got into the carriage; after a
time I took the old man by the hand, and
said, 'You don't know me, Mr. Rogers, do
you?' He looked at me with lack-luster
eyes for a while, but gradually a little gleam
of intelligence appeared in them, and he
said very slowly, 'Yes, I think I know you,
but I'm not quite sure. Is it Lady Mor-
gan?' I told him he was right. 'Ah, Lady
Morgan,' he replied, 'it is very kind of you
to come and see me.' He then relapsed
into unconsciousness, and so remained for
about ten minutes, when I again took his
hand, and said, 'And as you know me Mr.
Rogers, perhaps you know this lady also?'
Miss——sat on the seat opposite, and Mr.
Rogers, who had not previously observed
her, looked at her attentively; and after an
effort, as if he were recalling some fast dis-
appearing train of thought, said slowly,
'Yes, I know her; she has come to marry
me.' My companion afterward told me
that she felt as if she could have sunk
through the floor of the carraige; but Mr.
Rogers relapsed into utter unconsciousnes,
closed his eyes, and never said anotners
word, or bestowed a look upon either of us,
until we deposited him safely at his door."


FLOWERS.

	To have a respect for ourselves guides
our morals; and to have a deference for
others governs our manners.
	IN the affairs of life activity is to be pre-
ferred to dignity, and practical energy and
dispatch to premeditated composure and
reserve.
	MORALITY without religion is only a kind
of dead reckoning—an endeavor to navigate
a cloudy sea by measuring the distance we
have to run, but without observation of the
heavenly bodies.
	WE are told by those who know, that
there are stars so for distant that it takes
years for their light to reach the earth; if
they should be suddenly extinguished, we
should be unaware of the fact for as many
years as might be required for the last rays
to reach us. We might look up nightly
and see the same old radiance, as if nothing
had happened. It is just so with great and
holy lives. Long after they have gone out
in the darkness of death they continue to
exert an influence, and leave behind them a
beauty and power which make it impossible
to conceive of them as extinguished.


"How many genders are there?" asked a
school-master.—"Three, sir," promptly re-
plied a little blue-eyed girl; "masculine
feminine and neuter." Pray give me an
example of each," said the master.—"Why
you are masculine, because yon are a man,
and I am feminine because I am a girl."
"Very well; proceed."—"I don't know,"
said the little girl: "but I fancy Mr. Jenkins
is neuter, as he is an old bachelor."


126		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	NOTES OF CORRESPONDENCE.

	STRASBURG, LANCASTER CO., PA.
					DEC. 25, 1876.
MY DEAR AUNT EM:

	It is evening, Christmas 1876 will soon
be counted in the past—transformed by
time from an anticipation into a memory.
What kind of a Christmas have you had?
In the midst of friends and at home, an ex-
treme contrast to mine.
	My impression, heretofore of Pennsylva-
nia, has been taken from Luzerne Co., but
I am happy to say Lancaster is of a some-
what different character; there we were in
the midst of coal mines, iron works, pov-
erty and ruffianism; here among the farm-
ers and quakers in a delightful little town
eight miles from Lancaster city, the coun-
try is rolling, small hills, but no mountains,
and woods crown every summit nearly,
while rich farms lie between. The pros-
pect for converts is not any more encourag-
ing, though we will make a start at the
Town Hall on Sunday. Have made the ac-
quaintance of one prominent gentleman,
and Bro. Musser has nearly—well if not
converted, at least made an impression—or
as we term it, "wounded" him.
	The condition of the religious world is
deplorable in the extreme. All is mystery
and darkness to them—the devout portion
don't know what they worship, while the
others are lost in an apathy, a lethargy and
indifference which is alarming. It reminds
me of my own case while at home. How
careless I was in regard to my salvation—I
tell you Aunt Em, there is a reformation
needed among the boys and girls who
claim fellowship with God's people, I shud-
der to think of it. How many of us are
prepared for that great "day of the Lord
which cometh like a thief in the night,"
How many will be caught unawares and
lost because they would not reach out their
hands for the prize when it was near their
grasp. We must not think that the word
"Mormon" or the professing of Latter-day
Saint is going to save us. We will all be
judged by the deeds done here, and each
individual is responsible for himself. I
would to heaven I could impress the impor-
tance of this upon my dear friends and fel-
low associates at home—but no, they would
say "oh, he's got religious" all missionaries
talk that way, he'll change," etc. Yes,
this is partly so, but what makes all miss-
ionaries talk and think so? It is because
they live nearer to God, and are compelled
to rely on Him; they see what it really is
to be a saint, while the rest are blind, and
if they (missionaries) ever change after, as
is predicted, it is because they are again in
darkness, a true saint should always feel the
same whether at home or abroad, and be
ever ready to sacrifice anything and every-
thing for the faith.
	I don't care how much I am ridiculed and
sneered at, if I know I am on the Lord's
side, He holds the destinies of all men in
the hollow of His hand and could crush
them to atoms if He chose. I hope I never
will be as I have been again, in some things.
My ambition is to be a follower of Christ,
and to be a good and useful citizen in the
kingdom of God. It was a hard struggle
between my pride and duty—duty tri-
umphed for once at least. I have seen
enough of the world to become disgusted
with its corruption. It is ripe in wicked-
ness and were it not for the indifference of
His chosen people God would hurl his ven-
geance now—the final scene depends on
two conditions—that of the saints and that

[Column 2]
of the sinners. The latter are wicked
enough to be destroyed, but the former are
not good enough to be saved. How much
longer will we tempt God? How cool and
lukewarm we are! Many of us will be
caught as were the antedeluvians and the
Sodomites—not believing that the end is at
hand—But as God lives, it will come, and
then the woe, misery and remorse; "if I
only had" and "it might have been," will
be the echo of the unprepared, and it will
be a fearful scene. No one can realize but
under actual experience what the "beau
monde" is; I had an idea that all was splen-
dor outside, I thought to work my way up
the ladder of life and become famous and
wealthy, become a favorite everywhere,
and lead a life of gaiety and pleasure—a
change has "come o'er the spirit of my
dream"—It's all hollow, hollow, hollow!
"The kingdom of God, or nothing" shall
be my motto. I want to remain with the
Lord's people and am willing to make any
sacrifice for them and the great Latter-day
Cause.
	My friends will laugh at me perhaps, but
I am used to worse than that already, and
it will have no effect; oh, how I wish they
could all see these things. I have made
light of such myself, but I was wrong.
Paul was wrong when he persecuted the
apostles, and he became one himself after-
ward. It is never beneath any one to re-
pent of a fault.
	It is pride that does it all, that "never
failing vice of fools." The "Mormons"
like the true saints in all ages, are unpopu-
lar—it is not fashionable to serve God—
thats the whole thing condensed.
	I hope God will ever keep me faithful. I
can conceive nothing more terrible than the
doom of the apostate. "It had been better
ye had never received the faith, than to
turn from the holy commandments once
given" as Peter says in such effect—I don't
quote verbatim. This world is but a pre-
face to the great book of eternity. We
must lay up our treasures in heaven, where
moths do not corrupt nor thieves break
through and steal." How many of us will
meet each other there?
	I am too sleepy to write any more to-
night—Good night till morning.

						Dec. 26th.

	Aurora ushers in another day: a cloudy
one too, like the heads of many who awoke
this morning after the effects of Christmas
imbibations. This is an apt simile but not
a pleasant one, therefore a truce to the sub-
ject.
	What the programme for the day is, I do
not know yet. I suppose we will call on
Bro. Musser's relatives. One of them is a
Memnonite—this sect have for a basis the
command of Christ "if they smite ye on
one cheek turn the other, etc. If attacked
they would not feel justified in defending
themselves, but when Bro. Muss[-]r asked
this gentleman if he would su[-]mit to the
assassin or robber without any effort, he
said I don't think I would. What good
does it do to have a theory, and practice in
direct contradiction to it. They are all as
blind as bats. They take one principle of
the primitive gospel as a nucleus and sur-
round it and their votaries in a cloak of
mystery and supposition, hope and doubt.
And yet they boast of the spread of Chris-
tianity. There is a cord around the huge
neck of every so-called Christian denomina-
tion and Satan has a firm hold on the other
end and is leading them through mystery
further from the light of truth, deeper in-
to the darkness of perdition. The time

[Column 3]
foretold by Isaiah, Nephi, and other pro-
phets has come, the fulfillment is literal, and
it is a marvel that people who pretend to
believe in the Scriptures can not see it.
"Darkness shall cover the earth, and gross
darkness the minds of the people." From
the xiv to xiviii chapter of Revelations is a
subject, or reading matter, which all should
look over. On the 104th page, Chapt. 12,
Second, Nephi, Book of Mormon, is depict-
ed the exact state of the religious world of
to-day, in a prophecy uttered by Nephi to
his people. "For it shall come to pass in
that day that the churches which are built
up, and not unto the Lord, when the one
shall say unto the other, Behold! I am the
Lords; and the other will say, I am the
Lords. And they shall contend one with
another, and their priests shall contend one
with another, and they shall teach with
their learning, and deny the Holy Ghost,
which giveth utterance." etc etc.
	When I think of these things my heart is
filled with unspeakable gratitude to the
great good God who has granted me the
privilege of living in this age, and being
on the right road. The time is close at
hand when Zion will be the only safe place
where in to stand. Babylon is doomed and
all who leave and go out into her except on
God's errands will be buried with her in
her great fall.
	The curse of the Almighty is upon her
and is only withheld for a season. "Come
out of her my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues. For her sins have reached
unto heaven, and God hath remembered
iniquities." She must be thrown down
with violence even as a millstone cast into
the sea; this is why I have given up the
idea of leaving my home to become an in-
mate of the outside world. "Come out of
her" is the command, and I will not risk
my future salvation for the chance of a
name in the world.
	I may never return as it is,—No one can
tell how soon the cloud will burst and del-
uge all both saint and sinner. God has
said, though, "he who loseth his life for
my sake shall find it," and if it be His will
I am satisfiid. We must sacrifice every-
thing for Him who gave it all, and he who
holds back any let him beware and remem-
ber the fate of Annanias and Saphira.
	The prospect of another war is imminent.
It will not be as before, two great sides bat-
tling against one another, but it will be an
internecine conflict of family against fam-
ily, city against city, state against state.
The condition of the time shows plainly
how easy it would be for the Almighty to
fulfill all He has said. A crisis is impend-
ing. The world thinks it the result of nat-
ural events, and so it is, God works in that
way, He permits men to destroy them-
selves, and they are too blind to perceive
that they are fulfilling predictions to the
letter.
	As already said, the wicked are ready,
but the good are not, we must all reform.
Jesus says "Except ye be as this little
child, ye can not enter the kingdom of
heaven," how many of us are as meek and
pure as little children? Are we willing to
obey, are our minds as untainted as a little
child's? Without God's help it is nearly
impossible, but if we do our best God will
help us; He knows our weaknesses better
than we do and is ever ready to forgive.
	That we may ever bear these things in
mind and be prepared for the coming of
Jesus, is my prayer.
			Yours Affectionately,
							O. F. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		127


[Column 1]
			AN ALLEGORY.

	In traveling through Hindostan some
years ago, the writer accidentally came
across a curiosity of which very little ap-
pears to be known. Having occasion to
remain for a few days at a village which
lay a short distance from a large body of
water—perhaps of sufficient extent to enti-
tle it to be called a sea—my attention was
directed to the ruins of what had once been
a grand and beautiful temple, an object, as
I was informed, that would well repay a
visit. This temple was situated immedi-
ately on the border of the sea, and from a
variety of marks it was evident that its
destruction was greatly owing to the re-
peated and continued beating of the waves
against the structure. The remains of pil-
lars of stone, placed at regular intervals,
particularly attracted the attention. In-
scriptions, that had originally been cut very
deep, were still visible on many of these
pillars, and on one the word "Hope" was as
plain as though it had been chiseled yester-
day; on another, but not so clear, the word
"Mercy" could be seen; and in fact each pil-
lar bore an inscription of some meaning.
The hand of Time, however, had pressed so
heavily on some as to render them very in-
distinct, while the waves had worn others
so much that to decipher them was impossi-
ble.
	While gazing on these ruins, and wonder-
ing what motives could have actuated the
erection of this temple, I saw a rather
strange looking person approaching the spot
where I stood When he had arrived with-
in speaking distance, I asked him if there
was not a history connected with this tem-
ple, upon which he related the following
story, which I believe contains a moral of
worth. Here is the story as he spoke it:
	"Long ages ago a great and good being
called God, caused this temple, the ruins of
which you now behold, to be erected, and
named it the 'Temple of the Soul.' The
dome of the structure, on which the name
of the temple was inscribed, was support-
ed by a number of pillars, which were
placed so close together as to render them
impenetrable. On each of these pillars was
cut, or engraven, the name of some attri-
bute, among which were Truth, Friendship,
Hope, Purity, Love, Faith, Conscientious-
ness, Pity, Reason, Charity, Wisdom, Be-
nevolence, and others, many of which have
been forgotten in the transmission of the
history from generation to generation. The
names lost could never be recovered, be-
cause many of them were effaced, while
some of the pillars have gradually mould-
ered away until there are now left only a
letter or two, and others are entirely de-
stroyed. This temple God left in the charge
of his children, to whom he gave pointed
and unmistakable instructions that it should
be carefully preserved.
	It was erected so close to this sea, which
is called the 'Sea of Evil Influence,' that
even in the fairest weather the water laves
the sand within a few rods of the temple;
so that, whenever the tide ran up the beach
an unusual distance, or a storm arose, the
waves dashed furiously against the edifice.
Had the children of God paid that respect
which was due to His instructions, they
could have prevented the encroachments
of the 'Seas of Evil Influence' upon the
'Temple of the Soul;' but they deluded
themselves into the belief that, as the close-
ness of the pillars rendered the temple im-
pregnable, the building was perfectly se-
cure, forgetting that with every dash of the
waves against the temple, the structure was
weakened.

[Column 2]
	"You see," said he, "that stump which
extends further towards the sea than the
rest? That pillar was called 'Truth,' but as
time wore on, and being more exposed to
the water than the other, the letters are en-
tirely erased, nay, there is hardly any of
the pillar left.
	When the children of God discovered
that unless some action was taken the Sea
of Evil Influence would ultimately ruin the
'Temple of the Soul,' they determined that
they would endeavor to avert the probable
danger. But as they consoled themselves
with the thought that no great damage had
yet been done, and as there appeared to be
no pressing necessity for immediate action,
they concerned themselves very little about
the matter. Meantime the Pillar of Truth
was slowly but surely succumbing to the
continued action of the waves, till finally a
portion of it was washed away. The charm
was lost. That which had been an impene-
trable barrier was now broken and the wa-
ters of the Sea of Evil Influence rushed tu-
multuously into she Temple of the Soul, to
which all the pillars were now exposed.
The next pillar that fell was that of Faith,
which was immediately at the left of the
pillar of Truth, and on which still remains
the faint outlines of the letters f and a.
The work of destruction was now thorough-
ly begun, and all the pillars of the temple
were at the mercy of the waves. After
the pillar of Faith had fallen the next that
gave way was Reason; then Purity, and
Love, Charity, Conscientiousnecs, Mercy,
Wisdom, and lastly Friendship followed;
and now the only pillar remaining uninjured
is that of Hope. For ages that pillar alone
has withstood the action of the waters to
which it was exposed, nor, strange as it
may seem, does it bear any visible marks
either of the hand of Time or the influence
of the sea, while the word Hope is still as
clear as it was originally. Thus, through
disregarding the commandments God gave
his children, the result is the ruin of the
magnificent 'Temple of The Soul.'"
	The stranger then left me to meditate on
the history he had just related, and draw a
moral therefrom.
									S.


[Column 1]
			WOMEN IN ITALY.

	Italy first, towards the close of the Mid
dle Ages, permitted to Woman the free ex-
ercise of distinguished talents. Olympia
Morata lectured publicly in Ferrara, the
universities of Padua and Bologna gave
chairs to female professors, and the study
of medicine, the higher mathematics, and
classic literature was open to the sex.
Shakespeare's "Portia" is less than a full
type of the accomplished Italian woman of
that day. At this moment, three or four
hundred years later, Germany, France, and
even England are not m[-]ch in advance of
the public sentiment which then accepted
such a recognition of Woman's capacity:
while no modern university has ventured
to go so far. Already, in the present gen-
eral development of Italy, the women are
preparing to claim their ancient privileges.
A new intellectual activity is stirring the
sex; not only in literature and art, also in
politics and sociology, we are beginning to
hear softer voice. The popular sympathy
with the martyred Bulgarians, which ex-
pressed itself through immense mass meet-
ings in Rome and Naples, no less than in
London and Glasgow, has given the Italian
women an opportunity which some of
them have instantly seized. It is true, in-
deed, that the Italian poetess, Signora Fau-

[Column 2]
Fusinato, has frequently made brief ad-
dresses before societies; but we cannot re-
call any previous instance of a woman ad-
dressing a great assemblage of the people.
At the meeting held at Rome in the Apollo
Theatre, on the 3d ult., the Countess Chioc-
ci appeared upon the platform, and present-
ed a written address, which she requested
to be published with the proceeding of the
meeting. It was accepted, and the address
would have been willingly heard by the au-
dience, had the Countess not lost her cour-
rge.
	A week afterward, an immense multi-
tude assembled in the atrium of the monas-
tery of Santa Maria la Nova, In Naples.
Thousands upon thousands of all classes of
people were present. The third speaker
was Miss Matilda Caselli, who displayed
such remarkable spirit and eloquence,
rousing the vast audience to such uncon-
trollable enthusiasm, that the remaining
orations in the programme were instantly
suppressed, and the resolutions adopted by
acclamation. From the report of her
speech we find that Miss Caselli was no less
daring than eloquent. In Naples, the so
long Bourbonized Naples, she cried to the
new people which is rising out of the for-
mer lazzaroni: "The Cross, the emblem of
humanity, can have no brotherhood with
the Crescent, the emblem of barbarism!
We repudiate the Jesuit policy which now
favors the Crescent, as we reject his author-
ity who usurps the name of Vicar of
Christ!" To appreciate the force of this ut-
terance, it must be remembered that the
policy which emanates from the Vatican
has been hitherto unfriendly [-]o the Orient-
al Christians, and therefore, so far as it
may affect diplomacy. favorable to the
Turkish side of the question. But the free-
dom of speech of Miss Caselli is hardly
more remarkable than the readiness with
which it was accorded to her, and the man-
ner in which it was received by the au-
dience. There are still many turbid ingre-
dients in the life of Italy, and if Italian
women are as wise and patient as they are
able and eloquent, they may render noble
service to their country.—N. Y. Tribune.


THOSE WHO suffer from sleeplessness—and
the number is not small—might do well to
notice their position at night. A German
physiologist states that the heating of the
earth by the sun causes magnetic currents
from the equator to each pole. We should
lie, therefore, in the direction of these cur-
rents; if we lie across these, the result is
unpleasant, and want of sleep is the conse-
quence. The head to the north is the best
position—to the west the worst. Physicians
who have charge of hospitals all attend to
the directions in which the beds are placed,
and with the best results.


"IT will do!"—"It will do!" is the com-
mon phrase of those who neglect little
things. "It will do!" has blighted many a
character, blasted many a fortune, sunk
many a ship, burned down many a house,
and ruined thousands of hopeful projects
for human good. It always means stopping
short of the right thing. It is a makeshift.
It is a failure and defeat. Not what "will
do," but what is the best possible thing to
do, is the point to be aimed at. "Let the
man once adopt the maxim of "It will do!"
and he is given over to the enemy; he is
on the side of incompetency and defeat;
and we give him up as a hopeless subject."
—Smiles.


128		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	"I DON'T believe in fashionable church-
es," said a lady, recently; "but after all,
considering that we can all go to the same
heaven, perhaps it is better to keep up the
social distinctions as long as we can."
	A DARKEY'S EXPLANATION OF TELE-
GRAPHING.—"Now you see Sam, s'pose
da was a dog, and dat dog's head was in
Hoboken, and his tail in Brooklyn." "Go
'way, da ain't no such dog." "Well, s'pose
there was." "Well s'pose da was." "Well,
den, de telegram is jest like dat dog. If I
pinch dat dog's tail in Brooklyn, what he
do?" "Dunno." "Why, if I pinch dat
dog's tail in Brooklyn, he go bark in Hobo-
ken. Dat's the science of it."—Harper's
Drawer.
	"You voted for Tilden?" queried a Bos-
tonian, andressing a New Yorker. "Well,
yes, all the fellers of our club voted for
him," replied Fifth Avenue. "Well, what
kind of a man is he, any way?" asked Bos-
ton. "Well," said F. A., wiping a speck of
dust from his eye-glass, "I don't know
much about him. One feller said the other
night that Tilden might do for President,
but he shouldn't want to have him own
fifty-one per cent of the stock of a corpora-
tion of which he and his friends held the
other forty-nine per cent. I don't think it
is complimentary—do you?"—Boston Jour-
nal.
	"IN what way is your husband profli-
gate?" asked a Californian judge. "What
do you mean?" the woman asked. "In
what does his profligacy consist? what
does he do when he is profligate?" "Oh, I un-
derstand. Well he's profligate with horses."
The judge's countenance underwent a
variety of expressions, in which astonish-
ment and perplexity predominated, as he
put the next interrogatory: "Profligate
with horses! What—what do you mean by
that?" "Well he went not long ago to
haul twenty dozen of eggs two miles to sell
them, and he hadn't got more than half
way when the horses shied, tipped the wag-
on, and broke thirteen dozen, and eggs
fifty cents a dozen at that. If that ain't
being profligate with horses, then I don't
know what is."
	A SHARP Yankee went into a country
store down East, and thus accosted the pro-
prietor; "Squire, do you trade?" "Consid-
erable," was the reply. "I mean do you
dicker?" "Some; what ye got fer dicker?"
"Guess I'd like a darnin' needle" The re-
quired darning needle was dickered for the
egg, and the Yankee was going away when
he turned and said, "Squire do you treat?"
"Well, I don't mind if I do," replied the
good-natured store-keeper. They repaired
to an adjacent tavern, and the usual bour-
bon was produced. "Hold on," cried the
Yankee, "my chist's weak, and I never
take whiskey without an egg in it." The
generous shopkeeper handed him the dick-
ered egg, but without asking him for his
needle again. The Yankee broke the shell
on the edge of the glass, when he ex-
claimed. "Geewillikins! this egg's got two
yolks! Guess you'd better give me anoth-
er darnin needle."


[Column 1]
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.
		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1877.		No. 17.


PREEXISTENCE.

	Beloved friends! I knew ye well:
	Our spirits did together dwell
	In regions where all pure and bright
	Immortal beings live in light.
	We saw the nations joys and tears,
	Upon this earth thousands of years;
	And yet with full consent we come
	To earth and left a happier home,
	That we in trembling, love and fear,
	Might work out our salvation here;
	Might share in sorrows, grief and woe;
	And all the contrast fully know.
	And thus receive wisdom to gain
	Eternal lives, and power to reign
	With Jesus, in that blessed day,
	When sin from earth is done away.
	We knew the TRUTH must be brought forth
	In Latter-days upon the earth,
	And that we might this glory share,
	And with the noblest ones prepare,
	Temples and towers, wherein might shine
	The glorious rays of light divine,
	When God His purpose should fulfill,
	Subjecting all things to His will.
	We in the Gospel light rejoice
	And listen to the "still small voice,"
	That we a crown of life may win
	Regenerated from all sin.
								S. E. PRATT.
S. L. CITY, Sept. 19, 1876.


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
			BACKBITING.

	Of all pernicious habits to which the
weakness of the human race permits us to
become addicted, there is none more prev-
alent, contemptible, treacherous and crim-
inal than what is familiarly known as
"backbiting." Prevalent, because it is
practiced unknowingly; contemptible, be-
cause it is ever linked with hypocrisy;
treacherous because it not only calumniates
its victims but debases its votaries; and
criminal because it violates a direct com-
mand of God. It is double dealing and dis-
honorable; for, in addition to causing the
contempt of our associates, it forces us to
despise ourselves. Like a two-edged sword
in the hands of a child, or a subtle poison,
envenoming all it touches. It lives by
associating with its sister Gossip, and
alighting on a half-ruined character and
mangling it when it thinks no danger is
near; like a vulture too cowardly to attack
its prey openly, when some other hand has
struck the fatal blow, greedily pounces up-
on the dead and dying; how many of us
there are who yield to and practice a form
of this vice, and yet do not realize that we
do so!
	We are sitting in our room, alone, when
a friend drops in to chat a few minutes; the
conversation flags for a moment, when either
one or the other happens to remember what
such a one said about so and so, or what
public opinion is respecting Mr. A.; again
it is confided to us, in the st.ictest secrecy,
that Miss B. really did this and that, or
that it is a great pity, a matter of regret
that Mr C. is of such a nature or character,
etc.; and ere we are aware, we find our-
selves exchanging critical opinions and
commentaries, and dealing out this social
scandal as though it were an incumbent
duty.
	Everywhere it is the same—at home,
abroad, on the street or in the parlor and

[Column 2]
ballroom—we feel that we connot be enter-
taining; and making this end justify the
means, adopt this careless and ruinous mode
of accomplishing it. If we knew the con-
tempt this habit inspires in the minds of
our listeners—even though they practice it
—it might influence us to suppress it. Let
us ask ourselves if we are pleased to hear
others abused? No, we are not. It is in
opposition to Christian philanthropy; and
what assurance have we to the contrary,
that it is only our presence which secures
us from similar treatment? None whatever,
the scandal-monger and backbiter are com-
mon enemies to mankind.
	These, however, are generally of the
more innocent kind, that draw on the re-
source for conversational material. There
is another class, though it is hard to draw
the line of demarcation—actuated by envy
and personal malice, and use such unfair,
mean ways to avenge their wrongs and pro-
mote their private interests. These are
slanderers. It is difficult to determine,
though, which of the two kinds produce
the worst results, but we are led to believe,
strange as it may appear to some, that the
first may lay claim to the distinction; for,
on the same principle that a false friend
may work more injury than the bitterest
enemy, so can the apparently friendly,
semi-condoling gossip create more trouble
than the professional slanderer. Why?
Because we will listen to and heed the one,
while we always distrust the other.
	But every word has its weight, and
though a good character is the best proof
against abuse, yet even as continual drops
of water wear away the stone, so if there
be a pregnable or half-weakened spot in an
otherwise good name, evil words, canker-
like, gnaw their way through. But, asks,
one, will not truth arrest itself? Yes, if
we will allow it a fair hearing, but alas! we
often deny it the privilege of a trial, too
readily trample it into the dust; and though
"truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
yet it is frequently discouraged by relent-
less persecution, and falls to rise no more,
until after-history vindicates the rights con-
temporaries denied.
	If we would but stop a moment and cal-
culate the result of every disparaging word
we feel tempted to utter, few of us could
be induced to proceed. If we knew the
unhappiness and misery that flies through
the world on the wings of slander, we
would pause at length before adding our
quota to the general curse; for as hesitation
loses much, so does it gain much, and the
still small voice of conscience is an arbiter
which is ever ready to condemn a wicked
deed, or applaud a good one, if we will al-
low it to assume its office as the dictator of
our actions. Professional slanderers, thank
heaven, are the exception and not the rule,
but how careful we ought to be that we do
not progress in the downward path until
we swell their numbers and merit their
punishment—ostracism from good society
and the favor of onr God. The only way
to escape is to repudiate all tendencies in
that direction, to discountenance by exam-
ple and precept, the vicious propensity of
"backbiting." By doing this we follow
the teachings of our Savior "speak evil of

[Column 3]
no one." We are all frail creatures and
continually liable to go astray. We ask
God to forgive our weaknesses; should we
not, then, forgive the shortcomings of our
fellow men? and unless we do, is it not
hollow mockery to pray? The apostle Paul
says: "Though I speak with the tongue of
an angel, though I have faith to remove
mountains and understand all myster-
ies and all knowledge, and have not char-
ity, I am nothing." Let us then be charit-
able and forgiving, and when a fellow crea-
ture says or does wrong, or is not just as
we think he should be, don't tear his name
to pieces, or disparage him by unkind
words, but show him his error and encour-
age him in his efforts to reform. Remem-
ber the words of our Savior. "Judge not
lest ye be judged," and, "let him that is
guiltless cast the first stone."
							REFORM.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			CANTON, FULTON CO., ILL.,
							Jan. 10, 1877.
TO ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Dear sister:—As you are President of the
Relief Society, I deem it proper to report
progress to you, and the good sisters asso-
ciated with you in your labors of love and
charity among the Saints in Zion. Although
charity begins at home with the ladies of
Utah, their power is felt for good all over
the land; not only in words, but by noble
deeds of sacrifice in the establishment of
right. I feel proud of my sisters in Zion,
and am one with them in the glorious work
of assisting to establish righteousness in the
kingdom of God. Although my calling is
to preach the Word of life and salvation
abroad in this dark, benighted nation, dis-
tracted and demoralized by corruption and
misrule, until anarchy has taken the place
of law and order all over the land. The
fact is they have fallen upon the "little
stone in the mountains" and are being brok-
en to pieces. And thus it may become the
Head of the Corner, but that is their busi-
ness. Our labor is to build up the kingdom
of God, and warn the honest in heart to
flee from the impending judgments about to
fall on this nation.
	On the 5th of last March, Junius F.
Wells and myself organized a Branch of the
Church in this place with seven members;
now it numbers fifty souls, all rejoicing in
the truth. On Monday, Dec. 31st, I organ-
ized a Branch of the Relief Society in this
place, to be called the Fulton Co. Branch
Relief Society, with Sister Sarah Williams
President, Elizabeth Emanuel and Emile
Williams Counselors; Emile Williams Sec-
retary, and Ellen Vaughan Treasurer.
	We instructed them to send a report of
their proceedings to the Editor of the EX-
PONENT for publication, as they desire to
be one with their sisters in Zion. They
had a temporary organization and were
awaiting my return to organize them offi-
cially.
	Remember me kindly to your co-workers
in the cause of truth, and believe me as
ever one with you, and all the faithful in
the kingdom of God.
						D. M. STUART.


130		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Jan. 6th, 1877, was the first of
the year 1877, and the sisters who spoke
were most earnest in their expressions of
renewed interest on the subject of advance-
ment in all good works and home improve-
ments. President Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
sided, and the instruction and testimony
given through those who spoke were worthy
of the time and institution, and we sin,
cerely trust may be made applicable in the
lives of all who love virtue and righteous-
ness and are seeking after eternal treasures.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the Fourteentn Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, Jan. 20, was crowded almost to
overflowing; there was not a vacant seat in
the room. Counselor Zina D. Young pre-
sided over the meeting, (President Mrs.
M. I. Horne being too ill to attend,) and
gave some excellent instruction. Counsel-
ors E. R. Snow, B. W. Smith, and E. How-
ard, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs.
E. Tuft, Mrs. M. E. Watmough and others
all spoke upon those things which are al-
ways inspiring and encouraging to the Lat-
ter-day Saints.

			HARRISVILLE, Jan. 11, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society has been re-organized,
and held their first meeting Thursday, the
4th, of this month.
	The former president resigned her office,
and we have started anew with a determi-
nation to do all in our power to be one with
all the other branches of this great and
grand institution, which the Lord has
deemed requisite to establish upon the earth,
to assist in carrying out His wise and holy
purposes, for the re-generation of the hu-
man family. The following officers were
appointed.
	Mrs. Ellen C. Fuller, President.
	"	Elizabeth Laney,	} Counselors.
	"	Ann Newton,	}
	"	Hattie E. Laney, Secretary.
	"	Amanda Daly, Treasurer.

				DRAPER, Jan. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We, a band of young sisters, were organ-
ized Nov. 30th, 1875, into a Retrenchment
Association, for the purpose of co-working
together for the building up of the kingdom
of God, which has been established in these
last days "no more to be thrown down or
given to another people." We hold our
meetings once a week, and those of the
members who attend seem to take a deep
interest in the Society, and are willing to
do all they can to make the meetings profit-
able and regular. We have considerable
reading in our meetings from the EXPO-
NENT, the Book of Mormon, and Doctrine
and Covenants, and such other books as are
calculated to benefit us. We realize that
we have been greatly benefitted by meet-
ing together and talking to each other on
the principles pertaining to life and salva-
tion. We should all pay the strictest atten-
tion to our religion and not let the follies
and fashions of Babylon decoy us from our
duties, for we cannot take any of these
with us when we leave this earth, but we
can treasure up in our minds the works of
God, and that will prepare us for each and
every duty that God requires at our hands.
And as this is the commencement of a new

[Column 2]
year, I trust that we will all commence
with it and strive to reform ourselves a lit-
tle more, and try each day that we live to
do a little better than we did the day pre-
vious. And if we do this in humility and
meekness before our Father in heaven we
shall not be left to wander in darkness from
the pathway which will lead at length to
life eternal.
	May each and every one of us strive at
all times to live our religion, that we may
gain that exaltation which we are in pur-
suit of, which will bring us back into the
presence of God, and yield us that happi-
ness and joy which the world cannot give.
				ANNIE BURNHAM,
							Sec'y.

		HYRUM, CACHE CO, Jan. 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president, Mrs.
C. Liljenquist, I address a line to you to in-
form you that we are still trying to honor
our calling as a branch of the Rellef Society,
and to do all in our power to assist the
needy, and comfort the afflicted either by
word or deed. We are one with our sisters
in Utah to follow out the counsel of our
honored President with regard to storing
up our wheat. Bro. Ira Allen was kind
enough to proffer us a room in his granary,
a committe was appointed who have already
bought between one hundred and one hun-
dred and fifty bushels of wheat and are still
busy. They are going to visit the brethren
and solicit from them according to counsel.
I am happy to say that our Bisbop and
many of the brethren are willing to assist
us in procuring and storing our grain, and
the sisters as a majority are united in this
important movement. We are also called
upon to donate means towards assisting in
building the Temple; and it is our desire
to be always ready to respond to the differ-
ent calls made by the servants of the Lord.
In conclusion I will say that the EXPO-
NENT is a very welcome visitor. It is ap-
preciated by both old and young, and may
sucess attend the noble women that spend
their time and talents in contributing to
make it interesting and instructive, is the
prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				NANCY M. NEILSON,
								Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.

	PROVIDENCE, CACHE Co., Jan. 14, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	At our regular Relief Society meeting
which is held on the first Thursday of
every month, our worthy Bishop and a few
of the brethren met with us, a good spirit
prevailed, much good instruction was im-
parted to us by the Bishop. He said it was
his desire that we, as sisters, should take
hold and carry out the counsel given by
President Young in regard to storing up
grain.
	The President, Sister Margaret Mathews,
urged upon us the importance of taking
heed to this counsel, and in faith and with
energy do all we can whereby we might
sustain ourselves and our little ones in the
day of famine and distress; she also coun-
seled the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT
by subscribing for it, showing to us the im-
portance, as wives and mothers, to sustain
to the best of our endeavors everything
calculated in its nature to benefit the saints.
We have commenced collecting grain, our
means are very limited, but it is the inten-
tion of the sisters to do all they can. When

[Column 2]
we heard of the arrival of Sister E. R.
Snow in Logan and that it was her inten-
tion to visit this settlement, the sisters here
were expecting a treat of good things by
listening to her instruction, when lo! the
next report that came, was that she had re-
turned to Salt Lake City, and no one could
tell the cause of her sudden departure, and
many conjectures were circulated among
the sisters but the most feasible idea that
we could arrive at was, that the weather
was too cold for her to travel, and that when
it got warmer she, with others, would visit
us.
	We hail with delight the prospect of
having a Temple erected in Cache Co., to
the name of the Lord, whereby we can of-
ficiate for those that have died without the
knowledge of the Gospel.
	The Lord has blessed us with health, we
have not been afflicted with sickness as
some settlements have, and hope and pray
that the Lord in His goodness and mercy
may continue to look over our imperfect-
ness, that our lives may be spared to do good
among the Saints, and while certain individ-
uals that once partook of the good spirit,
but through transgression have denied the
faith and are striving to bring trouble upon
us, we as saints will renew our diligence,
and become more united in our actions and
feelings, so that we may enjoy a greater
portion of the Holy Spirit and become
more perfect; this is the desire of my
heart.
						E. E. M.

			MORONI, Jan. 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Agreeable to your request I write you our
proceedings relative to the storing of wheat.
We have in our possession between one
and two hundred bushels of wheat, well se-
cured in a good granary; and we still feel
to go ahead and do all we can to gather in
the staff of life. And by so doing we obey
the counsel of our beloved president, Brig-
ham Young, and ever feeling it our duty
and desire to do our part in all things per-
taining to the kingdom of God, standing
firm and unshaken in the cause of truth,
that we may hold out faithful to the end is
my prayer.
						D. P. IRONS.
	P. S. The reason that there are so few
that take the EXPONENT here is that two-
thirds of them are Danish and Swedish and
cannot read the English language.
							D. P. I.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ELDERS A. M. MUSSER and O. F. Whit-
ney are creating something of a sensation
in Eastern Pennsylvania where they are
seeking to promulgate the principles of the
Gospel as believed in by the Church of Je-
sus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Persecu-
tion followed the Savior and His Apostles,
and those who undertake to proclaim the
same Gospel taught by them will receive
similar persecution. Jesus said "If they
persecute me, will they not also persecute
you?" "The Daily Examiner and Express"
of Jan. 13, published in Lancaster, Penn.,
contains some items concerning these Eld-
ers, and makes reference to the vile reports
which have been circulated concerning El-
der Musser, which they forbear publishing
"as he is a native of Lancaster Co. and very
respectably connected." The same paper
published a letter from Elder Musser giving
the people some ideas of Mormonism, and
statistics of Utah's progress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		131


THE GOOD GIRL'S RESOLVE.
			[TUNE, "AUNT SALLY."]

I'll not give heed to vanity, to fashion or to pride
Nor any of those silly ways God's servants have decried,
Appearing ever neat and clean, avoiding all excess,
Empolying my own handiwork in whatsoe'er I dress.

					CHORUS.

	Good girls rally, sustain the cause of truth,
	Remember your Creator in the days of early youth.

I'll never condescend to be a coquette or a flirt,
Allow my skirts when walking out to trail in filth and 
	dirt.
To chastity, and modesty I'll ever be inclined
Avoiding rude loud laughter which denotes the vacant
	mind.

I will not use the powder puff, nor daub my face with
	paint,
And never deign to eat or drink what would my system
	taint;
I never will be found among young men who smoke or
	drink;
Avoiding as associates rude girls who leer and wink.

The cause of God I will sustain with undivided heart,
All evil passions will restrain, from sinful ways depart:
At all times good examples set whate'er my lot may be,
Whene'er my pathway is beset, from all temptation flee
									WM. WILLIS
	Dedicated to the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Socie-
ties, Dec. 13th, 1876;


THE COMMON LOT OF ALL.

	There is no heart but hath its inner anguish,
		There is no eye but hath by tears been wet,
	There is no soul but hath been known to languish
		O'er hours of darkness it can ne'er forget.

	There is no cheek, however bright its roses,
		But faded buds beneath its hue are hid;
	No eye that in its dewy light reposes,
		But broken starbeams tremble 'neath its lid.

	There is no voice with laughter ringing,
		However light and gay its words may be,
	But hath in hours of agony been seeking
		For power to solve its life's deep mystery.

	We are sojourners in this land of dreaming,
		Hands meet, hearts join, and eye to eye replies;
	Nor deem we that below a brow all beaming
		A hidden grief all unrevealed lies.
											E. R.
S. L. City, Jan. 5, 1876.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

				ST. GEORGE, Jan. 2, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Yesterday the Temple in this city, or a
portion of it, was dedicated. At 10 o'clock
the people began to wend their way to the
Temple block. It was announced on the
day previous, at meeting, that the doors
would be opened at 12 o'clock m. and closed
at a quarter to one. Everybody seemed
anxious to be there too early rather than too
late. Riding down a little before twelve,
one met people going by ones and twos;
wagons loaded with men and women; and
some few carriages occupied by happy-look-
ing people; and on almost every face was
seen  thoughtful but joyous expression, in
keeping with the occasion. The building
was surrounded by a throng of people when
we arrived. Presently the carriage con-
taining the President drove up at the south
side entrance to the basement. Simultane-
ously the several doors were opened, and
the people crowded into the two large rooms
—running north and south—of the base-
ment story. President Young: together
with those of the Twelve Apostles who
were present, and some of the leading
brethren, occupied the font-room. The
large double doors connecting the large halls
with the font room were thrown open to en-
able all to hear. At the time appointed the

[Column 2]
outer doors were closed and the services
commenced by the congregation singing
the hymn, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning." Bros. Woodruff and Snow then
gave some instructions to the people, as to
how they should conduct themselves while
the prayer was being offered up. That
every heart should be uplifted to God, and
every head bowed, and every eye closed.
Apostle Woodruff then solemnly ascended
the steps leading to the font, and in an im-
pressive manner appealed to Almighty God
to accept of His people's offering. My own
heart and mind were too interested in the
prayer to notice anything. But nothing
was forgotten in it. The blessing of Heav-
en was sought on all the Relief Societies
throughout the world. Also upon all the
sisters who had contributed in any way to
the building of the House. Of course I
could but remember this, as I was included
among those sisters. At the close of the
prayer, the choir, under the leadership of
Bro. McFarlan, sang a beautiful hymn com-
posed for the occasion by C. L. Walker.
The congregation then proceeded to the
main hall on the next floor. After complete
order was obtained, another hymn was sung
and Bro. Erastus Snow delivered the dedi-
catory prayer for that room and its sur-
roundings. President Young with some of the
leading brethren then ascended to the seal-
ing room to dedicate that. The voices of
the brethren united in a hymn floated down
to us, like the distant strains of a heavenly
choir. After the brethren returned to the
lower room, the people were told that work
was to be commenced in the Temple imme-
diately.
	Then that which the people had so longed
for, and still hoped for, transpired; Presi-
dent Young arose in the power of the Holy
Ghost and addressed the multitude. His
exhortations were powerful and impressive.
The house seemed filled with a heavenly
host, and the President's face fairly shone
with the light of the Holy Ghost. His re-
marks were reported in full and will short-
ly be published.
	To-day he feels much better than could
be expected; seems cheerful and comforta-
ble; was out in his carriage this afternoon.
	It was estimated that there were over
1,200 people present, yesterday, at the
Temple.
	The weather here is simply delightful.
Imagine yourself enjoying an ideal spring.
A deep blue sky, a few white fleecy clouds
a warm, brilliant sun, with rather cold
nights, and you have a picture of the state
of the weather day after day. Not even
rain enough for a little mud. Warm and
pleasant, except at night.
							S. Y. D


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
		NO SURPLUS WOMEN.

	But though I loved you well I woo'd you not,
	And yet good faith, I wished myself a man;
	Or that we women had men's privilege
				Of speaking first.

									SHAKESPEARE.
	The very fact that God is in all His
works consistent that He never created
something for nothing, is a positive demon-
stration that there are no "surplus women,"
and that according to the first command-
ment given to man, (and we believe just as
binding upon woman) namely to "multiply
and replenish the earth," and from which
law there has never been an appeal, proves
that every man and woman who desires to
obey the laws of God should marry. There
is no doubt as many men as women born

[Column 2]
into the world but nature's laws are pervert-
ed, the means she has provided are not
properly adjusted, because sin has come into
the world, and an antagonism has developed
itself which has to be met and dealt with;
it has created a disturbance and confusion
and disarranged the eternal laws and prin-
ciples which were they carried out in their
perfection would reconcile and harmonize
all animate nature.
	God has given to those whom he created
in His own image, an agency and the power
to use that as an influence for good or evil,
and through the errors and darkness of
"the blind leaders of the blind," instead of
trusting in all humility and meekness upon
God, men have wandered further and fur-
ther from the right and become so wrapt
in traditions that it is almost impossible to
make them comprehend the will of Jeho-
vah. Misconstructed governments which
contain in their codes the elements of dis-
solution, are the causes of the degenerating
consequences which are becoming more
than ever noticeable. A few years back
there was less talk of the great majority of
old maids, and also of divorces. What are
the causes of these results? Philosophers
tell us there is no effect without a cause,
and if, as some writers affirm, there are not
women enough in certain localities for each
man to have a wife, why do not men marry
those who are marriageable; probably the
fact is, that women choose to remain old
maids, rather than marry useless, profigate,
or intemperate men. We still persist in
saying there are more good women than
men and if they cannot marry honorable
husbands they choose to remain single, un-
til they fully comprehend the laws of com-
plete progression, and then they will not
unite themselves wtth wicked men, for of
what avail would it be? They would only
lead them into misery and degradation and
entail upon them an everlasting curse instead
of blessing.
	It is no mysterious dispensation of provi-
dence that has left them "lone roses to pine
on the stem," or unprovided with husbands
to support, protect and comfort them.
	Sir Henry James (we are informed) calls
unmarried women "social failures," by
what name or phrase would he christen
bachelors? They not only fail socially but
morally, physically and spiritually; and on
them instead of woman, no doubt will fall
the sin of not fulfilling the first command-
ment, because woman by tradition, custom
and long-established laws of society, does
not assert a right to choose for herself, one
who shall be her companion and the father
of her children. Woe be unto her if she
dare so outrage the man-made positive laws
of social and domestic life. Such a woman
is made the jest and by-word of her sisters
even, and the scoff and scorn of those who
call themselves "the protectors and support-
ers of the weaker sex." Occasionally you
will hear the remark that woman has as
much right to her choice as man, but she
must not speak out, or show her preference
except by seeking to attract with womanly
grace and sweetness, modestly, quietly and
unobtrusively. In my estimation it is far
more honorable to openly avow one's senti-
ments than to practice all the wiles and arts
of modern or ancient invention for the sake
of procuring the husband of one's choice,
or failing in that, to profane the holy ordi-
nance of marriage before high heaven at
the sacred altar, with one who does not
form with you that perfect bond of love and
confidence which is essential to the ele-
ments which should enter into that new
life which is to be the fruit of your union.

			TO BE CONTINUED.


132		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1877.


GOVERNMENTAL POWERS.

	Throughout the world, the wisest and the
greatest of mankind have sought to establish
firm governments, for a safe protection to all
classes of society. People have talked and
written about it, devised laws and statutes,
legislated and presented memorials; spent time,
talents, money and the best energies of life, in
pursuit of such knowledge as would secure the
best and most perfect justice under all the dif-
ferential circumstances which might or could
occur to individuals or peoples in all the phases
of life. In all ages wars have been waged,
nation against nation, to maintain certain
principles of power, lest they should lose any
part of the foundation of strength which up-
held and sustained the dignity and authority
of government. Are mortal men capable of
maintaining a government which will stand
all the hard pressure of general and special con-
tingencies? It would indeed seem otherwise
from the evidence given through long periods
of time, of the breaking up and destruction of
all the various forms of government which
have been most firmly and securely establish-
ed even by the strongest forces which could be
exercised. In consideration of all these inci-
dents and occurrences, in the past history of
the world, the conclusion must inevitably be
drawn, that the government of God is the only
perfect pattern.


[Column 1]
	WINTER EVENING REVERIES.

	"Now stir the fire, and close the shutters fast,
	Let fall the curtain, wheel the sofa round;
	So let us welcome peaceful evening in."
								COWPER.

	In the long winter evenings there are hours
which the great Creator of seasons and times
seems to have allotted to mortals for enjoyment
and self-examination. It is customary at this
season, among all classes of people, to draw
around the hearth, cheerful or dull, and partici-
pate more or less in some simple home pastime
—such as stories of a marvellous nature, or old
legends of fairies, ghosts, hobgoblins, or any
remniscence of reality or fiction that presents
itself first upon the tablet of the mind. Sub-
jects chosen a[-] this time are usually character-
istic of the person or the place, and partake in
a noticeable degree of the atmosphere which
predominates.
	Sitting by a blazing fire of coal, all aglow,
sending forth animation and warmth, one sus-
ceptible of outward impressions feels imbued
with pleasant thoughts and bright pictures or
representations of life; something appropriate
to the cheerful aspect of the room, and the ra-
diant faces lit up by the glow and warmth of
the burning coal, which suggest happy

[Column 2]
thoughts and pleasing ideas on the past, prese[-]t
and future.

		"Ere the evening lamps are lighted,
			And, like phantoms, grim and tall,
		Shadows from the fitful fireside
			Dance upon the parlor wall."

	At such moments, when the busy toil of the
day is over, and one sits down to muse for a
respite, ere the night fairly closes in, with all
its ceremony of silent potency, this verse of
Longfellow's may be most fully realized. Who
has not sat and watched fitful shadows cast
upon the wall by the reflection of the dull fire-
light, and drawn comparisons suited to the con-
dition of mind and the adaptibility of such
shading and outlining to the musings of the
fancies within?
	"We belong to our time," some one has said;
is it because people partake in a large degree
of the influence of surroundings and associa-
tions?
	It is extremely difficult to realize the cold-
ness, apathy and hard selfishness of human
nature taken as a whole, when the heart is full
of generous warmth, and overflowing with
blessings, which, though small perhaps in
themselves, are great, according to the spirit of
appreciation in which they are received.
	The actual busy "work-a-day world," with all
its shifting, noises, sights and struggles, is shut
out from the circle by the fireside, as though it
were a thing of the past. There may be news-
papers telling of some friend that has passed
away, or some one who has failed in business,
or of the general obligations of mankind—but
their interest is transient and fails to fix the
attention but for a few moments only.
	It is pleasant and customary in some homes
to have tea or chocolate with rosy apples or
dough-nuts, to while away the long evenings
which succeed the short days; but we were
upon the subject of reveries, we were not think
ing of newspapers, letters, recreations, tea or
refreshments just now, "a truce to all these,"
(nevertheless "one cannot feed upon air") but
our cogitations sitting here by the glowing:
grate were of old legends, past experiences,
dreamy fancies, that have long since died in
embryo—sentiments choked to death in the
expression, memories of childhood and school-
days, and by-gone anticipations, which are now
perhaps the more pleasant from lack of fulfill-
ment, thinking of these and conjuring up com-
parisons, shadings and imitations to life,
watching the fitful blaze and the shadowy re-
flections find it most delightful amusement for
a few hours.
	Musings like these are not unprofitable, they
lead one to look into the labyrinths of the
mind, and ascertain whether there are still
rich, fertile, uncultivated, or unexplored fields
for life's uses, with fresh bubbling springs of
thought ready to bring into real actual service
the reserved forces, which time and opportuni-
ties may yet develop into special phases for the
good of mankind. These reveries are not only
attractive in themselves, but ofttimes a posi-
tive relief, especially to the over-burdened
mind; the scientific thinker in any and all of the
professions, the pursuits and avocations of daily
labor, and some of these comprise real drudg-
ery, mental or physical, such persons should
allow themselves part at least of these long,
winter evenings to recruit mental and physi-
cal forces. If all vitality is drained the person
becomes stale, dry and unfruitful, then the
special mission assigned them upon the earth
will fail in its complete accomplishment.
	These are hours given more especially for
contemplation and reflection, and charity for
one's self and all the universal brotherhood.
Cherish then in these hours of firelight reve-

[Column 3]
ries "love of our neighbors" and a desire to
recognize the affections which centre in home-
life, and become better acquainted not only
with one's self, but with each others finer and
more lovable attributes. The winter evenings
should contribute to that tenderness, devotion
and regard for each other's happiness, which
are the most pleasing features of home inter-
course. These are times when men and women
may enter with zeal and true appreciation into
those charming little courtesies that endear
and beautify home-life, purifying the best ele-
ments of character, and refining the tone of
every-day association. Were men and women
to devote a little more time and thought to
practising virtues and endearments at home,
there would be less excuse for seeking these at-
tractions and enjoyments abroad.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MOST perfect surprise was tendered to Miss
E. R. Snow on Monday, Jan. 22, the day fol-
lowing her birthday. All unexpectedly she
was invited to the residence of Mrs. Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, where she found assembled as
many of the sisters as the house could hold, to
congratulate her on the anniversary of her
natal-day, and wish her many returns of the
same with increased joy, prosperity and happi-
ness. Prest. Daniel H. Wells and Elder Orson
Pratt, sen., were present on the occasion; each
of them, in a happy manner, made some ex-
cellent remarks appropriate to the time and
place. Mrs. E. A. Whitney chanted forth in
praise a "song of Zion." A sumptuous dinner
had been shrewdly and quietly arranged, and
everything went "merry as a marriage bell."
Miss Snow was the recipient of some elegant
and valuable presents from her "dear five hun-
dred friends," but the choicest gift of all is the
love of the people.
	ANOTHER GOOD TIME.—The Fourth Annual
Meeting of the Young Ladies' Association of
the 10th Ward was held Jan. 10, 1877, at the
ward meeting house. There were in attendance
several ladies of the General Retrenchment
Association, Mrs. E. B. Wells of the Woman's
Exponent, the officers of the Ward Relief So-
ciety, and others. After Prest. Mrs. M. J.
Pierce and several of the young girls had made
suitable remarks, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Margaret Young and Wilmirth East spoke
beautifully on the principles of the Gospel, our
duties as mothers in Israel, daughters of Zion,
and their good instructions and kind counsel
will long be remembered and cherished by
those who heard them. We have had a true
spiritual feast, which will cause many to live
purer and better lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke on the Grain Ques-
tion, Woman's Book, and Woman's Exponent.
Never before has it been known where women
have saved grain for a famine; this is a privi-
lege which God has assigned to us. The publi-
cation of the Woman's Book should be pushed
forward by the sisters, for it will preach the
Gospel in many places where the elders would
not be listened to, and will remove much of the
prejudice in regard to the Mormon Women.
The EXPONENT should also be sustained, for it
also has a voice in proclaiming to the world,
the rights and motives of the Women of Utah.
	Other remarks were made, after which we
adjourned until our next regular meeting.
	M. P.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In response to my request Sister Jenson of
Brigham City forwarded the following statisti-


cal items of Mantua; not the Italian Mantua,
celebrated as the birthplace of Virgil the poet,
but a small, thriving town, one hour's drive
north from Brigham City, in "Little Valley,"
Box Elder County.			E. R. SNOW.
	"This little town was first settled in the
Spring of 1863, by eight humble and poor fam-
ilies, over whom my husband, H. P. Jensen,
presided as Bishop. They have since increased
mostly from the Old World, of the same hum-
ble class, to the number of two hundred and
eighty-three.
	They now constitute a well-ordered and hap-
py society of Latter-day Saints. They have
good meetings for worship, with a good choir.
The fathers are organized in Quorums of the
Priesthood—the mothers organized in a Relief
Society, work together in love and unity, hav-
ing a capital of $300 (three hundred dollars)—
they are striving to honor every requisition—
looking after the wants of the poor, storing up
grain against a day of famine, and living up to
the spirit of the times. The daughters are or-
ganized in a Young Ladies' Retrenchment As-
sociation—their wearing apparel being as much
as possible, "the workmanship of their own
hands." They make their own hats, artificial
flowers, &c. They meet together once in two
weeks, and have interesting meetings, and, as
daughters, are truly an honor to their parents.
	The sons are organized in a Young Men's
Mutual Improvement Society—have very in-
teresting meetings, and to their credit it may
be said, and truly, not one of those young men
indulge either in strong drink or in the use of
tobacco in any form.
	The sexes of those associations meet together
once a month—the young gentlemen and ladies
presiding alternately. This has proved a great
benefit in their improvement in the develop-
ment of their talents.
	A good day school is taught by Miss C. An-
derson. The Sunday School is well attended.
Dancing parties and other amusements are
strictly controlled according to the published
circular and counsel of the Priesthood, and
neither liquor nor round dancing is ever intro-
duced.
	Here the people have manifested their faith
by their works. In the past year, 1876, they
have donated
	For the Temple......................... $708.20
	Fast-day offering......................   136.35
	For emigrating the poor..........     78.40
		Arizona mission................   238.70
		Brigham City Tabernacle..  300.00
							     ————
			Total............................1461 65
	As this little town lies in the rude moun-
tains, eight hundred feet above Brigham City,
the people have had to contend with many dif-
ficulties in the form of grasshoppers, crickets
and frost: the former and latter were so des-
tructive last season that their wheat crop was
reduced eight bushels per head, but their econ-
omy is admirable and they are not discouraged.
They have a store in the United Order, where
the account shows that in two months' time
they sold butter and eggs to the amount of six
hundred dollars.
	So much for the little tree planted thirteen
years ago, in a cold corner of the Lord's vine-
yard."
								S. J. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORMON ELDERS IN THE EAST.

	A debate was held on Thursday and Friday
evenings, Dec. 28 and 29, between Elder A. M.
Musser of this city, and the Rev. Dr. Martin
of Ohio, in Massasoit's Hall, Strasburg, Lan-


caster Co., Penn. The following were the
heads discussed:
	1. We believe that the atonement of our Sa-
viour covered only the sins entailed upon man
by Adam's fall, and not the individual, personal
sins of men.
	2. We believe that men must work out their
own salvation from their individual sins by
their good works through faith, repentance,
baptism—by immersion, and for the remission
of sins, and the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost.
	3. We believe that the gifts of the Spirit as
enjoyed by the Saints anciently, are absolutely
necessary to the true and proper understanding
and interpretation of the Holy Scriptures,
which is a Divine record, and that the Holy
Scripture is as a sealed book to all who do not
enjoy the Holy Ghost as enjoyed by those who
wrote it.
	4. We believe that the celestial order of Mar-
riage for time and eternity, commonly called
"Polygamy," as taught by us, is strictly a
Scriptural doctrine.
	5. King James' English translation of the
Bible is our standard.
	Signed
		A. MILTON NUSSER,
		ORSON F. WHITNEY,
	Elders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	I agree to impugn the above doctrines of
Mormonism, maintaining the doctrines of the
Presbyterian Church, including the immediate
inspiration of the Holy Scriptures as written
in the original language of the inspired pen-
man, and I believe that King James' transla-
tion is generally very good.
	Signed,
		JOHN WYNNE MARTIN.	Each speaker was limited to twenty minutes,
Elder Musser taking the affirmative, and Dr.
Martin having the concluding speech upon
each subject. Each party chose an Umpire
and those two chose a third who acted as mod-
erator.
	Passage after passage of Scripture was quoted;
and the whole evenings were spent in this
manner. Some thought the Rev. Dr. was not
as competent as he should have been, being a
little too nervous, &c. No doubt the questions
were ably dealt with by Elder Musser, but as
the adage goes,
		"Convince a man against his will,
		He's of the same opinion still."
	The world do not want the truth, they want
popularity, position and money.


STORING GRAIN.

	In an article upon storing grain, published
in the Deseret News of Jan. 17, written by
O. B. Shaw, we find some items in regard
to the subject which as we are seriously in-
terested in the matter, we desire to lay be-
fore our readers.
	"There are three great agencies operat-
ing in all nature in the destruction as well
as in the organization of all vegetable
and animal life forms, viz. heat, moisture
and light. To the operation of these subtle
forces is due nearly all the great changes
that recur from season to season. Modify
or control these forces and you have the
key of the whole subject. Construct gran-
aries impenetrable to moisture and unaf-
fected by the heat of the sun or surround-
ing air, cool, dry, and dark, and no in-
sect life can flourish in them, no parasitic
life will grow, and the conditions thus se-


cured, together with the conditions of dry
soil for the land where the various grains
grew and mixed copiously, completes the
natural law or conditions for their preserva-
tion through long periods of time. This
soil mixing among the grain does no injury,
as it all escapes in the milling process.
	Dig deeply into the alluvials of the earth
the world over, and expose the soils from
those depths to heat, moisture, and light,
and in nearly all cases, a vegetation essen-
tially different from that found on the sur-
face springs np.
	Joseph in Egypt, directed the storing of
grain with the dry soils of the lands, thus
showing himself to be well acquainted
with the natural facts before mentioned.
	Granaries constructed of good concrete of
lime and gravel are perhaps as good mate-
rial as any; they must be cool, dry, and
dark, and care be taken that the building
and contents, wheat and soil, are as dry as
possible.


OBITUARY.

	Died, in Ogden City, Jan. 14th, 1877, Mary
W. Brown. She was born in Stockport, Ches-
shire, Eng., 30th of March, 1814. Embraced
the Gospel in 1850, and came to the valley in
1854. In 1855 she was married to Capt. James
Brown of Ogden. She was an exemplary wo-
man. She adopted two motherless children
and bestowed on them the care, anxiety and
love of a fond mother; and during her sickness
the thought of them was always uppermost
and she would frequently say, "What will be-
come of my poor boys?" She was a subscriber
to the EXPONENT, and a member of the Relief
Society. As a faithful Latter-day Saint she
loved her religion and lived it truly and con-
sistently, and has died with a glorious hope
of the resurrection, respected and esteemed by
all who knew her. "Blessed are the dead that
die in the Lord," for they shall come forth in
the morning of the resurrection crowned with
eternal glory."					A. M. F.
	Ogden, Jan. 24th, 1877.


AN INTERESTING discovery of a part of
the old Roman wall has been lately made at
London in the heart of the city. Some
buildings were demolished in Camomile
Street, near its junction with Bishopsgate
Street, and in the excavation some thirty-
six feet of the old wall were revealed, be-
sides a bastion. The wall was fully nine
feet thick; the bastion projects on the north-
ern side, is more than semi-circle, solid; and
about sixteen feet across; the heights va-
ried from two to four feet and a half, and
the whole was about ten feet below the lev-
el of the modern street. The wall had had
faces of roughly wrought stone, with a
double band of the usual bright tiles on thecity side; but on the outside much dark
iron stone had been used. Much Kentisli
rag stone and green stone had also been em-
ployed, and this seems to point to an epoch
for the construction, when the Romans had
a knowledge of the country and ability to
transport materials to considerable distance.


SCENE, library. Freshman—"Where
shall I find Darwin's works?" Librarian—
"What do you want with Darwin?"—
Freshman—"I want his "Origin of Species,'
so as to find something about this finance
question."—Cornell Era.


134		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	WOMAN IN THE CHURCHES.

	Rev. Isaac M. See, of the Wickliffe
Church, who is upon trial for permitting
women to preach from his pulpit, occupied
the entire session of the Newark (New Jer-
sey) Presbytery on Thursday, in making
his defense, speaking thereon for three and
a half hours. The matters contained in
the charge, he said, were such as related
to his relation as a Christian minister and
to the Lord Jesus Christ, the king and head
of all things in the Church. The women
who had preached in his church were dele-
gates to a National Convention which was
being held at Newark, and he had no
thought that any of the delegates proposed
speaking in his chapel until the day pre-
vious to their appearing there. He had
been glad to have them there, for he was
pleased to see that the Lord had opened up
a field for his daughters in a sphere where
men had so signally failed; but in permit-
ting this occupancy of his pulpit he had no
thought of going counter to the wishes of
the Presbytery. It was only after prayer-
ful consideration that this action had been
taken, and it was not until meeting with
Dr. Craven on the succeeding Wednesday
that he had the least intimation that he
had done aught at which any of his breth-
ren could take offense. He believed that
women had as much power in the preach-
ing of the Holy Gospel as he had himself.
His experience in the company of blessed
baptized women had been for the past
twelve years in attendance on what were
called "Tuesday meetings" at the house of
Dr. Palmer, in the city of New York. Mrs.
Palmer he regarded as a woman of God,
baptized of the Holy Ghost for her work.
A more noble life than hers he did not
think he ever saw, nor a person of more
personal power. He would scarcely be
willing to stand and preach when he could
not invite such a person as Mrs. Palmer to
stand and preach and teach the Holy Gos-
pel. In those Palmer meetings he had
heard the grandest eloquence from female
lips.
	In relation to the Bible teaching, he
would call the attention of the Presbytery
to the passage, "We are neither Greek nor
Jew, bond nor free, male nor female," and
in his opinion, Woman was the most vital
portion of the house of God. It was evi-
dent that she was coming into a wider lib-
erty than ever before; the events of the
past few years would prove this to every
unprejudiced mind—not to a Presbyterian
mind, perhaps, but to the mind that looks
outside a narrow sectarian view. He would
not urge her right to ordination, but he did
claim that she had a right to stand, as any
layman might stand, and preach either in
pulpit or pew, for the pulpit in his opinion,
was no more sacred than a barrel-head or a
sidewalk." With regard to the commands
of Paul that women should be silent in the
churches, Mr. See said that in those days
in Corinth there were babbling women, and
it was probably such women that Paul had
reference to. There were also babbling wo-
men in the present day, as any one might
find, if they tried to get up a church fair or
festival. The women of Corinth were of
the most degraded type, which was a suffi-
cient reason for Paul's mandate to them.
The act for which he stood charged was not
forbidden either in the book of discipline
or in the confession of faith, and why should
he promise not to do it any more?
	A Brother—Because you are bound to re-
gard the peace of the Church. You are
bound to keep it.

[Column 2]
	Mr. See—Jesus said he came not to bring
peace, but a sword.
	Mr. See next alluded to the deliverance
of the General Assembly of 1874 to the ef-
fect that the ministers and elders of each
church must decide for themselves as to
the propriety of women teaching; "and so,"
said he, "on the one side is the Apostolic
injunction to silence, and on the other the
General Assembly says: 'Do as you please.'
Dr. Cuyler's people have done as they
pleased, and my people have done as they
pleased. The whole matter is that the
teaching of Paul was correct and fitting for
his day, but his ministry ended with his
death. The Church of Christ lived through
the ages, and each age must be governed by
its customs. The woman of to-day is diff-
erent in every respect from the woman of
previous days, and the woman of the future
has a yet more glorious destiny before her.
For myself, I had rather die in ignominy
to-night than to yield this point in the least.
My fear is not for myself, but for you, lest
you should cling to the letter that killeth
rather than to the spirit which giveth light.
May God bless you and guide you aright."
	Oliver Johnson, editor of the Orange (N.
J.) Journal makes the following comment:

			BREAKING LOOSE.

	What is coming now, we wonder? A few
years since, the Rev. Dr. Cuyler, of Brook-
lyn was overhauled by his Presbytery upon
complaint of Dr. Vandyke, for allowing Miss
Smiley, the sweet-hearted Quakeress, to
call sinners to the Saviour from his pulpit.
The case, we believe, was taken to the Gen-
eral Assembly, whose utterance upon the
subject was not satisfactory to the com-
plainant. And now behold! here is anoth-
er rebellious minister, the Rev. Mr. See, of
Newark, who, on Sunday, Oct. 29 last, (we
love to preface when such a crime is report-
ed) "did, both in the morning and evening,
introduce females whom he permitted and
encouraged then and there publicly to
preach and teach, being in violation of the
Book of Discipline." The women here re-
ferred to were members of the late Wo-
man's Temperance Convention, whom Mr.
See permitted to occupy his pulpit on that
occasion. They were Mrs. Robinson, of
Indiana, and Mrs. C. S. Whitney, of Hart-
ford, Conn.
	The Presbytery met in Newark on
Wednesday, for the trial of Mr. See. After
some preliminary skirmishing, the com-
plaint was taken up, and Mr. See admitted
the specifications but denied the charge.
The Rev. Dr. Craven, the complainant, then
took the floor and in a two hours speech
presented his side of the question. His
mouth was full of compliments for woman.
Nobody appreciated her noble qualities, her
delicacy, her refinement, her purity and de-
votion more than himself; but inasmuch as
Paul had commanded the ignorant and
newly converted Greek women to be silent
in the churches, when if they had spoken
they would only have brought reproach up-
on the cause, he insisted that women in all
ages however intelligent and well qualified
to present the claims of the gospel and how-
ever wide the demand for their services
and the willingness to hear them might be,
should hold their peace. He felt kindly to-
ward Mr. See, but believed it to be his duty
as a minister of this Presbyterian Church
to resist this innovation of woman's preach-
ing as contrary both to Scripture and the
Standards.
	On Thursday Mr. See defended himself
with power and eloquence. He did not
flinch, but met the question squarely, de-

[Column 3]
claring his belief that God is in this new
departure for Christian women as teachers
and preachers.
	The Presbytery adjourned till Wednes-
day, when it will meet to render its ver-
dict. Meanwhile we have a "little story,"
which we commend to Dr Craven and
those who may be inclined to agree with
him.
	Nearly forty years ago, two Quaker wo-
men, of high Southern birth (Sarah and An-
gelina Grimke), having emancipated their
own slaves, came to the North to plead the
cause of their enslaved sisters before those
of their own sex. They went by invitation
to Massachusetts, where in such vestries,
halls and private houses as in that day could
be procured for such a purpose, they depict-
ed the wrongs and cruelties of the slave
system, as they had witnessed them from
childhood. They produced a powerful im-
pression wherever they went, and at length
the Legislature of the State invited one of
them to speak in their Hall, and attended
the lecture in a body. Those clergymen of
the State who stood guard over slavery
were in a terrible state of dismay in view
of these proceedings, and when the general
Association of Congressional ministers came
together in annual meeting, a Protestant
"bull," framed by the man who afterwards
earned the soubriquet of "South-side
Adams," was promulgated for the purpose
of arresting the evil. This "bull" is the
subject of one of Whittier's stirring lyrics.
	But the nub of our little story is a pen
caricature, drawn at that day by a Quaker's
skillful hand. The picture represents a
crowd of women enclosed by a circular
wall, so high that they could not scale it.
Here and there was a breach, through
which a few were trying to escape. March-
ing around this enclosure was a guard of
men in clerical garb, with guns upon their
shoulders, some of them with the point of
the bayonet, driving back the women who
sought to escape. In the background stood
his Satanic Majesty in his well known uni-
form, and from his mouth escaping this le-
gend: "That's right, my helpers—don't
let 'em out; if you do my cake will be all
dough."
	We commend this bit of history to the
Rev. Dr. Craven and the Newark Presby-
tery.—Woman's Journal.


SAYING HATEFUL THINGS.—What a
strange disposition is that which leads peo-
ple to say "hateful" things for the mere
pleasure of saying them! You are never
safe with such a person. When you have
done your best to please, and are feeling
very kindly and pleasantly, out will come
some underhand stab, which you alone will
comprehend, a sneer which is masked but
which is too well aimed to be misunder-
stood. It may be at your person, your
mental feelings, your foolish habits of
thought, or some little secret opinion con-
fessed in a moment of genuine confidence.
It matters not how sacred it may be to you,
he will have his fling at it; and since the
wish is to make you suffer, he is all the
happier the nearer he touches your heart.
Just have a dozen words, only for the pleas-
ure of feeling a cheek flush, and an eye
lose its brightness; only spoken because he
is afraid you are too happy or too conceited!
Yet they are worse than so many blows.
How many sleepless nights have such mean
attacks caused tender-hearted mortals! How
after them one awakes with aching eyes
and head, to remember that speech before
everything—that bright, sharp, well-aimed
needle of a speech, that probed the very
center of his soul.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CURSE OF THE HOUR.

	There is too much lying. On every hand
we meet with exaggeration, equivocation,
deception. We call it all lying, and every
one who intentionally varies one iota from
the strictest fact and truth, is indeed a liar.
	The expressman agrees to deliver a trunk
for you at a certain place by a certain hour.
He delivers it the day after. The grocer
promises to send you the best tea in the
market. He takes the first he lays his
hands upon without any care for the quality,
and dispatches it to you without a twinge.
The printer promises to do your work
cheaper than it can be done elsewhere in
town. He forgets his promise and charges
what he pleases. The tailor agrees to de-
liver a suit of clothes without fail by six in
the evening. You get them in the morn-
ing. The dentist pledges his word that
your teeth as filled by him will be all right
for a dozen years. The fillings come out
in six months. The man over the way is
in need of a temporary loan. You lend him
a small sum which he promises to return at
given time. He keeps it a month over the
time. An auctioneer tells you that a cer-
tain picture is by a master artist. He lies
and is not worthy of trust. A salesman
lies about his goods. A watch maker about
your watch. The gossiper at the dinner
table tells exaggerated stories to astonish
the ladies. The florist assures you that his
flowers were picked in the morning, when
they are two days old. The book publisher
advertises that his book is selling by the
tens of thousands, when he has not sold a
thousand.
	Everywhere we hear lying, lying, lying.
Men and women, who would knock you
down if you called them liars. Deception
is the rule rather than exception. Canvass-
ers lie about companies. Brokers about
stock. Editors lie about politics. Exagger-
ation and misrepresentation rule the hour,
and are its curse.
	Gentlemen— ladies — why can not the
truth be told always and ever? Why all
this deception and lying? Why so much
falsifying and cheating? In the name of
all that is true and good, we beg of you to
do as you agree!—The Alpha.


CAUSES OF ILL-HEALTH.

	In looking over the Journal of Nov. 4th,
I was saddened by the perusal of an article
on the failing health of Western women;
not believing in Dr. Draper's assertion in
his Physiology, that "Woman is mentally
and physically imperfect," but merely con-
sidering the doctor a second edition of that
impious King Alfonzo of Spain, who said
that if the Almighty had consulted him
when he made the world, he could have
given him some useful hints! It seems to
me there are two idols worshipped by wo-
men, which are the cause of so much mar-
red existence. The first, Fashion that great
Diana of the Parisians, before whom the
world lies prostrate and Woman disabled;
upon her ring of changes trade is kept brisk.
She is remorseless and untiring in her de-
mand, slaying her thousands, while she fills
the coffers of the merchant princes.
	The masterly silence of the physicians
are spoken of, this I think will often be
found a necessity, to cover the uncertainty
and short coming of the profession. This
is the second idol; women at large learn al-
most everything but that which is of the
most vital importance to them, viz: the
knowledge of the "House they live in,"
which is really a captivating study; then,


if from irregular manner of living, insuffi-
cient sleep, lack of needful exercise, er-
rors in clothing, and mechanical restraints
of dress on the free movement of the body,
women are lost to all healthy enjoyment,
they consign themselves, it may be, to the
hands of a strange physician, without in-
quiry even of his antecedents and surround-
ings. Then often it is masterly arrogance
on one side, and ignorant submission on the
other.
	The American Journal of Medical Science
says: "Every thoughtful man who wishes
well to this department, Gynoecology, (dis-
eases of women) must view with concern
the unwise haste with which young practic-
ioners, who have neither time nor oppartu-
nity to acquire experience in general medi-
cine, strive to devote themselves to it."
Perhaps not more than one-tenth of those
who take the two years' courses of lec-
tures in our great rival schools, ever have the
opportunity of practical knowledge in hospi-
tal wards. Huxley's address before the
managers of the John Hopkins University,
it is to be hoped will have a happy influ-
ence in this direction.
	General culture is the remedy for this
gaeat evil. Human Physiology should be
taught in every girl's school, so that moth-
ers may no longer cripple their children
from the cradle.
	Dr. B. W. Richardson, in that admirable
book, "Diseases of Modern Life," says "It
is as if the fashion willed that to be fashion-
able is to be physically disabled."
	In conclusion, shall I offer a quotation
from another physician, Dr. Samuel Bard,
to wit: "I confess, not without severe regret,
that toward the end of thirty years' prac-
tice, I found much less occassion for the
use of instruments than I did in the begin-
ning, and I believe we may certainly con-
clude that the person who, in proportion to
the extent of his practice, meets with the
most frequent occasion for their use, knows
least of the powers of Nature, and that he
who boasts of his skill and success in their
application is a very dangerous man.”
	THEMISTA.
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—Ex.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	A magnificently beautiful meteoric dis-
play was recently witnessed from Jackson-
ville, Ill. Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois
and Indiana were favored with a sight of
this meteor, which is said by observers to
have surpassed in grandeur anything of the
kind which has ever been seen in this coun-
try. The meteor lighted up the whole
earth and heavens brilliantly, and imparted
a subdued green coloring to the objects on
which the light rested. One singular fea-
ture of the occurrence was that, instead of
coming towards the earth, it passed in a
horizontal direction from west to east. It
was seen first in the west, when it resem-
bled a blazing, burning ball, nearly as large
as the full moon. As it swept along with
its fiery tail it seemed some twenty de-
grees in length, and some ten to twenty
fragments following it. When it reached a
point considerably east of north it burst in-
to from ten to twenty fragments, not unlike
the bursting of a rocket, and these frag-
ments seemed to disappear in a bank of
clouds. From the time the meteor was
first seen in the west till lost sight of in the
east full twenty seconds had elapsed.
	Recently the "San Francisco Chronicle"
described a ball of fire visible in that city,
which fell into the sea. It is stated that
between twelve and one, just after mid-


night, there was visible a peculiar light on
the sand and sea around, and looking up an
immense ball of fire was observed descend-
ing to the earth. Its course was rapid and
the mass fell into the sea about half a mile
from shore; it made a loud hissing noise,
followed by a sharp explosion. The com-
bustion occasioned by the immense velocity
with which the object traveled through the
atmosphere remained visible for about two
minutes. From the brilliancy and area of
fire surrounding the splash by the sudden
immersion in the water, it is conjectured
the aerolite must have been of immense
size. The number of meteors lately visible
have called the attention of scientific per-
sons to the cause; there is much diversity
of opinion regarding the nature and origin
of these aerolites. The two most widely
accepted is that they are bodies of the
planetary system that have come near
enough to be acted upon by the orbits. A
great many aerolites have been found and
many are in the different scientific institu-
tions in the world. The largest of which
there is any authentic record was found by
a Swedish Arctic Expedition in 1870, on
the west coast of Greenland. It weighs 25
tons, and is now at the Royal Academy at
Stockholm. The opinion most generally
conceded for the great number of meteors
which have appeared of late is that the
earth is passing through a belt of aerolite.


WORDSWORTH SNUBS CHARLES
				MACKAY.

	Wordsworth gave Charles Mackay a cu-
rious interview. "He suddenly said, 'I
am told that you write poetry. I never
read a line of your poems, and don't in-
tend.' I suppose I looked surprised at the
apparent rudeness of this," says Mackay,
"for he went on to say—'You must not be
offended with me; the truth is, I never read
anybody's poetry but my own.' Again I
suppose that my face must have expressed
what I certainly felt—a slight degree of
wonder at a declaration which I thought so
very gratuitous. 'You must not be sur-
prised,' he added, 'for it is not vanity that
makes me say this. I am an old man, and
little time is left me in the world. I use
that little as well as I may, to revise all my
poems carefully, and make them as perfect
as I can before I take my final departure.'
It was qnite evident from the frankness of
the explanation that the old gentleman did
not mean to wound my self-love while ex-
plaining and vindicating his own; and I
could bnt take in good part the confidence
he had reposed in me. Desiring to turn
the conversation, I stopped a moment in
our walk to admire the outline of the pic-
turesque mountain across the lake, and
pointing to it, asked him its name. 'Dear
me!' he replied, 'that's Nab Scaur. Have
you never read my poems?' It was on the
tip of my tongue to retort that I never read
anybody's poems but my own; bnt I reflect-
ed that he was old enough to be my grand-
father, and not only that, but how untrue
the statement would have been. So I re-
frained, and listened attentively as he spoke—
'I have described Nab Scaur more than
once in my poems. Don't you remember
the following?" And here he recited; in a
deep bass voice, a passage of twenty or
thirty lines which was entirely new to me,
though I did not like to tell him so."


﻿An illiterate correspondent, who is given
to sporting, wants to know when the "Ang-
la-Saxon race," so much talked about, is to
come off?


136		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Professor C. Voit, in a lecture at the "Public,"
held at Munich, remarked the weight of the body
has often been assumed as an infallible proof of
the maintenance of the conditions of the body, or
of a deposition of tissue, and the food which
keeps up a man's weight as, on that account, suf-
ficiently nutritious. But the weight of the body
is no criterion of the value of the food taken, be-
cause while the weight remains constant, or even
increases, water may increase in the tissues and
albumen and fat diminish; or there may be an in-
increase of weight and doposition of fat, while
there is also at the same time a diminution of the
albumen of the body. Badly nourished people
are usually not lighter than others, but their bodies
contain more water and less albumen and fat than
those who are well nourished.
	Digestion.—Food is most thoroughly digested
when taken early in the day; ere the nervous and
secretive forces are exhausted by toil. Rapid di-
gestion in the early part of the day contributes to
the immediate demands of motion and enervation.
Food for the repair of the continuous wear and
tear of the tissues is in less immediate request,
and it is best taken towards the evening, when an
opportunity is afforded for its leisurely absorption
during sleep. Rest before meals makes digestion
more complete. Exertion immediately before
meals retards digestion, and exertion immediately
after deranges it. Sleep retards digestion but
makes it more complete. Alchohol renders diges-
tion slow and incomplete. Earnest pre-occupation
of mind retards digestion and may even annul it.
Water quickens digestion and encourages the ab-
sorption of fatty and saccharine matters; but its
effect on the complete solution of albumen is doubt-
ful.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Cheap Pudding.—One quarter of a pound each
of currants, flour and suet, two ounces of sugar,
two spoonfuls of molasses, one teacupful of milk,
season with lemon or other flavoring, boil it in a
basin for three hours.
	Veal Salad.—Take a fine leg of veal, and put it
in water enough to simmer until it is perfectly ten-
der; remove the bones, chop it small, season it as
the chicken salad with parsley celery and so on.
Make some gravy with milk, take two tablespoon-
fuls of corn starch to blend with the milk, add a
raw egg well beaten, pour this over the pudding
and stir it well.
	Potted or Spiced Meat.—Remove all gristle,
hard pieces and fat from cold roast or boiled beef,
or remnants of tongue or ham; mince it very fine
and pound it in a mortar with a little butter or
gravy and a spoonful of good Worcester sauce;
season it during the pounding process with ground
cloves, or cinnamon, or allspice, mace, or grated
nutmeg, salt and pepper, a little cayenne; put it
into jars and press it close down for some time.
	Bread Pudding.—Take about two ounces of
bread, half a pint of milk, one egg, half a cup of
sugar; heat the milk boiling hot, pour it over the
bread, let it stand until well soaked, then stir in
the egg and sugar well beaten, with grated nut-
meg or other flavoring, and bake or steam it.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

[Column 2]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Des[-]ret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
[-]o[-]pe[-]'s, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's JAMAICA GINGER,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from
	native Ore, Door Mats, Toy Table and
		Spool Stands, Sole Leather and
			other Trunks, Gents' Fine Shirts
				and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
					Table Salt, Band Boxes
						and Dixie Cotton.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		ALL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 3]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1877.		No. 18


TEMPLE SONG.

	Hark, hark! angelic minstrels sing
		A sweet, melodious strain;
	Heav'n's high, celestial arches ring
		With joyful news again,
	Lo! now another key is turned:
		'Tis God’s divine behest;
	And those for whom our hearts have yearn'd,
		Our dead, again are blest.

CHORUS.

From the valleys of Ephraim hosannas arise,
And new hallelujahs descend from the skies,
Glad shouts of redemption from bondage resound
From the shades where the spirits in prison are bound.

	In eighteen hundred seventy seven,
		Let holy records tell,
	A Temple's finished—bolts are riven
		In twain where spirits dwell
	We've been baptiz'd for them, and now,
		As agents, in their stead,
	We're wash'd and we're anointed too—
		The living for the dead.

CHORUS—From the valleys, &c.

	Within a Temple's sacred court,
		Beneath its royal tower,
	Let humble, faithful saints resort
		To weild salvation's power.
	Salvation's work! O, glorious theme!
		Too high for mortal tongues;
	Seraphic hosts its grace proclaim
		In everlasting songs,

CHORUS—From the valleys. &c.

	A great, momentous time's at hand,
		Portending signs appear;
	The wise will see and understand
		The day of God is near.
	Ye heav'nly gates, no more ajar—
		Henceforth stand open wide;
	The Bridegroom's voice is heard afar,
		Prepare, prepare the Bride.

CHORUS—From the valleys, &c.

	E. R. SNOW.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
MY PURPOSE.

	I am not ashamed to own that I am work-
ing for a purpose in this kingdom, and that
purpose is to secure an eternal salvation in
the kingdom of God. When I left my
home in England and came here, it was to
learn more fully to keep our Father's com-
mandments, and it was with a pure motive
that I became practically acquainted with
the principles of plural marriage. During
twenty years' experience I have never re-
gretted entering into that holy order of
matrimony; I know it to be a righteous
principle, and it is calculated to be a bless-
ing to all who are trying to improve them-
selves and their posterity both mentally and
physically. I know, too, that the blessing
of the Lord attends it. I have long wished
to bear this testimony to all who will read
it, and though perhaps I have not always
improved all my opportunities of qualify-
ing myself for the position I hold as a
Mother in Israel, yet I am trying to learn
every day how best to live to accomplish
my "purpose" I am only a humble home-
worker. Circumstances and family duties
prevent me from much public service, and
I know there are many of my sisters more
capable and more at liberty to search out
the distressed, comfort the mourner, guide
the weak and erring, lead the young and
strengthen the aged by efficient and appro-
priate help, and scatter words of counsel

[Column 2]

and encouragement to the many through
the EXPONENT. For all this I am thank-
ful, and I know that every one will be re-
warded for all the good they do.
	But to return to my "purpose." I wish
to live so that I may be worthy to receive
from my heavenly Father, as my own
through all eternity, these children which
He has lent me. If I am faithful to my
trust, and can with the Lord's blessing do
my part towards instilling and implanting
in their minds the principles of this gospel
while they are young, then I think I shall
gain "my purpose." "As the twig is bent
the tree's inclined," and the comforting,
cheering assurance is given us by the wise
man, that if we "train up a child in the
way he should go, when he is old he will
never depart from it." If the Lord spares
these boys to me, and I can so teach coun-
sel and guide them that they grow up to
manhood honest and true, and become good,
faithful and efficient Elders in this Church,
then I think I shall not have lived in vain.
This is the problem for me to solve, this is
the purpose before me. While they are in
infancy we can watch them, and check lit-
tle tendencies to evil and cultivate the good;
but as they grow older they are away at
school, or in the field at work, or separated
from us for weeks and months through un-
controllable circumstances, but if they have
been taught to confide to us, their mothers,
their thoughts and ideas, to tell us of their
difficulties, and above all never to do any-
thing they cannot ask the blessing of God
upon, they will not go far wrong. When
the father is absent they should take part
in praying in the family circle, and in ask-
ing blessings; this would give them confi-
dence, and will accustom them to pray in
their own innocent, child-like way, and I
think no prayer is more acceptable with
God than that of an earnest, innocent child.
Not more than a year since, a boy of four-
teen years, with whom I am acquainted,
was riding alone across the desert from
Dugway mountain, fifty miles west of this
place; the weather was very cold, it was
near night, and he had rode hard all day,
had neither bedding nor provisions, and
was many miles from shelter. He alighted
and led his horse to a spring to drink, when
it broke from him and run off; the poor
boy ran till he was almost exhausted, but
failed to catch the animal. Realizing his
danger he knelt down and prayed earnestly
to the Lord for help. Very soon, quite un-
expectedly a young man rode up, to whom
he told his trouble; he rode after the horse,
caught him and sent him safely on his way.
With tears the boy told his mother of the
circumstance and that the Lord had an-
swered his prayer, adding that he would
always remember it.
	We cannot only have a watch-care over
our own, but every thoughtful, observing
mother will see many opportunities of
dropping a word of advice, counsel or en-
couragement, or to implant a good idea in
some young mind; in short, if we cannot
engage in much public enterprise, let us
always be ready to lend our influence to the
right, and never by a word encourage any-
thing that is contrary to, or that would
bring reproach upon any principle of this
Gospel. Let us always strive to imbue the

[Column 3]

minds of our children with the love of OR-
DER, and of UNITY, and TRUTH; teach
them to respect their parents, then they
will respect and be obedient to the Priest-
hood; and also instruct them in the princi-
ples of the United Order and of Celestial
Marriage, that they may feel like the boy
who, when asked by his mother, if with the
understanding he had, he regretted that his
mother was his father's plural wife, an-
swered her, "No, mother, I am proud of 
it."
	ESTHER A. BENNION.
Vernon, Jan. 26, 1877.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE convention of Miss Anthony, Mrs.
Stanton, and their co-workers, in behalf of
a Sixteenth Amendment to the Federal
Constitution, prohibiting political disabili-
ties on account of sex, was well attended.
The addresses of these ladies, and of Mrs.
Blake, Mrs. Spencer, Mrs. Swisshelm and
others, were well received. The Hutchin-
sons sang, and the meeting continued two
days.
	At a hearing subsequently had before the
House Judiciary Committee, action was
urgently requested, affirming Woman's
right to practice law before the Supreme
Court, and it is hoped that a favorable re-
sult may be obtained.
	Petitions from twenty-three States, sign-
ed by several thousand citizens, were pre-
sented to Congress and referred to the Ju-
diciary Committee.—Ex.


The "Journal of Chemistry" gives utter-
ance to the following sentiments, and there
is so much truth in them that parents would
do well to take heed to their daughters who
are bringing home such piles of school-
books: "It is indeed a depressing sight, the
groups of girls released at night from our
public schools, struggling homeward laden
with six or eight text-books, which they
are to pore over with intense anxiety dur-
ing the long evening hours—hours which
should be devoted to healthful recreation.
An anxious school-girl is a pitiable object,
as with that anxiety comes cough, sleep-
lessness, loss of appetite, and a long train of
formidable evils. We are almost willing to
say that girls ought to be prohibited by
statute law from studying out of school
hours. A law of this nature would seem
to be as much needed as that which prohib-
its manufacturing establishments from em-
ploying youth under a certain age."


"Home" is the chief school of human
virtue. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows,
smiles, tears, hopes and solicitudes, form the
chief interests of human life. Go where a
man may, home is the centre to which his
heart turns. The thought of his home
nerves his arm and lightens his toil. For
that his heart yearns when he is afar off.
There he garners up his best treasures.
God has ordained for all men alike the
highest earthly happiness in providing for
all the sanctuary of home.—Dr. Channing.


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	At the General Retrenchment Meeting
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 3, 1877, there was a very
good attendance. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne presided. After the usual exercises,
the reading of the minutes from the various
wards concluded, Mrs. Horne addressed the
assembly; her remarks were wise and judi-
cious, and appropriate to the times in which
we are living. She referred to the position
in which prayer should be offered, thought
it was always most appropriate to kneel, but
it was not at all times convenient, yet the
head should be bowed and the thoughts
concentrated and fixed upon the Lord while
the blessing has invoked. She also spoke
of partaking of the Sacrament in a proper
manner, which should certainly be observed.
Counselor Miss Snow spoke upon the sub-
jects of home-industries, the spiritual culti-
vation of the young and gave many impor-
tant and interesting ideas. Counselor Mrs.
Young spoke upon the silk-culture and its
adaptability to the climate of Utah and the
circumstances of the people; that it would
be a resource for means which could be
made profitable, if once it could become
thoroughly established. Mrs. E. S. Barney,
Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. A. E. Watmough
spoke upon things and principles which per-
tain to the building up of the kingdom, and
many of the sisters present bore a faithful
testimony. An excellent spirit pervaded
the minds of all.

	PEOA SUMMIT Co., Jan. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Peoa Relief Society was organized
on September 13th 1875, since which time
we have endeavored to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us through your valuable paper.
	The present officers of the Society are:
President, Mrs. Rachel M. Miles; Counsel-
ors, Mrs. Lydia Marchant, Mrs. Sarah M.
Newman; Secretaries, Mrs. Harriet M.
Marchant and Mrs. Sally A. Lee; Treasurer,
Mrs. Lauretta Palmer; Teachers, Mrs. Lydia
E. Walker, Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, Mrs.
Annie Jensen, Mrs. Annie Marchant, Mrs.
Maria Lyons, and Mrs. Martha Huffaker.
These sisters have been diligent in the dis-
charge of their duties and merit great
praise for the active part they have taken
in the society.
	The Society is in a flourishing condition
and the members, numbering thirty-four in
all, are alive to their duties, and are anxious
to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. With the spirit of God to
guide us, and peace and unity practiced in
our every-day lives, I know that we will be
able to accomplish much good.
	We do not forget the noble move in rela-
tion to the Grain Question, and hope in
time to be able to do something in regard
to that matter; but at present we can do
nothing, having lost our grain crops this
last season by frost which has been a great
detriment to the prosperity of our settle-
ment.
	The visit of Sisters' E. Howard and E.
S. Barney was to us an enjoyable time. The
good advice they gave to the sisters in re-
lation to their duties, the encouragement
we received to live pure and holy lives,
and the benefit of the Society and the good
it would accomplish was fully dwelt upon;
all of which gave us renewed diligence in
the discharge of our duties. The visit of
these two sisters and their words will long
be remembered, and the good spirit and in-

[Column 2]
fluence which they left, will, we trust, ever
be in our minds.
	On Dec. 14, 1876, we organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association with the
following officers: President, Mrs. Jane Ann
Maxwell, Counselors, Miss Ann Eliza Pal-
mer, Mrs. Elizabeth Marchant, Miss Annie
M. Larsen, Miss Louisa Wright, and Miss
Elizabeth Maxwell; Secretary, Miss Rachel
E. Shippen; Assistant Secretary and Treas-
urer, Miss Luella M. Lee. The Association
at present, numbers twenty-three. The
young sisters feel well and are determined
to do all in their power to help the good
cause in which they are engaged, and by
living, and encouraging others to live pure
and holy lives that they may become use-
ful and honorable women in the kingdom of
our Lord.
			HARRIET MARCHANT.
							Sec'y.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Jan. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In compliance with your request to the
Relief Societies, I feel it my duty to for-
ward a report of the steps taken by us in re-
gard to the grain question. We have not
made much progress so far. A committee
of three sisters have been appointed who
will no doubt faithfully discharge the du-
ties devolving upon them in this cause,
feeling as we all should the responsibility
of doing our utmost in complying with the
call made by the president of our church.
Our Bishop has kindly allowed us the priv-
ilege of storing what grain we can get this
year separately under our own care in the
Tithing Office, until we can build a store-
house of our own, which we intend doing
as soon as practicable. Upon the resigna-
tion of our beloved President Mrs. Whitta-
ker, whose death a few months ago was so
deeply regretted by all, and her counselors
a year ago last May; the Society was re-or-
ganized of which you were duly informed
at the time; under the present officers, viz.,
Mrs. Sarah Uric as President; Mrs. Mary
Ann Lunt as first, and Mrs. Sage Jones as
second counselor, the Society is in a pros-
perous condition, the members being alive
to their duties and trying with God's help
to forward His work to the best of their
abilities.
	Wishing prosperity to the EXPONENT and
a "Happy New Year" to all.
			JANE H. PARRY. Ass't.
							Sec'y.

		ALMY, WYOMING Ter. Jan. 1877
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing that yourself and readers feel a
kindly interest in the welfare and progress
of the women of our church, I write a few
lines to inform you that directed by proper
authority, Bro. Samuel Pike, the president
of the branch has organized a Relief So-
ciety in this place, over which sister Emma
Pike is selected to preside; Sisters Beve-
ridge and stoddard as counselors, and sister
Crowther as Secretary and Treasurer, to be
assisted by Sister Stoddard. This place is
not a permanent home for the Saints, but
the Coal Mines are here and those who
come here are only migratory; this is why
we have not had a society started before.
There are a great many families here and of
course a good number of good women
among them and we think much good can
be done by bringing them together, mak-
ing them better acquainted with each other
and developing talents of various kinds as
well as providing a fund for the safety of

[Column 3]
the poor, sick, and aged. Quite a number
intend to take your excellent paper.
	The duties of the Society are new to
most of us but we intend to do the best we
can to fulfill them.
	Desiring an interest in the prayers of our
sisters, we are,
			Respectfully Yours,
				EMMA PIKE Pres't.
			E. S. CROWTHER. Sec'y.

		OXFORD, ONEIDA Co, IDAHO TER.
							Jan. 17, 1877.

	We are organized into a branch of the
Relief Society as follows: Mrs. Mary Ann
Boice President; Mrs. Mary Black, Mrs.
Martha R. Cooper, Counselors; Mrs. Louisa
Croshaw, Secretary; Mrs. Ann Hepworth,
Treasurer. Our settlement is small conse-
quently our numbers are few, yet we wish
to be acknowledged by our beloved sisters
as co-workers with them in the cause of
Zion. Our little girls are classed off in
their labors under the tuition of Mrs. Lucy
Clements. The products of our labor
amounts to forty dollars since July last, con
sisting of carpet, quilts and wheat.
	I wish to mingle my voice with the
daughters of Zion. My ideas have been
aroused with regard to the high positions
that women are considered worthy of fill-
ing, aside from that of housewifery; espec-
ially in the Grain Movement given by our
beloved President. I exclaim in my aston-
ishment, can we become Saviors like Joseph
who was sold into Egypt, who by the sav-
ing of grain preserved his kindred from
the devastation of a famine, or is this com-
mandment given us that our brethren will
be more diligent in this direction or is it
given us so that we will retrench from ask-
ing our husbands or fathers for unecessary
gewgaws. My opinion is that it requires
all this to accomplish the one purpose of
storing grain; consequently I esteem it a
great privilege to be an active worker with
my associates in this great and wise under-
taking, and I thank my Father in Heaven
that I live and have a standing in a proph-
etic church. Although young, I can say
I have a husband constant and true, and
bright and promising little children, and
with him I desire to rear them in the way
of righteousness. This desire is with me
when I labor, when I eat, and even in my
night visions the care of my little ones is
with me, for in my surroundings is my
hope founded and in the cause of Zion is
my faith predicated.
		Your Sister etc.,
					LOUISA CROSHAW.


SAMARIA. MALAD, Jan. 22nd, 1876.
	Our Society is doing well. We had a
special meeting on Saturday last, for the
purpose of donating towards building the
Temple, and the sisters have promised one
hundred and forty six dollars, and two hun-
dred and fifteen lbs of butter to be paid
this year, and I consider they have donated
liberally. The brethren have done well too;
on Sunday, the 14th inst., they had a meet-
ing, Bishop Daniels presiding. They donated
for the Temple one thousand dollars. Forty
families are in this settlement, so I think
we have done very well, we have also
built a new meeting house this winter, so
we are progressing as fast as circumstances
will permit. On Feb. 14th we will have
been organized two years; we have forty-
two members in our Society.
	MARY D. PRUE,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TEMPLE SONG.

Shout for joy, and sing this glory!
	For the Temple now is done;
Tell all nations this glad story,
	That redemption's work's begun
For the dead and for the living.
	Who these blessings will receive,
And rejoice, that God is giving
	Pow'r eternally to live.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
	Praise the Father and the Son!
God of Abram, Isaac, Jacob—
	Day of joy on earth begun.
And the brightness of its dawning,
	Shows the breaking of the day,
That the time is fast approaching,
	When all sin will flee away.

Glory! glory! glory! glory!
	How our hearts with rapture swell,
That these blessings we're receiving,
	Who on earth at present dwell.
Thanks to God our Heav'nly Father,
	For His mercies kindly giv'n,
For the Priesthood, and a Temple,
	For the foretaste here of Heav'n.

Hallelujah! Hallelujah!
	Praise the Father and the Son!
God of Abram, Isaac, Jacob—
	Day of joy is just begun;
And the brightness of its dawning,
	Shows the breaking of the day,
For the time is fast approaching.
	When all sin will flee away.

		EMILY B. SPENCER.


[For the EXPONENT
PRAISE.

Give praise to Jehovah, His watchcare is over
	His people, though myriads seek to destroy.
Be prayerful, then, brother and sister and mother,
	Your time in the work of redemption employ.

God will not forsake us, but blessings await us,
	If humbly we seek for His spirit to guide;
Our cares it will lighten, our prospects 'twill brighten,
	And comfort afford us, whatever betide.

Then heed every warning, God's kingdom adorning,
	That you may be ready, when Jesus the Lord
In glory appearing, while sinners are fearing,
	To greet him, when earth is as Eden restored.

Then reigning in splendor with Christ our defender,
	We heavenly blessings will surely obtain;
If we have been seeking, God's laws to be keeping.
	The joys of Celestial life we shall gain.

	ELLEN W. WALLACE.
S. L. City, January, 1877.


[Column 1]

NO SURPLUS WOMEN.

CONCLUDED.
	It would be only a waste of time to call
the attention of our readers to these un-
happy and unsanctified marriages. Men
and women bound to each other by a civil
law which gives them certain privileges,
from which in some countries there is no
escape, and which in the sight of God, in
millions of instances there is no shadow of
doubt, are only an abomination. What can
be the result of such a union, what the pre-
natal influences which usher into the world
the helpless offspring of unholy wedlock?
Far better to remain single throughout all
time, than to entail the catalogues of sin
and crime upon successive generations.
Why should so much wonder be expressed
that wickedness increases upon the earth,
when men and women enter into the matri-
monial state with as little feeling, or conge-
niality as they would make any civil com-
pact or business arrangement? Not that
caution and prudence are not requisite, I
firmly believe they are, but there should
be PRINCIPLE implied, underlying the found-
ation of marriage, and requiring affection
of the most faithful and solid quality.
	Young people, men, or women, it matters
not of which sex, who have not something

[Column 2]

more than a sort of fascination, or attraction
for each other, and marry because their
friends think it very suitable they should
do so, will find they must cultivate an im-
mense amount of charity for each others
short-comings and foibles, and especially
should children be given to them, for they
see much more quickly through any flimsy,
or transparent covering, than parents are
apt to imagine.
	"Single blessedness" is far preferable to
unhappy married life; and to be independ-
ent and earn one's own living is much more
desirable than to eat the bread of a man
who, if he does not taunt you with depen-
dency, makes you feel the great favor he
has conferred upon you by making you his
wife;
		"O marriage! marriage! what a cnrse is thine,
		When hands alone consent, and hearts abhor."
	Summing up the whole matter in question
of No "Surplus Women," my opinion is
this, that good, wise and honorable men
should marry all the good women that are
marriageable, and love them too, such as
are lovable. In the world, where monoga-
my exists, there can only be an equal divi-
sion, for the rest what remains to be done?
A MISSION, if they will fill it nobly, honor-
ably and faithfully. And each one who
seeks it will find a fitting place, where all
her energies and capabilities may be ex-
erted wisely and for good.
	There is a great and growing necessity
for woman's work in the revolutionizing of
society. It is the prophetic influence of the
coming crisis, when woman's aid will be
needed, that is calling forth all this criti-
cism. At any given time when there is a
certain work to be performed, persons are
raised up and qualified to do that work, and
afterwards it becomes apparent that they
were eminently fitted, by some intuitive
power, for the very occasion. Of this, histo-
ry furnishes us abundant proofs. All per-
sons of quick perception may easily discern,
if they will, the presage of woman's era
now in progress; are not the leading char-
acteristics which mark the signs of the
times, giving notice that some great, radical
change is about to transpire?
	As an illustration let us quote the old
proverb, true or untrue ("this deponent
saith not"), "When more boys than girls
are born it is said to be a sign of war." If
there is a majority of single women, it is
for some special purpose; there is something
for them to do besides sitting down and be-
moaning their fate. "Causes produces ef-
fects." There must necessarily be a mighty
phalanx of women to establish "Woman's
Suffrage," Polygamy and other innovations
upon tradition and man-made customs of
past ages; an equal number would not an-
swer, for how could the rights of suffrage
and heritage be obtained, if their numbers
did not strengthen their ranks. Men have
become so steeped in intemperance and
many other vices, and infidelity has diffused
itself so thickly among mankind that the
puriyfying elements of woman's atmosphere
must penetrate into every circle, or sphere,
where her influence can be a power for good.
	Let woman hold herself sacred from the
touch or embrace of impurity—let her be so
chaste that the man she marries must come
up to her ideas of virtue and purity and the
world would soon see the result, but so long
as women will pander to the depraved tastes
of men who have no respect for honor, ex-
cept in empty words, whose lives are an un-
blushing lie—so long will woman be at a
discount. If the women of the world could
believe what is really before them, they
would speak louder and stronger and more
emphatically in their own defense.

[Column 3]

	We should be valiant in a good cause, and
the Woman's Missionary cause is assuredly
a good one, if it is filled with dignity and
discretion.
	AUNT EM.
S. L. City, Feb. 9, 1877.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
							Dec. 27, 1876.
MRS. L. G. RICHARDS,
	Beloved Sister and friend: I now endeav-
or to answer your truly sisterly letter of
Aug. 28th.

	We are all well and doing the best we
can. There has but one of the missionaries
as yet arrived, Bro. James Keeler, who ar-
rived at Honolulu on the 14th of this
month, reaching here on the 18th. Some
forty natives young ladies, and gentlemen
gathered here and sung songs welcoming
him again to their land. The natives
thought a great deal of Bro. Keeler when
he was here with Bro. George Q. Cannon.
His Majesty the King Kalakaua, visited
our church in Honolulu, on the 17th of Dec.
Prest. W. E. Pack had the honor of preach-
ing to him. The King's object in visiting
our church was to organize Female Relief
Societies, as he is doing in other churches,
and after services were through he pro-
ceeded to attend to that business. He
wished to raise a fund to be applied to the
relief of the sick. During his remarks he
said his sympathies were with our people.
He wished them well and would like to
see them prosper. He had learned by the
Minister, Mr. Pack, that our right name
was not "Mormon" but Latter-day Saints;
said it was wrong to nick-name churches
and people, they should be called by their
right names. He was a member of the
Reverend Mr. Bishop's church, and had
been nick-named "Behopa." Said all
churches here were aiming for the same
place; they were all the same to him and
would receive his support.
	I will now tell you how nicely we en-
joyed our Christmas. We foreigners, were
serenaded by the Laie Band which consist-
ed of four tin whistles, one snare and one
bass drum, on which the brethren made tol-
erable music for amatuers. We treated
them to lemonade (some we had manufac-
tured ourselves from limes for the occasion,)
and cakes which they partook of with a
relish, being something new to them. We
sisters joined together and had a family
dinner. All seemed to enjoy themselves,
and thus passed my first Christmas on Laie
The sisters wish to be remembered to you.
Little Millie learns the la[---]ge fast; she is
a great comfort to me.

	The weather is very pleasant; Thermom-
eter 81 in the shade.
The EXPONENT comes regularly and we 
are always ready to peruse it.  You say you
know this mission will prove a blessing to 
me.  I hope and trust my Father in Heaven
will remember me and find me worthy of 
His blessings.  I know we have the pray-
ers of the Saints.  I am your sister, as ever,
JANE E. MOLEN.


A TREASURE.--A lady applying for
admission to the junior class of an Ameri-
can seminary, on being questioned by the
president as to her qualifications, replied,
"I ain't much of an arithmetiker; but I am
an elegant grammarist."


.											 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS
EMMELINE B. WELLS
Editors.
    Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
                    Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
                                                      Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

COURAGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

	True heroism is not daunt[-]d by opposition.
No accumulation of difficul[--]es can discourage
those who possess firm determination, and a
will to succeed in any certain direction. It
gives fresh impetus and s[-]rength to those who
are earnest in their endeavors to persevere.
Timid, shrinking, men and women are easily
swerved from any given purpose; the little an-
noyances of the struggles that beset all in this
life, to them seem impassable barriers. They
wilt under the influence of ridicule, sarcasm,
or satire. Persons of superior talents and gen-
nius, often become disheartened under a little
cloud of embarrassments, or unpropitious cir-
cumstances, when if they only had a little per-
severance, a strong will and a courageous soul
to combat these opposing elements, the cloud
would have burst like a bubble, and the unpro-
pitious would have changed to the auspicious.
	There is an old proverb that in war you should
"keep your powder dry and trust in Provi-
dence." Life to most people is a continual war-
fare one difficulty after another arising to inter-
cept progress upon its journey. Keep your
courage up, never let your spirits shrink in
the encounter, however arduous or unpleasant,
and "face the music" with indomitable resolu-
tion and an unlimited amount of endurance,
asking for wisdom and guidance from "Our
Father in Heaven" in the name of One who
endured all shame passed through the most
fiery ordeal and came off "Conqueror over
death and the grave."
	If there is one thing more essential to life
than another it is true courage; without it the
brightest intellect becomes a curse instead of
a blessing. To be sure there are instances
where support is given by some one of strong-
er power or force of character, but such props
are liable to be removed; the only sure trust is
God and one's self. How necessary then in
the training of a child, in the building up, or
forming a character, that there should be a
fountain of noble courage and inbred fortitude
within. Let them know the realities of life.
and do not gloss it over with any falsity, but
as the mind matures let them meet the little
emergencies that will inevitably come, and
teach them to be brave and resolute without
being designing or malicious. This is true
philosophy for boys the world over; but it is
equally necessary for girls, and were they all
trained in childhood and girlhood to be thus
brave and self-reliant, there would not be half
so mnch whining over blasted hopes, and bro-
ken hearts. Of all the conditions of women
in the world the most deplorable state is of
those who despise working for themselves, and
who have been allowed to imbibe the idea

[Column 2]

that woman's position in life is one of de-
pendency. Mothers you are doing your daugh-
ters the greatest injustice, when you allow
them to come to years of maturity without
placing in their hands a power of some sort by
which they could, if necessary be self-support-
ing. They are not fit for wives or mothers
and if they remain single they will lack that
solidity of character which will help them to
maintain any position of responsibility or
trust. Trusting in Providence is proper and
right but were this maxim to be inculcated
without qualifying, (beg pardon) but there are
those who would never get any further than
eating, drinking and sleeping; and instinct
would be their only guide.
	What can be done by men or women them-
selves is their work, and duty points the way,
the future result, the final solution of the grand
problem must be left in the hands of Him who
doeth all things well.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE regular meeting of the Young La-
dies' Association of the Tenth Ward, held
Feb. 8, 1877, was one long to be remembered,
especially by the Secretary who, on that occas-
ion was the happy recipient of a large and
beautiful chromo, both chaste and elegant;
presented by the President in behalf of the
Association as a token of respect; kind, friend-
ly remarks were made by several present and
a vote of thanks tendered the Secretary and
her Assistant for their punctual attendance and
faithfulness in the past. The Secretary re-
turned her heartfelt thanks for the kind appre-
ciation of the gift and the good feeling of the
young sisters which was still more precious.
A happy peaceful spirit pervaded throughout
the meeting and all present seemed to partake
of its influence.
	DURING THE past few weeks we have receiv-
ed many pleasant calls from strangers and
travelers, some of them seemingly very anx-
ious to learn of our principles, others of our
business interests more especially. Among
these were Alph. Mullender, Representative of
Verviers, at the International Philadelphia
Exhibition, and Delegate of the Royal Bel-
gian Government. He was introduced to us by
Mr. H. C. Goodspeed of this city; Mr. J. G.
Morrison Esq., of London, England; and J.
T. Wiltshire of Sydney, New South Wales;
the last two gentlemen staid in the city sever-
al days taking items of all the most notable
features, and attended meeting and Sunday
School, and expressed much interest in the
Home Institutions. To all these gentlemen
we explained concerning the Grain Movement,
Mr. Wiltshire gave us a good description of the
way they preserve grain in Australia in im-
bedded rock. We also acknowledge the calls
of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Cole and Miss E. Al-
lison, the two ladies being writers and corres-
pondents of papers were of course particularly
entertaining in conversation. Mr. Cole seems
entirely free from the prejudice which exists
with so many against us as a community of 
people.
	S. L. CITY, Feb. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a Report of the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association of the Thirteenth
Ward for the past year. Our meetings are
very well attended and the young ladies seem
interested in educating themselves in their re-
ligion, always willing to do whatever they are
requested to,that will aid them in being useful,
and improve them in mind or heart. We have

[Column 2]

in the Society a Temple Fund, which each
member can contribute to weekly, and as the
contribution is placed at five cents all can
reach it. In this manner we have collected
for the Temple the sum of twenty-three dol-
lars and sixty cents. Have also a quilt valued
at six dollars which we have handed into the
Relief Society, and quilt pieces amounting to
three dollars. About two months since we
commenced buying books intending to have a
library composed of a collection of our Chnrch
Books. Have succeeded in obtaining the "Life
of Brigham Young" which we are now read-
ing and expect before it is finished to be able
to get another, and so continue until we have
a Library of useful, interesting books, which
if not great in number are "priceless in value."
We have had some most excellent teachings
at times from the elder sisters who take great
interest in our improvement, and becoming
in connection with the other Young Peoples'
Societies, a strong and mighty phalanx in this
kingdom. Our President, Mrs. Elizabeth
Thomas, is devoted and unremitting in her la-
bors and exertions in this organization.
		L. A. ASHBY, Sec'y.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met at the Fireman's Hall on Wednes-
day, the 7th inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing.
	Mrs. Young said she was glad to meet with
the members of the Association and talk over
those things that were for our benefit and to
adopt such measures as were thought best for
the development of the silk interest. It was
not for the benefit of a few, but the communi-
ty at large, and more especially the rising gen-
eration. She suggested that a pamphlet be
published on the manipulation of the silk
worm, with the experience of those who had
been successful in this Territory. She hoped
to be able, before long to supply the demand
at home with all kinds of sewing silk. Mrs.
Lorinda Robinson, of Farmington, would
soon have some handkerchiefs in the market
for sale.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler exhibited some speci-
mens of silk, of home manufacture; also some
samples that he had received from Italy, the
former having been reeled at his house, by
Mrs. Candon, of Logan. He had one hun-
dred and twenty-five skeins, which weighed
fifteen pounds. It took four pounds of cocoons
to make one pound of silk. He had received
a communication from the firm of Rinalds
Kuntzel and Co , Florence, Italy, stating that
our sample of silk was first-class, the only
fault being it was a little too coarse, having
from ten to twelve threads, theirs only having
four threads, that being their standard. How-
ever it would sell very well at eleven or twelve
dollars a pound, and as far as they could learn,
by persons visiting Italy, also by newspaper
reports, we have the best climate for silk rais-
ing they know of. What was most needed was
to influence land owners to plant mulberry
trees. It would prove a gold mine to them
and the community. They offered to buy an-
nually from fifty to one hundred tho[-]sand
pounds of cocoons. Mr. P. A. Schettler [-]aid
he was in favor of purchasing the very [-]est
machinery that could be got. He had received
two ounces of silk-worm eggs of the Tuscan
race which is considered the best in Europe.
The cocoons are not so large, but the silk is of
a better quality. He had seventeen ounces of
eggs to dispose of at four dollars an ounce; al-
so some in small quantities that he would give
to children and to new beginners.
	Mrs. Barney exhibited some specimens of


silk raised and reeled by Mrs. A. K. Dunyon,
which were excellent.
	Mr. Joseph Heywood, of Gunnison, Sanpete,
enquired where to get trees and what the price
of them.
	Mr. Schettler said he had some young trees
to dispose of from three to four years old from
the seed, at ten cents a tree.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Wednesday
in March, at this place at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.
	THE MANUFACTURE of silk in this Territory
is being brought already to a degree of perfec-
tion in some specialities. The silk laces, veils,
handkerchiefs and scarfs, are a credit to the
department, and the rich, elegant fringe which
was manufactured for the ornamenting of the
St. George Temple, from the very elements of
Utah, is a tangible proof of the improvement
which is being made in sericulture. To those
who desire the future welfare of Utah this busi-
ness should be interesting and every exertion
should be made to introduce mulberry trees
wherever there is land which can be made
available to the growth of them. The leaves
can be gathered by children, and the cocoons
raised by persons who are not able to perform
arduous labor. In regard to buying machinery,
first of all there should be a supply of the
silk on hand, otherwise the machinery would
be a dead weight on the owyer's hands until
it could be secured. The planting of the
mulberry trees and the raising of cocoons comes
first and the machinery will be a secondary
consideration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		141


[Column 1]
				OBITUARY.

	DOLLY ANNIS, one of the faithful mothers
in Israel, died on the first instant, in the Six-
teenth Ward of this city of general debility
and old age. She was born June 10, 1800; be-
ing seventy six years, seven months, and
twenty-two days old at the time of her death.
Sister Annis was born in Vermont. Her
maiden name was Green. When the Gospel
of Jesus Christ first found her, she was living
with her first husband whose name was Dan-
iels, and who was the father of her children.
She received and embraced the truth, but Mr.
Daniels rejected it. In consequence of this
difference of opinion, Sister Annis suffered
much persecution; and finally for the sake of
gathering with the Saints, she left her home,
companion and children, subsequently mar-
ried Brother Annis who soon after died a
faithful member of the church. Afterwards
working her own way and paying her own ex-
penses; she came to Utah to finish her days
among the people she loved. She was a warm
friend, a true philanthropist and an energetic
advocate of the principles of truth.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The columns of your interesting paper, de-
voted to the encouragement of all that is good
and estimable in woman character and life,
seems to be a place most suitable for the names
of those who have been successful in leaving
behind them an unexceptionable life's record.
There are a few who live in this world in a
manner to secure the esteem and respect of all
who know them, and whose memory it is a
pleasure to cherish. Such was the life of her
whose name appears in this communication,
Mrs. Ann Cash Richards. She was the daugh-
ter of Joseph and Mary Hayward Jones, and
was born May 29, 1803, in Tilley, Shropshire,
England. She embraced the Gospel in Eng-
land in the early days of its history there, and
in 1832 took charge of the house department
in connection with the Liverpool Office, where

[Column 2]
she had an opportunity for many years to be-
come acquainted with and entertain as hostess,
many of the Elders who visited and labored in
that mission, hundreds of whom remember
the name of "Sister Cash" as one who always
took pleasure in doing what she could to ad-
minister to them the comforts of life, and en-
courage them in their labors. In 1835 she
came to this city, gathering with the saints
and leaving children and relatives behind,
where by her uniform goodness of life, without
aspirations, or aims for distinction in this world,
she secured the esteem of all who knew her.
	It was always her pleasure to do for and en-
courage the Relief Societies and all other or-
ganizations for the good and prosperity of the
saints, especially the poor among them.
	For years she was afflicted with an asthmat-
ic cough, especially during the winter months,
which of late proved too severe for her, and
the dropsy terminated her life, Jan. 30, 1877,
having experienced, especially in her early
history many trying changes and vicissitudes
incident to a life of more than seventy-three
years; and has passed away with every assur-
ance which integrity and faithfulness to the
Gospel and its ordinances can give to a worthy
sister in Christ.
	She was followed to her last resting place by
a goodly number of those true sisters and
friends whom she had esteemed in life, and to
whom she was grateful in the hour of death,
which hour to her had no sting, nor shall the
grave have victory.
								COM.
—"Millennial Star," please copy.


CORRESPONDENCE.

			SODA SPRINGS Jan, 24. 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to add my testimony to others who
have written on the subject, and say that the
very course the sisters are taking is an initiatory
step toward the UNITED ORDER of the king-
dom of God. The words of our beloved Presi-
dent Brigham Young to the brethren and sis-
ters are the words of life to every one who
will obey the same; the united efforts and
faith of all that take an active part in the pub-
lic enterprises which have been organized
with a view of consolidating the influences and
and exertions of this people, will be a blessing
in helping to establish upon a firm foundation
the Kingdom of God, which will "break in
pieces all other kingdoms," and in spreading
light and truth throughout the earth.
	I pray the Lord to bless the sisters in their
efforts to move forward in every good word and
work. I enjoy reading the EXPONENT very
much and desire it may prosper.
	Your humble Servant,
						LUDWIG SUHRKE
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	When a faithful sister passes away from
this earth I am glad to see it noticed in 
your paper.  I feel that the EXPONENT be-
longs especially to the sisters of Utah.
They are the ones that love to peruse its
contents, and the ones that desire to sup-
port and keep it in our midst.  I often
think what great blessings as editors you
are securing.  You are working for a pur-
pose, filling a great and glorious mission in
spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ in this 
last dispensation.
	Who can read the EXPONENT and not 
feel that such sentiments are dictated by
honest hearts full of integrity to their God
and not ashamed of being Latter-day


Saints. I am pleased to read the commu-
nications of the Elders. The letter to 
Aunt Em is interesting and contains truths
which sooner or later will be realized. The
poetry by the same writer, expresses the
sentiments of every faithful saint when
away from their mountain home and the
society of the Saints.
	There has been a cloud of sickness and
sorrow over our city for about three months
but it has nearly passed. Those who have
not been called to mourn the loss of friends
by the terrible disease (Small Pox) have
felt sorrow in hearing of the sickness and
death of many of our good brethren and
sisters. It has carried sadness to many
hearts because we could not visit and help
them in their hour of need, and mingle our
tears with those that mourned. The last
taken away from us by that disease was
Sister Delecta Monch, and baby, wife of
Prof. Monch. She was a school-teacher,
and by her kindness and aimiability won
the love and respect of the old and the
young as well as the teachers who were as-
sociated with her. Her life seemed to hold
a bright prospect for the future but for
some wise purpose she was taken from our
midst. Every saint and friend deeply sym-
pathizes with the husband, parents and
family in their great loss which is undoubt-
edly her gain. She has paid the debt all
must pay, it is only a question of time, and
matters not when if we are only prepared.
	A. M. FRODSHAM
Ogden, Jan. 25th, 1877.


R. S. REPORT.

THREE MILE CREEK, BOX ELDER CO.,
	Jan. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give a brief report of
our Society here. We were organized into
a branch of the Relief Society, July 29th,
1875, by sisters Eliza Snow, Harriet Snow
and Pres. A. O. Perry, as follows:
	Mrs. Jane Perry, President,
	"	Mary Young,
	"	Mary Perry,	Counselor ,
	"	Rebecca Thorn, Sec'y,
	"	Lucy Woodard, Assistant,
	Miss Francessa Campkin, Treasurer.
	There are about fifty members enrolled;
we meet every two weeks and enjoy a good 
degree of the Spirit of the Lord; our meet-
ings are well attended considering the
scattered condition of our little settlement.
Our Society is in a flourishing condition and
we can truly say, our Association has been
the means of uniting us together as a band
of sisters. Although we have not much
means we are blest with health and willing
to perform our part in every good work
requested by our president. I write also to
inform you of our success in tne grain
movement, we have nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat now on hand and intend
adding to it as fast as our limited means
will allow. Through the courtesy of Bro.
Richard Thorn we received storage for the
winter. We desire by the help of our
Father in Heaven to exert our energies to
secure all the grain we can, and be one
with our sisters in the organization in car-
rying out all the counsels of our leaders.
	Hoping for the success of your valuable
paper, we remain as ever your sisters.
	REBECCA THORN, Sec'y.


THERE is nothing which binds heart to
heart so speedily as trust and being trusted.


142		WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

			MILL CREEK, Feb. 1st, 1877.
EDITOR EXOONENT:
	We as a branch of the Grain Department 
desire to unite our efforts in gathering and
storing grain. Mrs. Mary McAlister has
been elected Chairman, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Carlisle Secretary, and as we are widely
scattered a visiting committee of eight wo-
men have been appointed. We formed this
Grain Committee December 19th 1876, and
now have on hand nearly one hundred
bushels of wheat and thirteen dollars to
buy more with. The Young Ladies, Re-
trenchment Association donated eleven dol-
lars. Considering everything we think we
have made a good beginning, and pray that
we may continue to persevere. Bishop
Miller has given us great encouragement
and good counsel; he gives us a bin in his
mill for to store our grain securely, and we
can't help but go forward and do our duty,
when we have the approbation and help of
our Bishop, and having a testimony within
us that we are doing the will of our Heav-
enly Father
	Praying for the prosperity of the Grain
Department and the unity of every good
brother and sister in this Latter-day work,
I remain yours etc.
			ELIZABETH CARLISLE, Sec'y.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
THE DECLINE OF THE DRAMA.

	It is sad for both votary and patron of the
dramatic art to note the decadence from its
primeval design, and subsequent zenith of
glory and utility, to the perverted and semi-
lethargic condition in which it is to-day.
	Could the shade of the Athenian Thespis
or the Roman Rascius appear upon the
scene and view the unappy fate of the plan
and its perfected beauty, or, could the spir-
its of the immortal Garrick, Kemble, Kean,
or others of like fame, contemplate the
degradation of the profession which the
brilliant efforts of their genius elevated to
a co-equal station with the proudest in the 
"temple of art", would they not raise a sol-
emn protest against the base perversion,
and hurl the thunders of their righteous
indignation on the heads of all who are im-
plicated in this retrogression?
	But who are to blame—what is the cause
or causes which have dragged down and
reduced nearly to the level of a vice, an
art which, carried out from the primitive
idea, would instruct, elevate, and tend to
refine all who patronized it? On this last
point, all who are acquainted with the his-
tory of the drama are united; but, alas, how
easily is the good made evil! How often
things purposed for beneficial effect, through
ignorance and mismanagemeut produce the
exact reverse!
	The press throughont the country con-
tains inquiries, speculations and commenta-
ries on the unprecedented lax condition of
our theatricals, each paper assigning var-
ious reasons for the present stagnation. To
one interested in the prosperity of the
mimic stage, these matters are of serious
import, and demand consideration. Though
many arguments are adduced, and different
opinions expressed, yet from the unsatisfac-
tory bearing of the causes severally alleged,
we cannot acquiesce in any of the general
verdicts. It may be, as some assert, that at-
tractions are insufficient to suit the public
taste, or it may be as others urge that thea-
tre rates are too high for the present string-

[Column 2]

ency in monetary matters, but these are
unsubstantial reasons for the decline of a
profession; for, why, under the same cir-
cumstance as the last, do not our school sys-
tems collapse, our litigation diminish, and
our journals go into general bankruptcy?
The design of the drama was to become as
beneficial to humanity as any of these. An
instructor, a school, where nature seeing
nature could study itself, and yet the others
flourish in respectability; the teacher, the
lawyer and the editor are admitted into the
best society, while the drama is neglected
and degraded, and the actor shunned as
though his presence were a disgrace; the
former professions in public estimation,
stand as necessary to the life of a commu-
nity, while the latter is sunken to the grade
of an amusement.
	Viewing the case in this light, which we
feel to be a correct one, the query is sug-
gested: Is not the decline of the drama due
solely to the perverted tastes of a degener-
ate age? It was not so some hundred and 
more years ago when Garrick was the s'ar
and Shakespeare the theme, nor when
John P. Kemble wore the laurel and men
admired genius and perfected art. Those
were the times when "Sensational Dramas"
and "Black Crook" extravaganzas were
comparatively unknown. Then the dis-
play of feminine semi-nakedness and the
follies and vulgarisms of brainless fops,
were hissed from the stage, and denounced
by the press; and it remained for a later
and more civilized (?) age to foster these
indecencies, and worship at the shrine of
the golden calf they erected.
	Now, the greatest attraction for the mor-
al (?) modest (?) and fastidious public, in-
stead of the drama proper, and artists of
true merit, is a blaze of calcium light and
a display of female nudity. The most suc-
cessful managers and actors are those who
pander to this depraved public appetite,
and are upheld and patronized while the
others are slighted and forsaken. Can you
wonder at the decline of the drama? Can
you wonder at the stigma which rests upon
it, and the lethargy which binds it down?
Managers, actors, and public, can you not
see what is needed?—REFORM—genuine
and thorough. It is folly to bemoan a re-
sult whose cause is perpetuated by your-
selves; dig up the roots and the branches
will die. Unite your efforts to quell this
secession—this counterfeit which shocks all
decency, degrades public morals, and
wrecks the general welfare of the profess-
ion. Let it not be said that Edwin Booth
lost his labors and fortune in a futile at-
tempt to check this downward tendency;
emulate his noble example, persevere in
the good cause, and the drama will yet rise
in name and position and free itself from
the stain which now marks its character
affd defeats the fame and prosperity of its
ambitious devotees.
	"THESPIS."
Lancaster, Pa. Jan. 14, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Through your columns I desire to say a
few words to your readers, and more espe-
cially to the young, for upon them will rest
a large portion of the Latter-day work. I
pray that a portion of the Holy Spirit may
accompany my words that they may reach
the hearts of those who shall read them.
	Young people, be obedient to your teach-
ers and leaders, and I pray the Lord to
bless you with wisdom and power to bear
a faithful and earnest testimony to the


cause you have espoused, before all people
whenever you may have opportunity given
you; and our heavenly Father will bless
you with more wisdom and knowledge, to
live your holy religion purely before God;
and angels will rejoice over you. I am a
mother, and I feel to offer a prayer for the
rising generation, and that they may more
fully realize the importance of the days in
which we are living. Great events are
about to transpire, for which it is necessary
we become prepared, temporally and spirit-
ually. My dear young friends, let us strive
to live so that we may be prepared to be-
hold our Redeemer with joy, for the time
of His coming draws near. O what man-
ner of a people ought we to be in name and
in works? Truly Latter-day Saints.
	JEMINA BROWN.
S. L. City, 20th Ward.


EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I think it is our duty as a band of sisters
to respond to all the calls that are made up-
on us. We have joined these associations
for the sisters, and I think we ought to obey
and respect the rules. We have now en-
tered upon a New Year, and I think we
ought to begin with the year and be deter-
mined to live better and attend all our
meetings.
	Now if we believe that by depriving
ourselves of the foolish and vain pleasures
of this life that we will gain the blessings
that are in store for the righteous, let us
begin at once, no matter if it does seem
hard; we do not live in this world for the
pleasures of this life, but to prepare our-
selves for a better and higher sphere, for
according to our works we will be reward-
ed. When God gives a commandment to
His people He expects it to be obeyed, and
if we do not obey it we cannot expect Him
to bless us, for He has not promised to do
so; but He says, "Inasmuch as my people
do my will and keep my commandments I
will pour out my blessings upon them."
Then it is our duty to live for them; it is
no use to ask His blessings unless we do
right, for we cannot serve two masters;
then let us choose the right one, and strict-
ly obey all the commandments He gives us
through His servants. God does not come
Himself when He wishes to give His peo-
ple a commandment, but He has chosen a
mouthpiece upon this earth, to whom He
reveals His mind and will concerning His
purposes. And we should prepare ourselves
to receive and obey all the commandments
that are given. Then if given to us through
the Prophet that it is not prudent to dance
round dances, surely we can live better
without them than to lose our blessings.
Then let us be determined that we will give
them up, and not say we will have our
pleasure and enjoyment, if it deprives us
of our salvation.
	From your sister in the Covenant,
				FLORILLA BURGESS.
	Goshen, Utah.


MY little Leon is now four and one-
half years old. One day at the table he
finished picking the third spare-rib bone,
and laying them all in a row, he looked up
in my face and said, "Ma, those bones are
read and accepted."		E.S.B.


TIME is a species of wealth which it is
impossible for us to hoard, but which we
may spend to good advantage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		143


AN INDICTMENT OF THE
			PREACHERS.

	In the light of the recent action of the
Newark Presbytery, we give an extract
from a European letter by Jane Grey Swiss-
helm.
	American preachers are wont to make a
European tour for their bronchittis, and
then come home and lecture us women on
the respect and gratitude we owe them on
account of our privileges!
	"It is Christianity," they tell us, "that
has lifted us out of slavery," and set us at
their feet to learn wisdom! Now, I beg
leave to call attention of the reverend gen-
tlemen to the fact that "Christianity had
been introduced into every country in
Europe by women, and was firmly estab-
lished in every one, before a woman sent
Columbus to look after America. That
every government in Europe, except Tur-
key, is a Christian government to-day, that
Saxony has God and Christ and Martin
Luther in her constitution; that her court
is Catholic Christian and her established
church and people Protestant Christian;
and the whole kettle-of-fish of European
governments are Christian. and that the
women are beasts of burden, or family
property prisoned in iron safes for the hon-
or and benefit of their owners, present or
prospective.
	The father guards the honor of his
daughter as an important part of his pos-
session, and sells it and her in the matri-
monial market to the highest bidder. Her
purchaser installs her stewardess of his
house, gives her the keys, and flogs her
whenever he thinks she needs a flogging.
	She is not supposed to have and inherent
virtue which would preserve her purity
without watching or the true inwardness of
fathers and husbands to teach her that the
male Christians in public places are very
dangerous animals.
	Women are not allowed to sing praises in
the houses of worship belonging to that sys-
tem of religion, which has lifted us all to
such sublime heighths of unquestioned
confidential intercourse with the shepherd
of their souls, in Catholic and Protestant
confessionals.
	These blessed Christians, in this Chris-
tian land, with its Christian government,
hitch women up with dogs and donkeys,
and set them to drawing loads through city
streets, and plows in country fields; and we
are called upon to reverence the clergy for
what Christianity has done for us, while
they exert all their influence to enforce on
the women of to-day the laws laid down for
Corinthian slaves two thousand years ago!
	No set of men on the face of God's green
earth are exerting themselves against Wo-
man's claim for common justice as are the
clergy of the United States and England—
the Christian clergy, the self-appointed
guardian of women's souls, and the sneer-
ing opponents of their right to freedom of
conscience and just compensation for their
labor.—Woman's Journal.


THE WOMEN'S WORK.

	The following copy of a letter addressed
by the President of the Centennial Board
of Finance to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, Presi-
dent of the Centennial Executive Commit-
tee, has been received by Mrs. E. R. Snow.
Thinking it might be interesting for our
readers to know something of the apprecia-
tion of woman's work abroad, we publish
it in full.


"Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President of the
		Women's Centennial Executive Com-
		mittee:
	"MY DEAR MADAM.—The Centennial
Board of Finance assigned to the Secretary
the duty of replying to your letter of the
29th ult., and at the same time requested
me to express to you and your associates
their feelings in contemplation of the close
of your labors in connection with the In-
ternational Exhibition. This duty I gladly
comply with.
	"This work which has been accomplishedhas placed the workers by which it was
wrought very close to the hearts of the
American people. They recognize in it a
true expression of their gratitude for the
past, their progress in the century, and the
hopes for the future which animate them in
this the Centennial year; and whilst they
never can know the individuals to whom
they are indebted for the fruits of all their
sacrifices, their perseverance and their la-
bor, there is now, and I believe will ever
continue to be, a grateful appreciation uni-
versally felt towards every actor in the
memorial scenes which have so recently
closed upon us.
	"As the Centennial Board of Finance
are very conscious of the efficient aid, and
of the steady, perservering zealous devotion
of your associates, and especially of your-
self, to the great cause in which you have
been co-workers with them, it gives me
very great pleasure to express in their be-
half their grateful acknowledgements for
all that you have done, and to assure you
that whilst in common with yourself public
approval is their only coveted reward, they
will ever bear in living remembrance all
your works, which having been entered in
a season of great darkness, were persevered
in through much adversity, until they cul-
minated in a blaze of glory. Allow me to
convey from the Centennial Board of Fi-
nance to you and your fellow laborers their
kindly greeting and their best wishes for
your prosperity and happiness.
	"Very sincerely,
		JOHN WELSH,
			President.
"Philadelphia, Dec. 18, 1876.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WANTED, the receipt which is given
when a gentleman pays his respects.
	LONG range practice—Twenty years' ex-
perience as a cook.
	HARD to beat—Boiled eggs.
	IF a lady can't weep for her lost hus-
band, she can at least wear watered silks.
	GOSSIP.—A child thus defines gossip: "Its
when nobody don't do nothing, and some-
body goes and tells of it."
	SCIENCE Made Easy.—Friend, to scien-
tific authority: "Doctor, how is a man to tell a
mushroom from a toadstool?" Scientific
authority: "By eating it. If you live it is
a mushroom; if you die; it is a toadstool."
	A WELL-known disciple of Izaak Walton
sent a telegram from Edinburgh to the inn-
keeper at a favorite resort of anglers, re-
questing the usual preparations to be made
for him, in the shape of dinner, bed, etc.
On reaching his destination next day he
was surprised to find no expectation of his
arrival, and nothing ready as he had desir-
ed. "Did you not get my message?" he
asked in astonishment. "Ou ay, we got a
letter; but, as it wasna in your ain hand-
writing, we paid no attention to it."


FLOWERS.

	Every human soul has germs of some
flowers within, and they would open if they
could only find sunshine and free air to ex-
pand in.
	BEAUTY is admired, talent adored, but
virtue is a woman's crown. With it the
poor are rich; without it, the rich are poor.
It walks through life upright, and never
hides its head for high or low.
	IT cannot be too often repeated that luxu-
ries not necessities, bring ruin. We are
ruined, not by what we really want but by
what we think we do; therefore never go
abroad in search of your wants, if they are
really wants, they will come home in search
of you, for he who buys what he does not
want, will soon want what he cannot buy
	IN a world like the present, one of the
grandest occupations is that of giving con-
dolence. We ought all of us to study this
holy science of imparting comfort to the
troubled. There are many who could look
around upon some of their best friends who
wish them well, and are very intelligent
and yet to be able to say to them in days of
trouble, "miserable comforters are ye all."


BOBERT FULTON.

	The collection of "Gates papers" in the
Historical Society was due to Robert Ful-
ton, who next to his steam project was an
amateur in history, and was among the
early patrons of this institution. There are
very few persons now living who remember
Robert Fulton, for he died sixty-one years
ago; but those who knew him could not soon
forget his tall form, which was more than
six feet high, his expansive brow covered
with curls of dark brown hair, and his large
and piercing eyes. His mouth was beauti-
ful and suggested eloquence. Upon the
whole, his appearance was peculiarly strik-
ing, and well worthy of the position he holds
in history. That his life was one of inces-
sant conflict scarcely need be said. He was
called "crazy Fulton," not only by the
masses, but also by men who pretended to
scientific skill. The by-word of that day
was the "Marine Smoke-jack and Fulton's
Folly." The place where the "folly" was
constructed was near Corlear's Hook, and
here the inventor endured some of his se-
verest conflicts. At last, on the 7th of Sep-
tember, 1807, he saw the Clermont start on
her trip to Albany. At that time it was
the only steamboat in existence. Fulton
was then more than forty-two years old,
and had but little more than seven years to
live. It was a peried of intense activity,
both in improving his invention and de-
fending his patent. To a lawsuit connected
with the latter his death was immediately
due. Coming from Burlington, New Jer-
sey, to this city, he was obliged to cross the
Hudson river in a row boat, and was an
hour making the trip. He became thor-
oughly chilled, and died of rapid consump-
tion in his fiftieth year. Dr. Hosack, who
attended him, exclaimed to a friend as he
returned home at midnight: "Fulton is dy-
ing. His severe cold amid the ice in cross-
ing the river has brought on inflammation
and glassites. He extended to me his gen-
erous hand, grasping mine closely, but he
could no longer speak."Fulton's body was
buried in the Livingstone vault in Trinity
Churchyard. His portrait was painted by a
daughter of his friend Thomas Addis Em-
met, and is considered a tolerable likeness.
—New York paper.


144		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PICTURES.

	There is a silent influence in pictures
which many of us do not understand. In
childhood, even these speechless monitors,
looking down from the wall, speak to the
heart with an eloquent meaning that often
moulds its future destiny. In manhood
they bear witness to our growth and pro-
gress, and indicate the changes of the fleet-
ing years. In old age they awaken mem-
ory, bring up the scenes and faces of by-
gone times, and link our hearts in tender-
ness to the shadows of the past.
	But in childhood their inf[-]uence is more
impressive than at any other stage of life,
because the mind is then yielding and sus-
ceptible to its surroundings; the earliest
years being passed at home, and our infant
observation bounded by the four walls of a
nursery, the pictures, if there, are among
the first subjects of delightful contempla-
tion. Imitation, as well as curiosity, is a
fundamental element in human nature, it
follows the other almost invariably. In
this relation the human mind led by inquiry
derives the rudiments for theory before re-
ducing to practice; and thus the ideal
serves the actual.
	Pictures are generally representations of
life, either fanciful or practical, and often,
if attractive, exercise more influence on an
unsophisticated mind than the anxious
teachings of a mother or guardian. In-
stances have been known where they have
marked out and determined the after life
of children whose early years were passed
in the midst of them. We give one—a
father and mother could not divine the rea-
son why both their boys should have a de-
sire to go to sea and follow the hard and
dangerous vocation of a sailor for a livli-
hood. They had not taught nor encour-
aged the idea as they could remember, be-
ing both strenuously opposed to it, but
nothing would avail to prevent the execu-
tion of the plan. One day the father was
sitting, lost in thought when his gaze
chanced to rest on two old pictures on the
wall, one a ship in full sail, the other a na-
val combat. All at once the truth flash-
ed upon his mind; these were what had in-
spired his sons with a taste for the mari-
ner's life. Subsequently the fact was ad-
mitted by the two.
	There is true philosophy to sustain this
incident, let the skeptical say what they
choose, and the philosopher who said, "Tell
me your associates and I'll tell you what
you are," evidently understood what he
was saying.
	In your homes everything should be pleas-
ant, sensible and substantial; not only the
pictures, books and furniture, but the liv-
iug occupants, for all are pictures which are
deeply impressed on the minds of children.
These pictures never perish, for our actions
words and faces remain there as witnesses
to manhood, as remembrances to age, and
as pictures whose light remains forever.
	Then let us be careful to direct the minds
of the young in a right direction, by plac-
ing pictures before them worthy of copy
and emulation; that when time shall devel-
op their latent talents and energy, they in
turn may become exemplary of our race
and bright pictures for the study of those
who follow in their footsteps.
								IAGO.


MANY seek solace for their troubles in
the gay French capital. They think the
best plaster for their wounds is the plaster
of Paris.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Marble Cake.—Light part—White sugar, 1½
cups; butter, ½ cup; sweet milk, ½ cup; soda, ½
teaspoonful; cream of tartar, 1 teaspoonful; whites
four eggs; flour, 2 ½ cups, beat the eggs and sugar
of together; mix the cream of tartar with the flour,
and dissolve the soda in the milk.
	To dress a Loin of Mutton like Venison.—Skin
and bone a leg of mutton and lay it into a stew-
pan, with a pint of water, a large onion, stuck
with a dozen cloves, and a spoonful of vinegar;
add, when it boils, a few sprigs of thyme and
parsley, and some salt and pepper; let it stew
gently three hours, and turn often. Make some
gravy of the bones, and add it at intervals to the
mutton when a r[-]quired.


[Column 1]
WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not
burn, smart or color the skin, and requires
	no rubbing. Recommended for all
		Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
			Bruises, Wounds, Colds,
				Fros[-]ed Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
St[-]re, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Coopet's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

		WOMAN'S
COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
				SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
			LADIES JACKETS,
				STOCKINGS, YARNS,
			SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts,
	DAMASK BED SPREADS,
	Rag Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy
Articles, Shoes, Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brush-
es, Brooms, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Flour, Can-
ned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vinegar,
Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bu-
reaus, Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps,
Ink, Shoe Blacking, Concentrated Lye, Silver
Plating, Pottery Ware, Clothes Pins, Neats
Foot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's JAMAICA GINGER,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from
native Ore, Door Mats, Toy Table and
	Spool Stands, Sole Leather and
		other Trunks, Gents' Fine Shirts
		and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
		Table Salt, Band Boxes
			and Dixie Cotton.
			ALSO A VARIETY OF
MEDICINES,
			INCLUDING
	D. Huntington's Celebrated
INDIAN REMEDIES!
			AND THE
	Oil of Artemisia,
		OR WILD SAGE.

	PAIN PAINT.

Medicines from Dr. Crockwell's Dispenstay,
	SARAS SALVE, Etc.
Also a Variety of Books,
		AL OF
HOME MANUFACTURE.

[Column 2]DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. MARCH 1, 1877.	No. 19.


FANCY'S PANORAMA.

I see, within the shadows of past years,
	A panorama all unrolled to view,
In many places blurred with woman's tears,
	But life like in its outlines, clear and true.
Visions of wildest fancies come and go,
	And whisp'rings of some dear delicious hours;
And soft and deep and musical the flow
	Of mem'ries river murm'ring 'mid life's bow'rs
How silently we summon to our aid
	The monitors then wont to be our guide,
And where our weary feet 'mong brambles stray'd,
	And sorely in our anguish we were tried.
Stern duty was our motto, and we sought
	To tread the narrow path, and trust in God,
Braving life's battles though with perils fraught.
	And bowing meekly 'neath the chastening rod.
And brighter grew the way as years rolled on,
	And light beam'd up where all around was dark;
And well we deem'd it that some toil was done
	E'en though accomplished by a glim'ring spark.
'Tis pleasant thus to contemplate, at times,
	The pictures which remembrance conjures up,
List'ning to echoing bells of long-lost chimes,
	Though seemingly we drain the bitter cup,
Tis but in thought, and life looks brighter still
	By contrast of those ills and griefs and fears;
And humbly may we our true mission fill
	Through all the changes of the coming years.

	EMILE.
S. L. City, Feb. 26, 1877.	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			ADVICE TO GIRLS.

EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	Feeling a deep interest in the welfare of
the young ladies of Utah, I deem it a priv-
ilege to address them through the columns
of your valuable and interesting paper,
through which we learn of the grand im-
provements and enterprise of the sisters
from year to year.
	Young ladies you must perceive now
that you have superior advantages to im-
prove your minds and advance in the scale
of intelligence to those who have lived a
generation before you. It is necessary you
should hasten to step forward and qualify
yourselves for usefulness in life; house-
work to most young girls comes first in
every day experience; and every girl should
strive to acquire a full knowledge of all the
duties of the household; she should be
taught how to work as she is taught how to
read; there is art and skill in the proper use
of the broom; activity and cleanliness both
belong to its use; order and refinement are
required in the chamber for the arrange-
ment of the bed and furniture, but still
more varied and numerous are the duties
of the kitchen. Girls require most training
and the largest experience in the kitchen
which is a laboratory where chemicals are
compounded in the preparation of whole-
some food for the family. If there is one
thing more than another that is really nec-
essary for health it is for a woman to under-
stand how to prepare and cook food. The
necessity of industry, the obligation of
each girl to work for her living, her happi-
ness and her home, nothing is more valua-
ble than to learn to work systematically and
economically; and when extravagant fash-
ions give way as they inevitably must, to
sensible and prudent management in do-
mestic and social circles, the industrious
young woman with consistent ideas, sound
common sense, and adaptability, will hold
the front rank of the women of Utah; such

[Column 2]
will be the ones chosen for friends, wives,
and mothers, to act as counselors with the
brethren.
	Your birth and mission, young girls, is
co-equal with that of the young men, they
are your brothers, and your destiny is alike
eternal. Having been born you are not ex-
empt from the duties life involves, there-
fore study to realize the importance of the
course you pursue here, and do right in
spite of all annoyances and vicissitudes.
Life abounds with opportunities that are
within your reach of improving your minds
and enriching your hearts. Obligations
rest upon each of you for self-improvement,
this obligation in its binding force will run
parallel with your existence through all the
succeeding years of the future; then forget
not that our Father in heaven will require
you to improve, to cultivate yourselves for
it is an obligation he has imposed upon all
His children.
	My dear young ladies, I beseech you to
read history; select the best books that have
been written by the best men and women,
and you may obtain through careful train-
ing of the mind, great wisdom, and make
life a success. Choose the best society, lay
aside light reading, and when you read
sacred things and works of importance,
write on the tablets of your minds the im-
pression given, this will give you wisdom
to act well your part as wives and mothers
and to instruct your children in the paths
of virtue and happiness, and teach them to
walk in your foot prints. When you make
choice of a companion for life, select one
that is in good standing in the church and
kingdom of God, and do not accept of one
who frequents drinking saloons, and places
of that sort; or one who chooses the society
of those who do those things. Shun such
men as you would the poisonous adder, for
they will embitter your whole future exist-
ence.					D. F. Cox.
	Beaver, Feb. 4, '77.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ON THE 28th of February, Prof. Mercy B.
Jackson delivered the valedictory address
to the students of Boston University School
of Medicine, in Tremont Temple.
	THE FREE Dormitory for women in New
York, is said to be besieged nightly by
homeless women applying for shelter. Only
destitute women of respectability are ad-
mitted. The general police captains of the
city have been furnished with tickets good
for one night's lodging, and these are dis-
tributed among the poor women whom they
deem worthy of relief.—Ex.
	And yet these are the people who talk so
much about the terrible condition of affairs
in Utah, and especially in Salt Lake City.
In that very city there are hundreds of For-
eign Missionary Boards and so forth for the
benefit of the heathen, etc. Truly ought
Charity to begin at home. In conversation
with strangers from New York, Chicago
and other large cities, we have always tak-
en especial pains to make reference to the
thorough systematic management of the
Relief Societies organized among this peo-
ple for the benefit of the sick, the aged,


and the poor, and of the intention to pro-
vide work for all who are not incapacitat-
ed for labor, instead of giving without com-
pensation. The home-industries which
this people are laboring to establish, will
eventually furnish occupation for the labor-
ers of both sexes.


THE MORAL EFFECT OF HURRY.

	To the thoughtful, the moral conse-
quences of tension and hurry are very sad-
dening; to the physician their results are a
matter of profound concern; their grave
evils come under his daily observation.
No evolution of force can take place with
undue rapidity without damage to the ma-
chine in which the transformation is effect-
ed. Express railway stock has a much
shorter term of use that reserved for
slower traffic. The law is inversely propor-
tioned. It is therefore no matter of sur-
prise that the human nervous system is no
exception to the law. The higher salubrity
of rural over urban life is not a matter of
fresh air and exercise. Rural life involves
leisure and pause in work, which are very
essential to the maintenance of the ner-
vous system in a state of due nutrition.
Unremitting spasms soon cease altogether.
	The tension of life produces weakness at
the very place where life is most needed.
The damage done to the health of the most
valuable part of the community, the best
trained thinkers, the most useful workers,
is incalculable. Work and worry, though
not proportional, are closely connected, and
an excess of the former soon entails an in-
crease in the latter beyond the limits which
the nervous system can bear with impuni-
ty, especially the condition under which
the work has to be done. The machinery
for organizing the work of a community
has to be rigid and inflexible, and in the
strain involved in bringing a changing or-
ganism into harmony with a machine, the
former must inevitably suffer.—London
Lancet.


When Garrick was beginning his career,
his great rival was Quin. Garrick was
bright and natural, Quin was formal and
pompous. It was evident that the death
struggle between the old and the new
school was about to begin. At last it was
decided that they should appeal definitely
to the public. "The Fair Penitent" was
chosen. Garrick performed Lothario and
Quin Horatio. The first act took up a full
hour, for the house was full of the advo-
cates of both schools, and both were loud
in their plaudits. At last a trivial and lu-
dicrous, but, as all must have felt, a signifi-
cant circumstance gave Garrick the victory.
In the last scene of the second act Lothario
challenges Horatio "Two hours ere noon to-
morrow I expect thee." Quin with his
usual pompous stateliness, paused so long
before he gave an answer, that some sim-
ple fellow in the gallery, really excited by
the position, cried out, "Confound you, you
coward, why don't you tell the gentleman
whether you'll meet him or no?"


There are many of the greatest deeds
done in the small struggles of life.


146		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday afternoon, Feb. 17. was one of in-
tense interest. The Minutes of the Junior
Associations in the different wards were par-
ticularly interesting and showed the next
improvement in the young ladies. Presi-
dent Mrs. M. I. Horne expressed herself
pleased to see so large an assembly, and
said that if the numbers continued to in-
crease that it would be necessary soon to
adjourn to a larger building. She made
many other appropriate remarks on the sub-
ject of Storing Grain; spoke of the signs of
the times—of wars and rumors of wars, and
Babylon's fall, and said this people were
well aware that if Babylon fell now and the
judgments came, they were not prepared to
sustain themselves. Mrs. Bishop, Mrs. Dy-
er and others bore faithful testimonies to
the truth of the gospel. Mrs. E. S. Barney
spoke particularly on the necessity of rais-
ing mulberry trees. Mrs. Clara J. Young
testified of her enjoyment in trying to live
in the United Order, and earnestly entreated
the Latter-day Saints to prepare their minds
for it, that they might avoid the failures
that had been experienced. Said that her
interests and sympathies were with this
people, and not with the outside world.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow spoke expressly
upon the subject of home industries; said one
great aim was to supply work for those who
desired to labor, and also to be able to make
the entire community self-sustaining. Said
that the time seemed too short for anything
aside from the absolute duties. By request
of the President, Mrs. Horne, Bro. Wm.
Smith made a few remarks on subjects con-
nected with woman's work, and woman's
influence, and the progress he had noticed
since he last met with them. He gave a
powerful testimony on the subject of heal-
ing.

	PARADISE, CACHE Co., Feb. 11, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our society has been reorganized with
the following officers:
Mrs. Lydia Remington, President; Mrs.
Ann James, Mrs. Lizzie Humphreys, Coun-
selors; Mrs. Sinah Bishop, Secretary; Mrs.
Carrie M. Smith Ass't Sec'y; Mrs. Lizzie
Remington, Treasurer.
	Your sister in the Gospel.
								C. M. S.

					MANTI, Feb. 1st, 1877.
	Secretary's report of receipts and dis-
bursements for the Manti Relief Society,
from May 1st, 1876, to Feb. 1st. 1877.
	Receipts................................... $ 223  08
	Disbursements.......................    119  74
	Balance...................................     103  34
	Represented in the treasury by the fol-
lowing items.
	Wheat.....................................       63  00
	Cash.......................................	 14  40
	Cloth.......................................	 15 75
	Due bills on Co-op Store......	 5   19
	One Quilt...............................	 5   00
	Total.......................................  $   103  34.
						A. L. Cox, Sec'y. 

				HUNTSVILLE, WEBER, Co.
								Feb. 13, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I take pleasure in writing a few lines to
you as a member of the Relief Society of

[Column 2]
Huntsville, which town is located some
twelve miles east of Ogden. It is a flour-
ishing little town with a goodly number of
inhabitants mostly from Denmark and
Sweden. Our leading men are ever alive
to the interests of Zion as also our Relief
Society. Our worthy President Mrs. M. J.
Hammond and Counselors, and sisters in
general are doing all they can in storing
up grain for the time of need. The pro-
ceeds of our last working meeting will be
turned into sheep and grain. We think it
wise to provide working material for our
elderly sisters, as many of them can spin
and knit and are very willing to assist in
whatever way they can.
	The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society
are doing all they can in the way of making
quilts, and braiding straw, and ever mani-
fest a willingness to assist in the good
cause.
	Your interesting paper is always appre-
ciated, and hoping that it may continue to
instruct, and cheer the hearts of the sisters
is the prayer of your sister,
				ELIZABETH HAWKINS.

			S. L. CITY, Feb. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Eighth Ward Relief Society held
their Annual meeting on the first of Feb.,
instead of Jan. the usual time, on account
of the illness of the president; There were
present at the meeting, President Mrs. Lea-
ver, and her Counselor, Mrs. Sarah Need-
ham; also Bishop Sheets, and Counselors
Brockbank and Royal B. Young. The
Bishop said we had done considerable for
the poor this year; that our receipts and dis-
bursements showed that means had been
liberally donated and disbursed to assist
those who were sick and needy, which he
was pleased to see. Said that as we had
commenced storing grain he hoped that we
would continue to persevere; he believed
that the sisters would accomplish what the
brethren had failed to do in storing grain.
Bro. Brockbank made some very excellent
remarks on "Woman's Sphere" observed
that much had been said on that question,
that it was truly a great mission she had to
perform and that great responsibilities rest-
ed upon women as wives and mothers.
Bro. R. B. Young made a few remarks; said
he was pleased to see the Relief Society do-
ing so much good, felt to sustain them;
thought there seemed to be a lively interest
taken by the sisters of the Society to
do their duty in whatever sphere they were
called to act. The sisters of our society
feel to respond to all the requirements of
those in authority over them, and to carry
out the counsel of President Young in the
Storing of Grain and in the building of
Temples; and feel willing to do all they can
in their humble way to build up the king-
dom of God upon the earth.
				E. B. FLETCHER, Sec'y.

			CANTON, ILL. Feb. 14, 1877.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I thought I would inform you of our lit-
tle organization in Canton, that you may
learn of our prosperity and desire of be-
coming united with the sisters in Zion.
	We were organized into a Relief Society
by Elder D. M. Stuart, assisted by Elder
Middleton, at a conference held December
31, 1876. We meet every two weeks and
are abundantly blessed with the holy spirit,
engaging in singing, prayer and conversing
upon the pure principles of the gospel that
are calculated to exalt all those who are

[Column 3]
humble and obedient enough to receive
them.
	We read the EXPONENT in our meetings
which is truly interesting and edifying,
and it has proven to be a most valuable ar-
ticle in this vicinity in removing a great
deal of the prejudice existing in the minds
of many, who have been blinded by the
false reports that are circulated abroad by
some who have at one time known the
truth and turned from it and by others who
are totally ignorant of the Latter-day work.
We take great pleasure in reading the let-
ters from the Relief Societies in the differ-
ent settlements of Utah stating their pro-
gress and the good spirit enjoyed, and wish
we were there to listen to the wise counsels
of our sisters who are experienced.
	We are quite a distance from Zion but
we feel to exert our influence for good
though our numbers are small, and we real-
ize that we can do but little, being sur-
rounded by those who are opposed to the
doctrines we advocate, we find a great
many influences to contend with; but all
the sisters seem to be united and desirous
of doing all in their power for the good of
the cause in contributing their means for
the upbuilding of the kingdom of God, and
we trust that if we are faithful and diligent
in our efforts, we may be instrumental in
bringing some to a knowledge of the truth
of the Gospel which the world terms "Mor-
monism."
	We desire to be kindly remembered by
our sisters in Zion. Praying for the success
of your little paper and all institutions of
Improvement, I remain your co-worker in
the cause of Truth.
			SARAH WILLIAMS, Pres't.

			GRANTSVILLE, Feb. 21, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENTS:
	The sisters of Grantsville are trying to
obey the counsel of President Young in re-
gard to storing grain. They are also trying
to retrench from everything that is likely
to injure them. The Relief and Retrench-
ment Societies are doing well. The former
has over two hundred bushels of wheat
stored away, besides being determined to
help their husbands keep all they can in
their bins at home by doing without every-
thing in the way of useless finery. In our
sewing meetings we always introduce sub-
jects of conversation pertaining to matters
of interest to us as a body of people, and
no gossip is ever allowed or introduced.
	The dancing parties out here are closed
at ten o'clock in the evening; we mothers
think this an excellent arrangement as it
will save the health of our young girls, and
very likely in many instances their lives.
	There is also a Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Society here. This last effort
to awake our youth to a sense of their
importance in these last days, for they must
be the ones to carry off the responsibilities
of this church and kingdom, receive the
earnest prayers of every thinking mother.
	Our City Fathers are trying with all their
might to keep LIQUOR STORES out of
Grantsville, this of course receives our
hearty approval. We are all trying to do
as much good as we can, not forgetting the
Temple by any means.
	Still desiring to improve, we remain
your sisters in the Relief Society,
	Mary A. Hunter, President,
	Jane Eastham,	}	Counselors.
	Sarah Hale,		}
					M. A. HOUSE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.		147


THE MOTHER OF WASHINGTON.*

Long hast thou slept unnoted. Nature stole
In her soft minstrelsy around thy bed,
Spreading her vernal tissues, violet gem'd,
And pearled with dews.

			She bade bright Summer bring,
Gifts of frankincense, with sweet songs of birds,
And Autumn cast his reaper's coronet
Down at thy feet, and stormy Winter speaks
Sternly of man's neglect. But now we come
To do thee homage, Mother of our chief!

Methinks we see thee as in olden time,
Simple in garb—majestic and serene;
Unmoved by pomp or circumstance—in truth.
Inflexible, and with a Spartan zeal
Repressing vice and making folly grave.
Thou deemst it not woman's part to waste
Life in inglorious sloth—to sport a while
Amid the flowers, or on the summer wave,
Then fleet, like the ephemera, away,
Building no temple in her children's hearts
Save to the vanity and pride of life
Which she had wors[---]p'd.
			For the might that cloth'd
The "Pater Patrix"—for the glorious deeds
That make Mount Vernon's tomb a Mecca shrine,
For all the earth—what thanks to thee are due,
Who 'mid his elements of being, wrought,
We know not—Heaven can tell!

			Rise, sculptured pile!
And show a race unborn who rest below,
And say to mothers, What a holy charge
Is thine—with what a kingly power this love
Might rule the fountains of the newborn mind.
Warn them to wake at early dawn, and sow
Good seed before the world hath sown her tares;
Nor in their toil decline—that angel hands
May put the sickle in, and reap for God,
And gather to his garner.
			Ye who stand
With thrilling breast to view her trophied praise,
Who nobly reared Virginia's godlike chief—
Ye, whose last thought upon your nightly couch,
Whose first at waking, is your cradled son,
What though no high ambition prompts to rear
A second Washington, or have your name
Wrought out in marble with a nation's tear
Of deathless gratitnde—yet may you raise
A monument above the stars—a soul
Led by your teachings and your prayers to God.
								L.H. SIGOURNEY.
On laying the corner-stone of her monument at Fred-
ericksburg, Virginia.


WRITTEN BY REQUEST, AND READ
	BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES' RE-
		TRENCHMENT MEETING OF 
				THE 19 WARD.

	I heard my name put down for an essay
last Wednesday, but I think the few re-
marks I am about to read will scarcely bear
that title. I have been engaged every mo-
ment since we last met and have not much
time for writing, but I have thought much
of you all, and the motive of this little as-
sembly. I have throwm a few of my ideas
rapidly together to read to you this after-
noon, agreably to your request. Last meet-
ing a few words were dropped upon dignity
of character, and I wish to define a little
clearer what I comprehend is contained in
these three words. Some imagine pride
and exclusiveness is meant by them, but I
do not so understand them. Dignity of
character is simply self-respect, in which I
see many young girls are deficient; this
arises from thoughtlessness or a poor edu-
cation, that is in early training. One who
possesses this requsite, will be modest and
quiet in her deportment, will never be
guilty of rudeness to any one, even her
young associates; will be ever respectful to
her parents and teachers or persons older
than themselves, and consequently more
experienced. They will enter all places
quietly and with respect, especially any
place set apart for the worship of God.
They will behave in like manner during
the service, leaving the house in the same


quiet manner, and I want you to remember
that very few boys would be rude if girls
conducted themselves with grace and dig-
nity; women and girls make and control
manners in a great measure, and they also
have a mighty and powerful influence in
forming morals; you can scarcely realize in
how great a degree; but try it my young
sisters with your boy-friends, and see if
they will not respond to your good man-
ner, and respect and esteem you for them.
Try it and years hence you will remember
my words, and say I spoke truth. A lady
is not made by fine clothes, or a fine house,
by no means. She may be clothed in home-
ly apparel, and have a very humble dwell-
ing, but if she respects herself and her as-
sociates, in which consists "dignity of
character" she shows that she is a true lady;
and no one has a right to that title but
those who earn it. You need not be pre-
cise, formal or repellant. No, show that
you are a happy and contented girl by your
pleasant, free, agreable manners, and you
will then be known as a young lady possess-
ing "dignity of character."
					HANNAH T. KING.
Jan. 23, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., Jan. 22, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to add my testimony with that of
others in this good work that we as a band
of sisters in Utah are engaged in, for the
building up of the kingdom of our Father
in this last dispensation. I know the Lord
has revealed His will again to the human
family, to all that will obey His Gospel. We
the Sisters of Moroni feel to respond to the
counsel of our prophet, and feel thankful
that we have one who is able to warn us of
what is coming to pass. Sisters I know
what it is to be without a leader, I realized
it in Nauvoo for a short season, when our
prophet was slain in Carthage Jail; I was
an eye witness to those terrible scenes at
Nauvoo. O sisters, what a time that was
to look upon. Then we had to seek a home
in the mountains, where nobody else would
live, but thank God it was prepared for His
people. I rejoice that I have a home with
them, although I stand almost alone, only
my children with me, my husband died
when I came out from Nauvoo in 1847 but
I thank God that I am here if I am alone.
Well sisters let us do what we can in the
Grain Movement. The sisters of the Mo-
roni Relief Society are doing what they can
this year, in that direction, and if the Lord
assists and blesses us with another good
crop we will feel exceedingly thankful.
We have made a good beginning and our
Bishop is very kind and has given us a
place to store it in the Tithing Office until
we can build, and the brethren will, I hope,
help us, according to President Young's
suggestions. We feel strong as a band of
women, and hold our meetings once in two
weeks, a good spirit prevails and all seem
alive to their duties. It has been my lot to
do hard work more than writing, all my
life.
	I hope the Lord will add His blessing un
to us all; and may prosperity attend Israel,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus Amen.
						SARAH JOLLY.


"SAM[-]O, where's your master?" "Gone
out." "Has he left off drinking yet?" "O
yes, he leave off three times this morn-
ing."


EXTRACTS FROM THE WRITINGS OF 
	ALPHONSE DE LAMARTINE:
		HIS IDEAS OF ST. PETER'S
				AT ROME.

	St. Peter's is the work of an idea, of a
religion, of the human mind in its entire
extent at one period of the world. It is no
longer an edifice destined to contain a vile
people, which we are considering. It is an
edifice destined to contain all the philoso-
phy: all the prayers, all the grandeur, all
the thoughts of man. The walls seem to
rise and to swell out no longer in the pro-
portions of a nation, but in the proportions
of a God! St. Peter's is truly an apotheo-
sis in stone, a monumental transfiguration
of the religion of Christ. The architects
of the gothic cathedrals were sublime bar-
barians, Michael Angelo alone is a philoso-
pher in his conceptions. St. Peter's is
philosophical Christianity, from which the
divine architect banishes superstition and
shadows, and into which he introduced
space, beauty, symmetry and floods of in-
extinguishable light. The incomparable
beauty of St. Peter's at Rome, consists in
in its being a Temple which may be used
by all worshippers—a God-like Temple, if I
may venture to employ that word in rela-
tion to stone. It seems destined to clothe
the idea of God in all the splendor of which
it is capable.
	Were Christianity to perish, St. Peter's
would still remain a universal, eternal, and
rational Temple of whatsoever religion
should succeed the worship of Christ, pro-
vided that religion were of humanity and
of God. It is the most abstract Temple
which the human genius, inspired by a di-
vine idea, has ever constructed here below.
When a visitor enters it he knows not
whether he is entering an ancient or a mod-
ern Temple; no details obstruct the eye, no
symbols distract the thoughts; men of all
sects and creeds enter it with the same re-
spect. They feel that it is a Temple which
can only be inhabited by the idea of God;
and which no other idea can fill.
	Change the Priest, take away the altar,
pull down the pictures, carry off the stat-
ues, nothing is changed, it is still the
House of God, or rather St. Peter's is in
itself alone, the grand symbol and type of
that eternal christianity, which, possessing
in its morality, and in its holiness the germ
of the successive developments of the re-
ligious ideas of all ages and of all men, ex-
pands along with the human reason in pro-
portion as God develops it, holds commun-
ion with God in the light, spreads wide,
and towers aloft in proportion of the human
mind, as the latter expands unceasingly,
and collects all nati[---] into the unity of
one adoration, every [---] more and more
rational, shapes out of all divine, forms one
God alone, and out of all nations one only
humanity. Michael Angelo is the Moses of 
architcetural Catholicism, and as such he
will one day be understood. He has erect-
ed an imperishable ark for future times, a
pantheon of reason purified and rendered
divine.


A SEVERE RETORT.—Fletcher, the Bish-
op of Nismes, was the son of a tallow-
chandler.  A proud duke once endeavored
to mortify the prelate by saying, at a levee,
that he smelt of tallow; to which the other
replied: "I am the son of a tallow-chandler,
'tis true; and if your lordship had been the
same, you would have remained a tallow-
chandler all the days of your life."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editors.

 Published semi-monthly, In Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00 one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the pick of nine, Advertising
rates: Each squarc, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
 Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to:
			Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 1, 1877.


EXCELLENCE.
	It is scarce expected in this probationary
sphere that any person will be perfect. Faults
and foibles seem to be the accompaniments to
whatever merit human nature is capable of at-
taining. In many different positions and pla-
ces weaknesses are more plainly apparent be-
cause the person occupies prominence, and the
whole community look on and judge, watch
and criticize. Not only is this true as regards
those who hold offices and positions of power
and trust, it is also true of editors and writers.
	It would be advisable for some of those per-
sons who are so ready to judge and condemn,
if they would for a moment, "Put themselves
in his (or her) place." It is just possible that
they might not think it such an easy task to
please everybody. Although we desire to keep
in the direct channel of purity and truth, and
pray that we may be guided right, we must
leave the success of our efforts as "Bread cast up-
on the waters;" and if we are blamed and scof-
fed and sneered at what of it? It is but a
breath, and when we are sure our motives and
efforts are to sustain those divine principles
which will lead all who obey them back into
the presence of God the Father, what need we
care if we are not understood by those who do
not see as we do? Pope said,
"Let such teach others who themselves excel,
And censure freely who have written well."
	Our paper aims to represent the true senti-
ments of the women of the church of Latter-
day Saints, in strict accordance with the spirit
and interests of the Gospel. We have no de-
sire or ambition to achieve the transient honor
or praise of the world outside of that. "Vault-
ed ambition overleaps itself." And all who
are seeking the applause of the world should
consider how changing is the tide of human
affairs.
	Humility is the safest condition for one's
self; devoid of that, even genius and talent lose
half their excellence.
	We desire not only to be just but charitable,
acting after the pattern of the Golden Rule "To
do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us;" but we will if possible at all times
maintain the right. Our paper is not the re-
pository or receptacle of all the ramblings of
persons who have no knowledge of principle.
 We do not publish everybody's ideas and
opinions, it would be utterly inconsistent, if
we did. It is our object to disseminate such
principles as are elevating and purifying in
their nature and practise. The interest of home
institutions, organizations and improvements,
particularly among women, are what we con-
sider it our duty to represent truthfully, re-
gardless of the aspersions and criticisms of
those who would impugn our sincerity and
earnestness.
		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


REPORT OF THE DEDICATION OF
 THE KAYSVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY
 HOUSE, Nov. 12, 1876.

	Present—Presidents D. H. Wells, John Tay-
lor, and Joseph F. Smith; Bishop C. Layton
and counsel, the officers of the Society, and a
whole house full of Saints. The choir sang,
"This house we dedicate to Thee."
 Dedication prayer by Elder John Taylor as
follows:
 "O God the Eternal Father in the name
of Jesus of Nazareth we present our-
selves before thee at this time; we have assem-
bled in this place for the purpose of dedicating
this hall which has been built for a Relief So-
ciety house wherein thy daughters and hand-
maids may meet to attend to the various du-
ties devolving apon them in a quorum capac-
ity; we ask O God that thy blessing may be
with us on this occasion, and that the words
we may say may be dictated by thy spirit.
We have gathered together in this place to
dedicate and set apart this house unto thee; and
we ask that thy blessing may rest upon us.
 We dedicate this house and all its surround-
ing unto thee. The ground on which it stands
we dedicate unto the Lord of Hosts, to be holy
unto thee, the stone, the mortar, and every-
thing that enters into its composition--the
brick, the lime the sand, and all the various
articles that enter into its composition, that it
may be sacred and holy, the boards and nails
of the floor, and the joists it rests upon, and
everything connected therewith, we conse-
crate and make holy unto the Lord our God.
We dedicate the roof, the shingles, the nails,
the rafters and sheeting, and everything con-
nected therewith unto the Lord; also the ceil-
ing, the plaster, the lath and lime, and every-
thing connected therewith we sanctify and
make pure unto the Lord God of Hosts. We
dedicate the doors, the windows, the frames
and fastenings thereof, the glass the putty, the
paint, and everything that enters into the com-
position of this house to be sanctified and holy
unto thee our God; and we ask that thy spirit
may dwell here, and that pure principles may
dwell here; and when thine handmaids shall
meet to perform any duty or office, may thy
spirit be with them, to direct, enlighten, and
assist them, and whatever office or calling they
shall undertake, we ask, O God, that their acts
and sayings may be such as God and angels
will approve. We dedicate this house for the
purpose for which it was designed. May thy
daughters and handmaids feel it a delightsome
place to assemble in. Bless also the young sisters
in their organizations; may thy peace be here,
and the spirit of God to attend them in their
administration. Bless the Bishops, the Elders,
the Priests, the Teachers, and the Deacon's,
and all thy servants in the Holy Priesthood,
and whosoever has built or contributed toward
the building of this house. Bless the sisters
in their labors in providing for the poor, coun-
seling or instructing or whatsoever they may
set their hands to do.
 We now dedicate this house and ourselves
unto thee, and all who shall take part in the
labors therein. Lead them we pray thee in
the paths of life, and ultimately save us in thy
CELESTIAL KINGDOM, we ask it in the name of
Jesus. Amen."
 Remarks by Elder John Taylor; I remember
the organization of the first Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Emma Smith was president and sis-
ter Whitney, (wife of Bishop Whitney,) and
sister Cleveland were her counselors. Eliza R.
Snow was secretary and Elvira Cole treas-
urer. A good spirit prevailed, and the pro-
phet Joseph spoke on the occasion. Some time
after Emma got sorely tried. It was the time
when men were commanded to take more wives
It made us all pull pretty long faces sometimes,
it was not so easy as one might think. When
it was revealed to us it looked like the last end
of Mormonism. For a man to ask another
woman to marry him required more self-confi-
dence than we had. I will not confess the sins
of others but I will tell you some of my own.
I was riding out one day by the old grave yard
where I met Joseph. Said he to me, 'Elder
Taylor stop, look at me,' speaking of the reve-
lation lately given on CELESTIAL MARRIAGE,
he said, 'These things must be entered into or
the keys will be turned, and the church of God
go on no further.'
 There was nothing previous to that revela-
tion by which men and women could be joined
together for eternity. We had a good religion
to live by, but it would not do to die by. We
were not prepared to inherit a celestial glory
without doing the works of Abraham, for the
man is not perfect without the woman, nor
the woman without the man. No mat-
ter what I wished, there was no other expedi-
ent that would answer but to obey the com-
mandment from God. I have talked about it
since that time to senators, congressmen, lords,
nobles and congregations in the prominent
cities of the earth, but have found no one who
could say anything REASONABLE nor SCRIPTU-
AL against it. The United States Govern-
ment has not succeeded in overthrowing
it. God has sustained us, and we have come
off victorious. Many intelligent men look
upon the marital relationship as a problem
which the Mormons will solve, hoping they
will solve it successfully, because the intelli-
gent men I speak of know the nation is going
to the bad. But to return to my subject about
Emma Smith. Emma Smith, at first profess-
ed having faith in the revelation on celestial
marriage, but afterwards forsook it, using her
influence to pervert the minds of the sisters,
and set them against it. She tried it with my
wife. The sisters in these days are like some
of the wives of the patriarchs of old. There
was some trouble in their families we are told
in the Bible. The good sisters in Nauvoo said
'they believed the revelation, but—But
what? But as the Savior said, 'if it is possible
let this cup pass, but Thy will be done, no
mine.'
 My wife told me many things Emma Smith
had told her.  When I met Joseph I said, Bro-
ther Joseph, do you know that sister Emma
has been talking thus and so to my wife, and
telling her such and such things, and said that
you have denied the revelation yourself? Said
Joseph, "Brother Taylor, sister Emma would do
throne Jehovah himself, if she could, for the
accomplishment of her purposes."
 Women in these associations should not use
their position and power to pervert good; if
they do so, evil is sure to follow and come on
their own heads. When the sisters come to a
place of this kind they ought to feel the spirit
of their mission, enter into the sympathies
of the people, consider the wan[-]s of the
poor and provide for them, and n[-]ver never,
entertain harsh feelings towards on another,
but forgive as they would be forgi[-]en.  Wo-
men any more than men, have no right to
speak evil; a great deal is committed to their
care, they are required to train their child-
ren in the [-]ays of God. And what honer is 
theirs if they only seek it. We should not
let our children see in us actions, or hear
from us words that we would be ashamed of
again. When your husbands are absent you


[Column 1]

sisters should ask God's blessing that He
should lead you in the paths of life, and fur-
ther, you should lay hands on your sick child-
ren and rebuke diseases in faith and power
and God will hear you. Let us fear God and
work righteousness, and I pray that the spirit
of peace, and the blessing of God may rest
and abide with you in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Prest. D. H. Wells:—The Relief Society of
this place has performed a very creditable
work. The sisters are coming up towards the
mark in their sphere of usefulness, more than
they have been. They are a power in Israel,
and a great one, too. It has bren said by the
world that the women in Utah were kept in
subjection and bondage by the male sex, and
that if they were enfranchised they would
liberate themselves &c. They were enfran-
chised, and I am glad that the sisters by their
works show that they appreciate their privi-
leges. They have done exactly what I expect-
ed they would do. Our enemies thought the
women would vote down PLURAL MARRIAGE.
	The sisters are quite a power in the wards in
assisting the bishops. Some of our city bish-
ops say they would not know what to do, now,
without the aid and assistance of the sisters in
looking after the poor, and other duties; to some
it looked curious to have to ask the advice and
aid of the sisters, not only in the duties I have
mentioned, but in taking measures for the
saving and storing of grain. Why should it
be? Should a famine come the women would
have to suffer hunger as well as the men. In
saving and storing up grain the men have been
tried for years, but they have continued to let
the grain go; now we want to see if the sisters
will be more successful in storing the grain.
It is a good time now to store up for a time of
need. The grasshoppers are here, and we can-
not tell what they may do. It is wisdom that
we should treasure up our grain. The sisters
have the power to help us in doing this.
These things are within the province and law-
ful sphere of the sisters' Relief Societies. The
women are just as much interested as the men
are and their salvation and welfare are just as
much concerned. I like to see the sisters bear
their proportion of the labors of the kingdom,
that they may share in its blessings. Women
are more susceptible of receiving the truth
than men. More women in proportion
obey the gospel than men. I merely state this
as a fact which has come under my observa-
tion, and I believe that they have a more re-
fining influence in a community; they might
extend this influence in many ways. For in-
stance, the girls could resolve never to marry
a man who is addicted to vicious or degrading
habits. This would have a good tendency, I
think, to prevent drunkeness and rowdyism,
the use of tobacco. etc., although it is the duty
of our young men to abstain from these habits
without such an incentive.
	Marriage is very important. Our women's
Societies should seek to reform our young men.
It might hurt the feelings of a young sister to
risk losing the man she likes, but you may de-
pend upon it, that a man will be more apt to
reform before marriage than after. I cannot
blame a woman for leaving a man who will
continue to be a drunkard. Drunkenness
brings ruin and degradation to the family.
The drunkard destroys his family, sacrifices
house, home and interests, until, finally, he
kills himself, and leaves his family in poverty.
It is a true saying that there are many men
in the world who deserve no wife at all, and
the time will come when they will not have
wives.
	This house is a credit to the sisters of Kays-

[Column 2]

ville. I hope they will work harmoniously
together for the best purposes. Can we
really find a people on the earth who will
uphold the principles of the gospel, and bring
up their children in the nurture and admoni-
tion of the Lord, and sustain his kingdom that
it may stand and abide forever? Yes the time
has come when it will be done. With this
people and those who will spring from them,
and through their instrumentality, the Lord
will establish his kingdom and sustain it on
the earth. The children of this people who
have been trained in the light of the gospel
will bear off the kingdom, though many of
them may go to destruction, the remainder
will stand faithful to the end. In so doing
they will have to withstand temptation.
	We need to become self-sustaining, who is
better qualified than the sisters to bring this
about? The kingdom of God, like any other
kingdom, requires space, territory, and people
to be subjects of it. Building, manufacturing,
agriculture, etc., are just as much needed in it,
as in any other kingdom, and any man or wo-
man who is engaged in any of these callings
with pure motives, is just as much on a mis-
sion as if preaching the gospel. Every man,
woman and child has a mission. What was
God's purpose in bringing us here at this par-
ticular time? One purpose was for us to obtain
tabernacles for our spirits to dwell in; another
is for us to pass through the ordeal and prove
our integrity; another is to establish a holy
and righteous seed in the earth, and to sustain
those principles of salvation that God has re-
vealed and will reveal. The accomplishment
of these purposes requires determination, skill,
application and perseverance. In carrying out
some of these purposes women are indispensa-
ble; in others they can render great assistance.
It is their glorious mission. Let us go forth
then, and let this be our motto "God and His
Kingdom before all other things." The mere
fact that we are engaged in this work is a tes-
timony that we are different to all other peo-
ple.
	We are rapidly increasing in numbers and
strength in these valleys, spreading abroad
and becoming a mighty nation in the midst of
the desert, which has been made to blossom as
the rose, as the prophets foretold. Whenever
we want to find a country for saints to dwell
in we have to seek out such places as Utah
and Arizona.
	Are we growing in the principles of the gos-
pel in proportion to our increase in numbers
and substance? Are we preparing to be self-
sustaining while Babylon falls, or are we drift-
ing after Babylon? These matters belong to
the duties of Relief Societies; so does the pre-
serving and storing of the fruits and grains of
the earth for our sustenance. The men have
been and are selling all the grain to pay mer-
chants, bills, etc., should a famine come it will
be a terrible thing. We could hardly bear to
see our friends and neighbors suffer for the
want of food, and should they have to depend
on us, they will be a heavy tax on us. The in-
stinct of many animals and insects impels
them to hoard up food for winter; why should
not the human race do the same?
	God bless us all, and particularly you, my
sisters, and help you to continue in the good
work you have begun, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"I HAVE turned many a woman's head,"
boasted a young nobleman of France.
"Yes," replied Talleyrand, "away from
you."


OBITUARIES.

	DIED IN Spanish Fork, Jan. 28, 1877, after
a long and painful illness, Mrs. Jemima Jex,
wife of William Jex. She lived and died a
true Latter-day Saint.
	Died, in the Sugar House Ward, Jan. 13th,
1877, of puerperal, after an illness of ten days,
Martha Ann, beloved wife of Bishop Wm, C.
A. Smoot, daughter of Perriguene and Julia
Sessions, born Sept. 20, 1834. The deceased
came to the valley in 1847, and was married to
Wm. C. A. Smoot January 29, 1852, by Prest.
B. Young.
	She was a loving, kind and faithful wife and
mother, devoting her whole life to the welfare
of her family. Her worth cannot be too high-
ly appreciated, and her early death is deeply
mourned by her loving, bereaved husband,
children and friends, who know her worth.
	She was the mother of fourteen children—
five sons and nine daughters—three have gone
before her; the youngest, a daughter, fourteen
days old at her death, the eldest, Elder Wm.
C. A. Smoot, is on a mission to England.
	She lived and died a full believer in the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ; attended to all the ordi-
nances which will insure her Eternal life in
the presence of her Father in Heaven, and in
the Morning of the Resurrection, when the
faithful Saints of God shall be brought forth
from their graves, clothed with immortality,
we will meet our beloved and enjoy her society
through an endless eternity.
	"She is not dead, but lives in Christ, the Res-
urrection."	M. T. S.
	Provo, Feb. 23, 1877.


EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Retrenchment organization has been
called to part with one of its brightest orna-
ments, by the death of our well beloved Secre-
tary, Sister Martha Ann Murray. She was the
daughter of John and Martha Baugh of this
place. Deceased was born in Salt Lake City,
January 22, 1853; her parents moving with her
to Wellsville in 1860, where she resided up to
the time of her death, which occurred on
Wednesday Jan. 24th, 1877. She was a most
exemplary young woman, a true Latter-day
Saint, an obedient daughter, an affectionate
sister, a valuable friend, a faithful wife, and
a useful member of society. For many
years our young sister held the position of
school teacher in our midst, in both day and
Sunday school, her talents and aimable bear-
ing rendering her an object of love to all who
came in contact with her. She was also a
prominent member of the Wellsville choir for
several years, and was elected Secretary of our
Retrenchment Society at its organization,
both organizations sustaining a severe loss at
her removal to a more glorious sphere of ac-
tion. Sister Murray was married Jan. 27th,
1877.
	The whole people of Wellsville followed the
corse to its last resting place and consigned it
to mother earth with many tears and regrets.
Her troubles were short on this earth, may her
happiness be eternal. A singular coincidence
in connection with the birth, marriage and
death of sister Martha, is that they all occur-
red, in the month of January.
	M. E. W.


IF a spoonful of yeast will raise fifty cents
worth of flour, how much will it take to
raise funds enough to buy a barrel with?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	MILL CREEK, S. L. Co., Feb. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our honored President Mrs.
I. J. Walters, I will undertake to write
you a brief report of the proceedings of our
Retrenchment Association. On account of
the resignation of our former president,
we were reorganized Feb. 16, 1876: the As-
sociation now stands as follows: Mrs. I. J.
Walters, president, Misses E. Carlisle, Jan-
net Park, Sarah A. Walter s Adelade How-
ard, Amelia B. Morgan and Mrs. Clara J.
Hawley, Counselors; Misses Melinda H.
North and Mary E. Spencer, Secretaries;
Mrs. Margaret M. Spencer, Superintendent.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks
and those of the girls who attend seem to
take quite an interest in the meetings and
are united.
	In our Superintendent we have a good
and able counselor, in whom we have entire
confidence; she teaches us many good and
useful things concerning our religion,
and also how to walk in our every day lives.
Our President takes great interest in the
Association and is fully alive to her duties.
We take the EXPONENT in our Association
and read selections from it and the Church
Works in our meetings. On the 16th of
Dec. last, we had a social party, which was
conducted in Leap Year style, being man-
aged especially by the young ladies of the
Association; beginning at 3 p. m. and
closing at 11 o'clock in the evening. There
was a full attendance and all seem satisfied
at the close, having had an enjoyable time.
The proceeds of the party are to be used by
the Association to buy grain.
	On the 24th of Jan. We were favored
with a visit from Mrs. Zina D. Young, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney. They gave us excellent
instructions on various subjects. Caution-
ed the girls never to say anything against
Plural Marriage, and exhorted them to be
self-sustaining as far as possible. They also
gave us some instructions pertaining to silk
culture; thought we might just as well dress
in silk as cotton. They exhibited some
specimens of beautiful silk fringe which
had been made to use in ornamenting the
St. George Temple, also a silk handker-
chief of home manufacture, all from the ele-
ments of Utah. Referred to the Woman's
Book. Gave us some instructions upon
prayer, showing the manner in which it
should be conducted etc.; spoke against
round dancing, thought the young people
had better listen to the counsel of a man of
seventy-five years experience and profit
there-by. Upon the whole we had an
excellent meeting a good spirit having per-
vaded throughout. All went away feeling
that they had beeu more than repaid for
coming.
	Hoping that ere long we will have anoth-
er visit from the fountains head, and wish-
ing success to all institution of improve-
ment, we remain your sisters,
	ISABELLA WALTERS, Prest.
	M. H. NORTH,
	M. E. SPENCER,	Secy's.

	PLEASANT GROVE, Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting Feb. 1st,
there were a goodly number of ladies in
attendance, also Bros. Thomas Wooley,
Lewis Harvey, and James Ballenger, who
came by invitation of our President Mrs.
E. Brown.
	Opened by prayer singing and the usual

[Column 2]

reading of minutes and the annual report.
After a few remarks by Mrs. E. Brown, the
meeting was ably addressed by the brethren
named above; they spoke highly of the ef-
fort the sisters are making in saving grain.
Thought perhaps that President Young in-
tended to shame the brethren for their
slackness in obeying couusel, for many
years he has been trying to have the people
lay up the grain. Was pleased to see
the Society progressing their little mites
were accumulating to a great amount with
which they might be able to do a great deal
of good; spoke of our living in unity and
oneness and trying to keep all the command-
ments of God; gave many good counsels
that will long be remembered by all who
had the pleasure of hearing them.
	Report of the year ending Jan. 17 1877.
	Received, in sundries, donation, and div-
	edends from store..................	$	115 57 1/2
	Cash.......................................		  11 20
	Disbursed for fencing and
	plowing lots...........................		234 95
	To the poor.............................		  55 75
	For the Temple.......................		  50 00
	Organ for Meeting House......		  13 50
		Capital Stock:
	Shares in Co-op Store............		515 38
	Provo Factory.........................	118 00
	Three City lots........................	400 00
	Property in the treasury...........	  55 75
		Total				$    1080 13
	President Mrs. E. Brown then addressed
the meeting; said that through unavoidable
circumstances we did not commence saving
grain as soon as we wished to; but we have
selected our purchasing committee and
have on hand about sixty bushels of wheat
and are making arrangements to secure
more, if our Heavenly Father blesses us
with a bountiful harvest the coming season,
we will then try to buy up grain enough
that our little ones may not cry for bread;
and some of the beautiful mornings of next
summer the sisters that have agreed to
make a raid on the harvest fields and gath-
er the golden heads of grain that the harvest-
ers have dropped, will be showing by
their presence there they are earnestly en-
gaged in this great work.
	We have three city lots fenced and ready
for growing mulberry trees; some sprouts
that were planted last spring are doing well,
and we expect to plant more this coming
spring.
	May the spirit of God inspire every Lat-
ter-day Saint to do His will that they may
receive His blessings.
	MRS. F. E. STUART,
		Ass’t. Scc’y.

	Minutes of a meeting held in Logan Dec.
5, 1876, for the reorganization of the Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association. Meet-
ing having been called to order Mra. Eliza-
beth Benson, president of the Relief So-
ciety of Logan was appointed by unanimous
vote to act as president of the meeting,
Miss Kennie Bailiff, secretary "protem."
	After the usual exercises of singing—and
prayer (by Bishop Preston) the president of
the meeting arose and said she was very
thankful that the sisters had come from S.
L. City, to visit and to reorganize the young
ladies, that she hoped all would be united
in the object before the meeting.
	Mrs. E. Howard then addressed them up-
on the subject and said that the time had
now arrived for the daughters of Zion to
turn their attention to many things pertain-
ing to the interests of the kingdom of God.

[Column 3]

	She counseled the girls especially to keep
the "Word of Wisdom" and to read good
books; gave much excellent instruction.
Miss E. R. Snow said that before proceed-
ing with the reorganization she wanted to
know whether the young ladies wished to
be organized and if so to make it manifest;
the vote being unanimous, it was then
moved, seconded and carried that Miss El-
len Ricks be appointed president, and
Misses Sarah J. Card and Caroline Olsen,
Counselors; Miss Lydia Crochett, Secretary,
Miss E. R. Snow then explained that as
the president chosen was absent, and it was
her privilege to choose her counselors her-
self, it would be wise to leave the choosing
of the other Counselors until the president
herself was present. She also advised them
to choose a Treasurer. Miss Snow then
continued her remarks by explaining the
many ways in which the young sisters
could make themselves useful and help in
building up the kingdom of God. She en-
joined upon them punctuality in attending
their meetings, and to be united together
in whatever they undertook. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, president of the Weber Co. So-
cieties spoke very encouragingly to the
young girls, advised them to be ever kind
and obedient to their mothers and do all
they could to help and comfort them. Mrs.
Zina D. Young then spoke a few words, she
did not wish to detain them, thought the
time had been well spent, but would like
to advise the girls to set out mulberry cut-
tings and raise silk-worms, thus making a
small beginning towards the manufacture
of silk.
	The meeting closed by benediction from
Bishop Preston.
	Since the meeting mentioned above the
remaining officers have been chosen: Mrs.
Emeline Jones, and Misses Esther Leish-
man, Ruth Clarkson, Martha Bittens, Coun-
selors; Miss Julia Baliff. Ass't Sec'y., and
Miss Isabella Davidson, Treasurer.


SILK RAISING IN UTAH.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The interesting subject of silk raising is
of much importance; and silk may be cul-
tivated as a profitable industry to many of
the inhabitants of this community; the
mulberry tree will grow in most places in
this Territory. If the cultivation of silk
were commenced by this people generally,
an industry for the rising generation would
be created which would be a source of very
great wealth to them in the near future.
What shall be done to find employment for
the coming generation as well as the pres-
ent? The silk industry would provide
many with profitable labor; silk raising,
reeling and manufacturing would employ
many and profit the community.
	The total manufacture of silk in value, in
1874 in America, was twenty million eighty-
two thousand, four hundred and eighty-two
dollars. Would not Utah do well to make
an effort for her share of this immense in-
come? All industries have their commence-
ment, and should have their progress. The
following is said to be a report for 1874:
"Of the different branches of the silk in-
dustry, thrown and spun silk embrace
twenty-six establishments, half being
in New Jersey, with machinery of one
thousand and three horse power, one hun-
dred and twenty-nine thousand, one hun-
dred and seventy-eight throwing spindles;
the number of hands employed in 1874,
was four thousand and twenty-six; amount
of wages paid, nine hundred and forty-five


[Column 1]

thousand, seven hundred and ten dollars;
capital invested, forty-one million two hun-
dred and fifty-two thousand, one hundred
and fifty-two dollars; total product, three
million, eight-hundred and sixty-two thou-
sand, three hundred and twenty-five dol-
lars; including tram and organzine, two
million, nine hundred and eleven thousand
and fifty-five dollars; spun silk, eight hun-
dred thousand dollars; fringe silk, one hun-
dred and nine thousand, two hundred and
seventy dollars, and floss silk, fourty-three
thousand dollars; total weight of product,
five hundred and forty thousand, eight hun-
dred and four pounds."
	This extraordinary and stupendous pro-
duction had its origin, like all other indus-
tries; and other places may follow after and
progress. New Jersey, like many other
places in times past had no silk industry;
but according to preceding facts, immense
wealth has been accumulated. Tooele is a
very fine location for the silk industry, as
well as many other localities. Many of the
people in Tooele no doubt, are very favora-
ble to the cultivation of silk, and we hope
soon to see them commence in the cultiva-
tion of it.
	Salt Lake City has set a good example,
and all other places would do well to form
working committees. One acre of mulberry
trees planted two feet distant in rows and
six feet asunder will be three thousand,
four hundred trees, which method is prob-
ably as good as any (Mr. Hoag, of California,
planted as above stated, and raised two
thousand dollars worth of silk to the acre.)
	Suppose that fifty pounds of silk is raised
to the acre, and worth when reeled twelve
dollars per pound, fifty multiplied by twelve
makes six hundred dollars worth of silk.
The manufacturers will give twelve dollars
per pound reeled, and when it is manufac-
tured into silk goods is worth eighteen dol-
lars per pound, when sold to wholesale pur-
chasers then twenty per cent is added to the
eighteen dollars, which makes twenty-one
dollars and sixty cents. and then the retail
sellers mostly add about thirty per cent,
which makes five dollars and forty cents
more to the first cost, making a total of
twenty-seven dollars.
	Fifty pounds of silk sold at twelve dollars
per pound reeled, is worth a hundred dollars,
when the manufacturer's pay is added and
twenty per cent added by wholesale pur-
chasers makes one thousand and eighty
dollars, then the retailers cost added
amounts to one thousand four hundred and
four dollars. Any family or community,
who have the facilities to raise and reel and
manufacture the productions of one acre of
silk may make a satisfactory profit in its
cultivation. The question is asked is there
any money in it? Undoubtedly there is
wherever there is a market for its sale; if
one thousand dollars in silk can be raised
per acre, which is only one half that has
been accomplished in California; the manu-
facturers will add about one third for their
remuneration, which will then amount to
one thousand five hundred dollars, and add-
ing in this case sixty per cent for the whole-
sale and retail profits, will run up the amount
to about two thousand four hundred dollars.
Those who understand the wholesale and
retail charges in trade, will not think this
calculation overrated.
	 No time ought to be lost in commencing
this valuable industry. The object to be ac-
complished, is to raise, reel and manufac-
ture the silk and then all the benefit of it
will be secured.
	If Mr. Hoag's treatise on silk raising
were read, very much information would
be obtained. Improvement will continue to

[Column 2]

be made in silk as well as in all other
branches of business, until it arrives at a
good standard of perfection.
	JAMES I. STEEL
Lakeview, Tooele Co.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WHAT TO DO WITH OLD MAIDS.

	What 900,000 English, and 30,000 Yan-
kee old maids—"What shall become of us
poor old maids?" It does seem to me that
this subject is more asked about than acted
upon. Woman's Suffrage, Woman's Rights,
Woman's influence, Woman in office, etc.
	Now it has always been a matter of won-
der with me that man, woman, or sensible
child, should be troubled to find occupation,
in this busy, bustling world. I have always
recommended to persons out of employ-
ment to take right hold of the first thing
they saw in their way that was left undone
by some one else. But few persons like to
do this. Their habits always having been
to reach after that business which pays best,
and is easiest on the muscles. We have a
fine variety of examples of this in S. L.
City. I have, when visiting there, been
much amused at the little "world displayed"
on Main Street. Being a country woman,
I read the signs, cards and shingles, and al-
so listen with wonder to the multitude of
voices; men from every nation under hea-
ven trailing out here after the Mormons—
and I have said to myself "what went ye
out into the wilderness to see?" Eager,
anxious restless ones why are you here?
I look not at surplus women, nor surplus
children, but surplus humanity. When I
see vast unappropriated resources, and a
vast number of people not well employed;
or perhaps not employed at all, I marvel as
an American should marvel, at the leg-
islation which does not lay hold upon such
as have no means of support and regulate
their conditions and relieve the country
of vagrants and beggars, and bring in a
revenue to the government.
	Coming back to the matter, the unmar-
ried, and perhaps very sensible ladies refer-
red to. The English people we have noth-
ing to do with, and therefore need not af-
flict ourselves on their account. The sub-
ject I would discuss is our own nation of
people. As to matrimony nothing on earth
is worse than a bad marriage. Let that go
by for the time; 30,000 unmarried women
in a country where there is the most intel-
ligent class of inhabitants, is no misfortune,
In my judgment there is a finer opening
for enterprises for women now, than ever
before.
	Were I of the class referred to by Bessie
Bramble, I would surely make an effort to
induce Government to take the same inter-
est in her White children as her Black or
Red ones. I would lend my utmost ability
to the work, feeling that it was a mission
from divine authority and must succeed.
	Look through our Eastern cities and see
if Victor Hugo could not find children of
the street there as well as in Paris. Why
might not these honorable unmarried women
of the world combine together, petition
government to set them off a tract of land
and lend them at first other necessary aid
and protection. Go into the large manu-
facturing districts in the heart of this na-
tion and gather out mechanical talent, the
starving, helpless ones, possessed of bone
and sinew and muscle, who are now out of
employment, and found a colony on some of
the vast expanses of unoccupied land where
soil is fertile, the climate medium, water
plenty, and timber, perhaps coal, near at
hand. Women of intelligence and ability,
such as the unmarried women of America

[Column 2]

attain in the present day, could, with tact,
energy and their indomitable perseverance,
so manage as to divide to every class of tal-
ent its peculiar business or work, and every-
thing be done upon a systematic principle.
When Romulus founded Rome he so divid-
ed the community, the Army, Agriculture
and Arts, that they were justly proportioned
and all were defended, all were sustained,
and all were employed.
	When Solomon built the Temple and en-
riched Jerusalem, he simply so divided the
people that there was no idle surplus, and
there ought not to be in our country a sur-
plus of even one child ten years old that is
in good health.

	Why should there be a question of What
shall 30,000 unmarried ladies do, if they
have got pluck and shrewdness enough and
will work together and pioneer, by the as-
sistance government may lend them, a vast
unsettled country. Of course it will take a
strong determination and undaunted cour-
age, but they will be so engrossed in their
work, and anxious to accomplish the pur-
pose designed, that there will be no time to
bemoan their unhappy fate.
	Having obtained the consent and protec-
tion of government, gather up the desti-
tute children and take them where they
may labor and live, where they may be
taught honesty and virtue, for is it not a
disgrace and a blemish upon the escutch-
eon of this nation that there are thousands
of helpless children in this boasted land of
liberty and freedom, with its unoccupied
millions of acres of fertile lands, crying to
starving mothers for bread?
	Gather up these little innocent ones as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and call them from degradation and
hunger to honest labor, education and hap-
piness, and of you then, will it not be said,
"Thy children shall make haste." Lift up
thine eyes and behold all these gather to-
gether and come unto thee; "Sing, O bar-
ren, thou that didst not bear, for more are
the children of the desolate than the chil-
dren of the married wife. Enlarge the
place of thy tent and stretch forth the cur-
tains of thine habitations, and make the
desolate places to be inhabited," by the vo-
taries of virtue, honor, peace and plenty,
who would otherwise, perhaps, continue in
vice, beggary or crime.
	There is a place, ladies, for your neglect-
ed talents; see if there is among you Wo-
man's Rights Advocates' statesmanship to
found a colony and return money to the
treasury by the results of your Political and
Economical ability.
	My hands are full of work (as for me I am
not surplus), and so are those of every Lat-
ter-day Saint that is living her religion, but
for the world at large no better plan than
this could be entered upon, granting that
Government would lend such patronage as
it is willing to give to fallen races.
	Share no sympathy with such benevolent
societies as give money to the poor; it en-
courages idleness and beggary, and is sim-
ply ruinous to a child's sense of morality
and honor. It implants in the minds of
children that the poor are to live by gift
and patronage from the rich. Give money
only to the sick and aged, to others the
privilege of honest labor and honest pay.
Cast out from any community waste and
extravagance, and keep God's command-
ments, observing "Six days shalt thou la-
bor," and so forth.
	These are, Mrs. Editor, the honest
thoughts and convictions of a
		COUNTRYWOMAN.
	York Station, Jan. 14, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

	GUNNISON, Feb. 4, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	According to the instructions through the
EXPONENT, given by counsel of President
B. Young, the Relief Society of this place
has commenced to gather grain. By the
help of the Lord and our brethren, we have
at this date got three hundred and forty-
four bushels of wheat in our bin, to which
we anticipate adding weekly, monthly and
yearly, as long as the Giver of all good per-
mits plenty to abound. The brethren as
well as the sisters are wide awake to the
importance of the Grain Movement.
	Our Relief Society contemplates building
a hall and granary, to the erection of which
many of our husbands, sons and brothers
have already kindly and encouragingly of-
fered their aid; and the feeling is prevalent
that the grain gathered, and yet to be gath-
ered, is sacred to the Lord's purposes, and
can only be disbursed when the Lord's own
time comes.
	We feel, that while our husbands are
toiling yearly to raise the "staff" and nec-
essaries of life, it is but consistent, that we
should be as frugal and industrious as possi-
ble; that, far from being encumbrances, we
may be a source of genuine comfort and
strength unto them.
	The EXPONENT is ever welcome, and
ever replete with what we want.
	HELENA MADSEN, Sec'y.

	SPANISH FORK, Feb. 12, 77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have watched and read with interest
the various reports of the Relief Societies,
concerning the storing of Grain; and it gives
me much pleasure to see and hear of the
success which has attended their efforts
while endeavoring to carry out the counsel
of our beloved president and father; the
success which has attended the sisters in
their laudable enterprise, is consequent, no
doubt upon their earnestness in the work,
and their faith in the Gospel and in the
counsel given; being fully assured from a
long experience, that in following and car-
rying out the counsels of the Servants of
God from time, to time, the people have
been exceedingly blessed, both spiritually
and temporally. When I read the counsel
conveyed to me through the pages of our
bright luminary the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
I did truly rejoice, and when it was read
and proposed that we begin to lay up
grain, it was acccepted and received with
joy and thankfulness by the sisters of our
Society, and we felt to thank the Lord for
the inspiration that prompted this counsel,
knowing assuredly that famine and pesti-
lence will desolate the land, and that as
Joseph was sold and banished from his
home and kindred to bring about the pur-
poses of God in saving his brethren and
kindred, so have the Latter-day Saints, even
the seed and royal blood of Joseph, been
banished from their homes, friends and in-
heritances to work out the divine purposes
of God, who maketh even the wrath of
men to praise Him; and as Joseph filled the
granaries of Egypt, so may we fill the
granaries of Utah; thereby proving that we
are noble daughters of a noble Sire.
	We had lumber on hand that we received
for quilts and socks, and have had a bin
made, in which we have over one hundred
bushels of wheat, and still keep adding, and
intend to lay up all we can. Our Society
is in a prosperous condition, and whether

[Column 2]

we meet to work, or to exhort each other,
the spirit of the Lord is with us, and the
spirit of love and unity abounds; and es-
pecially is this spirit manifest in the Teach-
ers; at our meetings they bring in good re-
ports, no contentions or backbiting; and as
a general thing all feel well and desire the
prosperity of the Society.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
am Yours,
	MARY FURGUSON.

	PORTERVILLE, MORGAN Co.,
		Jan. 17, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I take the privilege of conveying a few
lines to tell you how we are getting along
in this little branch. There is a good Re-
lief Society here and we are striving with
our amiable president and her counselors to
do what good we can in carrying out the
counsel given us and trying to be one with
the other societies throughout the Territory.
	In our last meeting the Grain Movement
came into consideration, and the sisters ex-
pressed their willingness to do all in their
power to secure and store away grain. We
have accepted a bin, kindly offered us by
Brother Sanford Porter, and sincerely hope
we will soon see it filled. Two of the sisters
visited around last week, and quite a num-
ber of bushels of grain were donated a foun-
dation to build upon.
	We also have a Young Ladies' Retrench-
ment Association. We are progressing
slowly, and feel that a little instruction
through your valuable paper will be kindly
accepted. We feel that our work in Re-
trenchment must be otherwise directed
than in dress, for our ball-room and Sunday
dresses are manufactured at home, that is,
generally speaking.
	Yours Truly,
	AMY A. PORTER. Sec'y


WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT!
			IS THE 
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
or color the skin, and requires no rubbing.  Recom-
mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
	Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Odgden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	A HOME PREPARATION.
ONLY CITY AGENCIES—llth and 15th Ward Co-op
Stores, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan’s, 7th Ward
Cooper’s, 17th Yard( and Woman’s Commission House.

	AGENTS WANTED.
No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
	IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOLLEN GOODS,
	SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
	FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
	BLANKETS, SHAWLS
	LADIES JACKETS,
	STOCKINGS, YARNS
	SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
	LATEST STYLES OF
	FANCY WORSTED TIES,
 Men’s Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger,
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore,
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
	Leather and other Trunks, Gents’ Fine
	Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
	TabloSalt, Band Boxes and
	Dixie Cotton.

DAVID JAMES,
	(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
	AGENT FOR
	RUMSEY;S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
	Staple and Fancy

DRY GOODS
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boy's Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
	and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
	Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find and the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old fashiones House.

	THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or, style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, all
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds 
on hand.
	Send your orders to                  C. R. SAVAGE,
                                            Salt Lake City, Utah.

Mrs. C. E. DYE
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashion of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
	17, East Temple street
	TEMPLE OF FASHION
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

	Z. C. M. I. 
	Wholesale and Retail Dealing
	in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
	FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
	AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 &79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1877.	NO. 20.


A DREAM.

Tis strange to night, that while the wintry blast,
Bends the bare boughs, till frost-bound forests moan
In very pain; while shadows huge and grim,
Are thrown grotesque from trunk and trembling limb.
That I alone the graveyard gates have passed;
And stand within, without a thought of fear,
Though solemn sounds, and night, and death are near.

I heed not that the moonlight fitful falls
Through hurrying clouds that cross the tranquil rays;
This dismal blast might be a summer breeze,
And summer laurels crown the leafless trees,
Not more than they, this weird, wild night appal;
I wrap my arms around one cold gray stone;
And like the dead, am quiet and alone.

What if I were like these, whose breathless sleep,
Is never broken as the years go by?
What if my spirit, tired of toil and pain,
Should flit away, and not return again
What have I done that any eye should weep?
To find me lying cold and quiet here,
With helpless hands upon this self-sought bier.

Would any, lifting up these helpless hands
Bless them for deeds of love and mercy done?
Would any kiss the silent lips and say,
That for the friendless they were wont to pray,
That they from ill some erring soul had won?
Would I be missed from out life's erring band
If I had entered in the shadow land?

Or have these hands forgot to cast around,
God's blessings, that we gather by the way;
Forgot to lift the burden from the weak?
And have these scornful lips been slow to speak
Words that would heal some keen and cruel wound?
Have I been wasting gracious, golden hours,
And planting thorns, instead of fruits and flowers.

This dismal wind would tell my doubting soul
That my life's measure has been void and vain;
But when I mark that quiet, steadfast ray,
That still through storm pursues its silent way,
Fresh courage comes, and I would ask again,
That I may live to clothe in warmth and light,
The purpose, born of doubt and pain to-night.

	MILLICENT.
Emile Wells


[Column 1]

"BY THEIR FRUITS YE SHALL
KNOW THEM."

	Having heard an article read which was
published in the Woman's Journal against
"Plural Marriage," and misrepresenting
things generally, I wish, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, to give my sisters
a word of caution, that they may not be de-
ceived by those that appear in sheep's cloth-
ing, (speaking scripturally,) but their object
is to ingratiate themselves into favor among
the families of the saints, for the purpose
of leading away the young, and those
that cannot discern the spirit they are of.
	The article referred to, was written by
a lady brought up among the Latter-day
Saints; and after she was more than thirty
years old, became of her own free will and
choice, the fourth wife of a man in "Plural
Marriage." She rejoiced in having found
her affinity, and remarked to her intimate
friends of the congeniality that existed be-
tween herself and husband. She was cer-
tainly old enough to choose for herself, and
was happy as a plural wife, as long as she
was "the petted lamb of the flock," (as she
styles herself,) but when her husband re-
membered he had other wives that requir-
ed his attention, she came to the conclu-
sion that Polygamy was not true, and took
up her pen to write against the principle;
still claiming a man for her husband who
had three wives, (and each of them child-

[Column 2]

ren) previous to her marriage, thereby ac-
knowledging herself a plural wife; how
inconsistent!
	She also makes the assertion that the
"Woman's Exponent" does not represent
the true sentiments of the "Women of
Utah," but is edited by Brigham Young
and Eliza R. Snow, a woman on the shady
side of seventy. Is not this an insult to
the Editors as well as to the women of Zion,
when we all know that it is edited and sup-
ported by women that are true Latter-day
saints both young and old.
	With regard to President Young as edit-
or, his high and exalted position as the
leader of so great a people, gives him plen-
ty to occupy his mind, time and attention
without editing papers. It is the same with
our beloved Sister Snow, who is held in the
highest esteem by both the men and wo-
men of this community. Although she is
seventy-three years of age, her hair is not
yet gray, and she can perform more labor,
mental and physical, than the lady who makes
her age an objection could do at forty. I am
writing matters of fact—truths as they ex-
ist, without the least prejudice or misrep-
resentation.
	I myself, heard the lady say "I cannot
give up the religion of my mother, taught
me from childhood;" yet she denies one
very important principle of that religion.
	If we believe baptism for the remission
of sins, the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost, and the ordi-
nances of the house of God, also the bap-
tism for the dead, the resurrection and 
eternal judgement, we must believe in Ce-
lestial Marriage for time and eternity. The
Lord revealed the principle of the ever-
lasting Gospel through the prophet Joseph
Smith for the salvation and exaltation of
the human family, if they will accept it
and live obedient to its requirements.
	We as Latter-day Saints cannot like the
Christain world, accept one portion of the
revealed word of God and reject the others;
neither can we serve God and Mammon,
but like Joshua of old we must choose whom
we will serve. Now is the time my sisters
to choose whether we will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, or if we will
serve Baal and go after the follies of the
world. Many spirits are in our midst, let
us try the spirits by the law and the testi-
mony, if they speak not according to this
there is no truth in them. "By their fruits
ye shall know them," was the teaching of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in His
day, so also can we know them in our day.
We can judge the spirits of people by
their conversation. Let us my sisters,
serve God and keep His commandments,
never associating with those who speak
against the Lord's anointed, or the princi-
ples of the Gospel, neither bid them wel-
come to our houses; if we do the spirit of
God will become grieved and our minds
will be darkened.
	This Anti-Polygamist is very anxious to
talk to our young people, and makes the
assertion if she could call a vote from the
young people, nine-tenths of them would
give their vote against Polygamy. I am
thankful to say in this she would be woful-
ly mistaken. I have no doubt she could

[Column 3]

find a number like herself, that have apos-
tatized from the truth, that would give her
their vote, but they would be but a small
minority.
	I fear I have made my article too long,
but I am so much interested in the welfare
of our young people, I would warn them
against the cunning craftiness of those that
are trying to deceive them and lead them
from the truth.
	AUNT MARY
S. L. City, March 5, 1877.


NOTES AND NEWS

	THE ASPECT of Vesuvius is now said to
be threatening and according to the most
reliable accounts there is a tendency to an
explosion, such as occur periodically. It is
authentically stated that up to the seven-
teenth century the number of eruptions
was less than four to each hundred years.
In the eighteenth century there were twen-
ty-three, and in this nineteenth century
twenty-six have already occurred. The
mountain is decidedly restless, there is a
subdued roar from the depths, which tell
of a surging sea of lava. 
	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" says
Sir George Campbell of England, recently
at a public banquet, in proposing the health
of the Queen, said he was not a Woman's
Rights man in the common acceptation, but
he wished the Salic law might be so
reversed in England that woman should
hereafter occupy the throne. The senti-
ment was received with applause, in which
two members of Parliament who were pres-
ent joined. 
	THERE IS a bright prospect now that the
statue designed to commemorate the first
Centennial anniversary of American inde-
pendence will be completed: the joint work
of the French and American people. The
statue will be the representation of the
Goddess of Liberty, and will be located at
Bedloe's Island, near New York harbor,
where it may be seen by all going out or
coming in from the great Metropolis of the
United States. The statue will be one hun-
dred feet in height, the pedestal eighty
feet. The goddess will wear a crown upon
her head from which will burst out beams
of light, illuminating at night the sky and 
all around. 
	FAMINE IN CHINA- England and Amer-
ica are called upon to aid in raising funds
to assist the Chinese in this their hour of
distress. "This fearful calamity has burst
out in the province of Shan Tung in the
northern part of China, but the greatest
distress is in the prefecture of Wu Ting Fu,
a densely populous part of the country,
where the crops have wholly failed." For
three months it is said the people there
have been living on the barks and roots of
trees. Multitudes are dying of starvation.
Many persons have taken their own lives,
and some parents have even buried their
children alive. Letters have been sent to
the merchants of Shanghai, Canton and
Hong Kong, soliciting help in the strong-
est terms. American Missionaries there
have suggested the most proper methods
of sending funds.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, March 3rd, was especially inter-
esting. The day was a very stormy one, but
all who were there seemed filled with that
good spirit, which cannot fail to make glad
the heart. There were very few minutes
from Junior Associations, and the time was
therefore devoted to speaking. The Presi-
dent, Mrs. M. I. Horne, gave some of her
experiences of many years since, and relat-
ed incidents of note in the life of Joseph
Smith, which had come under her direct
observation. Counselors Mrs. Z. D. Young,
Mrs. P. Woodruff, and B. W. Smith,
all spoke upon the duties and particular
mission of the sisters. Mrs. Woodruff
spoke of her anticipated visit to St. George,
and exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and
to ask the Lord continually for wisdom.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. L. A.
Wells and others spoke upon those subjects
which are immediately connected with the
practical work under the supervision of the
sisters, exhorted to caution and diligence,
and to beware of false spirits. President
Mrs. M. I. Horne sang a "song of Zion."
These meetings really seem to be spiritual
feasts for those who are seeking to unite
their efforts in assisting to bring about a
universal reform, and preparing for those
great events which are about to transpire.

		TOOELE CITY, Feb. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the pleasure of communicating a
few of my thoughts to you, thinking that
you are always pleased to hear from your
sisters of the Retrenchment Association.
I attended a meeting of the Young Ladies'
on the 23 inst. and was very much edified.
They have changed their meetings from
the day time to the evening, in conse-
quence of many of the girls attending
school, and meet once a week. The Y. M.
M. I. Association and the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association will meet to-
gether once a month, when the minutes of
both Associations of the past three meet-
ing will be held on the second of March
when we anticipate a good time. Our new
Social Hall has been so far completed so as
to admit of dancing in it; and we have had
quite a number of good dances and one
concert in it which have proved entirely
successful. We expect to have another
concert on the fifth of March, which will be
for the benefit of the hall. We cannot say
like some of your correspondents, that we
have had no round dancing since sisters E.
R. Snow, Zina D. Young, M. I. Horne and
E. Howard organized us a little over two
years ago; but I am happy to say that a few
of our sisters have kept the resolutions
sacred; not because they did not enjoy
these pleasures, but because they wished to
obey the counsel of those who are older and
wiser, that they might receive the blessing
which always follows obedience. We as a
Retrenchment Association have commenced
Storing up Grain and we hope to go on in
this good work and cast in our mites with
our sisters who are engaged in preparing
for a day of want. We have had a great
amount of good instructions from our breth-
ren and sisters of late, with regard to the
"signs of the times." I believe that we
fully appreciate the blessings and privileges
with which we are surrounded.
	Hoping that the daughters of Zion may
become more efficient helps in the kingdom
of God, is the humble desire of your sister
in the Gospel of peace.
							M. L. L.
				Corresponding Secretary.

			SLATERVILLE, Feb. 25, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place meet
regularly and a good spirit prevails; we en-
joy ourselves very much, and often receive
encouraging instruction from the brethren
who frequently visit our meetings. The
sisters take a lively interest in the perform-
ance of their duties knowing that much
good can be accomplished if their labors
are applied in the right direction, putting
their trust in God. I will not weary you
with a lengthy article at present, but per-
haps you may hear from me again in the
future. I will now conclude.
	Your sister and co-worker,
						MARY FIELD.
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., March 1, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our society is in a prosperous condition,
the members are interested in their duties
and feel determined to do all in their pow-
er to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. I would say in relation to the
Grain Question, we are not over stocked
with that commodity in this northern re-
gion, owing to occasional frosts before our
crops mature; although as a general thing
enough is raised, and some to spare, of
good sound wheat, to furnish bread for the
community. The society has a small
amount on hand, and intend adding to that
little as fast as our limited means will al-
low, and with the help of our Heavenly
Father we will exert ourselves and secure
all the grain we can to store for future emer-
gencies, knowing as we do so that it is the
wish of our beloved President, that wheat
should be stored up for a time of need.
Pres't. C. C. Rich. Bishop Wm. Budge, and
others of the brethren, have from time to
time given us good counsel with regard to
this matter, and if we put in practice the
counsel of good men, we know we are in
the line of our duty.
	Taking into consideration the standing
of the society financially, we have dona-
ted liberally to the Temple Fund, and wish
we had been able to have done more. The
past winter has been unusually mild for this
part of the country; not more than from
eight to ten inches of snow has fallen at
one time during the season. We are now
blessed with delightful weather, and from
all appearances can commence ploughing
and putting in crops much earlier than
heretofore. Peace prevails in this settle-
ment with fair prospects of a happy future.
Hoping that we may realize our anticipa-
tions, and ever be found diligent servants
in aiding and assisting to move forward
the Lord's great work, and at last be found
worthy of the reward promised to the faith-
ful.
	I am your sister etc.
				Alice M. Rich, Sec'y.
	ANOTHER LITERARY INCORRIGBILE.—
Gustave Planche, the distinguished French
reviewer, read so much that he had seldom
time to wash his hands. One day, howev-
er, a lady with whom he was engaged to
dine succeeded in persuading him to ac-
cept a ticket for a warm bath. He took the
bath, but presented himself at dinner with
his hands still unwashed. During his im-
mersion he had read incessantly, and, hold
ing the book in his hands, had not once
dipped them in the water.

	THE SISTER.—No household is complete
without a sister. She gives the finish to
the family. A sister's love, a sister's influ-
ence—what can be more hallowed?. A sis-
ter's watchful care—can anything be more
tender? A sister's kindness—does the
world show us anything purer? Who would
live without a sister? A sister is a sort of
guardian angel in the home-circle. Her
presence condemns vice. She is the quick-
ener of good resolutions, the sunshine in the
pathway of home. To every brother she
is light and life. Her heart is the treasure-
house of confidence. In her he finds a safe
adviser, a charitable, forgiving, tender,
though often severe friend. In her he
finds a ready companion. Her sympathy
is as open as day and as sweet as the fra-
grance of flowers. We pity the brother
who has no sister, no sister's love. We feel
sorry for the home which is not enlivened by
a sisters presence. A sisters office is a no-
ble and gentle one. It is hers to persuade
to virtue, to win to wisdom's ways; gently
to lead where duty calls; to guard the
citadel of home with the sleepless vig-
ilance of virtue; to gather graces and strew
flowers around the home-altar. To be a sis-
ter is to hold a sweet place in the heart of
home. To minister in a holy office.


H﻿OW TO CALCULATE INTEREST,.
AND WHAT IT WILL DO.

	The following rules are so simple and so
true according to all business usuages, that
every banker, broker, merchant or clerk
should post them up for reference. There
being no such thing as a fraction in it, there
is scarcely any liability to error or mistake.
By no other arithmetical process can the de-
sired information be obtained by so few fig-
uers.
	Six per cent.—Multiply any given num-
ber of dollars by the number of days of in-
terest desired, separate the right hand fig-
ure and divide by six, the result is the true
interest on such sdum for such number of
days at six per cent.
	Eight per cent—-Multiply any given
amount by the number of days upon which
it is desired to ascertain the interest, and
divide by forty-five and the result will be
the interest of such for the time required
at eight per cent.
 Ten per cent.—Multiply the same as
above, and divide by thirty-six, and the re-
sult will show the rate of interest at ten
per cent.
	What it will do.—If a mechanic or clerk
saves only 2 cents per day from the time
he is twenty-one until he is three score and
ten, the aggregate with interest will
amount to $2,900; and a daily saving of
27 1/2 cents reaches the important sum of
$29,00.
	A sixpence saved daily will provide a
fund of nearly $7,00—sufficient to purchase
a good farm. There are few employees
who cannot save daily, by abstaining from
the use of cigars tobacco, liquor etc., twice or
ten times the amount of the six cent piece.
Every person should provide for old age,
and the man in business who can lay away
a dollar a day will eventually find himself
possessed of over $100,000.


AN Irish lover remarks, "It's a very
great pleasure to be alone, especially when
yer swat heart is wid ye."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WASHINGTON.

Land of the West! though passing brief the record of 
	"thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page!
Let all the blasts of fame ring out--thine shall be loudest
		far;
Let others boast their satellites--thou hast the planet star.
Thou hast a name whose characters of light shall ne'er de-
		part; 
'Tis stamped upon the dullest brain, and warms the cold-
		est heart;
A war-cry fit for any land where freedom's to be won.
Land of the west! it stands alone--it is thy Washington!
Rome had its Ceasar, great and brave; but stain was on
		his wreath -
He lived the heartless conqueror and died the tyrant's
		death.
France had its eagle; but its wings, though lofty they
		might soar,
Were spread in false ambition's flight, and dipped in mur-
		der's gore.
Those Hero gods, whose mighty sway would fain have
		chained the waves--
Who flashed their blades with tiger zeal, to make a world
		of slaves -
Who, though their kindred barred the path, still fiercely
		waded on;
Oh! where shall be their "glory" by the side of Washing-
		ton?
He fought but not with love of strife; he struck but to de-
		fend;
And ere he turned a people's foe; he sought to be a friend.
He strove to keep his country's right by reason's gentle
		word,
And sighed when fell injustice threw the challenge sword
		to sword.
He stood the firm, the calm, the wise, the patriot and
		sage;
He showed no deep, avenging hate--no burst of despot
		rage.
He stood for liberty and truth, and dauntlessly led on,
Till shouts of victory gave forth the name of Washington.
No ear of triumph bore him through a city filled with
		grief.
No groaning captives at the wheels proclaimed him victor
		chief;
He broke the gyves of slavery with strong and high dis-
		dain;
And cast no sceptre from the links when he had crushed
		the chain.
	He saved his land, but did not lay his soldier trappings
		down
To change them for the regal vest, and don a kingly
		crown.
Fame was too earnest in her joy--too proud of such a son,
To let a robe and title mask a noble Washington.
England, my heart is truly thine - my loved, my native
earth!
The land that holds a mother's grave, and gave that
mother birth!
Oh, keenly sad would be the fate, that thrust me from thy
		shore,
And faltering my breath, that sighed, "Farewell forever
		more!"
But did I meet such adverse lot, I would not seek to dwell
Where olden heroes wrought the deeds for Homer's song
		to tell.
Away, thou gallant ship! I'd cry, and bear me swiftly on,
But bear me from my own fair land to that of Washing-
ton.
										ELIZA COOK.


REMEMBRANCES.

	       BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		"That heart methinks
Were of strange mould which kept no cherished print
Of earlier, happier times, when life was fresh,
And love and innocence made holiday." 
	If there is any theme that never grows
monotonous, and of which we can always
call forth fresh thoughts, and tender recol-
lections it is childhood.  It is a subject that
touches the strongest hearts, and never
fails to bring some pleasant remembrance
to the most cold and barren mind. "When
I was a child," says the happy mother, the
fond father, the aged grand-parents, the
good aunts and uncles; and how they love
to take the little children in their arms and
tell them of their own child-life.  Always
some, reminiscences of "earlier happier
times" that send the life-current rushing
swifter through the veins, or make the
heart-strings ring out the echoing music of
the pleasures of the past.
 It is good to keep a living spring from
the fountain of one's childhood open,
through all future life, for it refreshes the
wanderer upon life's journey; and in many
barren, desolate places, it revives the droop-
ing spirit, and reanimates the soul with the
hopes and aspirations that were erst an in-
centive to exertion, and like the gentle
soothing zephyrs from afar renew and in-
vigorate the tired energies, and act as an
impetus to force us to the accomplishment
of the resolves with which we armed our-
selves in the spring time of life.
 Many of the greatest men and women
date back to early impressions and influen-
ces the origin of the plans and well laid
schemes that have worked out for them
places of distinction in the ranks of wealth
or fame.
 Children can never be too happy, the hap-
pier you make them, the richer, and purer
will be the fountains of their thoughts, and
the growth of high and holy feelings de-
pend in a great measure upon the influen-
ces and surroundings of one's childhood-
I do not allude to wealth, or indulgences
that are improper, for the simplest enjoy-
ments are by far the sweetest to a child.
Broken dishes, and rag-dolls, and the cast-
off and worn-out finery of grandmothers,
which abound in the garrets of old-fash-
ioned homes, made the children as happy,
and more satisfied, than the grand wax-
dolls with real hair, and eyes that open
and shut, and the elegant baby tea and din-
ner sets, which mama is so afraid the child-
ren will spoil because they cost so much
money. In this age of splendor and mag-
nificence, in the homes of the rich, every-
thing is too costly for children, and their
lives are hampered and little childish im-
pulses pent up and circumscribed by the
rules of fashionable life. "Don't make a
play house of mother's room," how often
have I heard this; how much nicer child-
ren think it is to play in mother's room
than almost anywhere in the world, and
many a mother who feels too nervous and
tired to let her children play there, and 
tired to let her children play there, and 
sends them out to drink in of other influ-
ences, would in after years give all she pos-
sessed, to have kept under her own eye
those precious ones, now gone perhaps, or
imbued with ideas which sting to the very
soul that mother, whose nerves could not
endure the noise and meriment of her own
little ones. The mother's room is the dear-
est place on earth to the little child; let
them play there, let them come there to
pour out all their little griefs and sorrows;
and as they grow older, do not send them
into the parlor or some cold formal place to
tell their joys or sorrows; but in mother's
OWN room, with the freedom of childhood
give them the full confidence of unselfish
affection.
 No matter how homely or poor the "moth-
er's room" was, the heart will instinctively
turn back to it in manhood, or womanhood,
and with that feeling of unfeigned love and
tenderness which lives forever, which is
immortal within the soul, imprinted in-
deliby in memory. In the long, weary
journey of a changeful life, there are times
and places, hours of such stolid darkness
that one has scarcely courage to look for-
ward, but it is always possible to look back
and to recall some pleasureable emotions
that bring into the heart the sunshine of 
the past, and make one feel that down in
the depths of the soul there lives a green
and precious memory of some loved or 
cherished thing which time can never
dim, or trouble destroy.
"Let the dead past bury its dead" is a
poetical phrase, and one which has become
proverbial, but there is also a "living past"
which we cannot annul, and of which a
record has been kept, and the entries made
there are in imperishable characters. That
which is good and true should live forever,
should bloom perpetually.
 No doubt locked away in the annals of
the past, are the keys which must unlock
the portals of the future, and from the ashes
of buried remembrances, of good deeds
and noble acts, there will eventually arise an
incense which will shed its fragrance
through all the eternal future. Thus will
the "living past" be all powerful to ensure
an entrance through the "golden gate" into
the Paradise of happiness. "Except ye be
as little children" were the words of our
blessed Savior; then is it not meet to pre-
serve some of the simplicity and guileless-
ness of childhood, keeping fresh and pure
the fountains of truth and recalling occa-
sionally to our remembrance the innocent
trust and implicit faith of the days "Lang
Syne?"
	S.L. City, March, 9, 1877.


CORRESPONDENCE. 

MORGAN, MORGAN Co. Feb. 22, '77
EDITOR EXPONENT
	Thinking a few items in relation to this
little settlement might be interesting to
some of your many readers; and feeling a
desire to contribute for the benefit of my
fellow beings, I ask a little space in the col-
umns of your paper. The Exponent is al-
ways a welcome visitor with me; it is fraught
with such wise counsel that has a tendency
to elevate and not degrade the human
family.
	We have had but very little snow in this
vicinity, but a great deal of sickness, es-
pecially among the children.  Diptheria
has seemed to be the epidemic; this winter
nearly every family have had more or less
of it and quite a number have died from its
effects.  For the benefit of your readers I
will give a remedy which has proved ef-
fectual whenever it has been persevered in,
especially when not accompanied by any
other disease.  On the first symptoms,
which is pains in the head and sore throat,
give a warm bath, administering cayenne
pepper in cream from one quarter to half
teaspoonful doses, every two or three hours
and apply to the throat a large poultice of
raw scraped potatoes, which should be
changed at least every half hour; admin-
ster no patent medicines, as cayenne in
such large doses generally operates suffi-
ciently on the bowels.  The cayenne when
mixed in cream can be administered to
very small children.
	The croup is another very fatal disease if
not taken in time, but if a mother will
keep on hand some common Scotch snuff,
and on the appearance of croup, saturate
well a piece of thin muslin and cover it
with plenty of the snuff and apply one
piece to the throat and another to the chest,
they need not lose their children by croup,
that is if it is done in time.
	Wishing the sisters success in every en-
terprise that tends to the salvation of our 
race, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
				HARRIET WELSH


UNMASKED: "I detest masquerades" said
a beautiful young lady to a gallant officer.
"No wonder, madam," he replied "since
you do so much execution unmasked."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT
LULA GREEN RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Editors
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah
SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH 15, 1877.


GENUINE WORK.
 There is an innate satisfaction to be found
in the performance of real labor, mental or
physical. There is a variety of work in this
busy world and there are many ways and
means by which success in these different de-
partments is achieved.  Duty must be one in-
centive in the great labor of life, especially
when persons are brought into circumstances
which place upon them responsibilities and ob-
ligations that are uncongenial and arduous,
perhaps positively distasteful.  To do this sort
of work well, is good discipline, for it must be
entered upon so ardently and be done so thor-
oughly to ensure success, that in all probabil-
ity the desire to accomplish it effectually will
lend a force to action, and the very ardor of
the pursuit will give vigor and inspiration.
Hope of recompense is not really the best so-
lace for arduous struggling and earnest endeav-
or.  It should not in any wise be looked upon
as the main object.  If any occupation is good
enough to warrant its being undertaken at all,
it should be dealt with in the very best manner
possible and with the best grace.  Take into
consideration all the possibilities of disappoint-
ments, and then determine if possible, by skill
and perseverance to withstand them or ward
them off, and to overcome every obstacle and
hindrance.  Bring all the powers of action to
bear, and put forth the best efforts for continued
exertion, and work steadily, diligently and
faithfully. Work, constant and earnest is the
best antidote for melancholy and many other
evils which beset mankind.  Moods and ineli-
nations are but poor lame guides.  Waiting for
Proivdence or for fate to mark out some plan
for future usefulness is not good policy.  Oc-
casionally, perhaps there are strange interpo-
sitions, but man is his own architect, usually,
and can carve out his own future to a greater
or less degree according to his capacity for gen-
uine usefulness, and his untiring diligence and
faithfulness.
 In the business of life there is an immense
amount of satisfaction just from conquering
difficulties; and another pleasure consists in
discharging real obligations.  "If your heart
is in your work" is an old adage, but to throw
your heart into any sort of work you may
have to do, any clear perceptible line of duty,
would help to make the labor pleasant and  en-
tered upon by men with reluctance through
unavoidable circumstances, or contingencies and
real triumph achieved by vigorous, steady ef-
forts making that reluctance respond to the
will which resolves to succeed.
 Work is the universal mission of all, the
Savior himself inculcated this principle in all
His teachings; and employment for old and


young is a safeguard against many evils and
temptations.
	When the utmost has been done to attain a
certain point, or achieve a special success, or
solve some difficult problem, then do not go to
regretting and bemoaning if you fail, but be
sure the failure has come through something
forgotten or overlooked, something which had
not been pre-considered.  Learn to profit by
by such failures they may prove more useful
lessons in life than the most complete and sig-
nal success, for they may prepare and discip-
line the faculties and energies to accomplish
some more difficult and nobler work.
E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived in this
city Tuesday evening, March 13, in good health
and spirits.  Several of the brethren went to
Ogden to meet him.
IN THE obituary of Mrs. Martha A. Murray
who died in Wellsville, a mistake occurred in
stating the year of her marriage, it should
have read 1876, instead of 1877.
ANY PERSONS writing to us under assumed
signatures, must be sure and give the Editor
their real names otherwise their articles will
not be published.
JARED O. PRATT, son of Elder Orson Pratt
of this city, and another young man named
Mathew Ingram, were accidently killed by a 
snowslide which occurred in Big Cottonwood
canon on Sunday last.
 THE NEW Secretary for Utah, Hon. Levi P.
Luckey, with his family recently arrived in
this city.  We hope his position here may be
as propitious as his name would suggest.
WE HAVE reports from many diferent Re
lief Societies and Retrenchment Associations
which we have not space for now, but wil
publish as fast as practicable.  We have also
correspondence, poetry, essays, etc. which will
all come in place in due time.

 IN THE last number of the EXPONENT, in
the minutes handed us for publication from
the Eighth Ward, a mistake was made in call-
ing Royal B. Young the Bishop's counselor.
Elder R. B. Young is a home missionary but
not counselor to Bishop Sheets.

 MRS. S. K. GREENE writes from Springdale,
Kane County, under date of March 5th:  The
weather is warm and beautiful; the almond
and apricot trees are all in bloom, and nature's
aspects are pleasant and delightful.  The peo-
ple feel to praise God for His abundant mer-
cies, and to rejoice in His blessings so richly
bestowed upon them.
 TO-DAY, President John W. Young and
some of the Twelve Apostles, started on
their journey southward, expecting to preach
in some of the southern settlements upon the
route to St. George, and to arrive at that city
in time to be present at the General Confer-
ence and Dedication of the Temple, which
will take place on the 6th of April,
 MISS E. R. SNOW and Mrs. Zina D. Young
paid a visit to Ogden on Tuesday, March 13th,
to be present at the annual meeting of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association. The
assembly was a very large one and the spirit
of God seemed especially manifested on the
occasion. The members seem earnest in their
desire for progression and advancement in all
things and on all subjects which pertain to the
building up of the kingdom of God.  They are
exerting a powerful influence in the cause of
reform. They will probably favor us with a
full report of their proceedings at their meet-
ing, for publication.
 THE PRESIDENTIAL question has been at
last settled and if not altogether satisfactorily,
yet the commotion and excitement  the sub-
ject seems to have subsided for a time, and
toned down to a sort of quietude.  It remains
for the future to determine what will be the re-
sult of the decision of the election.  At any
rate there is a lull, and the people have been
answered in their cry, "Let us have peace."
The Scriptures say "they shall cry peace,
peace, when there is no peace."  The country
is looking forward for a policy so settled and
equitable that its results will bring prosperity.
The people are asking for their burdens to be
lightened, currency restored, and so on, but
even the man on whom rests the heaviest re-
sponsibilities cannot do impossiblities, nor
succeed in effecting any public reform unless
he is properly sustained by those who are his 
co-workers.
 MADAME LE VERT who died recently and of
whose death we were apprised through the
"Deseret News" of last evening, was one of
those genial, pleasant, amiable women, whom
to see is to love.  Her Souvenirs of Travel is 
one of the best descriptions of country and
society on the continent we have ever read.
She was a woman well known in what the
world terms the best society.  Although she
was advanced in years at the time of her short
sojourn in Salt Lake City, yet she was charm-
ing in appearance, manners and conversation.
She was, during one period of her life, consid-
ered the most popular woman in the United
States. She was much impressed by the exer-
tions being made here by the Women of Utah
to become self-sustaining, although she was
not one of the advocates of woman's rights
among the circle in which she moved.
THE YOUNG ladies of the Twentieth Ward
Retrenchment Association had a social gath-
ering in the ward school-house on Tuesday
evening Feb. 27th. In the course of the even-
ing the president of the Association, Mrs.
Sarah Howard, became the recipient of a very
unexpected presentation.  It was her birth-
day and the secretary read an address written
for the occasion, expressing the feelings of the
members of the association, and begging her
acceptance of a birthday gift, as a small token
of their esteem and appreciation of her efforts
in their behalf.  One of the young ladies then
presented the gift  a very neat ladies work box.
So perfect was the surprise to Mrs. Howard
that she was very much impressed with such
a manifestation of affection from the young
ladies.  The evening passed off pleasantly and
was one long to be remembered, especially by
the president who has won the love and confi-
dence of her young friends and associates.
May she live many years to instruct them in
the principles of the Gospel, and that they may
ever appreciate her kind teaching and worthy
example is our earnest wish.
 SERICULTURE.--The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met in the Fireman's Hall on the 7th
inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that the instructions on
silk raising were ready for the press and would
be printed by the time of holding our next
meeting.  She advised the members to plant
out trees and cuttings, and to use their influ-
ence to have others do so; expected to have all
the society silk reeled by the time of next
meeting.
 Very interesting remarks were also made by
Sisters Horne and Barney and others present.
Mr. P. A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-


terested in what had been said, and felt en-
couraged in what had already been done,
which was proof that all we needed was for
the people to take hold of this enterprize to
make it a success: to plant out trees and raise
the cocoons, and they could be worked right
here, and thus be giving employment to a
great many people. As soon as his trees could
be removed he would advertise in the papers.
He wished those who wanted eggs to let him
know as soon as possible. 
	Mr. P. A. Schettler and Mr. A. C. Pyper
were appointed a committee to see to the pub-
lication of the pamphlet on silk culture.
	Motioned that we change our meetings from
Wednesday until the first Friday in the month.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
April at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		157


A PARAGRAPH FROM THE HIS-
			TORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

		NAUVOO, ILL., Thursday, March 24, 1842.
	I attended, by request, the Relief Society 
whose object is the relief of the poor, the des-
titute, the widow and the orphan, and for the
exercise of all benevolent purposes. Mrs. Em-
ma Smith has taked the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland are her counselors; Miss Elvira
Cole, is treasurer, and our well-known and tal-
ented poetes Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. 
There was a very numerous attendance at the 
organization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies;
and we are well assured from a knowledge of
those pure principles of benevolence that flow
spontaneously from their humane and philan-
thropic bosoms, that with the resources they
will have at command, they will pour in oil and 
wine to the wounded heart of the distressed;
they will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow's heart to rejoice. Our la-
dies have always been signalized for their acts 
of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel
usage they have received from the barbarians
of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their ex-
tending the hand of charity in a conspicuous
manner; yet in the midst of their persecutions,
when the bread has been torn from their help-
less offspring but their cruel oppressors, they 
have always been ready to open their doors to  
the weary traveler, to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their robbed
and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with 
the more needy and destitute; and now that 
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess fa-
cilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed,
we feel convinced that with their concentrated
efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of
the stranger and the fatherless will be amelior-
ated. We had the privilege of being present 
at their organization and were much pleased 
with their "modus operandi," and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly parlia-
mentary in their procedings.


MINERSVILLE, BEAVER, Co.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our President, Polly Ann Ze-
briskie, I address you, to inform you that we
are still trying to honor our calling as a branch
of the Relief Society, and to do all in our pow-
er to assist the needy. We are one with our
sisters in Utah to follow out the counsel of our
honored President Brigham Young, with re-


gard to storing up grain. Our Bishop, James
McKnight, gave us the privilege of using part
of the Tithing-house, where we have had a bin
made, and commenced storing up grain
against a time of need. On the 14 of January
the sisters met and had a sewing bee and pic-
nic. The supper was tastefully arranged and
the bounties of nature supplied in abundance.
We held our annual meeting and transacted
business on Feb. 22; the books showed our so-
ciety to be in a prosperous condition. Our
Bishop attended the meeting, and gave us 
much valuable instruction pertaining to our
duties.
				P. A. ZEBRISKIE, Pres't.
						S. ROBERTS, Sec'y.


TO THE YOUNG LADIES SOCIETY.

	Sisters, I have not been as punctual in at-
tending meeting lately, as I would have
liked, circumstances having prevented me;
but my thoughts are ever with this society;
in my secret prayers I ask God to bless us,
to inspire us with a sense of our religion,
that we may interest ourselves in the pro-
gress of this glorious work. How many of
us realize the importance of studying our
religion, of seeking a knowledge for our-
selves that this is the everlasting gospel and
only true gospel on the face of the earth.
Not many, I’m afraid. Should we know
this? certainly we shonld; would you be-
lieve anything without knowing for your-
self whether it were true or not? One
might say why do you have to know it, let
me ask you what is the use of believing in
God who created all things, and what is the
use of asking him for his blessings if we
do not believe in him. But I take it for
granted that we all believe in a God, that
none of us are skeptical; and believing in
God, we are willing to obey him to the best
of our knowledge, even if that knowledge
be limited. Then my sisters it behooves us
to seek a knowledge for ourselves concern-
ing God’s will so that we can perform it to
his satisfaction; how are we going to know
his will otherwise; he has said, “If any
man lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth
not." He has also said "Ask and it shall
be given unto you, seek and ye shall find."
His word is unchangeable. Let us ask him
to show us things that we are greatly in
need of to-day, for did we all know for our-
selves that Mormonism, as it is termed, was
true, we would, I am certain, do more for
its progression than we have done hereto-
fore.
	We are called Daughters of Zion, are we
worthy the name? I think we have done
but little to be worthy so honorable a title.
I for one feel ashamed to think that l have
wasted the best of my days in idleness,
but now feel to thank God that I have
awakened to a sense of my duty. God never
placed any of us on the earth to grovel
along from day to day and never rise above
the level, and some hardly ever get that
far, all through their own carelessness. It
is our privilege to become wise and honor-
able women, and we will be, provided we
set our mark high, and work with a will to
attain it. Some might laugh at the idea,
thinking that we have great men enough
without having great women, but this is
not so, for who with any principle about
them whatever, will despise a noble-mind-
ed, good principled woman, and these
things constitute greatness; she will be a
blessing to any man who may chance to get
her.

[Column 2]
	We as girls do not wish to get ahead of
the boys, not at all, we only wish to be able
to help them that's all, do you think they
will dislike us for this? they would not be
looking at their own interest if they did.
Now my young sisters this society is called
the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society,
do we fully understand the meaning of the
word Retrenchment, I think we do, but we
do not know altogether what to retrench
from; some people think it is from dress,
they are right, that is one theme, a small
one, but one of interest. We are told it is
from our ignorance and all evil ways, but
some people have got the idea that it is
dress and dress alone, and you will often
hear it said that the society is of no good
for the girls dress worse now than they ev-
er did; but this is not so for there is no girl
who attends these meetings regularly but
who tries to do better both as regards her
dress and all things that pertain to living a
good life. There are some few in Manti
who are a little extravagant in dress, are
they members of the Society? if they are
you very seldom find them at meeting, is
this the case with us? no we come here
feeling happy, feeling that we learn some-
thing, and that henceforth we will do all
the good we can and all in our power for
the advancement of the kingdom of God
and for our own improvement.
	These are my resolutions and I feel that
the other sisters feel the same, and that we
may continue to meet together and gain
knowledge, wisdom, and understanding,
and work with a will, so that in the end we
will be worthy to be called the Daughters
of Zion is my prayer.
							M. T.
	Manti, Feb. 19, 1877.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

						March 3, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	In accordance with your wishes I write
to inform you that the Relief Society of
this place have responded to the call in re-
lation to storing grain. A good spirit pre-
vails among the sisters, and all feel willing
to carry out the counsel of President Youug,
in regard to that subject. Our Bishop has
kindly offered us a place in the Tithing
Office to carefully store away our grain,
which we have gladly accepted. The sis-
ters have liberally given according to their
circumstances; and we have at present,
nearly one hundred bushels of wheat on
hand. The brethren here have a good
United Order farm, and the Bishop has
promised to give the Relief Socifety an in-
terest in it; so we hope that by the help of
our brethren, we will be able to add more
to our stock from year to year. Our be-
loved President, Mrs. E. A. Willie is ear-
nest in exhorting the sisters to become unit-
ed, and to live their religion in the truest
sense and spirit. Your excellent paper is
read with great interest, and the best wish-
es are expressed for the advancement of
every good work for we know that those
who keep the commandments of God will
receive His blessings, and those who do
not will have His judgments upon them.
	May God bless you and all who are striv-
ing to do right, is the prayer of your sister
in the Gospel.
						J. A. HUGHES.
	Mendon, Cache Co., Utah.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	A feeling of interest and a desire to do
my part with the rest of my sisters prompts
me to write a few of my feelings. Often
when meditating I have asked myself this
question, what can I do to forward the
work of God? For I have no greater desire
than to do my part and be classed with the
noble handmaids of the Almighty. When
swallowed up in the work and cares of my
household I found but little time or oppor-
tunity to go out, except on the Sabbath to
meeting, where I would hear that which
comforted and stimulated me to endure all
trials, and to perform my duties as a wife
and mother. When I was weary and my
spirits would begin to lag, I was cheered
with the thought that the Sabbath day was
drawing near, and I could again have the
privilege of listening to the servants of God,
where I knew that I would be again re-
newed to press forward.
	I have sometimes felt a little conscience-
stricken when I thought that perhaps I could
have done more, but there is no one but
mothers who know or can ever imagine the
mother's complete responsibilities; and we
are not judges of each other. A mother's
work is never done as long as her strength
holds out. When she can go no longer
Providence provides some other way; at
least, this has been my experience. It has
been my study for years to try to the best
of my ability and all the knowledge I could
gain, to train up my children in the right
way, and arrive at the best method to lead
and manage each one according to their dif-
ferent dispositions, and also how to make
the best use of what little talent God has
given me to improve upon. Since my
health has been delicate I have been going
through a pretty hard school, but I feel to
acknowledge the hand of God in all my
trials, for I can now look back and see that
I have learned a great many useful lessons;
and I thank the Lord for them as much or
more than I would had my path been more
easy and my burdens been more light, for I
have learned the worthlessness of all things
that are not controlled by the Holy Spirit.
My prayers has been continually that God
would lead me to do His will, and I feel an
inward admonition that I am now doing
just what he wants me to do to prepare my-
self, as well as those he has put under my
charge for a work which will in the future
do much more towards rolling on His cause
than I could do anywhere else. I have
never felt that I should make any great
noise in the world. The Lord intended each
one to fill a certain niche, and I know of
none at present that I could fill outside of
my own family circle. Here I find enough
to do in trying to lead and influence those
around me to live their religion, as well as
other duties which I am required to per-
form, and if I can enjoy the fruits of my
labor my joy will be very great. A little
work done well is much more worthy of
praise than a great deal badly done, and I
believe that when the Lord has something
more for me to do that it will be made
known to me, because I stand ready and
willing to do anything that he wills for me
to do. I am seeking to remove prejudice
by writing letters, and sending our papers
to my friends and kindred in the East and
West, and warning them of the terrible ca-
lamities which will overtake them like a
thief in the night, telling them that all who
will not take up sword against their neigh-
bors must needs flee to Zion for safety.
	Last winter after being sometime sick and
low-spirited, I was administered to by Sis-

[Column 2]
ters E. R. Snow and M. T. Smoot; my
health and spirits revived. I commenced
writing sketches of my own history, and I
was blessed in doing it; I was interested,
and never while occupied in that way was I
lonesome; I forgot the things around me,
so far as the world was concerned, I was
carried back, was living my life over again,
as it were, some portions of which never
failed to bring tears to my eyes, and other
scenes brought sweetest joy. This winter
I have been requested to furnish my moth-
er's life, or experience in this church, for
the Woman's Book. I have labored care-
fully and diligently in trying to remember
and gather up the most interesting items.
	I wish my sisters to know I am wide
awake in the spirit of the Gospel, and my
spirits have not been as buoyant for years
past as they have within the few past
months.
	There is a very important work for moth-
ers to do—to watch and teach their children,
especially daughters, that they do not be-
come lifted up in their hearts above other
young sisters, which is too prevalent among
the daughters of Zion. I see so much of it
that I believe I should take it for my first
text if I was a public speaker; but I can at
least preach from it at home, as I have ever
done, and I would feel very sorry if one of
my daughters should forget herself so far
as to feel above speaking or associating with
any that she had ever known who were re-
spectable. One Latter-day Saint is just as
good as another. It is the poor and the
meek who have the promise, and I wish to
be with those who will be considered worthy
when the Lord makes up his jewels, and I
also wish to keep those that the Lord has
placed under my charge in remembrance of
these things, and of their own unworthi-
ness, instead of talking about others who
may be much better than themselves, al-
though SOCIETY has condemned them.
	The best are not yet perfect, "but charity
covereth a multitude of sins." Whosoever
exalteth himself shall be abased; and he
that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Pride generally exposes a person to many
effronts, and humility is the surest method
of gaining respect, and how true it is,
that we must become as little children, be-
fore we can enter into our Father's king-
dom, and were he not more merciful than
we, to forgive, what hope could we have of
salvation? It is the privilege of each one
to live in a way that they can know and
understand the will of God concerning
themselves. I find that my path is becom-
ing smoother since I learned to acknowledge
His hand in all things, even in the most
common occurrences of life. I know that
if I cannot at first see and comprehend the
meaning that if I wait a little all will turn
out much more satisfactory to myself than
it could if I had planned it. If all could
come to this conclusion they would find out
the truth of Jesus' words when he said,
"My yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	That we may all become of one heart and
one mind is the prayer of your sister,
					H. M. WHITNEY


FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY.

	READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES'
			MUTUAL IM. ASS'N. 

	The three cardinal virtues. The Scrip-
tures tell us that without faith it is impos-
sible to please God. Hope is the key that
unlocks the door of happiness. While
Charity, pale meek-eyed Charity, is the
greatest of the three.


In this short essay, I shall dwell but
briefly on either of these virtues. I think
I shall endeavor to relate to you an allegory,
as near as I can, in the ancient eastern
style.
	Faith Hope, and Charity, were one day
wending their way to earth, to visit its in-
habitants when their conversation turned
on their respective value to man. "I" said
Hope. "you will both cheerfully acknowl-
edge, am of the most consequence to re-
generate man. I cheer his fallen spirits and
raise his drooping head, whisper to him of
joys to come, and teach him to bear the
present in the glad anticipation of the fu-
ture."
	When Hope had ceased speaking, Faith
gently said, "you are indeed necessary to
the happiness of man. But am I not more
necessary to him? By my aid, he can dis-
cern the future, can work miracles, and
greatest of all, can see and converse with
his Maker face to face."
	"My sisters" said Charity "your words
are full of truth. But Hope, you with
your bright eyes, gleesome voice, and rosy
lips; and Faith you too, with your mighty
power, and quiet, peaceful smile, I envy
you not. We are all blessings, but should
man possess you both, and lack my gifts,
he cannot dwell in the presence of God.
	The angel who accompanied them, sped
back to heaven with the intelligence that
Charity would win the greatest crown.
	My story will serve to illustrate my
meaning. If I were to multiply words, I
could not convey to your minds a clearer
idea of the value of these separate attri-
butes. One might perhaps live with a very
small degree of Hope and Faith, but if en-
dowed with a large portion of Charity, he
is indeed blessed. His hope of happiness
in this life may be dead, his faith but suffi-
cient to enable him to rely on God, still if
he possesses Charity, he shall know the ex-
quisite pleasure of giving, be it much or
little; he will love all God's creature's; he
will receive kindness for he will be kind
to his fellow-men; he will never have an
enemy among those who love what is good,
for he will be the friend of all such. He
will relieve the widowed, cherish the or-
phaned, and succor the oppressed and
needy when in his power to do so. Peace
shall dwell in his habitation, and content-
ment reign in his heart.
							S. Y. D.
	St. George, Feb. 16, '77.


MY DEFENCE OF "MY PURPOSE."

	My dear sisters I think you wrong me,
you say that "my purpose" is a selfish one,
that my interest extends no further than
my fireside, that in my blind selfishness for
my own, I forget the world wide work so
much needed to be done, that I ignore all
the many avenues of usefulness opening
for woman for the elevation of herself, and
am content to settle down in the home cir-
cle as if in that was constituted the height
of woman's ambition and the extent of her
sphere.
	I do not suppose that my idea of ambi-
tion or of my particular sphere would sat-
isfy every one, nor do I doubt but there are
very many ways of doing good within the
reach of all even if they do not engage in
any world-wide efforts for the common and
universal good. Certain it is that if our
practice does not accord with our theory, our
example and influence in our home circle
will not be very beneficial. Suppose I
should spend my time in passing around
from house to house consoling, exhorting


and administering to the wants of others,
while my own home is untidy and disor-
derly, things allowed to go to waste for
want of care, my children running around
neglected, growing wilder and more wick-
ed every day, really, sisters I cannot see
that this is the way for me to accomplish
the most good. It seems to me like passing
by the substance to grasp the shadow. Pa-
tiently the coral insects add atom after atom,
and mite after mite to the structure they
are rearing, until after perhaps thousands
of years it appears above the surface of the
great waters, affording homes and susten-
ance for millions of animal nature. So will
every true woman add her mite to the com-
mon stock for the common good; no matter
how humble her sphere or how small her
anticipations of success; not by overlooking
the ways and means at her feet, nor by
stepping over opportunities within her
reach, of far more certain fruition of good
results, to grasp after something away off,
something apparently more grand and no-
ble, but by doing with her might what her
hands finds to do, letting her light so shine
before men that they may glorify our Fath-
er who is in heaven." All honor to those
noble women who are willing to brave the
scorn of those who would deprive woman
of the social standing to which she has a
God given right, who toil and labor to raise
their sisters to their proper level. And
even in this respect the humblest mother
can throw in her mite, she can teach her
little boy that his sister is by no means his
inferior, that she is entitled to his highest
regard and equal in every respect to him-
self. Let every mother see to it as far as
she has influence, that her daughters have
at least equal chance of education with her
boys. My own opinion is that they ought
to have better, for are they not to be the
future Mothers in Zion? and if as is said
mothers are mostly responsible for the
moulding and shaping of the infant mind,
should not our daughters be educated men-
tally and physically with this in view?
	After all, may be my purpose is a selfish
one, for is it not for our own individual sal-
vation that we are prompted to do the best
we can? and it is impossible for us to gain
salvation for any others unless they them-
selves are willing to become acceptable with
God. At any rate I hope to labor on and
patiently await the time, when with the
Lord's blessing, I can send into the field
some more effectual workers than myself. It
is my constant care and prayer that they
may prove so.
				ESTHER A. BENNION.
	Vernon, Feb. 26, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

BREAKING THE SABBATH DAY.

	Children you may deceive your parents,
but you cannot deceive God or your own
conscience. "Honor thy father and moth-
that thy days may be long in the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee;" this is one
of the first commandments, it was written
by God's own finger on a table of stone, on
Mount Sinai; look again at the first word.
Honor your father and mother by obeying
them cheerfully, when in their sight, and
by your good conduct when out of their
sight. Let the children of pious parents
keep it in mind that they are the represen-
tatives of their parents; their good, moral
character shows that they have been care-
fully disciplined; yet it is too true that some
children however well trained, feel more
ashamed to be seen praying than to be
heard cursing and lying in the presence of
the wicked. Under the law of Moses; the

[Column 2]

disobedient child was to be stoned to death,
in the presence of the whole congregation;
there was no escape from this penalty un-
der the Jewish laws. The Bible in many
places speak expressly against disobedient
children. Read that awful declaration in
Proverbs, 30, 17, "The eye that mocketh at
his father, and despiseth to obey his moth-
er, the ravens of the valley shall pluck it
out, and the young eagles shall eat it." If
you are poor, resolve to be honest and up-
right, you may be rich in the purity of your
character, as the wise man has said, "a good
name is better than precious ointment."
"Go not in the ways of the transgressor,"
if you are seen in such company you will
have to bear part of the disgrace that fol-
lows bad deeds, and in this way lose the
the confidence of all good people. Select
your companions with great care; this is a
question of such importance that we should
not pass it over with a glance; says one,
"why should I be so particular about the
company I keep?" We should be particu-
lar in this matter, for if we form an ac-
quaintance with a disobedient person, we
are liable to partake of the same spirit.
	When I see some of our young people
running wild, breaking the Sabbath day,
taking the name of the Lord in vain, giv-
ing no heed to counsel from parents or
friends; what a stigma on their parents and
to society; what a disgrace to a young man
when placed in circumstances to earn a
name and honorable position in life, to
waste his time and talents disobeying the
laws of God by smoking, drinking and in
breaking the Sabbath. What young lady
of principle would encourage his example
by being in his company. The thought
arises what a vast amount of good might
be done by our young ladies if one and all
would be in earnest and use their influence
by improving in all things, and not only re-
trench, but by their conduct set the exam-
ple. Presidents and Counselors of the As-
sociations, you are the ones to set the exam-
ple for the young to pattern after in dress
and everything that pertains to these In-
situations.
	It is very pleasing to see the young ladies
of this place brave enough to manifest a
spirit of reform by taking a vote not to as-
sociate or even go forth in the dance with
those young men that use spirituous liguors.
Be determined my young sisters to live to
the Lord, thus setting an example before
the young men worthy of imitation; let
them understand that you mean what you
say. I can think of nothing so pure and
angelic as a young woman clothed with the
spirit of God; kind and affectionate to her
parents, and keeping the Sabbath day sac-
red.
	M. J. C.
Bountiful, Davis Co., Feb. 27, '77.


ITEMS ABOUT STORING GRAIN.

			HUNTSVILLE, March 3, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	By request of our President, Mrs. Mary
J. Hammond, I send a written report of
the Relief Society of Huntsville for publi-
cation. The Society is in a prosperous con-
dition. We meet twice a month and are
united and ever ready an[-] willing to re-
spond to every call made by our president
who take great interest in striving to
bring every good and useful principle be-
fore her sisters.
	The Society numbers about one hundred
and fifty members. There are but very few


poor in our midst and they are well provid-
ed for. The Society has funds on hand
amounting to two hundred and eighty-five
dollars. We have bought a few head of
sheep and are striving to become self-sus-
taining. We have shares in the Co-opera-
tive Store amounting to one hundred and
forty dollars, and shares in the Relief So-
ciety Store in Ogden City, amounting to
thirty-eight dollars. We have a commit-
tee appointed to buy wheat and store it, to
be used in the future for the benefit of the
saints according to the counsel which may
be given through the prophet of God upon
the earth. We have a very interesting
Sunday School under the direction of El-
der Charles Wright; both old and young
seem to take great interest in attending
regularly, and in gaining useful knowledge
pertaining to our religion. The EXPONENT
is very much appreciated by those who
have subscribed for it; we are only sorry
that there are not more numbers of this
valuable paper taken in our midst.
	Praying the Lord to bless the EXPONENT,
and all who are interested in it, and hoping
you will excuse this my first attempt, I re-
main your sister, 
	MARY B. HALL,
		Sec'y


FLOWERS.

	Home is the head of the river, and an
influence, whether blessed or pernicious,
extended there will effect all its after course.
Hence the noble Frenchwoman was right,
when, in reply to the monarch's question,
"What is needed to secure the prosperity
of France?" she said, "Good mothers."
	A TRUE LADY.—Beauty and style are
not the purest passports to respectability—
some of the noblest specimens of woman-
hood the world has ever seen have present-
ed the plainest and most unprepossessing
appearance. A woman's worth is to be es-
timated by her real goodness of heart aud
the purity and sweetness of her character;
and such a woman; with a kindly disposi-
tion and a well-balanced mind and temper,
is lovely and attractive. Be her face ever
so plain and her form ever so homely, she
makes the best of wives and the truest of
mothers. She has a higher purpose in life
than to flaunt her finery in the streets, or
to gratify her inordinate vanity by attract-
ing flattery and praise from a society whose
compliments are as hollow as they are in-
sinc[-]re.


LITTLE COURTESIES.—The art of "living
together" pleasantly is promoted greatly by
the habitual exchanges of the little courtes-
ies of this life; they are never unimport-
ant, never unacceptable. Shall brothers
and sisters be less careful of the feelings of
one another than those of strangers?
Should there be, between a husband and
wife, less effort at gentleness of deport-
ment and courtesy of expression than is ex-
tended to outsiders who have no special
claims, and may never be seen again?
Shame upon any member of any family
who neglects those affections and those
suavities of deportment toward the mem-
bers of the household, even to the lowest
servant, which cannot fail to elevate the
giver, and to draw from the receiver those
spontaneous reciprocities which makes fam-
ily associations so pleasant.—The Gem.


MISS EMMA ABBOTT has made her "de-
but" in New York City, in opera, and it is
said by newspaper reporters, gives promise
of fair success.


160		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Carbolic Acid.—In a recent number of the
"Lancet," Dr. Alexander Watson recorded several
cases of small pox and scarlet fever which by the ex-
ternal application of carbolic acid met with marked
success. In the case of one patient with small-
pox, whom he saw at the period when papulae ap-
peared, he ordered an enema, and then had the
patient (a girl of eleven years) sponged all over
with carbolic acid soap suds. On the next day a
severe attack of confluent small pox was threatened,
but the child was sponged as she had previously
been, and then her whole body was painted with
carbolic acid glycerine of the British Pharmacopae.
Five grains of Dover's powder were then given to
allay irritability, and the little girl slept quietly
for several hours, when she was sponged again.
No vesicles formed, and the patient was convales-
cent in a few days. Carbolic acid was, in the
meantime, plentifully used about the room.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A small quantity of either
sulphate of iron, tannin, or chlorate of potash, put
dry upon the tongue, and allowed to dissolve
there, once in every hour, have all been found to
be most efficient remedies in the early stages of
diptheria. This terrible disease appears under
three varieties or forms. First, there is a fever,
severe pains in the head, bones and limbs, and a
very great prostration. There may be no soreness
of the throat, but on examining it, small white
specks will be noticed on the tonsils, but few or
none on the rest of the throat. These cases will
recover under any and every variety of treatment
in from four to six days. The great, but false,
reputation of many remedies and physicians is
based upon the necessarily favorable results of
these cases. Second: Large patches of false mem-
brane will be observed both on the tonsils and
back of the throat; but the glands of the neck do
not become swollen.
	The majority of these cases will also recover,
under very simple treatment, unless the disease
extends down to the windpipe, which it rarely
does. Third: True malignant diptheria, with
swelling of the glands of the neck and under the
jaw; profuse and often offensive exudations in the
mouth and throat; more or less discharge from the
nostrils. Chlorate of potash is a disinfectant as
well as a curative remedy; and if given pure and
dry upon the tongue every hour, night and day,
will rarely disappoint the practitioner. A small
dose every night may act as a preventtive reme-
dy. Sometimes tannin may be given more readily
than the chlorate of potash. The sulphate of
iron is rather more irritant, and must be given in
smaller quantities. The main points in the use of
these remedies are to give them dry upon the
tongue, and frequently and regularly both by night
and day.—Ex.


DR. Holland thinks the cure for gossip is 
culture. He says good-natured people talk 
about their neighbors only because they
have nothing else to talk about.


THE man who lives right and is right
has more power in his silence than another
has by his words. Character is like bells
which ring out sweet music, and which,
when touched accidentally, even, resound
with sweet music.


The mind grows through its ideas.
Thought is soul food, and greatness comes
of enlarged conceptions of truth. As the
barren field is profitless, so is the mind
which is barren of ideas. The one pro-
duces no bread for the world's eating; and
the other no thoughts for the world's think-
ing.


WOMAN'S RECORD.
	THE "Bosten Post" calls Miss Kate Field
a busy body indeed. At the same time she
is permanently engaged upon the staff of
the London Examiner, she is contributor to
the "Hornet, and is filling a theatrical en-
gagement in London, has recently written
a play for Herman Vezin, and a blank verse
poem which have been warmly praised.
	THE REV. Mrs. Maggie Van Cott has
been holding a series of revival meetings
in New York City, and the "Woman's
Journal" tells us that, notwithstanding the
fact that some think women have no right
to preach, she has made 1,200 converts the
past winter.
	GEORGE ELIOT is at work again on a
new novel. It is said she feels very much
disappointed that Middlemarch is consider-
ed better than "Daniel Deronda." She
herself regards this novel her master piece.
She produced her first original work 18
years ago, and the whole product of the
sale of her books is estimated at $165,000.


[Column 1]
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO ORTHREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S
		PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
	mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

		Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1877.		No. 21.


TO BEREAVED MOTHERS.

In Rama there was heard a voice of grief;
	Rachel bemoaned her sad and lonely lot;
Would not be comforted nor find relief,
	Her children slain, she wept that they were not.

A wailing voice is heard in Deseret,
	The babes are stricken and the mothers mourn;
Their hearts are pained, their cheeks and eyes are wet,
	For those who're not, which they have fondly borne.

Oh sisters! comfort ye! We've but to wait,
	Though for a season life seems reft of charms:
We know fair cherub forms at the bright gate,
	Will welcome us with loving, clinging arms.

We'll clasp them to our hearts to part no more,
	We'll find the same sweet lips and pure soft breath,
The same dear eyes God will in love restore,
	And in that Heavenly home there is no death.

We'll hear again their infant voices speak,
	In the glad silv’ry tones we loved so much,
And feel again on forehead, lip and cheek,
	Their kisses and their fingers' velvet touch.

How long oh Lord! how long! But hush poor heart!
	Thou would'st not question Him whose power sublime
Hath fashioned, formed and made thee what thou art!
	Thou must abide His will and wait His time.

And while you wait the noble lesson learn
	Of patience duly tried and perfect trust;
Though oft with hunger sore you wildly yearn,
	Remember still that God is wise and just.

Oh Gospel Light! most holy and serene!
	How shall they stand who know not thy fair truths!
How thy blest presence cheers death's solemn scene,
	How thy glad sounds the wounded spirit sooths!

How should we these strange trying tests endure,
	Had we no higher claim than words of men?
Did we not feel Our Father's promise sure,
	That we shall have our darlings back again.

Thank God we may confess His mighty hand
	In all the trials He directs us through,
Since He hath given us grace to understand
	His holy covenants, forever new!

Sublimest Faith! Most sacred gift of God!
	Shall they who know thee fail, or deem thee false?
Shall frail, weak woman sink beneath the rod,
	Which chastening, purifies, upholds, exalts?

What though we weep! God gave us tears to shed,
	When hearts o'er burdened burst from calm control;
The blessed Savior's heart was torn and bled,
	He wept and groaned in anguish of His soul.

In His dear name, for strength and grace we'll call,
	Nor deem the crosses we must bear too great:
The prize He offers is sufficient all—
	Oh comfort ye! my sisters—we can wait!

Let worldlings laugh our patient hopes to scorn,
	We'll not condemn; the Father judges best;
We own His power and while we truly mourn,
	Rejoice as truly in His promised rest.

Let me these humble, sacred tributes weave,
	O'er little ones so loved, so early gone!
It comforts mine, and other hearts that grieve,
	May gather courage as they struggle on.

	LULA.
Lula D. Richard


[Column 1]

WE WILL REPRESENT OURSELVES.

	In a letter published in the "Woman's
Journal," of Boston, the writer has made a
grievous mistake in representing the Mor-
mon ladies. She says "none but a few of
the ignorant sustain the doctrine of Plural
Marriage; the more intelligent class, and
especially the young ladies, would be glad
to see it abolished."
	As I have resided in S. L. City over twen-
ty years, and have been extensively ac-
quainted with all classes, I believe it is my
duty to correct such a mistake, when I see
it published to the world. I have conversed

[Column 2]

with a number of strangers, visiting the
city, who have expressed their surprise to
find so much intelligence among the women
who sustain this principle practically; the
writer of the letter to which I allude is in-
cluded among that number, and still retains
her husband's name, though so strongly
and widely proclaiming against the princi-
ple. These matrimonial alliances sanctioned
by the FIRST wife, prove that all parties
are involved in solving this wonderful
problem; which it would not take a Phila-
delphia lawyer more than six weeks to do,
provided theological evidence would be re-
ceived as testimony. And to those who
are infidel to the evidence of inspired writ-
ers we would say, we have the physiologi-
cal proofs to sustain our theory, and the
laws of nature, which should govern the
regeneration of man. And there are thou-
sands of noble, intelligent women in Utah,
who have received for themselves a knowl-
edge of the truth of the principles revealed
by Joseph Smith the martyred Prophet,
and they fear not to meet the opposition of
a frowning world, realizing that God is the
Author of revealed religion, and it is His
right to organize the plan by which the in-
habitants of the earth can be redeemed;
and He has manifested His power by in-
spiring men and women who have and will
carry out His plans at the sacrifice of all
EARTHLY honors.
	Our little EXPONENT, though in its in-
fancy, we are proud to say is the represent-
ative of truth, and is the Exponent of the
principles advocated by the Mormon wo-
men: and we recommend its moral teach-
ings and divine instructions to all who
read its pages, as truthful and elevating.	This reminds us of the thousands and
millions of dollars appropriated for the pub-
lication of literature that is worse than
nonsense, filling the minds of the rising
generation with fables and errors, that will
require years to eradicate. But this is in
keeping with the age in which we live.
The world of mankind has almost become a
swindle, and a counterfeit, politically and
religiously. As with the politician, so with
the priest—they all work for money, and
not for the interest of the people; confi-
dence is lost, and the light of truth, that
once beamed upon the patriots of former
days, is being withdrawn in consequence of
the wickedness and fraud that have been
practised upon a people who would delight
to honor their constitutional rights.
	Seeing we have digressed a little from
our subject, we will return by saying we
think it is much better to rspresent our-
selves; than to be MISREPRESENTED by oth-
ers, and we intend to let those ladies who
have been lecturing, and publishing books,
to misrepresent us to the world know, that
with the help of God in whom we trust, we
intend to represent ourselves, and leave
those in the hands of God who seek to
fight against Him. We know the wonder-
ful problem being solved by the Mormon
people is the greatest mystery of the pres-
ent age, but it only requires time to solve
itself. If it be of God who can fight against
it; it is He who has revealed it, and sus-
tained it; it was beyond the power of man
to do what has been already done, then why
fight against it? If it is not of God it will

[Column 3]

fall to the ground of itself—let it alone.
The Saviour said a good tree is known by
its fruits. My testimony is that for truth,
integrity and virtue the Mormon people
are not excelled by any people on the earth,
and we call upon honorable men and women
living among us, who are not of our faith,
to be our witnesses. If this is not true,
why are they here? If we are ignorant,
and practice degradation and crime, why
do our enemies come and make their homes
among us? There is a large amount of
room in the world, and we only occupy the
Great American Desert. I never knew a
people that honored their constitutional
rights more than the Mormons. If a Meth-
odist comes among us and shouts, no one
says why do you worship in that way. If
the Quaker comes and shakes, no true saint
asks, why do you shake? The Catholics
come and rear their lofty convent walls re-
quiring their converts to pay penance; the
Mormon goes to his own church, minds his
own business, does not even ask, why do
you pay penance to the Priest? For he has
already learned as much as the little boy
who asked his father who he paid penance
to? the father replied, "To the priest, my
son;" "But who does the priest go to?"
"To God," was the reply; "Well," said the
boy, "I will go to God, and keep my shill-
ing to buy me a Bible."
	W. E.
S. L. City, March 20, 1877.


R. S. REPORTS.

	CLARKESTON, CACHE Co.,
		Eeb. 17th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The First of this month the Relief Socie-
ty of Clarkeston held their Annual Meet-
ing, and a report of the past year's doings
was read, which showed that the poor had
been cared for: We have paid nine dollars
and seventy-five cents to the Sunday School,
twenty-one dollars to the Salt Lake Temple,
twenty-five dollars for a share in the Wool-
en Factory being built in Logan; we have
about forty dollars in shares in the Co-op
Store, we have also a small sheep herd, and
we have commenced to save a little wheat,
we have about thirty bushels in the bin, and
expect to get some more. Our settlement
is small; but the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the sisters feel willing to assist
in building up the kingdom of God. Our
worthy Bishop, Bro. John Jardine, met
with us and gave us some valuable instruc-
tions. He certainly is the right man in the
right place. A number of other brethren
were there. The people here are busy get-
ting the materials together to build a new
meeting house; we expect to have it fin-
ished by next fall.
	Union and a good spirit prevail. The
health of the people is good, and we feel
that the blessings of God are with us. The
EXPONENTS come very regularly, and the
sisters are anxious to read them at all times.
Hoping that we may be found faithful to
the end, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel,
	MARY GRIFFIN, President.
		JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


[Column 1]
			SMITHFIELD CACHE Co.,
						March 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the Relief Society of Smithfield wish
to let you know what we are doing to help
build up Zion. We are building a neat lit-
tle adobie house to hold our metings in.
We got the walls up and the roof on last
fall, and are going to have it finished as
soon as possible now. The young men and
boys hauled the materials, and the society
had two dances and picnics for them. The
boys had a fine time and were so well
pleased that they said they would help the
society again. The brethren donated some
of the work, and we have paid the rest
with quilts made by the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies. The Retrenchment
Association has done considerable. Our So-
ciety are doing what they can in the Grain
Movement; we have gathered up some-
thing over one hundred bushels of wheat.
Next year we intend to commence sooner,
and gather in the grain in good season, and
think we can do better than we did this
winter. We will exert ourselves early in
harvest time.
		Your sister etc.
					E. M. MERRILL.

	RIVERDALE, WEBER Co. March 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our worthy President Sister Martha A.
Bingham desired me to write to you. I
trust I may be guided in what I may say
by the spirit of the Lord. Our society is in
a more prosperous condition than it has
been; the sisters seem to be more interested
in the things of the kingdom. Our Society
is small in comparison to many others, our
numbers are about forty in all, the sisters as
a general thing feel to be one with other
Relief Societies in saving and storing grain.
We are not as well off financially as some of
our sisters, but we have a bin prepared and
some few bushels of wheat in it which we
intend adding unto as long as the Lord pros-
pers us with means and plentiful harvests.
	Your excellent paper is always welcome
with us, it is a source of pleasure and com-
fort; we have it read in our meetings occas-
ionally as the spirit directs. May the Lord
bless every honest mother and sister in Is-
rael who are striving to do His will and-
keep His commandments, is the prayer of
your sisters in the Gospel.
			M. A. Bingham, Pres't.
				H. A. CHILD, Sec'y.

				LEHI, March 1st, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place is not
behind the sisters of other settlements in
trying to carry out the counsel of President
Young in storing grain, though we are late
in reporting. A committee was chosen to
visit the sisters and obtain means in that
way or any other that they in their wis-
dom thought best. We are pleased to re-
port to you, that by donations, proceeds
from a party, and other means, we have on
hand more than one hundred bushels of
wheat and with the prospect of more. Not
having a bin of our own, Bishop Evans
kindly proffered us one at the Co-op store
to put it in; and to insure us from all losses
he gave us a written order for the amount,
subject to our call at any time. We expect,
if possible, to build a granary this coming
summer.
	We rejoice to know that the Lord has
counted us worthy to be co-workers in pre-

[Column 2]
paring for that time which has been predict-
ed by ancient and modern prophets, when
famine shall come upon the earth, and hun-
dreds of the inhabitants shall come to Zion
to buy bread of the (now, but not then) de-
spised Latter-day Saints.
	We also wish to aid in helping to publish
the Woman's Book. The EXPONENT is an
ever welcome and most desirable visitor.
With much esteem and kind wishes for
your prosperity and success in your laudable
endeavors to do good, I am
		Yours respectfully,
			REBECCA STANDRING,
						Secretary.

				PAYSON, March 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of Payson feel that they have
had a rich treat of late. Sunday, Feb. 4,
Bishop W. G. Young gave us two soul-stir-
ring discourses; he visited the Relief Socie-
ty and the Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association here, imparted wise counsel to
the mothers and daughters. He talked of
the Woman's Book about to be published,
representing its interests, and canvassed
for the "Life of Brigham Young, or Utah
and her Founders." Feb. 11, Bishop Lo-
renzo Young gave us a splendid discourse
in the afternoon, President Joseph Young,
Sen., visited the Sunday School; we could
have sat for hours and listened to his wise
counsel and fatherly advice to old and
young. Monday evening, Feb. 12, Elders
Hardy and Young addressed the Young
Men's Improvement Association, after
which Mrs. Zina Young said she could bear
testimony to all that had been said; the
outside influence felt its power. She spoke
on sericulture, exhibited a specimen of
fringe that had been made for the Temple
at St. George. The feeling with us is that
we have had a feast of fat things, and say
God bless the brethren for their wise coun-
sel, and Sister Zina for comforting and
cheering us with her motherly and inspir-
ing conversation.
	We hail each number of the EXPONENT
with delight, knowing that much valuable
instruction is contained therein; we regret
that it has not a wider circulation in this
place. The sisters all join with me in love.
						M. A. HARDY.

	MORRELL, SUMMIT Co., March 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In reply to your kind request to hear
from our Relief Society we herewith send
you a statement of our financial condition,
March 15, 1877.
	Am't received and made,......... $60 85
"       Disbursed..................................   16 70
"       On hand.....................................   44 15
	Our society was organized Sept. 1874,
with the following officers, Jane E. Lemon,
President; Christine Larsen and Julia
Woolstenhulme, Counselors; Jane Keeler,
Secretary; Jane E. Lemon, Treasurer; and
twenty members. We meet twice a month
and enjoy each other's society and counsel,
and feel benefitted thereby. We read the
EXPONENT with great interest and are
pleased to learn through its columns that
the mothers in Zion are awake to a sense of
their duties and are storing up the precious
grain, for we know it will be our salvation
in years to come. We ahve considered the
Grain Movement in our meetings, and
would like to give our mite to help forward
in this great work, but the frost destroyed
our grain. This being a newly settled place

[Column 3]
we have not the means at present, to go
elsewhere to purchase grain, but hope for
better times soon.
	The sisters of our society conceived the
idea of having a party and managing the
affair themselves. We decorated our school
house nicely with pictures and flowers, a
few of our sisters understand making arti-
ficial flowers and made an abundance of
them, which gave to the room an elegant
appearance. At two o'clock in the afternoon
President Mrs. J. E. Lemon opened the
dance by prayer. Mrs. Jane Keeler was
Manager, and at ten o'clock Counselor C.
Larsen dismissed. We maintain the idea
that woman's influence will not be lessened
but increased by her taking a more active
part in recreations and social enjoyments.
	In Sept. last we received a flying visit
from sisters' E. S. Barney and E. Howard.
They gave us good advice and we desire to
carry out their teachings to the best of our
ability.
		Respectfully yours,
			JANE E. LEMON, Pres't.
				JANE KEELER, Sec'y.

	MORONI, SANPETE Co., March 10, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have been called upon to mourn the
loss of one of the most faithful members of
our Society, Sister Caroline Jorgensen who
was accidentally kicked by a cow which
caused her death in forty-eight hours af-
terward; this occurred on the 2nd of Feb.
She assembled with us at our Society meet-
ing three days previous to the accident, and
was also at Fast meeting the day before.
Her age was sixty-eight years; she was an
accoucher and practiced here many years
and was also always ready and willing to
help and comfort the sisters in distress.
She was greatly beloved by all her brethren
and sisters, and was respected by those who
are not of our people. Her loss to us will
be very great. She was always ready with
her donations in helping to build up the
kingdom of God. Her sudden death was
quite a shock to her husband and children
and to us all. All the sisters of the ward
convened at her house to pay their tribute
of respect to her beloved remains, and all the
teams in the settlement were there to con-
vey us to her last resting place. Bishop
Bradley and other brethren spoke comfort-
ing words to the bereaved family, and to
the great congregation that had assembled;
we all felt to say dear sister rest until the
morning of the first resurrection, then you
will come forth and receive a crown of
righteousness that fadeth not away, reserv-
ed for you from the foundation of the
world—and to all those that love His ap-
pearing.
	In respect to the Grain Movement we
have two hundred bushels well stored. We
have a committee of four to look after the
grain; they are very energetic in gathering
in the "staff of life;" the brethren are very
kind in helping the sisters donate the
wheat. We are gathering all the means
we can for the Temple. Our young ladies
are making quilts and comforters, they also
wish to do something to help build up the
kingdom of God.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I re-
main your sister in the Gospel.
							J. BAILEY.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Moody and Sankey are still holding forth
in Boston, Mass., and drawing, constantly,
large audiences. The new tabernacle erect-
ed for them there seats 7,000 people; and is
always well filled.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE MEMBERS OF THE
Y. M. M. I. A.

Brothers in faith, in God and the right,
Lead on, we are with you in fervor and might;
Meet ever with courage the foes of our cause,
The ruthless defilers of God and His laws.

Fear not to tell of His goodness and truth,
Fear not even now in the days of thy youth;
Think not His cross and His burthen is hard,
As thy day so thy strength, and great the reward.

Of those who enlist in the conflict begun,
Who stand by our flag 'till the battle is done,
Whose heart never falters whose arm will not yield
'Til the last foe is conquered or fled from the field.

We want not the bullet, the sword nor the knife
Not death is our object but life, ever life;
Our weapon is Truth, undaunted and brave,
Its foes to contend with, its champions to save.

Wide is the field and great is the host,
And well does the enemy guard every post;
Ignorance, falsehood, malice and pride,
With their numerous allies on every side.

But they'll vanish away and flee from the light
Of Truth, as the bright sun will banish the night,
And Faith, Hope, and Charity, sisters divine,
The Crown for the Victor in glory will twine.
	HOPE.
Sarah C. R[---]


ITEMS ON DRESS.

	I wish to address a few friendly words to
you my dear friends and sisters, and have
chosen this subject, and hope I shall give
no offence but merely express a few ideas
that were prominently brought to my mind
lately. I had a few words written and in-
tended to send them to you, but on reading
them to President Young, he opened to my
mind such a halo of light and revelation on
this subject that I could not be satisfied with
what I had written. I only wish you my
dear readers, could have been with me and
heard and seen the plainness and beauty of
the principles opened to my view. It is
undoubtedly the case that this waste of
dress is not countenanced by those whom the
Lord has placed to lead Israel We are all
human enough to enquire the reason of this.
President Young answered this question in
language which I am unable to use. In this
life we are really in possession of but one
thing. Money, houses, lands, all, all are
left behind when we go hence; and even
while here, with all our efforts and exer-
tions to keep them, with a breath they are
gone. How true the old saying, "riches
take wings." So that all that remains to us
is our TIME. This no one can rob us of;
but I am inclined to say we very often al-
low ourselves to be cheated into casting it
aside as a worthless toy. Consequently
when we spend our valuable time in mak-
ing up clothing which is elaborately trim-
med, we both waste our time and those
means which should be devoted to sending
for the poor, and in other charitable pur-
poses. Right here some one says, "Oh yes!
but Miss or Mrs. So and So have renewed
their covenants and received the ordinan-
ces of the Lord's house and other blessings,
and they dress extravagantly and wear all
the ruffles they choose. What if they do?
Because Judas betrayed Christ does it fol-
low that all the Apostles were to turn trait-
ors and forsake their God? Apply the si-
mile here. Shall we encourage a love of
dress because others do so? Most certain-
ly not. It is useless to tell a lady that gen-
tlemen prefer to see ladies dressed plainly
and neatly. They don't care a fig, they
will answer you; they dress to please them-
selves." Which translated means that
they dress to be like each other and to fol-
low the fashions of a wicked, foolish world.
But I honestly believe that if you can con-


vince a Mormon, woman's reason, that it is
wroug to put trimmings on her clothes or
dress elaborately, she will cease to do so. It
is only the result of thoughtlessness; they
do not stop to consider the matter, but go
blindly on, following in the lead of those
perhaps, who should know better, and set
a better example.
	Do you think sisters you would like to
associate with angels with these trappings
on? I suppose that you have all been prom-
ised that you should one day meet with
them, and sooner or later we must put a
stop to this folly. So let us do so now, and
be prepared to advance one step further in
the grand march to meet our Savior; if we
do, we will be thus binding Satan out of
our hearts, for this folly of dress surely
originates from him. Let us do this, and
not pass over this matter so lightly, for if
we do, we will some day be called to ac-
count for it.
	Yours with love,
		S. Y. D.


GOOD MANNERS.

	I have long been impressed with the im-
portance of the subject named above, both
in public and private life; Scripture enjoins
us to be courteous, and to be given to hos-
pitality, and the Savior himself, was a pat-
tern of gentleness, tenderness and consider-
ation towards those He associated with.
All these are principles upon which good
manners should be based; there is no doubt
the heart and intentions are sometimes
very good, when the manners are repulsive
and uncouth, and as the MASSE do not look
beyond the surface, such persons cannot feel
an injury is done to them, if they are judged
unjustly. We should allow the warm feel-
ings of the heart to expand beyond our-
selves, if we desire to be beloved and re-
spected. Good manners are a letter of in-
troduction at first sight, and the coldest
heart must be thawed by a kind and ur-
bane salutation or welcome. Lamartine, a
good and beautiful French writer says "The
Gospel is democratic, and Christianity re-
publican;" and the royal law of the same is
"Do as you would be done by;" all of which
implies the law of kindness, of course in-
cluding good manners. True politeness
springs from the heart, and requires often
a sacrifice of our own comforts, and conve-
niences. Where the spirit is loving, hum-
ble and teachable, there we find the mate-
rial from which good manners are formed;
true it is that "trifles make the sum of hu-
man things," yet the happiness of our
every day life, is made up of such minute
particles that they must be felt rather than
made palpable by language.
	I might give the routine of Educational
politene s, and would uphold such as far as
it is good; but the Home circle should be
the centre of our good manners; to our par-
ents, to our brothers and sisters, and to our
husbands let our good manners be ever ap-
parent. My sisters the grand secret is to
cultivate the heart, and the affections, not
to let the energies stagnate, and the heart
to grow cold; then the manners will
be colored accordingly and we will not see
apathy and frigidity taking the place of
more genuine qualities in ourselves, and
others. Friendship would then spring up
where now it is rarely found, and add an-
other blessing to the many by which we are
surrounded. Let us then bear in mind my
young sisters, the importance of cultivat-
ing our hearts and minds, that in all things
we may be worthy the name of saints of
the Most High; and our manners be the


INDEX of that moral and intellectual train-
ing which is necessary to maintain a per-
fect equilibrium in the balance of high in-
tellectual attainments, and advantages,
which are around the Saints of Latter-days,
that by every means, however small, we
may be assisting to bring about the time
when a people shall be prepared for the Sec-
ond coming of our Lord, and in whom God
the Father will delight to be all in all.
				HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	SMITHFIELD; CACHE CO.,
		March 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often felt a desire to bear my tes-
timony to the truth of this work, through
your columns. I know this is the only true
church upon the earth. This is the stone
that Daniel saw cut out of the mountain
without hands, and kept rolling until it
filled the whole earth. So this work is roll-
ing on, and will continue to roll and crush
everything that comes in contact with it.
	We are a blessed people above all people
upon the face of the earth; we are in the
midst of the light, therefore we cannot see
its brightness. I sometimes think we don't
appreciate our blessings and privileges as
we ought. I have taken great interest in
reading the reports of the different settle-
ments on the Grain Movement; it seems all
have partaken of the right spirit—that is,
obedience to the word of the Lord through
His servant. The sisters here are not be-
hind in that great work; we have laid a
foundation, having a goodly quantity of
grain in store this year, and we will con-
tinue from year to year, until it will be
said it is enough. We are laying the foun-
dation of a great work, and out of small
things proceedeth that which is great. The
Lord requireth the heart and a willing
mind; and the willing and obedient shall
eat the good of the land of Zion in these
last days.
	Our beloved President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Morehead, is always on the
watch tower, ready to help the poor and
needy, to comfort the sick and strengthen
the weak, and render assistance wherever
it is needed.
	We have been afflicted with sickness this
winter and had to part with many of our
dear little ones, but we are not without
hope, they are ours still if we will live
faithful to the principles of life and salva-
tion, so that we shall receive our children
again; our treasure is in heaven, let our
hearts be there also. Truly this is a day of
rejoicing—a temple is built to the Most
High—an Ensign to the people, where they
will flock like doves to the windows. Let
us continue building temples, and devote
our time and interest to the building up of
the kingdom of God upon the earth, re-
trenching from every foolish fashion and
habit. Let our garments be the workman-
ship of our own hands. May the blessings of
God attend all our efforts to do good is my
prayer.
	MARTHA M. WILLIAMS.


ELIZABETH Stuart Phelps is writing up
the woman question in the form of a story.
This fanciful style of writing is oftentimes
effective of good, and many important sub-
jects are brought convincingly to the mind
of the reader in this way, which they never
would have listened to, or read, had the
book been of a more serious character.


164		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.		}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

BE A TRUE WOMAN.

	"Be a woman! On to duty!
		Raise the world from all that's low,
	Place high in the social heaven
		Virtue's fair and radiant bow.
	Lend thy influence to each effort
		That shall raise our nature human,
	Be not fashion's giddy lady—
		Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman."

	There is a vast amount spoken and written
in the present day about what women should
or should not do; advice in general terms is
given profusely. It is scarcely possible to lay
down rules for guidance in the education of
girls, especially their home-education, because
it must be modified by so many conditional or
controlling circumstances, that what would
be practicable for one, would not perhaps be
possible for others. Duty is the main point,
but duty is regulated by the different surround-
ings of a person, and the varied phases of
character. To be consistent one must take all
these perceptible differences into consideration.
Woman is active in her nature, and dreads
stagnation of any description, and if girls are
trained to habits of industry and regularity in
real work of some sort it will be a good pre-
ventive against "ennui," idleness and gos-
sip. There are many young women no doubt,
who scarcely take a thought of the time they
waste. They rebel against their fate as they
call it, and long for something fresh, some-
thing sensational, anything to break the mo-
notony of life. Therefore often in place of a
reality, they accept that which calls forth
only the emotional part of their nature, and
grasp the unreal believing it will prove the
"true alchemy," when all around them are
those resources out of which might be pro-
duced a growth of attainment in excellence
in some qualification or profession, which
would develop a corresponding happiness in
proportion to the enlargement of thought,
views and comprehension.
	After school days are over for girls, and more
particularly is this the case in large families
where there are many daughters, there is a
great need of care and watchfulness in the path
of action which should be chosen to walk in.
Young women hate to be looked upon as wait-
ing to be married, and hear the observation
made "so and so are in the market," as if they
were goods and chattels to be sold at auction;
they naturally shrink from those things and
it makes them sulk and become ill-tempered
to be considered out of place because they
don't marry. They want some systematic dis-
cipline in their life and pursuits, and to be en-
couraged in turning their mind and attention
to some worthy object, and that is safest which
presents itself most forcibly as the avocation

[Column 2]

likely to develop the best powers of woman-
hood.
	The girl at home is thus portrayed (and in-
deed the picture is not overdrawn) A little
note writing, a little vase-dressing, a little
practising (music), "a little reading, a little cro-
quet, a great deal of chatter, and, more than
all, much running in and out among near
neighbors, till the power of steady improve-
ment is frittered away and no progress is
made." There is an old Latin proverb, which
translated reads thus, "Friends are the thieves
of time," yet all love to have friends; what
would this life be without them; but this prov-
erb is true to a very great extent. Every per-
son can realize this in some degree. It is an
imperative duty to be conscientious in regard
to wasting the time of another, as well as
one's own. This is a point which seems to be
very little considered, but it is of such vital
importance that it cannot be too deeply im-
pressed upon the minds of the young.
	Let us return to our subject, marriageable
girls: not girls who want to marry but who are
just launched into womanhood and have no
fixed purpose in life, and long to find avocations
and an impetus for undeveloped capacities.
Young, beautiful, innocent, sensible, possessing
all those rare and exquisite traits which blend
so harmoniously in woman when cultivated to
a high degree, with all the expectation and
hope which belongs to that period of life,
knowing there is something expected of them,
but without positive force to step forward and
carve out any special purpose alone. Parents
and friends sometimes forget that these young
women are full of vigor, and must have scope
for action, and that once turned into some prop-
er channel, they could so discipline their own
minds and characters as to effect their whole
after life for good. They want some regular,
steady employment of genuine labor, else per-
chance they drift into habits of irregularity
and try to "kill time," perhaps just through
the want of proper advise and help from those
who do not fully realize how important is the
issue at stake. Every profession and avenue
of labor that opens for woman is a blessing;
there is no occasion for waiting girls, you have
no time to wait, there is to much real work to
be done for any hands to lay idle. Your mis-
sion upon this earth is of as much consequence
as that of your brother-man, and by all avail-
able means prepare yourselves physically, mor-
ally, mentally and spiritually for the great
battle of life, and the more real strength you
have time to gather for the conflict, the more
sure and steadfast will be your onward course,
and the better will you be prepared to lend as-
sistance to others. Learn adaptability to the
times, the places and the circumstances, wher-
ever your path of duty may be, and cultivate
application and endurance of purpose, and re-
member "he who builds a pyramid builds a
great thing, but he who builds a character, a
greater."
	E. B. Wells.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE RETURN thanks for the "Utah Musical
Bouquet," edited by Daynes & Son. We
watch with pleasurable interest all the im-
provements which tend to develop talent
among the people. We are gratified to see so
many home productions in songs and music.
The Temperance Song, "Pearly Water, Pure
As Snow," we conscientiously recommend as
suitable for day or Sunday Schools. Too
much cannot be done to influence the young
on the subject of Temperance.
	NOTICE: Mrs. H. Strickland has recently


opened a small store one door east of Mrs.
Sloan's establishment, Second South Street.
Mrs. Strickland has a variety of fancy notions
for sale; knits ladies and gent's hosiery, on the
Lamb machine, and also carries on dress-mak-
ing. She respectfully invites the patronage of
her friends, and all who are interested in home-
manufacture.
	ON SATURDAY morning, March 24, President
D. H. Wells and wife, with some other mem-
bers of his family, and Hon. George Q. Cannon
left this city for St. George. Bishop Edwin
D. Woolley, Bishop Samuel Woolley with some
others of their family, and Prof. O. H. Riggs,
also accompanied them making up quite a
a pleasant party, they will reach St. George
Tuesday next.
	WE LEARN by letter to the Deseret News
that the company that left Salt Lake City
Monday March 19, "enroute" for St. George
were enjoying themselves vastly by the way,
holding meetings in different places and meet-
ing with old friends and acquaintances. We
noticed the sisters were doing their part in ad-
dressing meetings and giving counsel to the
Relief Societies and organizations of women.
The meeting at Meadow Creek Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff and Mrs. Phebe Snow addressed the
sisters, and at Kanab, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
	THE COLUMBIA Herald of March 21, pub-
lished in Columbia, Pa., contains an interest-
ing letter from Elder A. M. Musser of this
city, in which he contrasts the institutions of
this people, religious, social and educational,
with those existing in the world. He relates
in brief the condition in which the saints
found this country, and the drivings and mob-
violence which had been the cause of the exit
of the Latter-day Saints from the borders of
civilization. Elder Musser is publishing a
pamphlet there on the belief of this people con-
taining a defense of Polygamy.


SISTERS BE IN EARNEST.

	[The article below is republished from EX-
PONENT No. 10, Oct. 15, 1876. It was written
by SPECIAL request of President Brigham
Young, and approved by him before its publi-
cation. We have been asked to furnish copies
of this article at different times, and having
no spare numbers, we decided to give it to the
public in print again. In consideration also of
its being seed-time, and that this people antic-
ipate storing all the grain they possibly can
this season, they cannot be too deeply im-
pressed with the importance of the Grain
Movement. And in the season thereof let all
the Latter-day Saints forget not to ask Him
who giveth seed time and harvest, to multiply
the measures of harvests that the Saints
throughout all the borders of the land may
have an abundance of grain to store up for
Zion.]
	At the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the wo-
men of this Territory to the subject of saving
grain. It is one important item which Presi-
dent Young has labored diligently to impress
upon this people ever since their residence in
these valleys. His advice has ever been to the
brethren to cultivate the soil and let the mines,
and mining speculations alone, for the grain
was of more consequence than gold or silver.
And these people are witnesses to that fact;
particularly having experienced the scarcity of
provisions and especially of breadstuffs, in the
earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people abundantly
in the few years past in their fields and in their


[Column 1]

stores of grain and provisions; and as in al-
most every other case where there is a profu-
sion of blessings, the people who receive them
become indifferent and do not appreciate them
as they ought. The people have been careless
in regard to taking care of their grain and
many other things. In many instances they
neglect to pay their tithing, and dispose of
their products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely displeased
with them. This year grain is unusually low, yet
the grasshoppers have been visiting different
parts of the Territory, and, it is feared by
many, have laid their eggs; therefore it is
more than ever essential that such measures
be taken as will secure the grain now in mar-
ket. The Relief Societies and Co-operative or-
ganizations in which some of the women of
this Terriory are interested, have funds at
their disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President Young's
wishes in regard to buying and taking care of
the grain.
	It is in no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if the
prophecies of the Scriptures, both ancient and
modern, and of Joseph Smith are to be fulfill-
ed, which the Latter-day Saints profess to be-
lieve, there will be a desolating famine in the
land; and if the women of this Territory will
be wise, and hearken unto the counsel given to
them now, there is no doubt that the result
will be an eminent success. If the means now
on hand in the societies and women's associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such meas-
ures taken to store it and preserve it from
damp and all other things that would damage,
or destroy it, as can be made practicable ac-
cording to circumstances and advantages, then
one point will be gained towards the temporal
salvation of this people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are gen-
erally earnest, and our advice would be imme-
diately without any delay (except such as is
unavoidable) to commence to carry out Presi-
dent Young's counsel in this matter. Where
there is a will there is (almost invariably) a
way, and in this matter there should be a per-
sonal and individual as well as a general inter-
est. In order to satisfactorily accomplish any
scheme, one great object is to be in earnest; on
this earnestness depends much of the success of
whatever enterprise is undertaken. If you de-
termine to do anything of whatever name or
nature.first be sure it is the proper thing to do,
and then without losing time, bring your ener-
gies into immediate requisition and you are al-
most sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable of
carrying out President Young's counsel in this
matter; and if they do not they will be left
without excuse; he has called upon the breth-
ren until he has become wearied, and now he
appeals to the sisters. Is not this a proof of
his confidence in their desire to listen to coun-
sel? The sisters will have ample opportunity
now to prove their ability for financiering; and
it is greatly to be hoped that they will mani-
fest such earnestness in this matter as cannot
fail to accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the sisters,
that they enter into such arrangements as are
applicable to their circumstances in their var-
rious districts and settlements, to build store-
houses for the storing of their grain in the sec-
tions of country as they shall divide off or ap-
portion to certain localities; also that they so-
licit donations from their husbands and the
brethren to assist them in carrying out this en-
terprise, both for the building of the store-
houses and also in obtaining grain to fill them,
and preserve it for future need.

[Column 2]

	We sincerely hope that what has been said
will be sufficient to rouse a spirit of determin-
ation in the minds of the women of Utah, to
devise and to put in practice, such measures as
shall be economical and wise, and for the gen-
eral good of all concerned.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT		165


[Column 1]
			CORRESPONDENCE.

			CENTREVILLE, March 20th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Believing that a few items from here touch-
ing the great work in which we are all engag-
ed will be gratifying to you, permit me to state
that we are blessed with a general time of
health in this place, with an increasing desire
made apparent to walk as near the line of duty
as is possible, when our circumstances are tak-
en into consideration. I am proud to say that
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
is in a flourishing condition, each and every
member thereof responding cheerfully to all
the requirements made of them, and I rejoice
to be associated with them and all such as love
and serve God in the Latt[-]r-day kingdom, and
that I have the privilege of doing something
though small to help roll it forth. A general
good feeling akin to inspiration prevails in the
Relief Society, and a desire to grow in grace,
and in the knowledge of the truth. The Young
Mens' Association is also i[-] a flourishing con-
dition.
	Praying for the success of your valuable pa-
per and every laudable endeavor in the king-
dom of God, we subscribe ourselves your sis-
ters in the Gospel,
					ELIZABETH WADOUP,
					CAROLINE DALRYMPLE.

		CLIFTON, IDAHO, March 11th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from this little settle-
ment would be expected, I proceed to let you
know how we get along. The sisters meet
twice a month and we enjoy a goodly portion
of the spirit of God in our meetings. Some of
the sisters as well as the brethren have renew-
ed their covenants, and all appear to be awak-
ening to a sense of their duties. We had a
visit from Bro. Hardy of Salt Lake City, and
we all enjoyed ouselves, and his instructions
have been duly appreciated by the brethren,
from the spirit manifested by them. Our Sab-
bath School and Sabbath meetings are well
attended.
	We have a Retrenchment Society organized
in which the young girls are very much inter-
ested. We called a meeting on the 1st of Feb.
to consider the Grain Movement. It was an
excellent meeting, thirteen sisters joined our
society and we number now over thirty mem-
bers. We have about thirty bushels of wheat
now in the bin and the prospect of some
more.
The EXPONENT is received and duly appre-
ciated by the sisters. We look forward with
pleasant anticipation for a visit from some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City.
				Your Sister, etc.
						JANE M. HOWELL.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	I hope that in writing these few lines, I may
at least be able to do myself some good, and
that it may tend to develop my own mind. I
think it is a great and eventful day in which
we live; many great things are transpiring
among the nations, and we can realize that
the "signs of the times," are manifest; this
shows me the necessity of living more faithful
before the Lord, and it leaves no time to idle

[Column 2]
away, but to be watchful and prayerful every
hour of our lives and be ready and willing at
all times to discharge to the best of our ability
every duty resting upon us to perform in this
kingdom, and I think one of the greatest du-
ties resting upon us as a band of sisters, is the
saving of our GRAIN and storing it away for a
day of need, and what a great privilege this is
granted us to bring together our small means
thus, to save ourselves and those who shall
flock to us for assistance in a day of need!
What great blessings are conferred upon us,
and still the world call us "the down trodden
women of Utah." I feel thankful to my
Heavenly Father that I live in this glorious
day, and that I have a standing in this king-
dom, and that the Lord through His priest-
hood upon the earth, thus forwarnes us of the
judgments that He is about to pour our upon
the earth. I think we are slow to hearken to
His voice. I desire to take hold with renewed
energy, of the duties resting upon me, and im-
prove the golden opportunities that are grant-
ed me for acquiring knowledge, for I know
there is a great work to be performed; and the
Lord has said that in the last days "He will
cut His work short in righteousness."
	We are desirous to be co-workers with the
brethren, and may we be true aids in the good
cause of advancing this kingdom, is my s[-]n-
cere wish for us all.
				CHRISTINE M. WARNICK.
	Pleasant Grove, March 13, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society comprising several districts,
lying far away on either side of Morgan City,
deprived many sisters of the privilege of at-
tending meetings and of doing the good it was
in their hearts to do. Therefore, Bishop Smith
who cares for his flock with fatherly solicitude,
decided to organize a Relief Society in each
little branch of his ward; he therefore called a
general meeting of the sisters, for the purpose
of dissolving the society, and to divide the
stock on hand among the several branches.
The total stock on hand is two hundred and
eighty-eight dollars and thirteen cents.
	We met again on the 19th inst. to reorganize
the old branch of South Morgan. The elec-
tions were as follows: Mrs. Lydia Rich Presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary Ann Simmons, and Mrs. Ann
Fry Counselors; Mrs. Rawb Secretary; Mrs.
Annie Lesnell, Treasurer. Our beloved Bish-
op being very sick, E[-]ders R. Fry, W. Edding-
ton and D. Ball addressed the meeting and or-
dained the officers.
	I hope that you will hear oftener, and good
news from this corner of the vineyard, for I
feel vividly impressed that the harvest is close
at hand. And now, good-bye dear little EX-
PONENT, may thy pithy columns, impart as
much warmth and comfort of soul to every
weary head and heart, as they do to
			Your sister in the Gospel,
				ESTHER C. E. Francis.

	P. S.—Would it not be a good plan, for
every Society to keep a copy of the EXPONENT
smooth and clean, to be bound after awhile, in
a handsome volume? And so keep a Record
of every Branch of this great and glorious en-
terprise; namely, the Relief Society of Utah.
							E. C. E. F.


MRS. KING.—We are pleased to announce to
the many friends of Mrs. Hannah T. King
that she has secured the agency for Holman's
great Crown Family Bible, the most superb
edition ever published in this country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FROM BEAVER TO ST. GEORGE.

	From Beaver the road is interesting af-
ter leaving the main highway, when it
takes an easterly direction through the fa-
mous Fremont-pass, gradually growing nar-
rower until the rocks are from two to three
hundred feet, perpendicular, ragged, and ir-
regular, with deep fissures where the ce-
dar and pine have thrown their firm,
strong roots and resist the fierce gales that
sweep like avenging spirits over mountain
and glen. Six miles from the entrance
some small springs are found, which sup-
ply the tired traveler with the cool refresh-
ing draught of clear, soft, water; passing
along, mountain and hill-side are covered
with the verdure of the evergreen trees
and shrubs and the simple though beauti-
ful wild flowers of which there is a great
variety, lark-spurs, roses, violets, and the
sage, in whose deep, beautiful cup the
honey-bee revels joyously until the last
leaf drops faded forever; the aspen in smal
groves here and there quivers in the
breeze, as if truly in affright (as tradition
has it) at the most solemn scene of the Sav-
ior's crucifixion.
	The road from the springs for some dis-
tance is very uneven and rocky, opening
presently into a small valley within
whose bounds the Prarie Dog, a species of
Marmot lives in comparative security and
peace, greeting the traveler at times with
his short snapping bark. Of two roads here,
one diverging to the right passes almost
directly through Bear Valley, cutting off,
it is said, some miles of rocky road, the oth-
er continuing on almost in the same direc-
tion as at first, passes over the hills reach-
ing the Sevier, some miles below the other,
crossing on its way a long stretch called
the five mile rocky hill. The road leading
through Bear Valley Cañon is most delight-
ful; the bottom lands covered in some pla-
ces with a species of wheat grass, tall and
thrifty, also the common grass which cat-
tle prefer, in abundance; tiny springs form
a small stream called Bear Creek which
flows into the Sevier a short distance be-
low the mouth of the cañon.
	Along the Sevier the country presents a
different aspect, dotted here and there with
farm houses and ranch buildings, many of
which are now deserted as the range in
many places has been completely over-
stocked with cattle. Many very thrifty
farms are seen, with beautiful meadows
yielding a large supply of hay; wheat and
corn are raised in abundance. The scenery
is grandly sublime in many places. Arriv-
ing at Panguitch, (so called from the lake
above, which provides the inhabitants with
a plentiful supply of fish and a clear stream
of soft water flowing through all parts
of the town;) here we find an abundance of
excellent butter and cheese; very few veg-
etables being raised within its limits; quite
a number of the inhabitants spend their
summers ranching, and because of this the
place has a somewhat untidy appearance.
Here a very good bridge crosses the Se-
vier about a mile from the town, the only
one in this part of the country as the stream
is forded in many places, and grows gradu-
ally smaller as the road proceeds toward
the rim of the basin, the dividing line be-
tween the northern and southern slope; as
the Sevier loses its tributaries it becomes
a bright, clear stream only the size of a
common creek; the water soft and of a de-
licious coolness issuing from a cañon on the
right, supplied with springs far up among
the pines, where those fond of fish can ex-
ercise their patience by catching, with hook
and line, the spotted mountain trout, or

[Column 2]

gather, in its season, the wild fruit which
grows here in abundance. Mr. Wm. Asa
resides at the mouth of the cañon, and trav-
elers often find rest and refreshment here,
in this solitude.
	Leaving this place a small stream on the
left flowing from springs near the rim of
the basin, is covered in spots with a curious
plant that seems to float on the water, bear-
ing small white flowers, very much resem-
bling the common plum blossom, and delic-
iously fragrant, having long vine-like stems
and feathery leaves. The road gradually
ascending to Cutter's ranch, a distance of
two miles, diverging to the right, traverses
a long swell of wire-grass land; the hill
sides along are not as steep here, and are
covered with tall pines. Cliffs of red and
white sand stone, castellated and strangely
picturesque arise here and there forming
most beautiful scenery, and one might eas-
ily imagine they were the remains of some
ruined city of Old.
	Entering the pine forest after a drive of
two or three miles, a small log cabin on a
knoll is the next sign of life and habitation,
though only a snmmer residence, the place
being used for a sheep ranch. Cattle de-
sert the grass land below during the hot
weather on account of the large fly which
is too annoying to endure. The road from
here is a delightful drive through open
glades, sunny nooks, and shady dells, grad-
ually ascending, thus bringing the traveler
to the RIM of the great basin of North
America; from whence the descent passes
through a dense pine forest interspersed
with plants and flowers whose rich perfume
floats out on the summer air, mingling with
that of pine and cedar, bringing as it were,
new life to both body and mind, and charm-
ing the eye with varied tints and changing
hues.
	MORE ANON.


[Column 1]

EXECUTIVENESS.
	There is a marvellous difference among
individuals with respect to their accom-
plishing work. Some pass a lifetime in do-
ing what amounts to nothing. They seem
born to 'putter,' to waste themselves on
trifling, weak, useless tasks; mere human
lichens are they, parasites, chips on the cur-
rent of life, drifting aimlessly. Others have
every day something to show for their
time:
	"Something accomplished, something done,
	Hath earned a night's repose."
These possess a purpose and energy, a strong
will, a clear perception, and often an active
imagination; all of which combined, render
them motors in society. Though a great
deal depends on original endowment, a
great deal also depends on training. Child-
ren who are brought up to do nothing, gen-
erally do nothing. Those who are trained
from infancy in all ways of self-help and
helpfulness to others, have the ability to
help themselves and help others. "To him
that hath shall be given." Lord Bacon says:
"There is no stand or impediment in the
wit but may be wrought out by fit studies.
If a man's wit be wandering, let him study
mathematics; for in demonstrations, if his
wit be called away never so little, he must
begin again; so every defect of mind may
have a special receipt." This last asser-
tion is as true in matters pertaining to char-
acter as in those intellectual. The purpose-
less individual may, if he will, change him-
self in this particular, by setting himself
tasks to perform, and steadily performing
them. This may be found at first laborious;

[Column 2]

and even painful; but habit renders all
things easy.
	This setting one's self tasks, however,
does not as surely develop one's powers as
having these tasks set by some one else;
and of all taskmasters, stern necessity has
the most to show for his pupils on exami-
nation day. Let no one who loves himself
repine at the commands of this stern task-
master; his mission is most beneficient.
From what rough and crude material does
he often fashion noble, accomplished, and
beneficient men and women! This he does
by laying heavy burdens on them, by sub-
jecting them to hard and cruel blows from
the hand of fortune, by compelling them to
make brick without straw, by forcing
them to develop every resource of their
power, and often every capability they pos-
sess for doing and suffering.
	It is useless for one without a definite
purpose or plan to dream of accomplishing
much. Few indeed are they upon whom
this greatness is thrust. The doers in this
life are those who intend to do; all others
are cumberers of the ground—thistles,
weeds, unfruitful figtrees destined to per-
ish. It is a very easy matter to spend day
after day and week after week in merely
going through the forms of doing, and at
the end of this lime have actually nothing
accomplished. The butterfly doubtless vis-
its as many flowers as the bee, the grass-
hopper goes over as much ground as the
ant, but how different the showings in the
two contrasted cases. A purpose animates
the bee and the ant; one moves in a "bee
line" to the accomplishment of her pur-
pose, the other works with such persistent
industry that for 3,000 years at least the ant
has been an example known and read of by
as many as have studied her ways.
	A great deal of the time of even purpose-
ful men and women is wasted for want of a
well digested plan of action. The execu-
tive individual has a pretty clear idea, first
of exactly what he wishes to accomplish,
and secondly of the manner in which
he intends to work. He does not blunder
into a thing and blunder on all the way
through it. He may not see what his last
step will be, but he sees quite clearly what
his first step must be, and then the second,
and, as he progresses, the end becomes
clear. He does not allow himself to be di-
verted or detained from his work by slight
causes, petty hindrances, trivial interrup-
tions. If one stops to follow all the little
side-paths that lead off from the main thor-
ough-fare from Joppa to Jerusalem he will
be a long time in reaching that ancient cap-
ital. The way to secure main issues is to
neglect all smaller ones that have not a di-
rect bearing on the success aimed at.—A
woman writer in the New York Tribune.—


HINTS TO WRITERS AND SPEAKERS.

	William Cullen Bryant gave the follow-
ing excellent advice to a young man who
offered him an article for the "Evening
Post:"
	My young friend, I observe that you
have used several French expressions in
your article. I think if you will study the
English language, that you will find it cap-
able of expressing all the ideas you may
have.
	I have always found it so, and in all that
I have written, I do not recall an instance
where I was tempted to use a foreign word,
but that on searching I found a better one
in my own language.
	Be simple, unaffected; be honest in your
speaking and writing. Never use a long


word when a short one will do. Call a
spade, a spade, not a well-known oblong in-
strument of manual industry; let a home
be a home, and not a residance; a place a
place, and not a locality; and so with the
rest. Where a short word will do, you lose
by using a long one. You lose in clearness;
you lose in honest expression of meaning,
and in the estimation of all men who are
competent to judge, you lose in reputation
for ability.
	The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming.
Falsehood may be a very thick crust, but in
the course of time it will find a place to
break through. Elegance of language may
not be in the power of all of us, but sim-
plicity and straightforwardness are.
	Write much as you would speak; speak
as you think. If with your inferior, speak no
coarser than usual; if with your superior,
speak no finer. Be what you say, and within
the rules of prudence. No one was ever a
gainer by singularity of words or in pronun-
ciation. The truly wise man will speak
that no one will observe how he speaks. A
man may show a great knowledge of chem-
istry by carrying about bladders of strange
gases to breathe, but he will enjoy better
health, and find more time for business,
who lives on common air.
	Sidney Smith once remarked: After you
have written an article, take your pen and
strike out half the words, and you will be
surprised to find how much stronger it is.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	Sisters do we understand why we are
placed here upon this earth? Do we fully
realize the responsibility resting upon us?
The duty of woman upon this earth is to
"bear the souls of men," and prepare them-
selves for a future existence. Each per-
son has to work out his or her own salva-
tion. How necessary it then is for us to
live in obedience to the laws of God as giv-
en through the mouth of His prophet. If
we cannot live in obedience to those laws
here, how can we expect to live in heaven
and enjoy His presence. It is necessary for
us to lay a firm foundation while we dwell
here in time, that we may have something
to build upon in eternity. Teach our child-
ren by example as well as by precept, train
them with all diligence to walk in the
ways of the Lord.
	We know that light, knowledge, intelli-
gence and wisdom are ours if we seek them
diligently in humility. We also know that
the end draweth nearer and nearer, and the
hour of trial for all who dwell upon the
earth is near at hand, and will be terribly
severe; and that His work will be cut short
in righteousness.
	If we do all we can that is right, learn
all we can that will benefit us now and
hereafter, we will not have done more than
God will require of us. Let us keep the
spirit of God continually in our hearts,
having charity for each other's failings,
striving hard meanwhile, to overcome our
own short comings, and with the help of
God if we do these things, we will conquer
in the end.
	D. E. DUDLEY.
Clifton, Idaho, March 8, 1877.

	WELLSVILLE, Feb. 10, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will give you a few items of a general
nature respecting woman's work and pro-
gress.  In our meetings many of the sisters
young and old arise and bear faithful and


earnest testimonies to the truth of the ev-
erlasting Gospel. I believe the sisters who
covenanted to eschew round dancing have
faithfully kept their covenants inviolate.
	The majority of the people are earnestly
striving to live by every word that pro-
ceedeth out of the mouth of God, and their
subscriptions to the Logan Temple, and all
other public and private benefits, bear am-
ple testimony. A few among us, when the
bridegroom cometh, may be caught nap-
ping and our lamps devoid of oil, but the
gospel net catches of all kinds.
	Considerable sickness has prevailed among
the people inthis valley—diphtheria among
the children, but we are in the hands of
God and have full faith in His guidance.
With prayers continually for your success
in your work of love, I remain your sister
and fellow-laborer in the cause of truth, and
for the redemption of Zion.	M. E. M.


PATIENCE AND PERSEVERENCE.

	Patience is one of the powers of endur-
ance. Perseverance is an auxiliary and
these help us to be resigned to our lots in
life. If true patience characterizes our
every act, how much happier we would all
be. We should study the dispositions of
those we are associated with at home,
around our fireside first, and if little errors
are committed be patient over them. Be
patient with the dear little ones, with fa-
ther and mother and especially with the
aged who depend upon us for comfort and
support. Remember while we are patient
with those we love and respect, how others
who love us have been patient with our
weaknesses in the past, and will be, we
trust in the future, till the end of our days.
A wife and mother who is truly forbearing
at all times, thus adds greatly to the happi-
ness of her husband and makes a little
Eden for herself and children, and if sick-
ness or trouble come s in any form, let us
study how best to bear it with resignation
and strength of character. Let us help
what we can, but if it is beyond what we
can control let us not fret about it, for it
makes all around us unhappy, to see us
meeting trouble half way, it also displeas-
es God who understands what is for our
good, and only gives us trials, that through
them we may become sanctified, and if we
live in accordance with the best light we
can obtain, and bear patiently all we are
called to endure, we will be satisfied and
happy here, and prepared to dwell with the
just hereafter. Let us choose the sunny
side of life, and not glance too often at the
dark side of the picture. Life is too short
to spend it in vain regrets.
	MARY STUART.
Hyde Park, March 11, 1877


R. S. REPORTS.

	PARIS, ONEIDA Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few lines from this place
might be acceptable to the many readers of
your excellent paper. The Lord has seen
fit to favor the inhabitants of Bear Lake
valley with a mild winter, for which we
feel truly thankful. The little snow we
have had (which would not exceed one foot)
has mostly disappeared.
	The saints as a general thing feel well;
we have very many meetings and they are
well attended; very few parties and thea-
tres. I never knew a time when the inter-
est of the young and rising generation was
so much at heart and sought after by our


President and Bishop and those whose right
it is to look after and preside over this
stake of Zion, as at the present time. They
are ever ready with their timely advice
and counsel to young and old. We have
good week-day and Sabbath schools which
are well attended. Our Relief and Re-
trenchment meetings are excellent, Pres't.
Rich often meets with us. We have made
an effort to purchase grain, but are sorry to
say that it is but a feeble one compared
with some of the accounts we see in the
EXPONENT. Our crops last year were most-
ly cut off by the frost and it is rather a
hard matter to lay up grain where there is
none: but we mean to "try, try again," and
my faith is that "where there's a will
there's a way."
	There has been some sickness during the
winter, mostly among the children not
many deaths have occurred however, except
in Montpelier where a number of children
have died from a disease, resembling in
some respects Diphtheria. I do not consider
it incurable when taken in time. Many
people let diseases run too long without
treatment, leaving nature to perform a task
by far superior to her strength.
	Your valuable paper is read with interest
by many of the sisters and brethren too,
and for its welfare and advancement you
have our best wishes.	EMELINE RICH.


MALAD CITY, March 10, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As we have lately held our annual meet-
ing at this place, it may not be amiss if you
have space, to publish our report, &c., for
the year ending, Jun. 31st, 1877. We have
one hundred and sixteen members.
	Amounts collected............... $209.00
	Disbursed for different charita-
	able purposes..........——.....	102.00
	Amount on hand.................	107.00
							———
			Total....................	209.00
	The members, with but very few excep-
tions, attend their meetings regularly, and
perform other duties connected with our
holy calling. We can truly say that our
Society is in a flourishing condition; we
are trying to assist our brethren who are
called to labor in the ministry, to establish
truth and righteousness in this part of the
Lord's vineyard. Although we have con-
siderable opposition here, as the wicked are
laboring hard for the supremacy, our motto
is onward, the Lord being our helper, until
all the enemies of truth are subdued.
	We desire also to be one with our sisters
in the different settlements of Utah, to fol-
low out the counsels of our beloved Presi-
dent, Brigham Young, with regard to pur-
chasing and storing grain. Our worthy
Bishop Daniels has been kind enough to
proffer us room in his granary to store up
our wheat. A committee of four has been
appointed to do the buying, and they are
busy in the work. With the help of our
brethren, who are always ready and willing
to assist us, we mean to gather in all we
can this season, and have it secured for a
day of want.
	We hold our meetings once in two weeks
and they are well attended. We have
great cause to feel well, as everything seems
conducive to our happiness; no sign of sick-
ness: prosperity and plenty seem to abound
in all the habitations of the Latter-day
Saints in this beautiful valley. The snow
is all gone; farming and gardening have
commenced; the prospects are favorable for
a good crop this season. We have been
called upon by our bishop to do what we


can towards building the temple. We al-
ways desire to be co-workers with our breth-
ren and to respond to their calls. We have
made up a subscription list of $400.00 for
1877. Hoping that our lives may be spared
to see a temple to the Lord finished in Salt
Lake City. We feel that we have been
highly honored in being selected out from
amongst this wicked and perverse genera-
tion, to help bring about the purposes of
the Almighty in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times.
	We also consider that our responsibilities
are very great indeed, as mothers and
daughters in Israel; and our duties are
many in directing the minds of the young
in the ways of the Lord. May we all of us
at all times strive to teach and practice cor-
rect principles; may we all enjoy a greater
portion of the Spirit of the Lord, which
will yield us happiness in this world, and
salvation in the world to come, is our earn-
est desire.
	JANE PRICE, President,
	ANN DANIELS,
	ESTHER LUSK,		Couselors,
	CATHERINE DAVIS,	Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

A SPECIFIC FOR SMALL-POX.

	Saltpetre was accidently discovered to be a
specific for this loathsome disease. It was in the
following manner:
	A middle-aged lady, the mother of six child-
ren, had often sought relief from pain in the back
by taking saltpetre and brandy. Small-pox was
prevailing in the vicinity. Mrs.——was expos-
ed to it, and contracted the disease. The premon-
itory symptoms were very violent—fever extremely
high—severe pain in the head, and excruciating
pain in the region of the kidneys.
	A physician was called during the night, but,
in doubt as to the nature of the disease, though
suspecting it to be a case of small-pox, he made
no prescription, promising to reaurn at early
dawn. Fever and pain increasing she begged her
husband to prepare for her the old preparation of
saltpetre and brandy. The latter was then not to
be had, but he crushed a piece of nitre as large as
a common white bean. This she took in a tea-
spoonful of cold water. Feeling some better the
dose was once or twice repeated. Pain soon sub-
sided and she slept well during the remainder of
the night and awakened feeling perfectly well!
When the doctor called he was greatly astonished
to see Mrs.——superintending the affairs of her
houshold. He left without making any pre-
scription. She had sixty well defined pustules in
her face; but they were but slightly inflamed and
not at all painful. The development of smallpox
on her entire person were in number and appear-
ance in keeping with those on her face.
	In due time all her children and her hnsband
were similarly affected by fever and pain in the
head and back, and received similar treatment
and the results were the same. Several families
caught the prevailing contagion, to whom——
told his story and recommended the same remedy,
and in every case the results were favorable.
	These facts came to us at first hand, and the
reader may rely upon them as exact statements
without embelishments or exaggeration. Here
were from ten to twelve cases all relieved from
pain and fever in less than an hour. The pustules
were speedily developed, but were more like the
disease in its convalescent stages than at any oth-
er period. As to the quantity given, it was not
at all definite, but the first patient, within an
hour, must have taken of nitre the bulk of three
ordinary white navy beans.
	We give these statements because we learn
from various sources that smallpox is unusually
prevalent. Physicians and cautious nurses would
do well to give nitre a fair and full trial. The


cases to which we refer were those of active labor-
ing people living in small tenements, and in the
winter season. It will be well to give the alleged
specific a fair trial. Physicians should do so and
report results.
	We cannot state from personal knowledge, but
we are under the impression that all these pa-
tients had been vaccinated in their youth.—Jour-
nal of Commerce.


MRS. Emma Malloy, of Indiana, has been
lecturing in Vermont. Mrs. Malloy is one
of those brave women who dares to speak
in unmeasured terms of hypocrisy and
pride in churches and among the religious
sects of the day. She is whole-souled in
the cause of Temperance. In one of her
lectures she quoted these words of Theodore
Cuyler—"Some people are more afraid of
soiling carpets than soiling the souls of
men.” 
	THE sweetest and most signal revenge to in-
flict upon enemies who seek to belittle our la-
bors or under-estimate our abilities, is to do
everything well, to lead irreproachable lives,
to earn popular confidence and respect, to es-
chew all but laudable undertakings, to succeed
in every act and labor. Success is the most ef-
fectual reproach to envy, malice, and unfriend-
liness.


[Column 1]
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
	or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
		mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send y[-]ur orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

		Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. APRIL 15, 1877.	No. 22.


WELCOME TO SPRING.

O beauteous Spring! fragrant of leaf and bloom.
	Nature with myriad welcomes hails thy birth;
Thou breathest, and lo! a rich and sweet perfume,
	Rises like incense from the gladdened earth.

O gent!e spring! thy presence everywhere
	Renews the life-pulse, even in earth's cold heart,
And from its bosom, wild-buds and blossoms fair
	In rich profusion, all spontaneous start.

Whence come ye fairy-footed, gay with flowers?
	Lightly ye tripped o'er mountain hill and plain;
The song-birds herald thee from Eden's bowers,
	And, with sweetest music, usher in thy reign,

Trilling their notes till answering echoes ring
	From wood, and glen, and fountain's mellowed flow:
And mortal hearts a silent offering bring,
	And bathed in sunlight, nature's landscapes glow.

And hope springs up afresh in saddened lives,
	And clouds disperse and heaven again is clear,
And tenderest trust, and confidence revives,
	For spring has come, and beautified the year.

Thou comest a harbinger from courts above;
	That we may realize, God's promises are sure;
Thou scatterest blessings, all replete with love,
	And givest us faith, earth's trials to endure.

Hail b'essed type of Morn, whose roseate light,
	Shall bring the tidings of a holier birth—
The Resurrection, by whose power and might
	The sleeping millions will be ushered forth.
		EMILE.
S. L. City, April 13, 1877.


[Column 1]
	A TRUE TALE OF THE PAST
			AND PRESENT.

	When on the Island of Tupuai, South
Pacific Ocean, a boy was given me, when an
infant one year old. His father, a brilliant
young man, native of New York, was a
missionary companion of my husband, Eld-
er Addison Pratt. Having remained there
for several years, he married a native wo-
man from the Chain Island group; the issue
was three sons, one of which we, (my hus-
band and myself) adopted. We brought
him over the seas when he was two years
old, in 1852. In 1858 I brought him to
Utah. He was a smart, bright, boy, and I
took pride in teaching him. He remained
with me till he was sixteen, his father be-
ing absent most of the time. He then left
me without permission, and went with a
freighter to Montana. Through various
vicissitudes, he became an express rider.
On one of his trips, in 1870, he was cap-
tured by the Black Foot Indians, robbed of
the mail, stripped of all his clothes, and
left seventy miles from any habitation. He
managed to reach Ft. Hawley almost frozen
and starved; after recuperating he was in-
duced to ingage in the same business, which
he followed one year longer, and was then
captured by the Sioux Indians; he was kept
two years confined to one lodge; but after
that had more priviliges granted him; he
became so accustomed to their habits, and
not being cruelly treated, felt disposed to
remain with them until circumstances
should render it practicable for him to
make his escape. In the meantime apply-
ing himself with all diligence to study
their character, their methods of warfare,
and to know every inch of their country;
thinking that in some future day his knowl-
edge would be of service to himself and he
of service to his country. It was not until
1875 that he found an opportunity to es-

[Column 2]
cape, having been five years the protege of
the famous "Sitting Bull." We named
him "Ephraim Pratt," while away he took
the name of his real father Frank Grou-
ard; he went to a military station, and
was immediately appropriated by General
Crook; as guide and scout in his command.
His father, Mr. B. F. Grouard, seeing his
name in the papers wrote to him to ascer-
tain who he was. The mystery was then
solved he was found to be my long lost boy;
lost to me ten years. I had followed him
with my prayers, and thankful was I that
in his childhood I had taught him to be-
lieve in God and pray to Him. I address-
ed a letter to Fort Fetterman, and received
in return one of the most pathetic, penitent
and impressive letters I ever read; giving
me an account of his adventures and suffer-
ings, imploring in a most humble manner,
forgiveness for leaving me abruptly, and
saying "how dearly he had paid for his
waywardness and disobedience in leaving
so good a mother, who was always kind and
used every means to make him a good man."
The family and neighbors were excited and
moved to tears when the letter was read;
his photograph was sent, as natural as life;
a well-dressed gentleman, no look of an In-
dian about him, it is to us almost like the
resurrection of the dead. The reporters
write every thing in his praise, as a "first
class cabinet officer," "chief of the northern
scouts, braver than any Sioux," etc. His
ready brain and hands are said to be "prac-
tically invaluable." One thing which inter-
ests us very much is that he has found a
white girl among the Sioux, and from the
description given we are greatly in hopes it
is Bro. Thurstons child, stolen from Cache
Valley in 1867, and grand daughter of EId-
er Erastus Snow. My son described her in
his letter as a pale, delicate girl, apparently
about sixteen years old; the Indians are
kind to her, they keep her making bead-
work; she knows not a word of English."
He farther says, "I have twice tried to cap-
ture her, but did not succeed, I think I
shall yet accomplish it."
	I have written to Bro. Snow and received
in return his heartfelt acknowledgement;
promising his faith and prayers; and his ad-
vice to the young man was that he would
advise him to attempt nothing so hazard-
ous as her capture would be, only in the fear
of God, and by so doing, and acting with
great caution, he feels he would be sure of
success. I copied the letter and sent it to
my son. I feel to pray most earnestly that
such an event may transpire, and the dear
one, whoever she may be, restored to her
yearning parents if they still live, and most
certainly the complication of these peculiar
circumstances would constrain us to ac-
knowledge a Divine Providence in the
whole transaction, and to thank our Heaven-
ly Father for His all-preserving care. I ex-
pect my son soon to visit me.
						L. B. PRATT.
	Beaver, March 31st, 1877.


WE shall find difficulties in all great en-
terprises; if we are sure we have begun
them from God we may securely cast all
events upon his providence, which knows
how to dispose and how to end them.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	SENATOR EMERSON'S bill making women
eligible for school officers has been recon-
sidered and passed by the New York Sen-
ate.
	THE LEGISLATURE of Minnessota has
passed a bill allowing women to practice
law in all courts of the state. The vote in
the House stood sixty-three to thirty. In
the Senate twenty-six to six.

	OLIVER AMES died at his home in Eas-
ton, Mass., March 9. Mr. Ames was a lead-
ing man "in projecting and completing the
Union Pacific Railroad, and was its presi-
dent at the time of his death." He was
an upright business man and his death is a
a public loss.

	ONE OF the most novel occurrences of re-
cent date was the examination by a phren-
ologist of the head of the Rev. Mrs. Phebe
A. Hanaford. It having been decided that
she was not to occupy the pulpit in the
church where she had heretofore been sus-
tained; her adherents fixed upon this pecu-
liar plan for the establishment of her claims
to the right of the pulpit. Mr. Graham,
the phrenological expert, gave her a most
superior character in every respect, and
pronounced her superiorily qualified to hold
the position. Of course her opponents were
chagrined.

	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" gives a
short notice of a Woman's Temperance
meeting held in Fremont Temple, Mrs.
Mary A. Livermore presiding who made a
brief address. She was followed by other
well-known women who are laboring with
zeal and efficiency for Temperance. It was
very evident from the character of the ad-
dress, that women can speak for Temper-
ance. Why cannot they vote for it? Sim-
ply because they are women and have not
the ballot." How inconsistent it is that
women must endure all the trials of drnnken
husbands, brothers and fathers, yet they are
not in any public capacity whatever allowed
to act even for their own protection, against
their abuses. May God speed the day when
woman will be sufficiently strong by right
of law to maintain a position securely
against the abuse and misuse of power.
How is it possible in view of the many evils
which exist for any woman to fail to see
the want of woman's influence in the right
of the ballot.


BLUE STOCKINGS:—A charming club
which existed in the time of Johnson had
for its most prominent member Mr. Still-
ingfleet, who wore blue stockings, and was
so distinguished for the brilliancy and wit
of his conversation that when absent the
other members would exclaim, "we can do
nothing without blue stockings." In this
way the title of the club became established,
and the name drifted into a soubriquet for
all who affected literature. The earliest
mention of a "blue stocking" occurs in a
Greek comedy entitled "The Banquet of
Plutarch."


170		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
grow more and more interesting, and it is
observable that the Junior societies are fast
gaining in knowledge and understanding
of spiritual gifts, blessings and attainments.
The meeting on Satuaday, March 17, was
crowded to overflowing; the Spirit of God
seemed poured out in rich abundance. The
sisters who addressed the meeting dwelt
most particularly upon home industries
among women. Among the speakers were
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs, E. Howard, and
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
many in the congregation who bore faithful
testimonies of the Latter-day Work. Mrs.
E. A. Whitney sang a Song of Zion, and
gladdened every heart in the assembly.
	On Saturday, March 31, the General
Meeting was not quite so full as usnal,
owing to the inclemency of the weather.
Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed the sis-
ters upon the duties and obligations of
mothers which rested upon them in caring
for their families, spoke upon the preserva-
tion of health and the care of children; of
home industries, and of sustaining home
institutions, that the saints might have some
resources when Babylon should fall. Coun-
selor Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke upon the sub-
jects appropriate to the times, and exhort-
ed the sisters to greater diligence. Mrs.
E. S. Barney spoke about silk-culture, the
planting out of mulberry trees, the home
manufactures of Matthews & Co. Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East and others
spoke very earnestly and impressively on
the principles of the Latter-day work.
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a paragraph from the
Book of Doctrines and Covenants, expressed
herself in regard to some particular points
of the Gospel as understood and practised
by the saints, allnded to the great work be-
ing done by the Women of Utah, under
the several organizations which exlst.

			OGDEN, March 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Annual meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty, which should have been held Dec. 16,
1876, was postponed until March 13, owing
to sickness caused by the Small pox, which
made many sad and sorrowful hearts, and
I trust through it we have been learned
to place a greater reliance upon our Heav-
enly Father, "who doeth all things well,"
and may we as Latter-day Saints ever be
ready and willing to put our trust in God.
	At our meeting of March 13th, we were
much pleased and gratified with the pleas-
ure of having Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young with us. Meeting was con-
ducted by President Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
The Secretary read the minntes and finan-
cial report of the society.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke in her usual unas-
suming manner, showing us that being of
the blood of Abraham, we were lawful
heirs to all the blessings promised to his
seed; that we had been gathered out from
the world, but what would it profit us
if we did not live up to what we had re-
ceived, as we were to be judged by our
works. She spoke of the many duties and
labors of the sisters, and exhorted us to be
true and faithful.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young said there were two
things she was proud of; "her religion and
her sisters," and warned us against a fault-
finding spirit; she said we have one God,

[Column 2]
one Savior, and work for one purpose, the
establishing of Zion.
	Mrs. J. S. Richards prayed our memories
might be strengthened that we might be
able to retain the good instructions we had
received and profit by them.
	Many of the sisters bore their testimony
to the Gospel work, and the spirit of God
was in our midst, and all felt blessed. The
good instructions cheered every heart. In
the evening we had a parlor entertainment
which was largely attended, and I trust
that Miss Snow and Mrs. Young were as
pleased with their visit as we were. Our
President Mrs. J. S. Richards has gone to
St. George to attend Conference.
				A. M. FRODSHAM, Sec'y.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I am happy to say that our Relief Society
is in a flourishing condition and a good
spirit prevails both in it, and also among
the people in general; there is a great im-
provement here among the young. The
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
is exceedingly prosperous, they hold their
meetings once in two weeks, and manifest
a deep interest in trying to aid and assist
in obeying the counsel of those that are
placed to preside over them. Our Young
Men's Mutual Improvement Association is
also doing well, and a spirit of improve-
ment prevails among the rising generation.
The winter has been very mild with but
very little snow, but we have had consider-
able sickness mostly among the children,
but with good care and the skillful treat-
ment of Mrs. Emeline Rich and others, and
the faith and prayers of the faithful but few
have died. Our Society takes deep interest
in saving up grain, we think it a subject of
vital importance, and although we live in a
climate that is subject to early frosts, and
many have to buy their breadstuff from
year to year and bring it from other settle-
ments, yet we feel a determination to do
what we can to obey the voice of the good
shepherd, knowing that the Lord will not
command His people to do anything that
they cannot perform. It is through obedi-
ence we realize the greatest blessings. Let
us be wise and do all that is required of us,
that we may be prepared for every coming
event, for we know that the nations of the
earth are ripening for destruction, and the
time is near at hand when God will pour
out His judgments upon them with famine
and pestilence. Not only do we hear of war
in foreign lands, but also in our boasted land
of liberty they are divided, and the time
is near at hand when he that will not take
up his sword against his neighbor must
needs flee to Zion for safety. Then let us
be wise and prepared for these things, that
we may be counted wise stewards and be
found with oil in our lamps and numbered
among the wise virgins.
	The EXPONENT is read with deep inter-
est, and is a great advantage to us in this
isolated place, and although we cannot have
the society of our sisters that are visiting
the different settlements, yet we feel the in-
fluence of their good counsel through the
EXPONENT; but we live in hopes when
spring dawns upon us we shall be favored
with a visit from some of our worthy sis-
ters from Salt Lake.
	Praying for your success in the good
work in which you are engaged, I remain
as ever your sister in the Gospel of peace.
			MRS. JULIA P. LINDSAY.
						Pres't.  R. S.

[Column 3]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 19th of March the good people of
Ephraim had a visit from Bro. W. G.
Young, and his kinsman, John Young Jun.
son of John Young Sen. deceased, also Elders
James Works of Manti, and Reuben Alred
of Spring City. A meeting was held at
the sisters Hall at two o'clock, p. m., when
Bro. W. G. Young addressed the assem-
bly and gave many valuable instructions
both to young and old. He particularly
cautioned the young sisters against going
away from home, said they had much bet-
ter stay at home and wear home-spun and
wooden shoes. Counseled the brethren of
whom a number were present, to be ener-
getic in giving to their dwellings a more
home-like appearance. He dwelt earnestly
upon teaching children to speak the truth
at all times. Bro. Works also addressed the
meeting, spoke in a very interesting and
instructive manner, both of the past and of
the future. Bishop Petersen made a few
closing remarks, bore testimony that the
sisters had been a great help to the Bish-
ops; also of their willingness in responding
to the calls made upon them at all times.
At the close of the meeting, Sister Peter-
se[-], our President, called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the brethren, which
met with a hearty response from all.
	With best wishes for your happiness and
the success of the EXPONENT, I am your
sister, Respectfully,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
								Sec'y.

			FAYETTE, SANPETE Co.,
						March 21, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a brief report of our Relief
Society which was organized Sept. 12, 1875
by President John Bartholomew, and Elder
John Metcalf, as follows: Mrs. Jane A.
Brown, president; Mrs. Eliza R. Bartholo-
mew, and Mrs. Polly Bartholomew coun-
selors; Mrs. Charlotle E. Miller, Secretary;
Mrs. Emma Bartholomew, Assistant Sec'y.;
Mrs. Amy Miller, Treasurer. There are
twenty-one members in the society and we
meet every first Thursday in the month to
give in our reports also to receive counsel
and instruction. We also have our sewing
meetings which are well atteuded and the
spirit of God prevails in our midst. We
have not much means at our command, but
still are in a prosperous condition, the Lord
blesses us in all our undertakings to serve
Him. He also blesses us with health and
strength, and willing hearts to perform all
that is required of us.
	We feel that the storing up of grain is of
the Lord, we have on hand quite a quantity
and will add to it as fast as we can. By the
courtesy of our President John Bartholo-
mew, our wheat is stored in his granary till
we can get one built for our own use.
There is a good rock meeting house in this
place for which we, (the R. S.), have made
matts and carpets, we also purchased a
stove and the window furniture, so you see
beloved sisters, that we can always find
something to do; I contemplate introduc-
ing the silk culture.
	Last January on the 22d, Sisters Williams
and Madsen paid us a visit which was a
real feast to us; our desire ever since then
has been for the sisters who have a large
experience to visit us whenever they can
make it convenient.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
			JANE A. BROWN, Pres't.
				AMY MILLER, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		171


[For the EXPONENT.
		A PROMISE.

Mine eyes! mine eyes! rain happy tears!
For ye shall in your mortal life
Look on your Saviour, on your God.
O blessed eyes! that live to-day—
Weep all your sorrow, shade away,
Ye shall look on the living Lord;
Mine eyes! mine eyes! look only up
To heaven's pure and sinless height.
O that no vision dark, profane,
Of stained earth, might intervene
To leave its blemish-touch upon
Their mirror gaze. O blessed eyes!
Weep happy tears! let morning's pure,
And silent night's cool, holy breath
Waft far away all earthly scenes—
For thou shalt look upon thy Christ.
O might it be, that when His eyes
Read through mine own, the heart below,
They shall be clear as pebbled stream
Through wh[-]ch we see the flow.

O blessed hands! and shall ye lie
In the pure clasp of Christ's thy Lord?
Thrill, blessed hands, with holy flame,
That Christ the pure, the victor King,
O're mortal trial, mortal sin,
Who unstained passed,
Alone and weak, this all we meet,
Shall look in mortal eyes and smile,
And bless thee by His own pure touch,
O blessed hands! be pure thy touch,

O happy feet! tread lightly on
O'er thorny paths, tho' weak and sore,
For ye shall tread the blessed earth,
That Christ's own feet shall press upon.
O feet, keep firm and pure thy ways,
On dust too sacred for e'en lips
To press, your steps shall fall.

Thrill eager heart and brain and ears,
Thrill, flesh and blood, and thirsting soul,
Which ne'er shall die,
For ye shall in His presence stand,
And see His face, and hear His voice.
Fear, mortal frame! lest in the light
Of His divine and beauteous eyes,
Which read all life, ye trembling fall,
And burn away beneath their glow.
				AUGUSTA J. CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
							[For the EXPONENT.
			GOOD WORKS.

		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD

						For as the light
	Not only serves to show, but renders us
	Mutually profitable: so our lives,
	In acts exemplary, not only win
	Ourselves good names, but do to others give
	Matter for virtuous deeds, by which we live. 
								CHAPMAN.

	How necessary are good works to the
complete life of a Saint of God; the per-
formance of good works is something to be
desired: if our part in life be ever so low-
ly, our means of doing good for others over
so limited, with what we have in our charge
we may devote ourselves to accomplishing
some good work. If we extend to another
the comfort of loving words in the hours
of sorrow, of doubt, or temptation, we are
even in this sweet ministration doing 
deeds worthy to be engraven in the herald-
ry of good works. There are various ways
and means, by which the truly good may
earn the right to the inheritance which ac-
crues from good works. To bestow the
bounties of the earth upon the poor, is not
the greatest means of doing good works, it
is perhaps the easiest; to give without
thought, of what has been liberally dis-
bursed to us, deserves very little credit; but
to devise ways and means whereby the
poor may provide for themselves, and be- 
come happy through a competence in rec-
ompense for labor, is far more praiseworthy.
It is to some almost an ambition to be ac-
counted generous in giving, but the pru-
dent person who calculates the real benefit

[Column 2]
of a fellow-creature, will, by the ingenuity
of his brain and the magnanimity of
thought, look farther than the giving for
immediate succor, and thus perhaps invent
that which will provide labor and conse-
quently its equivalent in food for the many.
	Good works are great works in the truest
signification of the term. From the small-
est beginnings have the mightiest conse-
quences resulted. A few tiny drops of wa-
ter gush forth from the mountain side,
there has just been sufficient latent force to
propel them from the surface, they trickle
down the slope and are replenished by rain
and moisture in their course, and other
diminutive streams flow into the narrow
bed they have formed, and unite their cur-
rents together, accumulating more and
more as their path is ever onward, until
they stretch away into the vast distance
and become powerful in and of themselves,
and the great commerce of cities is borne
on their waters; thus controlling in part
the riches and substance of masses of peo-
ple; and in the final end of their course
mingling the mighty river of water with
the great abyss which holds the nations in
awe by the force of its might. Thus may
the good works of the Saints united togeth-
er, carry them into the great ocean of pow-
er, that will control the elements of life,
and establish the stupendous institutions
which are necessary to concentrate the ef-
forts of all man and womankind into one
grand and sublime purpose, blending and
harmonizing all their various powers and
attributes to make one glorious whole,
where every part and portion will assist in
forming a connecting link in the chain
which will eventually bind together all who
love God and do good works.
	We find many passages in the Holy Scrip-
tures certifying of the good works and in-
fluence of women as well as men. We are
all capable of doing good works; it is the
power of good deeds that makes one’s life
sublime. It matters not how lowly our
sphere, we make it noble by the manner in
which we live. We cannot be too particu-
lar how we order our lives. One of the 
Apostles in former days, in his exhortation
to the saints, said, “And let us consider one
another, to provoke unto love, and to good
works; not forsaking the assembling of our-
selves together.” By meeting togeth-
er and interchanging thoughts and ideas
we become in possession of a wider knowl- 
edge of human nature, and of the attributes,
powers and gifts of different persons, and
are enabled to understand what the causes
are of various individual peculiarities, and
thus our views are enlarged, our sympa-
thies increased to do good to our fellow-
creatures, and we are better prepared to
invest ourselves with that mantle of charity
which will make us more capable of living
by the golden rule of our Saviour, “Do un-
to others etc.”
	Good works, however humble, as surely
shed a sweet fragrance through the whole
life of a person, as does the violet perfume
the entire atmosphere which surrounds it.
What is it that comforts us in looking back?
It is the recollection of good deeds. It
is that we have ministered all in our power
to the welfare and true happiness of oth-
ers. These reflections are a solace in every
lonely hour.
	Let us cultivate that love which is exalt-
ing in its nature, which tends to strength-
en every good purpose. Seek to develop in
ourselves, and call out in those around us
the strong affections, out of which spring
earnest faith, which incites to good works
and heroic courage in the pathway of right;

[Column 3]
a steadfastness to withstand all temptations
to wrong-doing; these will promote the
growth of sterling integrity of character
and nobility of soul, that will enable us to
endure all the vicissi udes of life, and yet
retain the true womanly characteristics
which men are so afraid will be lost in
maintaining public positions, and institu-
tions for the higher development of wo-
man’s capabilities.
	Woman need lose none of her grace and
sweetness by making herself useful outside
the home circle, if she be sufficiently forti-
fied within. It will be too antagonistic to
her sensitive nature, to overstep the neces-
sary bounds, and go farther than duty 
prompts, for love of notoriety.
	The theory very generally conceded
places woman upon an equal footing with
man, that is, if man is stronger physically 
and mentally, woman has the advantage in
being morally and spiritually man's su-
perior.
	I had no idea of arguing equality of sex
in this article, but only to advocate good
works among women. This seems to be
an era of woman’s works, and everywhere
woman seems awakening to an interest in
all the prevailing subjects of the times. It
has been said by inspired men, that “there
will be more women saved than men,” and
their good works will be the means of their
salvation. Good works, according to the
Scriptures, is the object of our creation.
"For we are his workmanship created in
Christ Jesus unto good Works."
	Salt Lake City, April 9, 1877.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.

	Association Hall, Fifteenth and Chestnut
streets, was thronged on the 15th of March,
by a brilliant and interested audience, it be-
ing the Twenty-fifth Annual Commence-
ment of the Women's Medical College of
Pennsylvania.
	The degrees of M. D. were conferred by
the President, T. Morris Perot, upon the
following graduates:
	Franes N. Baker, Martha M. De Graw,
Elizabeth W. Smith, and Mary A. Young,
from Pennsylvania; Josephine G. Davis,
and Henrietta B. Woolston, of New Jersey;
Caroline S. Pease and Ella M. Whitaker, of
New York, Cornelia L. Boardman, of Mass-
achusetts; Elizabeth E. L. Forbes, of Dela-
ware; Elizabeth A. Follansbee, of Califor-
nia; Romania B. Pratt, of Utah; Elvira
Bainfer and Elizabeth T. Richards of Mich-
igan, and H. Josephine Varnum, of Maine.
	The spring course of 1877 commenced on
Monday, March 19, and will continue ten
weeks. Its chief purpose is to procure for
the students of the Women's Medical Col-
lege of Pennsylvania, all the advantages
of those improved methods of study in-
troduced into medical institutions in this
country the last few years. The essential
features of these are : First, a progressive
course of study; second, an increased
amount of demonstrative teaching, with
practical work on the part of the students.
—Woman's Words.


EARLY IN the month of May the cere-
mony of unveiling the statue of Fitz
Green Halleck will take place in Central
Park, New York. Whittier will give a
poem, and William Gullen Bryant will de-
liver an address. This statue is the first
ever raised to an American poet, and will
be near those of Shakespeare and Walter
Scott.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,	Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 15, 1877.


"IN SEASON AND OUT OF SEASON."

	This passage of Scripture will apply to the
work now laying before women to accomplish,
and they will find that it will not do to stand
still and wait for some one else to do, but
everywhere be earnest in the work before
them. It has been often remarked that there
is too much talking among women, but in the
present day there seems to be a necessity for
it. "To do more and talk less," is another fav-
orite phrase of many, but to add works to
preaching is better. Women have many things
to do now-a-days, and it is positively neces-
sary to do a vast amount of talking, as well as
brain, and head work. Executive ability is in
good demand, but there is hardly a premium
for it.
	Talk to the purpose is perhaps applicable,
but talking of some sort has evidently got to
be done; and as men have not time to do all the
talking, women must do some of it. "In sea-
son and out of season, in the house and by the
way," in every place where good can be accom-
plished, women should be willing to bring in-
to requisition all the talents they po[-]sess to
bring about the good results for which they are
laboring. It will not do to be too sensitive to
criticism; it is very evident there is some real
work accomplished by women or the public
would not be making such a noise about the
woman cause. Wherever any material good
is effected there is always opposition. The
work now being done among women is some-
thing really wonderful, and while the real ben-
efit is apparent there is little need to care for
what "Madame Grandy" says. Above all wo-
men on the earth the Latterday-Saints should
be earnest and zealous, in season and out of
season, they have the greatest purpose in la-
boring, To lay a sure foundation for them-
selves and children, that they may not be left
without resources when the judgments of God
shall come upon the nations and when Baby-
lon shall fall.
	There is no danger of saying or doing too
much in a good cause, started in the right di-
rection. The women of Utah are moving for-
ward to establish and sustain every depart-
ment of home industry, manufacture and im-
provement, that is, or can be made practicable
for women. They not only talk, but work, and
add faith to works; and may God also add His
blessing to every earnest endeavor.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
	GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ST.
				GEORGE
	This year a new epoch seems to have
opened in the history of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have
held their General Conference in a Temple
built and consecrated to God and the adminis-
trations of the holy priesthood upon the earth.
The two stands opposite each other, were oc-
cupied by those bearing the priesthood of the
order of Melchizedec and Aaron. In the first
stand sat President Brigham Young, his coun-
selors and the brethren of the Twelve and
some others. In the opposite one Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter and some other Bishops. Presi-
dent B; Young opened the conference by giv-
ing out the hymn. President D. H. Wells of-
fered the dedicatory prayer, the choir then
sang, "High on the mountain top a banner is
unfurled." The Conference was then address-
ed by Elder George Q. Cannon and President
Brigham Young. The combined choir sang
"And it shall come to pass in the last days."
	In the afternoon of the first day Elder Jos-
eph F. Smith, and President John W. Young
addressed the congregation, after which Pres-
ident Brigham Young said he desired to preach
in terms not long but loud. In all our deal we
should do unto others as we would have oth-
ers do unto us. The Choir sang "Oh praise the
Lord all ye nations."
	The second day of Conference in the morn-
ing Elder C. C. Rich and Elder Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the people and Elder George Q.
Cannon read a long list of names of mission-
aries appointed to different localities. Some to
Europe, some to the United States and some to
Arizona, after which he made a few remarks
and President Brigham Young said to the
Conference, that the purer the Latter-day
Saints were, the greater would be the rage of
the wicked but the less would be their power
to persecute. The choir sang, "As the hart
panteth after the water brooks."
	In the afternoon of the second day of Con-
ference, after the usual regular exercises, Eld-
er George Q. Cannon read another list of
names of missionaries who were called to pro-
claim the Gospel in different parts of the world
and fourteen Elders whose mission it was to
study the Spanish language.
	It was also moved, seconded and unanimous-
ly carried that the Relief Societies throughout
the Church take a mission to raise silk and do
all in their power to clothe themselves and
their families.

[Column 2]
	Elder Cannon also presented the authorities
of the Church who were unanimously sus-
tained by vote of the Conference. Elder Frank-
lin D. Richards, and Elder Erastus Snow oc-
cupied the afternoon, at the close the choir
sang "Behold O God, our shield and look upon
the face of thine anointed."
	Sunday morning third day of Conference,
Elder Brigham Young Jr., and Elder John
Taylor addressed the congregation. President
Brigham Young spoke to the Conference on
the subject of union. He announced that the
seats of the congregation would be reve[-]sed
and Bishop Edward Hunter would administer
the sacrament. Elder George Q. Cannon pre-
sented the names of some more missionaries.
Sunday afternoon Bishop Edward Hunter first
addressed the Conference, he was followed by
Bishop Edwin D. Wooley; then President
Brigham Young said "we will adjourn this
Conference from this house to the New Taber-
nacle in Salt Lake City, commencing at 10
o'clock in the morning of October sixth next."
	The choir sung "How beautiful upon the
mountains," the congregation then arose and
sung, "The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction pronounced by President Brigham
Young asking the blessing of God upon all
there assembled, and the good and honest in
heart all over the earth; that the spirit of God
might rest down upon the Temple, that an-
gels might visit it, and all who ministered
there for the living and the dead might feel
the holy influence of the power of God.


TWO DAYS MEETING AT ST.
GEORGE.

	Previous to the General Conference a two-
days meeting was held according to appoint-
ment in the St. George Temple. President
Brigham Young, and his Counselors, eleven of


the Quorum of the Twelve, presiding Bishop,
Edward Hunter, and many High Priests, El-
ders and Bishops, and a large congregation of
the saints were there assembled to worship
God in a Temple erected to His Most Holy
Name.
	The spirit of the Lord was poured out upon
them in rich abundance, and the sermons de-
livered upon that occasion were replete with
wise instructions and counsel, suited to the
condition of the people at the present day, and
great power rested upon those who spoke and
prayed, and good order prevailed. Elder J. T.
D. McAllister was elected president of St.
George Stake of Zion by unanimous vote.
The saints in that country have had much to
endure, but the Lord is blessing them above
others, in that they have a Temple completed
into which they may enter to worship God,
and call upon Him, and where they can minis-
ter for the living and the dead.
	We are indebted to the "Deseret News" for
information in regard to these meetings, and
the Conference at St. George.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received the pamphlet published
by A. M. Musser, and O. F. Whitney, in Col-
umbia, Pa. on Mormonism and particularly
explaining the principle of Plural Marriage.
We would recommend it as valuable to the
reading public of Utah as it brings many good,
and wholesome arguments in favor of that pe-
culiar institution of Marriage.
	MRS. M. E. Randall had a juvenile enter-
tainment in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Thursday and Friday evenings called The
Floral and Little Old Woman's Concert, Her
pupils who were all quite young did credit to
themselves and their training. The princi-
pal feature was the Zephyrs, which consisted
of thirty pupils, all at once chanting forth the
Lord's prayer.
	WE ARE pleased to be able to announce to
the public that the Treatise on Silk Raising is
now ready for sale. It gives those who desire
instructions, from the formation of the eggs,
through all the various stages to the
spinning of cocoons. It describes minutely
all the particulars, and the information has
been collected from the most reliable sources,
and practical experience of persons engaged in
sericulture. The Deseret Silk Association have
compiled this pamphlet very carefully for the
benefit of those who are uninformed in these
matters, and every item has been carefully ar-
ranged. We recommend it as invaluable, for
it contains the real and positive facts briefly
stated and adapted for use. All Relief So-
cieties should supply themselves with a suffi-
cient number, as they now have the special
mission of silk-raising by unanimous vote of
the General Conference. The pamphlets on
Silk Culture are for sale at the Woman's Com-
mission House. price ten cents each.
	It is now clearly demonstated that a superior
quality of silk can be made of the elements of
Utah. We were shown specimens of the most
excellent quality and colors of skein and floss


[Column 1]

silk, spun and colored by Miss Rockwood of
this city. Mrs. Robinson of Farmington is
now weaving very elegant dress silk. The
loom for weaving ribbons is nearly completed
at Bountiful and Mrs. Wadoup of that place
understands the weaving of ribbons in the
hand loom. There are many ribbon-weavers
here from Europe but most of them have been
accustomed to the machinery run by steam,
which has not yet been introduced here.
	Mrs. Susan Stringam and Miss M. A. Rock-
wood, 13 Ward are prepared to take pupils and
teach them the art of reeling the silk from the
cocoons, at $l0,00 apiece. Persons who are in-
tending to commence raising silk, would do
well to take advantage of this oppprtunity.
	AMONG THE home manufactures, we are
pleased to announce many useful chemical ar-
ticles for domestic use by R. Matthews & Co.
Every article used by them in manufacturing,
is subjected to chemical examination by Prof.
J. L. Barfoot and prepared under his direction.
They have the Bath Sand Tablet which we can
recommend as cleansing, and can be used with-
out injuring the most sensitive skin. Baby,
Toilet and Shaving soap of superior qualities,
also scouring-soap for woodwork and all house-
hold purposes. They also manufacture the Es-
sence of Jamaca Ginger and other essences,
which have been tested by many as equal
to any manufactured elsewhere. Writing fluid,
and boot-blacking of excellent quality and free
from adulterations, also waterproof paste which
by applying to boots and shoes, wet feet
may be prevented and render the leather more
pliable and endurable.
	It is to the best interest of the Latter-day
Saints to patronize all home manufactures.
	We would recommend the Relief Societies
to form Clubs and send to the Woman's Com-
mission House of this city, and get the above
articles at wholesale rates.
	THE WOMAN'S Commission House, estab-
lished in this city under the auspices of the
Relief Society, and called the Relief Society
Woman's Mercantile Association, is now doing
business in all the departments of dry goods
home productions. This enterprise has requir-
ed a great amount of indomitable energy and
perseverance on the part of those who have
been active and efficient workers in the cause;
and the sisters of the Relief Society through-
out the entire city and its vicinity should not
forget to whom they are indebted for the suc-
cess of the institution thus far. It is still in
its infancy, scarcely six months since it was
established, and it needs the practical suoport
of the people, to ensure its future success. We
sincerely hope the presidents and officers of
Relief Societies will bear in mind that this in-
stitution represents their interests; and do
whatever is in their power to sustain it, and
those who devote their time solely for the pub-
lic good without renumeration. Complaints
have been made by women in times past, that
there was no place where home made work
could be offered for sale, and fairly represented;
now let the sisters be earnest in sustaining a
place where all have equal opportunity to dis-
pose of such articles.
	SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation met persuant to adjournment Friday,
Apr. 2, at the Firemen's Hall.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler in the chair.
	Mr. P. A- Schettler said the season was fast
approaching for commencing to raise silk
worms, and by present appearances we would
have to begin much earlier this season than
usual, as the trees were already budding out.
He thought the interest in silk culture was

[Column 2]

progressing, as there were a great many mak-
ing inquiries and planting out trees. He had
had confidence that silk could be raised here
for many years, and now it was demonstrated
beyond a doubt, that it not only could be raised
here, but could be manufactured. He strongly
urged that the people plant out trees as that
was one of the most essential points. He said
our prospects were good for getting machinery
for spinning and twisting, and reported that
the Treatise on silk raising was ready and could
be got by applying at the Woman's Store, Old
Constitution Buildings, or of the Secretary,
second house east of Fireman's Hall. They
are ten cents per copy.
	Mr. Smith, of Bountiful, said he advised all
that could to plant out trees and cuttings. The
time would come when the people would wish
that they had planted out mulberry trees.
Silk raising and manufacture would yet form
one of the greatest sources of wealth to this
community and give many people employ-
ment. We ought to encourage our children
in it and by so doing we would be teaching
them something useful, instead of their being
left to wander about the streets in idleness.
He had planted out from five to six hundred
cuttings.
	Mrs. White of Mill Creek, said that her
daughter was learning to reel silk. She had
planted out a quantity of cuttings and was
going to plant out some trees.
	Mrs. Morgan of Mill Creek, was going to try
and raise some silk worms this season.
	Very interesting and encouraging remarks
were made by Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Higgs, Mrs.
Hardy and others, and all felt encouraged to
do their parts.
	Mr. Schettler said that to those who had
children who wished to try and raise some
worms he would give some eggs in small quan-
tities.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
May at this place, at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		173


For the EXPONENT.
	TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

BELOVED SISTERS:
	I wish to call your attention to the mission
given to all Branches of the Relief Society by
the General Conference held in the Temple in
St. George; which mission is, THE RAISING OF
SILK. This important branch of Home Indus-
try has been long neglected, although through
the efforts of a few, sufficient proof has been
given of the practicability of its success.
	Millions of additional trees should be pro-
duced. Now is the time for setting cuttings
which should be attended to immediately, to
take advantage of this year's growth. What
the sisters cannot do with their own hands,
they may bring to pass as Solomon "built the
Temple."
					More anon.
	Your fellow-laborer in the great cause—the
establishment of Zion.
						ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, April 10, 1877.


I WOULD say then, most empthatically,
"Bring forward the young woman." The
next score of years is in her hands, and in
ours only as we lift up hers.  For us it is
now the cheerful endurance of patient pil-
grimage; for the young woman it is the
struggle, step by step, for new footholds.
The future of Woman is with her, and not
with us, whose eastward falling shadows
are so rapidly lengthening.
			—Prof. Maria Mitchell.


BITTER SWEETNESS.

		"If none were sick and none were sad,
		What service could we render?
		I think if we were always glad,
		We scarcely could be tender;
		Did our beloved never need
		Our patient ministration,
		Earth would grow cold and miss indeed
		Its sweetest consolation,
		If sorrow never claimed our heart,
		And every wish was granted
		Patience would die and hope depart,
		Life would be disenchanted."

	This verse, one among many that we
find without name to indicate ownership,
struck my attention as containing a senti-
ment worthy of study and reflection to
those who have not yet learned the art of
extracting sweetness from the bitter expe-
riences of life, who have not learned to
look upon evil as a principle that is neces-
sary to happiness, and yet we all know that
the tenderest and most beautiful sentiments
of the human heart would be dormant and
unknown were they not created and nur-
tured by the hand of sorrow.
	We cannot sympathize where there is
nothing but joy, we cannot be gratified
when we do not need the patient ministra-
tion that springs from pity and forbearing
love.
	A little child leaves its mother's knee
and wanders out into the garden, a new
world to the wondering infant, everything
may be bright and beautiful, and in its joy-
ous playfulness and unrestrained frolic
mother is soon forgotten, but even while it
plays and gambols, filled with all the joy its
little heart can hold, the fair fingers are
stained, the white garments become soiled,
and then perchance the little foot strikes
some hidden rock, and there is pain, the
first thought, the first cry is for mother, a
few sweet words of sympathy, or a caress,
and in her arms the tired infant sleeps, per-
haps sobs for awhile although sheltered and
and safe, and cleansed from the impurities
of its heedless wanderings; what was it
that drove the child to its surest, never-fail-
ing refuge?—pain, and too often we fail to
remember and draw near to our Creator un-
til smitten as the little child, with a need
of care that earth has failed to give, and a
pain beyond the power of mortal to touch;
it is then that our higher nature rises up
and we reach our hearts and hands heaven-
ward, with thanks for the pain and evil that
has brought us nearer that divine love and
mercy that is ever reaching down to earth,
and searching for the stricken and down-
cast children of sorrow, and even as it nev-
er fails to comfort the hearts, and uphold
the hands stretched out for aid, so should
our hearts respond to every call for sympa-
thy and care and our hearts bestow bless-
ings, for in blessing we are blest, and in
comforting we are comforted.
							MILICENT.


THE title of Duke was introduced into
England by Edward III, but was limited to
princes of the blood royal until the reign of
Edward VI. The title became oxtinct un.
der Queen Elizabeth in 1572, but James I.
revived it again. A duke may qualify.
eight chaplains, and a duchess two.


Don't look out of railroad car windows
when they are open. The habit is exceed-
ingly injurious to the eyes, as the sharp
draft of air caused by rapid motion, badly
affects the optic nerve. Several cases of
total blindness have recently occurred in
England from this cause.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FROM LANCASTER CITY, PA.
 It will not be my lot to record the adven-
tures of a Sinbad, a Gulliver, a Goldsmith,
nor a Humboldt; for though in a strange
country, to me, and possessed of one of
those far reaching imaginations with which
Shakespeare invests "lunatics, lovers and
poets," my conscience is not so elastic, nor
the field of observation so extraordinary, as
to permit me to startle you either by fact
or fiction. I may however tell a little of
what I see and hear during my travels, and
the relation will serve to inform the minds
of those who have never been in this sec-
tion of our country, and to refresh the
memories of all who have seen for them-
selves. In the city of Lancaster stands a
monument, a noble and imposing column of
R. I. granite, inscribed with the names of
the principal battles fought during the Re-
bellion, and surmounted by an image of the
goddess of liberty, holding a shield and a
drawn sword; it stands on a foundation
about two feet high, and at each of the four
corners is placed on a pedestal a statue, rep-
resenting respectively, the navy, infantry,
cavalry and artillery. The whole is sur-
rounded by an iron picket fence, and com-
memorates the achievements of the soldiers
of Pennsylvania during the late war.
	In the Woodward Hill Cemetery, also
sleeps the mortal remains of James Buchan-
an, the 15th President of the United States.
The man who would have exterminated a
whole people, is himself the inmate  of a
narrow chamber in the halls of death, while
that same people under the same leader-
ship as then, have grown still greater, and
stand to-day as an indisputable assurance
to all, that truth and justice will eventually
triumph in spite of anything on earth.
Here also is the tomb of Thaddeus Stevens,
the great Equal Rights man, buried in a
cemetery founded by Martin Shriener. On
his tomb is the following inscription: “I re-
pose in this quiet, secluded spot, not from
any natural preference for solitude, but find-
ing other cemeteries limited as to race, by
charter rules, I have chosen this that I
might illustrate in my death, the principles
which I advocated through a long life--
Equality of man before his Creator.” These
men's characters furnish us a contrast in
life and death, which is a good lesson on
human nature.
	This city numbers in population 27,000,
and presents on the main streets a brisk and
business like appearance; the streets and
alleys, as is common in the east, are rather
contracted, but are relieved by many fine
buildings which adorn each side and attract
the attention of all who admire architec-
ture.
 The penitentiary awoke my interest, not
from any sympathy I feel for places of that
character, but from the peculiar and antique
design on which it is built. Its ponderous
piles of masonry, castellated front, towers
and turrets, perforated with narrow iron
barred windows, forcibly suggest the me-
daeval and lance breaing ages of the past,
and the strongholds of the notorious Rob-
ber Counts of Germany.
 Pennsylvania, or this portion of it, in the
summer time, unquestionably, presents a
beautiful picture; the nature of the coun-
try, with its farms, orchards, woods, hills,
and rustic byways and turnpikes, show
that the milder seasons will clothe it in pic-
turesque loveliness and grandeur.
 In this county is found the Gap Nickel
Mine, the only one of that kind being
worked in the United States.
 Luzerne Co. differs considerably from
this region. There are located the great
coal mines which, with the iron ones, con-
tribute principally to the wealth of the
State, and to the needs of the surrounding
country. As is quite natural, everything
there is of a less romantic order, and more
crude and matter of fact; though the Lack-
awanna Valley, with the broad Susquehanna
sweeping through it, under a summer sky,
might vie with the older and more fertile
display of scenery.
 Nearly all the laboring classes are miners,
and many, from the frequent periods of
compulsory idleness, consequent to the fluc-
tuations of the market, the low wages, and
high prices of provisions, are reduced to the
depths of poverty.
 The mines and railroads are controlled by
the rich, who scruple not to use the power
in their hands, often, for the oppression of
the poor.
 It is a consolation to know that God
is no respecter of persons, and that the
time is close at hand when all will be
judged, when "many that are first shall be
last, and the last shall be first."
I heard it stated that the coal indications
in Luzerne Co. showed enough of that arti-
cle to last a population of 50,000,000–60,000
years. It is the anthracite quality, and
much superior to that found in Utah.
 A pleasing characteristic of the society in
the country towns, is that freedom and
courtesy to strangers, so common in the
west. Every one you meet salutes you
with a pleasant good morning, or, good eve-
ning, though you may never have met be-
fore. The major portion of this communi-
ty is of German birth or descent; they are,
as a rule, good, reliable citizens, and vote
the Republican ticket. The memory of
Gen. Lee's raids, during the war, has not
entirely died away.
	No more at present,
			Yours respectfully,
							O. F. W.


[Column 1]

LUCRETIA MOTT.

	Mrs. Mott has been spoken of as a
leading woman of the first century of the
Republic, but to our mind she is a leading
woman of the second, and of all the centur-
ies that are to follow. It is hard to say
where the influence of any person truly
great and good begins or ends. But it is
absolutely certain that long after younger
hands have grasped the fallen mantle, the
blessed influence which has been wrought
out in a noble life of self-abnegation, must
and does continue, through all time.
	LUCRETIA MOTT, the woman philanthrop-
ist, humanitarian, and Quaker preacher,
was born in the Island of Nantucket, Jan-
uary 3, 1793. Descended from the Cof-
fins and Macys on her father's side, and
of the Folgers on the mothe's, and through
them related to Dr. Franklin, she comes of
honorable and renowned ancestry.
	She said of herself that "she was brought
up to be useful in the family." In 1804
Mrs. Mott removed to Boston and studied
in the public and private schools there, and
subsequently she studied in the Friends
boarding-school in Duchess County, N. Y.
—becoming a teacher there when fifteen.
At eighteen, she married James Mott of
New York; removing to Philadelphia
where she has since resided, happy in the 
love, affection, and reverence of her daugh-
ter and son-in-law and their children. Her
husband died full of years and honors, in
1868.
	Regarding the work to which she has no-
bly devoted her life, Mrs. Mott has placed

[Column 2]

on record the following: "The unequal
condition of woman in society early im-
pressed my mind. Learning while at
school that the charge for the education of
girls was the same as that of boys, and
when they became teachers women received
but half as much as men for their services,
the injustice was so apparent that I resolved
to claim for myself all that an impartial
Creator had bestowed. At twenty-five,
surrounded by a little family and many
cares, I felt called to, and engaged in, the
ministry—receiving every encouragement.
Temperance Reform early engaged my at-
tention. The oppression of the working
classes by existing monopolies, and the low-
ness of wages, and I have attended many
meetings and heard their appeals with com-
passion, and a great desire for a radical
change in the system that makes the rich,
richer, and the poor poorer. The various
associations and communities tending to
a greater equality of condition have had
from me hearty God-speed." This noble
utterance none can doubt.
	To her labor in the cause of reform is
more attributable the uplifting of the
down-trodden and oppressed everywhere,
than to any other living woman.
	We visited Mrs. Mott in her own home
one day last week. The season of the year
was less propitious than it would have been
later—but we could easily understand how
charming and harmonious its associations
must be. The house, highly characteristic
of Quaker simplicity, has been modernized,
the new corresponding with the old. She
received us very kindly in the large com-
fortably furnished parlor, and after some
few minutes conversation with herself and
daughter, she invited us into her cosy lit-
tle sitting-room, sacred to her hours of read-
ing and writing and working. For the
busy hands and wonderful brain are never
idle. Indeed, in the matter of work this
venerable and beloved woman commends
by her example the lesson of industry to
every young girl who would achieve honor
and distinction. Wood fires are used in
the house which she frequently builds from
choice, deeming no occupation too humble
that is greatly done. Though at such an
advanced age, it must not be thought that
our venerable friend takes no interest in the
question of the day. Quite the contrary. Of
President Hayes' policy as now understood,
and of himself personally, she spoke with
much approbation—deprecating all efforts
to keep alive sectional feelings. We took
leave of her with much regret—tempered
with the fact that when the roses bloom
we hope to visit her again. Tender in
heart, guileless in soul, brilliant in intellect,
this wonderful woman still remains to us—
coming regularly into the city to Wednes-
day Meetings.
	Though now in her eighty-fifth year, she
is as keen of comprehension, as strong men-
tally, as in her earlier working days, the
central thought of an appreciative circle.
	Martha Coffin Wright, her sister who is
also known as a philanthropist and reform-
er, says of her: "The striking traits of Lu-
cretia's character are remarkable energy
that defies even time, unswerving conscien-
tiousness, and all those characteristics that
are summed up in the few words, "Love to
man and love to God. Mrs. Soule says:
"Birth made Victoria a queen, but her own
pure, sweet life makes Lucretia Mott a
queen—queen of a realm on which the sun
never sets—the realm of humanity. if ev-
er any woman ever 'inherited the earth' it
is this blessed Quaker woman." The treat-
ment received by the delegates to the con-


vention in 1840, in London, declared Mrs.
Mott, "brought the woman question more
into view, and an increase of interest in the
subject was the result. In this work I have
engaged heart and hand, as my labors,
travels, and public discourses evince. The
misrepresentation, ridicule and abuse heap-
ed upon this, as well as other reforms, do
not in the least deter me from my duty.
To those whose name is cast out as evil for
the truth's sake, it is a small thing to be
judged of man's judgment."—Woman's
Words.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		175


PREJUDICE.

	There is every day ample opportunity to 
observe the manifold evils arising from
prejudice. How often do some of us allow
ourselves to speak evil or slanderous things
of those who have proved themselves
friends in the truest sense. We are too will-
ing to believe evil of our fellow beings; and
by hearing one who is bitter against anoth-
other, and has allowed prejudice to mis-
lead judgment, slander them, we fancy the
persons to be really as they were represent-
ed, and unfit associates for us, willing to be-
lieve without trying to find out the real
truth for ourselves; thus often wrongfully
prejudiced, keeping at a distance those
who are misrepresented, and committing a
grievous sin before God who has said
"judge not lest ye be judged;" How very
careful we should be never to say a word to
injure the character of any person. We
may do more harm in a moment by utter-
ing something which in reality has no
foundation, than we can atone for in a life
time. A thorough investigation should be
gone through before we are prepared to
give our opinion, and then we should be
careful in regard to speaking upon any prin-
ciple; no matter how objectionable others
may find it, we are not capable of declaring
its errors simply because others do not ad-
mire it, or cannot comprehend it. Who
have been the persecutors of the Latter-day
Saints? Not those who with unbiased
minds have studied the principles revealed
in our holy religion; if unwilling to believe,
at least they would cease to try to injure.
Our real enemies are those who through
prejudice at first have allowed their hearts
to become embittered, and perhaps aided by
a wicked disposition they were willing to
rush blindfold, not caring how much in-
justice was done by their words and acts.
While the people of the world are filled with
prejudice, should not we as saints strive to
overcome this narrow mindedness. I have
heard the remark that in days gone by,
every man was called a gentleman until
proved a rogue, but now-a-days it would
seem as if all were considered rogues until
proved to be gentlemen. We should try to
be ever just. We had better by far say
more good than deserved, than more evil
than is true. Let us guard our own
tongues, discipline our own thoughts, see
that our hearts are free from impurity, and
we will have no time to encourage evil or
listen to slander.
					MARY STUART.
	Hyde Park, March 14, 1877.


R. S. RREPORT.

EDITOR EXPONENT;
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of the 16th ward, S. L. City, held
their third Annual Meeting Jan. 24, 1877.
Miss E. R. Suow, Mrs. P Woodruff, Mrs.


B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs.
M. P. Young addressed the meeting, most
of them remarked that they had met with
us at our organization, and previous annu-
al meetings, and noticed the progress the
young ladies had made; spoke upon the
principles of Celestial Marriage, Word of
Wisdom, and Retrenchment and urged up-
on the young ladies the necessity of trying
to bring about a reform among their asso-
ciates and of shunning the company of in-
temperate, profligate men; spoke of the
evils of round dancing, and extrava-
gance in dress; gave much good and wise
counsel and instruction and bore faithful
testimonies to the work of God.
	Bishop F. Kesler remarked he was glad
the Bishops had helps, it was good to have
these Associations, for missionaries are
needed at home. Said we should do all we
could to stem the downward course of the
youth, and should be careful in the teaching
of our children. Alluded to the calamities
that are coming on the earth, and the rev-
elations of God concerning the redemption
of the living and the dead; and how to pu-
rify our tabernacles by shunning those
things which are forbidden. Said that Sis-
ter Snow and others were doing a good
work and they would have their reward;
gave other valuable instructions and prayed
God to bless both young and old in the name
of Jesus.
	President Miss Mary Williams then invi-
ted all the young ladies present who were
not members to meet with us and join our
society. Our meetings are held every Tues-
day at one o'clock.
	Meeting then adjourned, after which all
the officers and members, and the visitors
named above, the officers of the Relief So-
ciety, and some others, repaired to the res-
idence of Mrs. M. J. Thompson where a ta-
ble was spread with refreshments. Miss E.
R. Snow then blessed the Young Ladies
Association of this Ward and prayed that
they might prosper.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the good
of Zion; we subscribe ourselves, your sis-
ters.
	MARY WILLIAMS, Pres't.
	EMILY S. ELLSMORE, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S WISDOM AND VIRTUE.

 Mr. Ruskin, in a recent lecture, thus
spoke of woman, as illustrated by the hero-
ines of Shakespeare:
   “The catastrophe of every play is caused
always by the folly or fault of man; the re-
demption, if there be any, is by the wis-
dom and virtue of a woman, and failing
that, there is none. The catastrophe of
King Lear is owing to his own want of
judgment, his impatient vanity, his misun-
derstanding of his children; the virtue of
his one true daughter would have saved
him from all the injuries of the others, if
he had not cast her away from him; as it is,
she all but saves him.
  “Of Othello, I need not trace the tale;
nor the one weakness of his so mighty
love; nor the inferiority of his perceptive
intellect to that even of the second woman
character in the play, the Emilia who dies
in wild testimony against his error: 'Oh,
murderous coxcomb! What should such a
fool do with so good a wife?' In Romeo
and Juliet, the wise and entirely brave
stratagem of the wife is brought to ruinous
issue by the reckless impatience of her hus-
band. In 'Winter's Tale,' and 'Cymbeline,’
the happiness and existence of two princely
households lost through long years, and


imperiled to the death by the folly and ob-
stinacy of the husbands, and redeemed at
last by the queenly patience and wisdom of
the wives. In Measure for Measure,' the
injustice of the judges, and the corrupt
cowardice of the brother, are opposed to
the victorious truth and adamantine purity
of a woman.
	In 'Coriolanus,' the mothers' counsel act-
ed upon in time, would have saved her son
from all evil; his momentary forgetfulness
of it is his ruin; her prayer, at last granted,
saves him—not indeed, from death, but
from the curse of living, as the destroyer
of his country. And what shall I say of
Julia, constant against the fickleness of a
lover, who is a mere wicked child; of He-
lena, against the petulance and insult of a
careless youth; of the patience of Hero,
the passion of Beatrice, and the calmly devo-
ted wisdom of the "unlessoned girl,' who ap-
pears among the helplessness, the blindness,
and the vindicitive passions of men, as a
gentle angel, to save merely by her pres-
ence, and defeat the worst intensities of
crime by her smile?
	Observe, further, among all the principal
figures in Shakespeare's plays, there is only
one weak woman—Ophelia; and it is be-
cause she fails Hamlet at the critical mo-
ment, and is not and cannot in her nature
be, a guide to him when he needs her most;
from that all the bitter catastrophe follows.
Finally, though there are three wicked wo-
men among the principal figures—Lady
Macbeth, Regan, and Goneril, they are left
at once to be frightful exceptions to the or-
dinary laws of life; fatal in their influence
also in proportion to the power for good
which they have abandoned. Such, in
broad light, is Shakespeare's testimony to
the position and character of woman in hu-
man life. He represents them as infallibly
faithful and wise counselors, incorruptibly
just and pure examples—strong always to
sanctify, even when they cannot save."—
Pulpit of the Day.


WHY EDITORS DO NOT COMMIT 
				SUICIDE.

 The New York correspondent of The
Cincinnati Gazette, in a recent letter says:
 While speaking of suicides as a feature
in human experience, I am led to the re-
markable fact that editorial life exhibits so
general an exception.  While we have had
instances of self-inflicted death among law-
yers, bankers and mechanics, such a case
has not occurred among the journalists in 
this city.  One may reasonably inquire
what is the cause of this exception?  They
labor intensely, and are generally ill-paid,
and they have a full share of life's hard-
ships, which they endure until their change
comes in the course of nature.  I can give
no other reason for this except that the pro-
fession is constantly busy, and works with
an approval of conscience, since it works
for public weal.  Editors, in fact, are so oc-
cupied with a range of thought embracing
puclic interest that they have little time to
think about themselves.  Walter Scott
made the remark after he had reached
bankruptcy that nothing saved him from
insanity save his habit of writing. His
mind was thus led away from the contem-
plation of his miseries.  Journalists are so
engaged in chronicling the woes of others,
that they lose sight of their own."


AN INCALCULABLE WEIGHT.—The weight
of indignation.


176		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	AT a recent meeting of the Citizen's Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia, the fol-
lowing resolutions were passed:
	Resolved, the women of this nation can-
not consistently rejoice in the success of the
Republican, or deplore the defeat of the
Democrats, both parties being indifferent,
if not opposed to the advance and estab-
lishment of equal rights.
	Resolved, that the women of Philadel-
phia have no good reason to expect that
their rights will be regarded by either of 
the late candidates for Mayor, neither hav-
ing uttered a public word in their behalf.
	Resolved, that this society rejoices in the 
fact that women in England have equal
rights with men to vote, with one excep-
tion, the election of members to Parliament,
which, through the persistent efforts of wo-
men and men having that work at heart,
is likely soon to be removed.


FLOWERS.

HE whose worth speaks, needs not to
speak his worth.
	THEY are the wise whom God esteems
wise. They are are the wise whom God
makes wise.
	WARS have been a disgrace to that Chris-
tianity which the nations profess.—Lord
John Russell.
	THERE is no war among men but what
arises from some vice—from covetousness,
or ambition, or an immoderate love of glory.
—Plutarch
	WITH time and patience the mulberry
leaf becomes satin. What difficulty is
there at which a man shonld quail when a
worm can accomplish so much from the leaf
of the mulberry.
	KEEP your conscience tender—tender as
the eye that closes its lid against an atom
of dust, or as that sensitive plant which you
have seen shrink and shut its leaves not
merely from the rude touch of a finger, but
at the breath of a moth.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	INVENTIONS have taken from women the
distaff, the shuttle and the loom, only to
call her genius into wider work.
	GIRLS in their teens should learn the
worth of money and the judicious use of it.
If poor, they should earn it honestly, and
then expand it in gaining an education, or
saving it for the emergencies of the future.
				—Sarah M. Perkins.
	RUSSIAN leather is the skin of the horse
or the calf tanned with the bark of the
birch, which gives it that peculiar smell
which is so grateful to the senses, and seems
to preserve it from the attacks of insects.
	THE number of pilgrims who assembled
in 1875 at Mecca, is stated by Consul Beytz
in his commercial report on Jeddah, for that
year to have been 140,000. Of these 40,000
went by sea, and the remainder by caravans
across the continent.


PEN AND SCISSORS.

 THE warmest reception contributions
meet with from editors:—To burn them.

DRY SUBJECT.--A college professor, who


was giving a course of lectures on Egyptian
antiquities, said to his class, "This morning,
young gentlemen, I have a very dry sub-
ject. It is the Mummy."
	MANY of the great men of history have
been of short stature, from the days of that
ancient philosopher who, as the story goes,
was so diminutive that he had to carry
lead in his pockets to prevent his being
blown away. Canute the Great, for exam-
ple, was a singularly small man; Napoleon,
too, was little; Nelson had no height to boast
of; and the great Conde was short enough.
Hildebrand—Gregory the Seventh—the
mightiest of all the Popes, was also quite
a diminutive person. Then amongst men
of letters, poets, and philosophers, Mon-
taigne, the essayist, was little; so was Pope
—"a little crooked thing that asks no ques-
tions;" so was Dryden; so was Dr. Watts;
who insisted, as we all know, on the mind
being the stature of the man; and so was
Scarron, who, alluding at once to his ill
health and his little size, called himself an
"abridgement of human miseries." Will
any one, after such names as these—and
the list might be indefinitely extended—
look down on little men with disdain?


PIANOS & ORGANS,
      Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
		             for five years, on.
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS
 Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

	            WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT!
IS THE 
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat.  Does not burn, smart
    or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
      mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
         Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
                        PRICE FIFTY CENTS.
         Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

 The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
A HOME PREPARATION.
 ONLY CITY AGENCIES--11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Stores, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's, 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward (and Woman's Commission House.

                        AGENTS WANTED
    No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required.  Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
     IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
                        WOOLEN GOODS, 
                                SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS
				LADIES JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES, 
 Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
far, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
	R. Matthews & Co's Esssence of Jamaica Ginger
    Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
		  Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
			Table Salt, Band Boxes and
				    Dixie Cotton.

                               DAVID JAMES
                    (Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
                  Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
                                 AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		  Pumps Repaired on short notice.
        Orders from the country promptly responded to. 
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

			F. AUERBACH & BRO. 
      55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		   Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
			      Staple and Fancy
			        DRY GOODS
    Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc., 
      Men's and Boy's Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots,
          and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                            Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
    ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
    the Old Fashioned House. 

                            THE FINE ARTS
    The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to	C.R. SAVAGE
						 Salt Lake City, Utah. 

 Mrs. C. E. DYE, 
 Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
			17, East Temple street.
                        TEMPLE OF FASHION.
    Ladies attending Conference will do well to giver her a 
call. 

Z. C. M. I. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBRAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &C.

TEASDEL'S 
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISION, Etc. 

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 5.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1877.		No. 23.


For the EXPONENT.
			MENTORIAN.

	You've pass'd the hey-day term of life
	With all its day-dreams, love and strife.
	You've tested to your heart's content
	All they can offer—all they've lent,
	And find that all that they have made
	A hollow reed, on which you've played;
	And though at times a syren strain
	Has issued lulling heart and brain,
	Have you not woke from out that dream
	To wish to plunge in Lethe's stream?
	That all the past might by-gones be-
	And leave you once again all free
	To start, and take another road,
	That should conduct to an abode,
	Where love, and joy, and peace abound
	And wisdom consecrates the ground:
	You stand and take a calm look back
	Upon the glittering troubled track,
	That you have almost wildly pass'd,
	As in a mirror it is glass'd;
	It had such magic charm for you,
	You almost hate to say adieu;
	But yet "the still small voice within"
	Imploring whispers NOW begin!
	The half of life is still before you
	Yes—youth has not yet ceased to score you,
	Awake! arouse that soul of thine!
	Command her to "arise and shine!"
	The sanctum of your heart explore
	The Temple of your brain look o'er;
	Behold what God has done for you,
	And tremble should you prove untrue.
	He gave you talents, and a Soul
	With much thats noble to control;
	With much that's given to impart
	Instruction to the human heart;
	And to propel the expanding mind
	That truth and wisdom yearn to find;
	Are these not talents all untold,
	That in "a napkin" none must "fold?"
	You know all this—I need not tell
	You things you long have known so well;
	Then pardon, if I take my pen
	To brighten up your mental ken,
	And say in friendship, brother mine
	Arise! and make your mark in Time!
	That in the glorious future, you
	May stand among the pure and true
	Whose brilliant minds, and mighty soul
	Hereafter will this globe control;
	And let us strive that you and I
	In that bright galaxy may vie.
	My friendly rhyme I now will end
	Subscribing, H. T. King, your friend.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]

MEMORY'S MUSIC.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD

	"It haunts me still though many a year has fled
		Like some wild melody."
	Always and ever, to the pure minded and
innocent, there is a pleasure in recalling
moments fraught with joy and happiness.
The scenes and remembrances may be of a
simple nature, perhaps of green pastures
or meadows gay with buttercups and cow-
slips, where the merry calves frisked and
gamboled and we, with hearts as light as
these thoughtless animals, participated with
our companions in sports of a scarcely
more exalted phase. Such is human weak-
ness; in looking back it is invariably some
trivial thing that recalls the sweetest and
most delightful associations. A ramble by
moonlight in some charming spot, when
our hearts were the very sanctuary of pure
and innocent feelings, ere we knew the de-
ception of the world, the music of murmur-
ing water, the moonlight upon some old

[Column 2]

ruin, may have so infused its beauty into our
souls as never to be forgotten. The com-
panions of such dear, delicious hours are
usually endeared to us even though we
should be separated from them forever; and
the vision of a face many years forgotten
will come back to us sometimes with won-
derful accuracy of delineation.
	Many are the bright pictures memory
conjures up to illuminate life's pathway,
and God has given us this faculty of call-
ing to remembrance the "light of other
days" to help us to endure our lives with
better grace. Somebody loved us in the
long ago, is the consolation of many a weary
heart, and the rapture of that love still
clings to us, for true love never dies. In
days of loneliness how pleasant it is to
think, we have had friends who loved
us for ourselves, and fully estimated all our
goodness.
	These are echoes that reverberate through
our whole lives if we do not crush them
out, and come back to us again and again,
to comfort us by their silent key notes of
music, which only speak to the inmost heart.
	The voices of little children stir up the
fountains of tenderness in the aged, because
they wake old-time remembrances. Many
curious illustrations have been given of
incidents when the recollection of some epi-
sode in life has been recalled by a similar
sound or sight to that familiar in earlier
days, acting as a spell of enchantment;
showing how susceptible are our natures to
life-long impressions, or that the effects
produced by certain pleasurable emotions
can never be wholly eradicated.
	The memories of the past are the echoes
of the soul; they come to us in our day-
dreams, they float round us in our night
visions, they are clearest in their own pecu-
liar element, as for instance we recall them,
or they haunt us, when some similar spot,
act, or scene is presented. Sometimes we
feel we have brought with us almost inde-
finable echoes of our spirit-life; transient
and exquisite, yet for the moment like a ray
of mellowed sunshine thrilling us as with
a holy touch of joy. Sacred emotions these.
Something almost too sublime to be com-
prehended by mortals. They give us the
finest touches of our being here; they im-
part spiritual grace. They whisper to us of
our divine origin, in the language of the
soul. We are not mere creatures of clay of
a finite nature. These finely-drawn but in-
controvertible truths bespeak the infinite
within us.
	Matter-of-fact people, who must have
tangible things to rely upon for proofs, tell
us these are only fancies. It is a common
way of expressing a gloriously beautiful
subject, but are they not convincing proofs
of the life and love we participated in, be-
fore we tabernacled in the flesh.


DR. Johnson was famous for disregarding
public abuse. When people criticized and
answered his pamphlets, papers, etc., he
would say, "Why, now, these fellows are
only advertizing my book; it is surely better
a man should be abused than forgotten."


Out-door relief—A breath of fresh air.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	MME. BONAPARTE, who resides in Balti-
more, is now in her ninety-fourth year. She
has often expressed an ardent desire to live
until she had completed a century, and
present appearances indicate that she may.

	MISS C. A. Bassett a lady of education
and enterprise has established an Educa-
tional Bureau in Des Moines Iowa, The na-
ture of it is an educational exchange
through the mediumship of which teach-
ers may find engagements and school-offi-
cers may find teachers and Institute in-
structors.	Ex.
	MRS. Gillespie, president of the Wo-
mans Executive Committee, at a meeting
recently held in Philadelphia, said that the
entire expense of running the Woman’s
Pavilion was paid by women, and she only
regretted that they had not engaged a lady
architect to make the plan and superin-
tend the building. The expense of get-
ting up the shows at the opening and clos-
ing of the exhibition was also paid by the
ladies.—Ex.

	THE EASTERN war question still remains
unsettled, no negotiations for peace having
had any salutary effect. There are so many
conflicting reports that it is scarcely possi-
ble to form a correct idea upon the subject
at all; and at present the result is not with-
in the power of man to determine. It is
said that the relations of Russia with
America are altogether of a peaceable char-
acter. The Sultan in speaking of the Rus-
sian attitude towards Turkey is reported to
have said, “Political and financial reasons
exist demanding a termination of the pres-
ent intolerable position of uncertainty."

	JUDGING FROM the newspaper notices of
President Hayes and wife, one would be
inclined to think that a decided change in
many things would be effected by their
good but quiet example. “President Hayes
abstains from the use of all intoxicating
drinks." Then the people will assuredly
have sober decisions; and his influence
will be felt for good wherever he presides
in public, or social circles. If Mrs. Hayes
persists in dressing plainly, she will deserve
the gratitude of all good people, for her ex-
ample will in process of time make a de-
cided change in the tide of fashion, and let
us hope she will be able to settle the much-
vexed question of woman's extravagance
in dress, for the popular party.

	THE REV. Robert Collyer of Chicago, re-
cently delivered a lecture entitled “Clear
Grit.” It was in the interest of the Hos-
pital for the Cure of Chronic Diseases. One
point he said he could speak upon with au-
thority, was “that it was better to work ten
hours a day in making horseshoes, and
making good ones, than to dawdle through
the week and preach a poor sermon on Sun-
day.” He went on to summarize his ad-
dress under four heads, which he said "were
the unmistakable evidences of pure grit.”
To be able to work honestly and well; to
marry young; to raise a large family with
God’s help; and then to persevere and be
contented.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms was one
of special interest. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne told the sisters that their labors were
but just commencing; that the Conference
minutes calling upon them by the unami-
mous vote of that august assembly, to go
into the silk business, was suggestive of
the magnitude of the work before them.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow said she hoped
this mission given to the women would be
taken into immediate consideration by ev-
ery one who had at heart the present and
future interest of Zion; she felt it to be a
very important one. In having it conferred
by unanimous vote of the conferense, the
sisters might expect the benefit of the faith
and prayers of this great body of people:
she alluded to the means which had been
used to start the Silk Association, and
the encouragement which had been given
to the people to interest themselves in this
industry; she said that in Brigham City
they were going to have a department in
their Co-operative store for homemade silk,
and if the sisters were energetic in this di-
rection they might all have home made
silks that would be durable. Silk culture
and its present and future success was the
principal subject before the meeting. A
beautiful silk dress pattern which was man-
ufactured from the elements of Farmington
was exhibited; the first silk dress ever
make in Utah. President Mrs. M. I.
Horne then announced to the audience
Bishop Hardy and he addressed the assem-
bly; expressed the pleasnre he felt in meet-
ing the sisters and the improvement which
had been made in many respects during
the last few years; said he had never antic-
pated seeing a silk dress manufactured with-
out machinery; the sister who made the
dress presented it as a voluntary Temple do-
nation; added that it had been purchased (by
Mrs. M. M. Barrett) and the money given to
the Temple, and that lady had given the dress
to Miss E. R. Snow, who he hoped might
by the blessing of God live to wear it out.
A Testimonial or certificate had been neatly
framed and given to Mrs. Clark as a me-
mento of respect for her labors in the silk
business. He spoke of his appreciation of
the Relief Society in his ward. Elder An-
gus M. Cannon arose and said that he had
about the same feeling in arising before
that meeting as he had twenty-two years be-
fore when he addressed a congregation of
lawyers and learned men in a hall in Hart-
ford, Conn. He spoke of his great honor
and reverence for good women; that his
best and noblest feelings had been implant-
ed by his mother; said he realized the sis-
ters had in their keeping the training of
those who were to be the future defenders not
only of this church but of the country.
Miss Snow expressed her thanks and good
feelings to be the recipient of such a gift.
Counselor E. Howard spoke upon dress, ex-
travagance, economy, and the saints living
their religion. Counselor B. W. Smith
make a few remarks upon the tannery, and
Mrs. E. S. Barney upon sericulture and the
straw-hat establishment. The meeting was
one long to be remembered by all present.

	CHERRY CREEK, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
					March 10th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading your valued paper, and see-
ing the prosperous condition of the differ-
ent Relief Societies, we thought it in order
to represent ourselves, rather than not be
represented.

[Column 2]
	We have here a Society, presided over by
Mrs. Eleanor Dudley assisted by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Chivers and Mrs. Elizabeth Hunting
as Counselors. We number in all twenty-
one members. Our district extends four or
five miles, part of which is enrolled in Ma-
lad branch. Our Temple donations have
amounted to $140.00, given by thirteen of
our members; we hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and they are well attended. A
sociable and friendly feeling prevails in our
meetings.
	Wishing all the Societies and different
enterprises prosperity, and not forgetting
our own, we remain
	Yours respectfully,
		ELEANOR DUDLEY, President,
			SARAH A. JONES, Secretary.

		ROCKVILLE, March 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a very prosper-
ous condition, with the following named
officers:
	Mrs. Amy H. Draper, President,
	"	Maria Smith,			} Counselors.
	"	Margaret Brundage,	}
	"	Fannie P. Slaughter, Secretary,
	"	Hannah Jennings, Treasurer.
	We have been very busy of late prepar-
ing for the brethren and sisters who are
availing themselves of the opportunity of
going into the temple to perform a work for
themselves and their dead.
	When we were called on this Southern
Mission we thought that we were unfortu-
nate indeed, but now we are beginning to
think that we have been highly favored in
being permitted to live near the Temple.
Our Society has donated some towards
building thi[-] Temple, and we are now go-
ing to donate some towards the erection of
the Sanpete Temple.
	I have noticed in the EXPONENT that a
great deal is being done and said with re-
gard to the GRAIN MOVEMENT; I have felt
highly pleased when reading of the success
of the sisters in saving and storing grain,
for I believe it to be a very important step.
We have not commenced doing anything
towards gathering grain yet, but we are be-
ginning to agitate the matter some.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT and every other good under-
taking, I remain
	Your sister in the Gospel,
			FANNIE SLAUGHTER,
						Secretary.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, March 30th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will give you a brief report of the Re-
lief Society in this place. The Society con-
sists of eighty-nine members, and we have
our meetings semi-monthly. We are doing
our best to carry out counsel in the way of
buying wheat; we have bought over one
hundred bushels of wheat already, and we
are exerting ourselves to raise means with
which to buy more. We own $303.00 capital
stock in the Co-op Store, on which we
draw interest. We help the poor, and visit
the sick, and are trying to be more united,
and live our religion to the best of our abili-
ty. We have a good and faithful President
in Mrs. Christine Albertsen, and her Coun-
selors, Mary C. Neely and Anna Hansen,
are faithful co-workers with her; Karen
Christensen is Treasurer.
	Wishing for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					MARY HANSEN,
							Secretary.

[Column 3]
	TOKERVILLE, KANE Co., March 2, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy president Mrs.
Elizabeth Kleinman, I address you to in-
form our co-laborers in the kingdom of God
that we are trying to honor our calling as a
Relief Society and do all in our power to
assist the needy and comfort the afflicted
either by word or deed. General good
health prevails here, with the exception of
a few bad colds, which are incidental to this
season of the year.
	We were called to part with one of our
most respected sisters last August, Mrs.
Annie Jackson; she was a dutiful member
in the Society and served as Secretary as
long as her health would permit. She was
greatly esteemed by all who knew her.
	We read the reports of the different or-
ganizations in the settlements STORING
GRAIN, but we have none to store up as
our facilities here do not admit of its pro-
duction; we depend entirely on the north-
ern part of the Territory for breadstuff.
	I am sorry to say we have no Young La-
dies Retrenchment Association organized
yet, but we live in hopes that we may have
ere long. The St. George Temple is now
finished for which we should all feel very
thankful; there are many people going forth
to receive their blessings, which fills our
hearts with joy and gratitude. Our Society
made about forty yards of carpet for the
Temple. Our financial affairs are as follows:
we have a twenty-five dollar share in the
Washington factory, and a thirty dollar
share in this Co-op Store; carpet and cush-
ions which we donated to the meeting house
valued at eight dollars and twenty-five
cents; donated to a needy family, a quilt
valued at seven dollars; to the St. George
Temple twenty-nine dollars; to the Wash-
ington factory, eight dollars and forty
cents; sundries on hand, sixty-nine dollars
and thirty cents; cash on hand, four dollars
and fifty cents.
	We have had refreshing rains lately and
the people are planting their gardens; the
trees are also in bloom.
	Praying for the prosperity of our breth-
ren and sisters in this Latter-day work, I
remain yours etc.
			SARAH SPILSBURY, Sec'y.

	SUGAR HOUSE WARD, Apr. 7, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I enclose you a brief report of a meeting
of the Relief Society held in the Society
Hall, Feb. 7th 1877, President Mrs. S. B.
Gibson presiding. After the usual exerci-
ses of singing and prayer the financial re-
port for the year 1876 was read. Amount of
donations received eighty-seven dollars
and fifty cents; We have also on hand
about fifty bushels of wheat, and a consider-
able quantity of flour which we hope to keep
adding to as long as the years of plenty
last.
	On March 23, the Sisters of the Relief So-
ciety had a social party to help in getting
means to finish their new Hall. They had
a splendid time all feeling to appreciate the
efforts of the committee to make it a suc-
cess. The proceeds of the party amounted
to forty-eight dollars and seventy-five cents.
	With kind regards I am yours
				Respectfully,
					SARAH WHEELER,
							Sec'y.


Some men are good because goodness
pays best, and some are good for nothing.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	LINES SUGGESTED ON HEARING THEY
	WERE ABOUT PUBLISHING A BOOK CALL-
	ED "THE WOMEN OF MORMONDOM."
The women of Utah they are going to tell
Of their hardships, and griefs and virtues as well?
They have toiled long and nobly, have fought the good
	fght,
Against sin and Satan, and to maintain the right.
In Missouri when the saints withont mercy were driv'n
And ties that were closest in anguish were riven,
The sisters were heroines, unflinching and brave,
Though their fondest and dearest were laid in the grave.
And many a mother when the tempest was wild,
In the storm without shelter, gave birth to her child,
Like the mother of Jesus as we often have read,
Who was glad in a manger to make her poor bed.
And in this freer country where churches abound
Little pity for Latter-day Saints has Been found.
The women of Utah, yes, their lives should be told,
And placed upon record in letters of gold.
Those mothers in Israel, (some now pass'd away,)
They have borne well the burden and heat of the day,
And their names should be honor'd while time shall en-
	dure
Their reward in the future, awaiting, is sure.
Talk of heroes that fought and the victories won
The mem'ries emblazoned on tablets—in song,
They fought but for country and they won the proud day
And rose from oppression, and a tyrants dread sway.
But the women of Utah a victory will claim
That will place their rank foremost in annals of fame;
Forc'd to leave home and friends to these mountains to
	fly; 
God will watch over them, while His wrath passes by
Their deeds are on record and remember'd will be
In this world through all time, and in eternity.
But my pen it would fail, and these pages would swell
If their self-denial and worth I should tell.
The women of Utah let their names be enrolled
On the brightest escutcheons the future shall hold
And their mem'ry forever engraven shall stand
'Mong the noblest and fairest of every land. 
	C. DANIELS.
Provo Jan. 22, 1877,


A LEAF FROM A JOURNAL.

One day I searched an ancient cabinet
And found a musty book; I have it yet—
A journal of the good year'twenty-nine,
Kept by a long departed friend of mine;
And from its leaves grown brown with age,
I take a story and a single page:

	"Roses, oh Roses,
		Handing passion-red,
		Crimson warmth o'cried,
		Thus hath he said,
			'Wait, wait, I come!'

	"Violets, oh Violets,
		Guileless wonder hearts so true,
		Faithful little souls of blue,
		I whisper it to you:
			'Wait, wait, he comes!'

	"Daisies, oh Daisies,
		Snow-white things of purity,
		A little patience teach me.
		I blush to whisper thee:
			'Wait, wait, he comes!'

	"Wil!ow, oh Willow.
		Willow drooping tenderly,
		Hear me softly say to thee,
		These words, his words to me:
			'Wait love, I come!'

	"Heart, oh heart,
		Bless this dear, dear day
		That brings from far Bombay,
		These words that to thee say:
			'Wait love, I come!"

This old-time love-song beareth date
Of June, the month of roses and of fate,
The twentieth day;
	And just below, one sees
The story's end, in words like these:
"In flowery, far-away Bombay,
Died—lit June, the twentieth day."
	GEORGE H. PICARD.


A LADY asked her servant how the mus-
tard pot had become cracked. The reply,
made with all gravity, was that shc did not
know; but supposed it was owing to the
mustard being so strong.


MUSICAL AND DRAMATIC NOTES.

 The Boston Music Hall was open for its
Annual Concert Apr. 11, 1877. The enter-
tainment was quite a remarkable one in
character, and some of the most famous ar-
tists America can boast participated in it;
the programme was miscellaneous and as
Boston is the metropolis of America in mu-
sic, it will not be out of place to reprint the
bill in full, as it might be a model for other
musicals.

l. Hungarian suite, op. 16........Hofmann
			Orchestra.
2. Aria, “Cara fu solo a me,”
			Aiceste..................Gluck
		Miss Annie Louise Cary.
3. Concerto, No. 4, G-major, op. 53.
		...........................Beethoven
Mme. Annette Essipoff and orchestra.
4. Mad scene from “Hamlet,” 
		...........................A Thomas.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg.
5. Largo (adapted By J. Helmsberger),
		new...........................Handel
 For violin, violas, harp, great organ, and
solo violin, by Mr.S. E. Jacobson [first time
in America].
6. Aria,"O don fatale,” Don Carlos,
			.............................Verdi
		Miss Annie Louise Cary.
7. Solo piano, 'Rhapsodie Hongroise,
		No. 2................................Liszt.
	Mme. Annette Essipoff.
8. Rolero, Sicilian Vespers.........Verdi.
	Miss Clara Louise Kellogg.
9.Waltz, Autumn roses...........Strauss.
			Orchestra.
10. Duet, Quis est homo...........Rossini.
Misses C. L. Kellogg, and, A. L. Cary.
11. March and chorus, Tannhauser
		...................................Wagner.
		Orchestra and great organ. 
	We have read the reviews of this enter-
tainment in the Boston papers and publish
here some extracts:
	“Madame Essipoff was heard in the best
music which she has ever played in Bos-
ton.  *  *  The technical difficulties of the
composition were simply forgotten under
Madame Essipoff's treatment.  *  We do
not think it would be possible to find a bet-
ter interpreter than Madame Essipoff of
such a fiery product of Listz’s peculiar gen-
ius.
 “Miss Carey was in wonderful voice, and
sang Gluck’s “Cara fu solo a me” with grand
fulness of tones and appropriate gravity, of
style.” Upon being recalled she gave
Beethoven’s Arietta, “In gusta tombo,”—
“O don fatale” from Verdi’s Don Carlos.”
She also gave “Summer Evening Memor-
ies." Miss Kellogg interpreted Ophelia’s
mad scene with genuine dramatic life and
discrimination.  Miss Kellogg also display-
her vocal fluency and her exact and easy
skill as an “executante” in the Rolero from
“Sicilian Vespers.” In response to an im-
perative ENCORE she sang “The Little
Shepherdess.” Madame Essipoff politely
yet firmly declined to repeat any of her
numbers though repeatedly called back to
the stage.
 ANNA E. Dickinson made her debut the
second of April at the Eagle Theatre, New
York.
 MME, Ristori gave a performance at the
Apollo Theatre in Rome recently, for the,
benefit of the Working Men’s Co-operative
Society. The piece was “Elizabetta d' In-
ghilterra,” and the great actress was ably
seconded by the Morelli Company, which
came expressly from Siena for the repre-
sentation.
 MME. Adelina Patti has appeared with
the greatest success in “Semiamide," a part
the lady has not heretofore sustained in
Europe. 
 AT Liszt's recent concert at Vienna, the
city of Vienna presented him with the
large gold “Salvator medal.” The Viennese
critics dwell on the piano-forte performances
of Dr. Liszt as equal to those of his best pe-
riod. The instrument was covered with
crowns and flowers. He accompanied Mme.
Gomperz-Bettelheim in the Scotch airs of
Beethoven.


ABOUT THE "LITERATI."

	SCRIBNER & Co. announce for the com-
ing season, a monograph upon Charlotte
Bronte including letters by her which have
never before appeared in book form.
	MRS. Macguid will shortly publish a ser-
ies of papers to be designated "Among the
Yorkshire Abbeys:" they will appear in one
of the English magazines.
	How literary men and women write their
books and study is always a matter of inter-
est: here is a sketch of some noted authors.
Mr. Trollope asserts that he does all his
writing before breakfast. Mr. Tom Taylor
that all his literary work was performed be-
fore official hours in the morning. H. J.
Byron says he only writes two hours in a
day, but he takes credit for thinking a
great deal. Mr. Hepworth Dixon literally
writes from morning to night. George El-
liot is at her desk from six to seven hours a
day.Mrs.Henry Wood writes every day until
dinner time. Farjeon, on being asked "how
many hours a day he wrote," replied "all
the time" which is asserted to be very
nearly true. The late Lord Lytton said
that in two hours daily great things in lit-
erature might be done. Scott never on his
working days wrote less than four or five
hours, and he always sat down to his desk
primed. There was no affectation of lei-
sure about the authors of Pendennis and
David Copperfield, aud Belzac would lock
himself up for weeks together and wrote
hour after hour at a stretch. Miss Braddon
has been in the habit of writing from ten
to sixteen hours a day, a couple of years
ago her labor was so incessant that it turned
her brain and she had to lay down her pen
for many months in the middle of a novel.
		Ex.
	HERBERT Spencer's opinion of George
Eliot is that she is "the greatest woman
that ever lived."
	"THE Two Americas," is the title of a
new book by Major Sir Rose Lambert Price
Bart. The critics denounce the book as an-
ti-republican in the strongest sense, and
abounding in slang which is decidly unbe-
coming to the British aristocracy. Here is
a sample of his sentiments. "To universal
suffrage all the existing ills in all existing
republics, can be distinctly traced."


Good nature is the best feature in the finest
face. Wit may win admiration, judgment
command respect, knowledge attention,
beauty inflame the heart with love, but
good nature has a more powerful effect, it
adds a thousand attractions to the charms
of beauty, and gives an air of beneficence
to the homliest face.


180		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each [-]quare, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East st[-]eets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m, every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 1, 1877.


[Column 1]
		REVERIES OF A WOMAN.

					"These can lie,
	Flatter and swear, deprave, inform,
	Smile and betray: make guilty men, then beg
	Their forfeit lives, to get the livings; cut
	Men's throats with whisperings; sell to gaping suitors
	The empty smoke that flies about a palace."

	Perchance some one reads this title and
apostrophizes thus: O, some love tale long past,
recalled by a winter's fire to amuse the fancy.
You never were mere mistaken, dear reader.
Women's reveries are often prophetic as well
as their dreams, and there is more in them
than some people give them credit for know-
ing. But to come back to the subject. "The
times are out of joint" so it would seem, as
much now as when Shakespeare lived (and
Shakespeare lives to-day mere truly than many
living men) for men rave madly of blood and
ruin and desolation, without counting the
cost. It would be wiser if THEIR reveries
were more sober. Assuredly they must be
dreaming. When men concoct schemes of
ruin and desolation they should consider
the fearful consequences.
	It is not a trifling matter to seek to disfran-
chise a vast body of people, whose worst fault
is that they have been prospered and become a
power in the land; who have wrested the desert
lands from their barrenness, and by assiduous
toil have overcome almost superhuman difficul-
ties. Driven out from civilization, the Latter-
day Saints crossed the sandy plains amidst
savages and wild beasts, women and children
too, encountering every peril with the courage
and heroism of those Pilgrim Fathers whose
descendants many of them were, and for what?
That they might seek out an abiding place,
where, free from molestation of their enemies,
they might dwell in peace and gather around
them their families, and teach their children
the laws of God, and the commandments of
heaven as revealed to them. These are their
offences. For these things they are now ar-
raigned by self-styled judges, who condemn
them to the severest penalties of the law, and
beseech Congress with ten thousand lies in
their mouths to wipe out this Mormon people,
if it must be done at the point of the bayonet.
	Gentlemen, if such you be, if you have hu-
man blood in your veins, by all that you hold
sacred, stop, before you go further. Why do
you seek the lives of this people? What would
you with them? Have you not come here and
found homes? Have you any injustice to com-
plain of at the hands of this people, whom you
so foully abuse and misrepresent? Why are
you here? Was there not room for you in oth-
er states and territories? Was there not scope
for your marvelous imaginations? If this peo-
ple are so low, so miserable, so degraded, why

[Column 2]
did you come? They were happy without you;
this city was not defiled with the many curses
which infest it now, ere you came. This peo-
ple were abundantly capable of maintaining
themselves and opening up continually new
facilities and industries; their homes were the
abodes of peace and coutentment; their chil-
dren were taught to reverence God and not pro-
fane His holy name. How is it to-day, under
the influence of the outside element, of the
civilization of the nineteenth century? Very
different indeed.
	The Mormons left their homes in Ohio, in
Missouri, in Illinois; they bid adieu to their
friends, and for their religion traversed the
desert wilds, giving up all they had heretofore
held dear in the world, They planted towns
and villages on their way, that have since
grown and flourished and been converted into
homes for thousands of people. They came to
this barren, desolate country, where no white
man had ever lived, came here with their little
helpless ones, and commenced anew. Women
and children will not hold their peace and see
their rights again jeopardized. The voice of
woman will be lifted against you who are seek-
ing their destruction. Let them alone, leave
them to themselves. Far better would it be for
you to hide your heads in shame, and seek in
all humility to make reparations for the wrongs
already done this people, than to seek to stir
up strife and hatred against them. What class
of men are ye that are thus howling and rag-
ing? "Verily the heathen rage and the people
imagine a vain thing." Are ye men who fear
God, and dare to talk of ruin and blood to wo-
men and innocent children.
	"Vengeance is mine saith the Lord," have
you forgotten these words, or do you not ac-
knowledge the words of God? Remember that
in this day and age it is so ordained, that wo-
men speak and represent their own cause. The
women of Utah are abundantly able to repre-
sent the cause they have espoused, and they
will, and who shall hinder them? The Mor-
mon women have been misrepresented, and
have suffered reproach and calumnies without
having the means to contradict them; but now,
thanks to the liberality of the age as regards
woman, she is permitted to have a voice in her
own affairs and represent her own cause. The
Mormon women are the ones who are engaged
in solving some of the most intricate social and
moral problems, and it would be wise if the
world could have the patience to wait and see
the result.
	The Mormon women trust in God, they have
implicit faith in His promises; they are sincere
and earnest in living practical lives, they are
capable of great self-sacrifice; they believe Gcd
has spoken, and, true to the divinity of their
natures, they are ready to honor Him and
obey His commandments.
	How mistaken the world are, when they rep-
resent Mormon women in bondage to men.
There is no greater freedom than the Gospel
gives to woman. And it is this that makes
Mormon women conscious of their power.
They have suffered and become strong; expe-
rience has matured them, and given them a
higher order of attainment than a mere men-
tal education. Have not the enemies of this
people caused suffering enough to women and
children? Have not the hardships already en-
dured in times past, the recital of which has
often brought tears from the eyes of strangers,
given you sufficient evidence that you cannot
eradicate from this people the principles for
which they have endured so much? Let them
alone; if they are wrong, time will eventually
show them the error; if they are right, how
vain are all your efforts. The charity which

[Column 3]
the Saviour taught would not admit of this
bitter spirit of animosity.
	God is for the weak: He defends the innocent.
He will not suffer those who trust in Him to
be dismayed; besides He has set up His king-
dom never to be thrown down. The women
are the majority in the land; they will not let
their claims to justice and the rights of citizen-
ship be ruthlesly set aside. God is for woman: he
ever has been; Jesus revealed Himself to woman
after His resurrection. Woman in this age has
suffered much, and, like unto Sarah, some have
given to God in sacrifice their heart's best offer-
ing, and God will remember them. Cease to per-
secute the saints of God, for if you do not God
will come out from His hiding-place and will
vex the nations. You think the Mormons an
insignificant body of people; they are mighty
in spirit, and their women are united in one
grand solid phalanx to help build up Zion, to
sustain their own institutions, educational and
social, and wo be to him who dares to lift his
hand against Zion.
	[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	A SPECIAL TRAIN left the city at 6 a. m.,
Friday, April 27th, with a large party of breth-
ren and sisters, to meet President Brigham
Young and company at York. They returned
at half-past one p.m., the party seem univer-
sally to be in good health and excellent spirits.
The Latter-day Saints and the many friends of
President Brigham Young will be glad to know
he arrived at home safe and well. The Presi-
dent has preached several times on the way.
The party spent Sunday at Richfield, where
they held meetings. Presidents Brigham
Young, John W. Young, D. H. Wells, Elders
J. F. Wells and Charles Burton addressed the
congregation. The company arrived at Manti on
Tuesday last. The same afternoon the brethren
visited the hill where it is designed to erect a
Temple and held meeting in the evening. Pre-
sident D. H. Wells and Elders J. F. Wells ad-
dressed the people. Wednesday morning held
meeting again, President John W. Young and
Elder George Gibbs were the speakers. At
noon they repaired to the Temple site, laid off
the ground and dedicated it, President Brigham
Young offered the dedicatory prayer and turn-
ed over the first sod; the company then drove
on as far as Moroni, where they passed the
night, thence direct for home.
	There has been a vast amount of preaching
done during the journey by the First Presidency
the Twelve Apostles and by the young Elders
in the interest of the Y. M. M. I. Association.
The sisters who went south have also spoken in
the Relief Societies in many of the settlements.
There is the same good feeling expressed by
each and every one in referring to the Temple
and the Conference. And to the beloved Pres-
ident of this people and his party we can
heartily say, Welcome, Welcome Home.
	MUSTARD.—The best quality of mustard can
be raised in Utah, it has been satisfactorily test-
ed. The Woman's Commission House would
gladly recommend a good article of homemade
mustard. How absurd for Latter-day Saints to
import thousands of pounds of this article
when a better quality can be manufactured for
home consumption. Brethren and sisters,
raise some mustard and let it be put into the
stores for sale.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre was opened three
nights last week, Miss Adelaide Neilson, cele-
brated for her beauty and dramatic art, per-
formed Juliet in "Romeo and Juliet," Rosa-
lind in "As you like it," and Julia in "The


[Column 1]

Hunchback." Miss Neilson received the
greatest applause from the audiences here, and
her beauty and many attractions win admira-
tion Eastand West. She played with feeling,
her voice is melodious, her manner quiet and
unaffected, her dress magnificent.
	WE RECEIVED through the courtesy of a
friend the first number, issued April 1, of a
new paper established by women. It is called
"Woman's Words" and is to be issued month-
ly in Philadelphia: price $1.00 per year; Mrs.
Juan Lewis, publisher, 625 Walnut Street. It
is designed to promote the interest of women
throughout the United States, without regard
to sect or party: and upon such liberal ground
it cannot fail to meet with hearty appreciation
from those who desire the promotion of uni-
versal good. We find this number contains
much excellent matter, and many items of in-
terest relative to woman's progression in litera-
ture, science and art. It does not affect the
extreme on the woman's rights question, but a
proper and fitting medium upon all the points
discussed in its columns.
	ANNUAL MEETING of the R. A. in the First
Ward, S. L. City. This meeting convened at
the residence of Mrs. Mary W. Musser, April
4, 1877. The financial report of the Society
during three years was read by Mrs. Alice
Fletcher, Treasurer. This report alone, clearly
shows the energy, perseverance and executive
ability of the officers and members, and that
the object of their ambition is a laudable one,
viz., to assist in improving themselves and
others, and help to establish the kingdom of
God upon the earth.
	The meeting was presided over by President
Mrs. Sarah Graham, who has been earnest and
energetic in her endeavors to assist the young
ladies in this good work. Elder J. Booth and
A. Steel both spoke very encouragingly to the
Society, and assured them that a decided im-
provement was manifest in many ways. Mrs.
Marion Chase, President of the Relief Society
of that ward, addressed them in a manner cal-
culated to impress them with the greatness of
the work in which they had enlisted. Allud-
ed to the temporal as well as spiritual matters
which were pending. Mrs. Steel, Schnitar
and Brown and several of the young sisters
expressed themselves on the principles of the
Gospel, the great work now being performed
by women, the necessity of union and the de-
sire they had to do all in their power towards
sustaining home industries and aiding in every
good undertaking. Mrs. Sarah Graham made
some excellent remarks in regard to the oppor-
tunities afforded the young ladies for improve-
ment, expressed great pleasure in being asso-
ciated with them and meeting together and
helping each other. Some business was tran-
sacted, a vote of thank given to the Secretary,
Assistant Secretary and Treasurer, and a uni-
versal good feeling pervaded the meeting.
	THE SPECIAL mission given to the Relief So-
cieties by the vote of the Conference, viz.
sericulture, should receive the earliest careful
attention; certainly the first movement to be
made is the arranging to have mulberry trees
grown, sufficient to supply food for large quan-
tities, of worms. It is to be hoped that the
sisters will take hold of this branch of indus-
try with the energy and perseverance they
have proven themselves capable of, when called
upon to undertake anything requiring faith,
prayer and executive ability. Do not be
afraid you will have too much to do; overwork
is not from so much being done, but it is
crowding off until the necessity comes, and
then hurrying; method in the performance of
work is the antidote for this sort of thing.

[Column 2]

When people learn to systematize their labor,
and all concerned in any department will
agree, when there are no idlers who leave their
share of work for another to perform, the aggre-
gate proportion that suffer from over-work will
be greatly reduced. "Hurry and High Press-
ure" are evils to be avoided. If the sisters will
concentrate their efforts (and no doubt they
will) they can accomplish all that can be de-
sired in this direction; for it will not only be a
source of profit, and bring wealth into the
community, but it will be one of the best ave-
nues for true charity, that which gives labor
to the poor, and makes them self-sustaining,
instead of non-producers. Mr. Jennings has,
we understand, donated $200 towards buying
machinery. There has already been consider-
able success achieved through the untiring
perseverance of some of the sisters, and when
the united exertions of thousands are brought
to bear in this direction no doubt the results
will be abundantly satisfactory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		181


THE OBJECT OF YOUNG LADIES'
			ASSOCIATIONS.

	It is a difficult matter to have some under-
stand the nature of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations. A young lady remarked to me the
other day that she did not see what benefit it
was, for those who attended the meetings did
not retrench.
	Let us reflect a few moments. Is there noth-
ing we need to retrench except our dress? Let
us examine our minds, morals and principles,
our daily life, the object of our being here upon
the ea[-]th, and see which needs our attention
most.
	God says in a revelation, given Dec. 27, 1832,
37th paragraph, page 106, Doctrine and Cove-
nants:  "Therefore cease from all your light
speeches; from loud laughter; from all your
lustful desires; from all your pride and light-
mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
		See that you love one another.
Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to
find fault one with another; cease to sleep
longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early,
that ye may not be weary; arise early, that
your minds may be invigorated; and above all
things, clothe yourelves with the bonds of
charity as with a mantle, which is the bond of
perfectness and peace; pray always, that ye
may not faint until I come."
	It is our duty and privilege to have pure and
intelligent minds. It is necessary then to learn
of the things of God, to store our minds with
useful knowledge, to think and reflect what is
His will concerning us. Are we aiding our
fellow creatures? Are we cultivating purity,
charity, benevolence and those virtues which
are essential to our happiness and which will
fit us for the high and responsible positions we
may be called to fill? Are we sincere and val-
iant in doing the will of God? Can we see any
good resulting from our actions and words?
Are we seeking to live daily the covenants we
have made? Do we love one another? Are
we retrenching from our light-mindedness and
light speeches? Are we seeking to know of
the will of the Lord concerning us? Do we
seek the society of those who are pure and up-
right? Do we daily retrench from what we
may consider small evils? If we have not
gained this perfectness we certainly are, in
these societies, seeking to gain it. I would say
to those who do not attend our meetings, and
who make such remarks, that we wish to pro-
gress step by step; to gain knowledge, be char-
itable, cultivate amiable dispositions, intelli-
gent, pure minds, good morals and principles,
be practical and obedient and improve the


time given us here. These are the robes we
are seeking to invest ourselves in-these are 
the noble objects of our Retrenchment Asso-
ciations.
							M. H.


STORING GRAIN.

WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co., Feb. 18 '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 We wish to inform you that the sisters
in Wellsville feel to respond to the call,
of President Young in regard to storing up
wheat.  Our worthy Bishop, Wm. H.
Maughan with several of the brethren were
present at our last monthly meeting; and
our Bishop gave us some excellent instruc-
tions in regard to STORING GRAIN, as well
other good and wholesome counsel in try-
ing to be self-sustaining and the implic-
it obedience the Lord requirs of us.  Oth-
ers of the brethren encouraged us to go on
in doing good; our president, Ellen Whit-
on exhorted the sisters to be one with the
Priesthood in all things that we may be co-
workers together.  Counselor Margaret
Woodward and several others bore faithful
testimonies to the truth of the gospel, and
manifested a sincere desire to be united in
all good works.  We have commenced stor-
ing up wheat since our last meeting, and
esteem it a great blessing and privilege to
have a prophet to lead us, that we may es-
cape, by listening to counsel, the impending
calamities that will befall the disobedient.
Success to the Exponent, we peruse its
pages with great interest.
              LUCY HASLAM, Sec'y.
        ELIZABETH MAUGHAN, Treas.


THOUGHTS ABOUT RETRENCHMENT.

	These are a few of my thoughts, sisters.
We were organized into societies to re-
trench from everything that is evil; not
only in extravagance of dress, but every
thing that is not of the Lord. We are coun-
seled not to backbite nor speak evil of each
other or our neighbors; and we are not to 
slander or use bad language, whether in
company or at home, and always and every-
where be modest, gentle, kind and polite,
and treat everybody with due respect both
old and young. Girls, I think prayer is one
of the greatest blessings we can enjoy; by
faith and prayer the sick are healed; and I
believe the plan of healing as taught by the
gospel is better than any other way that has
been introduced; and girls, if any of you
are in trouble first call on the Lord and He
will hear and answer your intercession.
	My young sisters let us now go forth and 
help to build up the kingdom of God that
we may come forth in the morning of the
First Resurrection, among the Saviors on
Mount Zion.
				CLARA E. SNEDAKER.
	Mill Creek, Apr. 4. 1877.


THE Empress of Japan visited the shools,
factories, and public offices at Kioto recent-
ly. Great interest was taken in the visits,
this being the first occasion of any Japanese
Empress taking part in public proceedings.
Eastward the star of empire takes its way,
perhaps, for woman."—Ex.
	From the above and many similar occur-
ences, which have and are transpiring from
time to time, it is easy to perceive there is 
a new era opening for woman; and that she
is gradually partaking of the spirit and 
feeling which permeates throughout the 
length and breadth of the land.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PARADISE, CACHE CO., Apr. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Your valuable paper comes regularly to
hand and is a most welcome visitor. For
women I consider it the most useful and
interesting paper published, and think it
should be in the household of every Latter-
day Saint for the wives, mothers and daugh-
ters to read and profit by; and if the male
members read it also it, cannot fail to in-
struct them, for its teachings are the pure
principles of the gospel written by inspira-
tion of the spirit of God. When I reflect
upon the perfect order of the Kingdom of
God, the beauty, harmony and unity of its
various organizations, extending even to
the women, and to the young people of
both sexes, uniting and binding all togeth-
er in one interest, that of both temporal
and spiritual salvation. I often wonder
what more evidence any reflecting mind
can require to substantiate the divine ori-
gin of this work. I take great pleasure in
reading the several reports of the Relief
Societies, in learning of the good which
they have done and are doing, but most es-
pecially was I impressed with reading the
article on STORING GRAIN, republished
from No. 10, not having read it before, as I
did not take the EXPONENT at that time
which was my loss; I fully endorse the in-
instructions given, and shall endeavor to 
carry them out to the best of my ability
as soon as circumstances will permit.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the gospel,
	LYDIA B. REMINGTON,
		Prest. R. Society.

	TOOELE, TOOELE Co., March 15, 1877
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	As spring has come we are very busy
putting in the grain and we hope the Lord
will bless us with an abundant harvest, so
that we can fill our bins for a future day.
Brother Micklejohn has kindly given us the
use of one of his wheat bins until we can
get one of our own. The sisters have no-
bly and liberally donated; we have at pres-
ent, over one hundred bushels of wheat,
and with the help of our Heavenly
Father, we will still keep storing it up
for a day to come; and we feel that through
His blessings upon our labors the coming
season, we will be able to more than double
the amount that we now have on hand. We
held a silk meeting on the 10th of the
month, to take into consideration the plant-
ing out of mulberry trees, and to encour-
age the culture of silk for we know that it
will lay the foundation for a good work in
the future, and we know that it is our duty
to do all that lays in our power to help
build up the kingdom.
	I know that this is the true church and
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people;
it will stand forever. It came not from
man nor from the will of man, but from
God our eternal Father, it is His cause and
His work and we must not think that the 
name of a saint is going to save us, for we
will all be judged by the deeds done in the
body. When I think of this it causes my
heart to rejoice and fills me with gratitude
to my Heavenly Father; and I pray that
we may be kept faithful to the end of our
days.
	Success to the EXPONENT and to all good
enterprises.
	A. M. TATE.

[Column 2]

	PROVO, APRIL 11, 1877.
EDITOR EPXONENT:
	It becomes my sad duty to acquaint your
readers that death has taken from our ranks
one of the noblest women that have graced
our society with their presence, in the
death of Mary Ann (Yeager) Whipple of
this city: deceased was born Nov. 1, 1822,
in Philadelphia Penn., received the gospel
June, 1844, in Philadelphia, emigrated to
Utah in 1850, was married the same year
to Edson Whipple, they assisted in the set-
tlement of Iron County with Prest. George
A. Smith's Company in 1852; after helping
to establish the new settlement there, they
removed to Provo where she resided filling
the position of first Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Societyof the Second Ward
until her death which occurred March 26th
1877 from incipient Small Pox and erysipi-
las, together with consequent nervous ex-
citement in attending her husband's son
Heber, through his illness. Sister Whip-
ple was one of the heroines of the small af-
fairs of life, who pass unnoticed, but the
self sacrifice and devotion to duty, made
her truly beloved and respected by all who
were acquainted with her virtues, her
death under the attending circumstances of
the infectious disease, precluded the paying
of respect by the usual gathering for funer-
al services, * but on the night appointed
for the removal of her remains to their si-
lent resting place, by the side of her hus-
band's son, there were many wakeful ears,
upon which the noise of the wheels of the 
hearse fell with mournful sound, and many
tears fell at the sad and dreary parting with
one so esteemed and worthy of the love of
those her friends who mourned her loss, but
yet comforted with the knowledge that the
Father of all, will not overlook this our sis-
ter when he makes up His jewels, but will
recompense her for all her self sacrafice and
toil during her probation here.
	Deceased leaves four children to mourn
her loss, one, William M. Whipple, is assist-
ing in the settlement of Arizona.
	Respectfully,
	M. WRIDE, Sec.
		Second Ward R. S.
	The City authorities with their board
of health, together with our city Marshal,
J. W. Turner, are entitled to the thanks
and commendations of our citizens for their
prompt and decisive action in keeping the
disease from spreading further among our
community.

	KANOSH, MILLARD Co.,
		April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	On the 20th of last month we were visit-
ed by some of the sisters who were on their
way to St. George, and we had a very in-
teresting meeting, which was open to all,
and there was a good attendance.
	The meeting was called to order by the
President, Mrs. Adelia Kimball, and after
the usual exercises Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly; she spoke of the
Relief Society Organization in Nauvoo;
gave us the order of its arrangement and
said that it was organized for the benefit of
the poor, and those that required aid. Said
the Releif Societies should at all times be
willing to administer to the wants of those
who were suffering and required comfort
and sympathy, but be sure that sympathy
was given in the proper way. Be sure and 
have the Spirit of God at all times, and
then counsel would be given wisely. En-
treated the sisters to refrain from speaking
evil of each other, to be careful how they

[Column 3]

talk before their children, as their minds
are young and they remember the teachings
of their mothers; to cultivate a spirit of
kindness and forgiveness. She spoke of 
the EXPONENT and hoped the sisters would
encourage the taking of it, as it was good,
wholesome reading. Hoped the sisters
would not speak against the principle of
plural marriage, as those in it could scarce-
ly realize the blessings they are in posses-
sion of, and they knew nothing of the out-
sidworld, if they did they would not 
suffer themselves to talk against it. Spoke
of the necessity of becoming self-sustain-
ing, and entreated her sisters in every
way possible to sustain and manufacture all
they could. In regard to the silk culture,
it was now time to plant out the cuttings of
mulberries; showed some silk specimens
produced in the north. Spoke of the pure-
ness of our silk in compaaison to that in-
termixed with other trash, which was
manufactured abroad. Said we all had the
art and capacity to make ourselves self-sus-
taining and a source of wealth to other
countries; hoped the people would take an
interest in the silk culture; spoke of the 
expense President Young had incurred in
assisting to start this branch of home indus-
try, and thought the sisters should take an
interest in it. Spoke on the Grain Move-
ment, and of obedience. She also made
some remarks on the Woman's Book now
in the press, which was written by the
man who wrote the "Life of Brigham
Young;" hoped the sisters would patronize
it. Spoke to the young boys on temper-
ance, exhorting them to abstain from to-
bacco and liquor, and to aim high, cultivate
their minds, and if they would remain
faithful could attain to greater excellence
and power eventually than Queen Victoria's
children. She represented the advantages
arising to the young girls from the Re-
trenchment Organizations, and that all
should endeavor to carry out the counsel of
the servants of God.
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards said she always had
a testimony to bear, and if we lived up to 
the principles taught us we would always
have something good to say. She thought
outside of the Gospel there was no pleasure.
Spoke upon faith in cases of sickness, and
said the Saints should never be without
consecrated oil; told them not to run after
doctors, but to exercise their faith; spoke
of the good things that had been said dur-
ing the day, and added that if we could
only remember them we would be more apt
to do our duty.
	Mrs. Young then spoke of the Woman's
Commission Store in Salt Lake City, said
the home industry was represented there;
invited the sisters to visit it, it was OUR
store—the Sisters of Zion's store—and hoped
the sisters would help the President of the 
Kanosh Relief Society.
	Mrs. Marian Pratt made a few very in-
teresting remarks in conslusion.
	We had a splendid time and a good spirit
prevailed. Our Society is improving and 
all the sisters seem anxious to do their duty.
With regard to the Grain Movement, the 
sisters have truly done what they could;
those who had no wheat put in molasses
and corn and flour and peaches, and some
has already been exchanged for wheat. By
this means we hope to get in a considerable
amount of grain. We are always pleased
to read so many good reports in the EXPO-
NENT, and especially with regard to the
Grain Movement. The sisters in the Re-
lief Societies have really manifested an
earnest zeal, which does them great credit.
We are having quite an early spring in this
part of the Territory; everything seems


forward; the peach trees are in full bloom
and if the frosts only keep off, there will be
a great quantity of fruit.
 Praying the Lord will bless all the efforts
of His faithful saints, I remain,
Your sister in the gospel of peace,
                              A, PAXTON,
                              Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		183


[Column 1]
			MOUND FORT, March, 8th 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The Mound Fort Relief Society was or-
ganized with twenty-six members, on the
29th of January, 1874, by Miss E. R. Snow,
assisted by Mrs. Zina D. Young, of Salt
Lake City, and Mrs. Jane S. Richards of
Ogden. The Society now numbers thirty-
seven.
	We hold semi-monthly meetings which,
considering our scattered condition, are
well attended. The sisters feel well, take
an interest in all matters of a public and 
general nature, which tend to the develop-
ment of good, rejoice in talking to each
other on the principles of the gospel, and 
delight in devising means and laboring to
assist the poor, and to build up the kingdom
of God.
	Our Financial Report up to January 29,
1877, shows the following:
Receipts in cash, merchandise, and
	sundry articles.............................. $87.27
Disbursements.....................................   62.59
On hand................  ..............................    24.68
	Towards purchasing silk machinery sev-
eral sisters have subscribed, in the aggre-
gate $7.00, and they intend to make up
their respective amounts to $5.00 shares.
	The EXPONENT is taken by quite a num-
ber of our Society, and read with great in-
terest. Ever praying the Lord to bless
you in your labors, we remain
		Your sisters in the Gospel
		Susan Moore, President,
		Mary Farr,		} Counselors.
		Annie Taylor,	}
		Annie D. Taylor, Secretary,
		Mary C. Barker, Treasurer.

		BOUNTIFUL, March 31, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is now some time since you heard from
us so I thought a few lines would not be out
of place. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young, E. S. Barney, and Presindia Kim-
ball, visited us last fall; they spoke on the
truths of the Gospel and home manufacture;
showed the necessity of sustaining all
branches of home industry so that we may
become a self-sustaining people, and when
Babylon falls, we may not be left without
resources. They brought a good spirit in
in our midst, since then our meetings have
kept on increasing, and the spirit of God
has been with us; we have been greatly
blessed in many ways; we have been able
to put the roof on our Relief Society Hall,
and have also got the flooring laid, so that
we can have the use of it. We are endeav-
oring to carry out President Young's coun-
sel, by STORING GRAIN; the sisters seem to
have the spirit of their mission, and have
freely responded to the call made of them.
We are also interested in the silk culture
and hope to see a great many trees set out
this spring, and some silk worms raised;
we are having a ribbon loom made which
will soon be ready for use, hoping that it 
will be an inducement to the sisters to raise
the silk.
	I wish to say a word in favor of the 
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association.
They have a faithful president in Mrs. Su-
san Grant, and hold their meetings every

[Column 2]
two weeks. They are now editing a paper
called the Young Ladies Companion, which
is both instructive and interesting; they 
also read good selections when they assem-
ble together, and most of them seem to
take great interest in this Latter-day work,
and are faithful in attending their meet-
ings. 
		Yours &c.,
			MARY E. CARTER, Sec'y.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the evening of Tuesday, March 20th,
a surprise birthday party was tendered Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, President of the Santa-
quin and First President of the Spring
Lake Relief Societies and the teacher of 
our precinct school,—by the misses of her
school. A number of her friends were in-
vited and all who participated seemed to 
enjoy themselves. She was the recipient
of several presents.
	The Relief Society here, under the pres-
idency of Mrs. Elizabeth Broadbent is 
steadily growing and all the sisters seem to
take a lively interest in helping to make
the Society a blessing. We have not been
able yet to lay up much GRAIN, but expect
the present year to make a good start in
this direction.
							D. E. B.
	Spring Lake, March 21st, 1877.


SUPERFLUOUS MEN.
	I claim no originality for my caption.  It
was suggested, of course, by Mrs. Liver-
more's "Superfluous Women," but aside
from the qualifying adjective, her "Super-
fluous Women" and my "Superfluous Men"
have nothing in common.
 The world would be the loser if those su-
perfluous women, mostly earnest, helpful
workers in the quiet walks of life, should
suddenly drop out of it, while the men, I
have in mind, are superfluous not on ac-
count of their number, but their character,
they are superfluous in the sense that they
are useless, a hindrance rather than a help
to society and the world would be better oft
without them.
 1. Of these I will mention first the loaf-
ers.  This is a large class comprising many
grades from the tramp to the genteel loafer
who belongs to a club and smokes the best
Havannas, but they all have the same gen-
eral characteristics.  They are lazy, they
have no visible means of support and like
the man who, being brought before the Po-
lice Court and interrogated as to his busi-
ness, replied that his wife was a dress-mak-
er, a large number are dependent on hard-
working, self-sacrificing wives, mothers and
sisters. They twirl their canes and their
mustaches they gossip, they flirt, they ex-
pectorate, they stand on the street corners,
they frequent drinking saloons, and all
places of high and low resort, they gamble,
they bet, they talk politics, they vote (oh
yes early and often), but their one distin-
guishing characteristic is, their aversion to
any kind of honest industry.  According
to all rules of political economy this large
class of non-producers are entirely superflu-
ous.  They add nothing to the wealth or
well-being of the nation but stand outside
all its great needs and interests.
 2.  Habitual liquor drinkers and confirmed
drunkards.  While there is life there is
hope is doubtless true of drunkards as of
invalids, but it seems to require almost a
miracle to eradicate the appetite for strong
drink when once firmly established.  Think
of the demoralizing influence of this loath-
some mass of humanity, the misery of
wives and families, the poverty, the desti
tution, the crime, the little children continu-
ally brought into being by these wretched
fathers to inherit their morbid appetites
and diseased constitutions!
 3.  Closely allied to these are the licen-
tious, the debauchees, the moral lepers of
community, whose touch is pollution whose
breath is pestilential and who, besides their
every day pernicious influence are entail-
ing upon future generations the horrible
results of their vicious lives.
 If the first class mentioned are superflu-
ous these are far worse.  The first may be
compared to barnacles on the ship of state
—the last two are leeches drawing the life-
blood from the social body and poisoning
the whole circulation; taken together, they
are the drags and dregs of our civilization.
Could they all be suddenly blotted out of
existence by a series of discriminating
earthquakes or accidents, what an incubus
would be removed from society how would
the atmosphere be purified, and progress
and reform make giant strides towards a
millennial age!
	4.Again, there is a multitude of blatant
pot-house politicians, demagogues and of-
fice-seekers, filibusters and the like who
are a superfluity in the body politic.  Could
we be rid of them also, we should speedily
have a united and prosperous people, an
unexceptionable civil service, a model Re-
public and a modern Utopia with all the
modern improvements including Impartial
Suffrage!
					A. E. DICKENSON. 
Woman’s Journal.


ALFRED TENNYSON.

			Alfred Tennyson is to-day the
monarch, the sovereign of English verse.

	It began a new era in English verse when
Alfred came caroling out of Lincolnshire.
and since [-]e has devoted his life exclu-
sively to his calling. Having once discov-
ered the divine gift in his wallet he has
never neglected or slighted his charge.
Tennyson as a poet adds industry to inspir-
ation. Not running to publishers with
quickly created verses, he leaves them out
until he has given them the virtue of the
fullest posssible excellence. His motto has
ever been "Perfection or Silence."
	With some writers poetry is an employ-
ment, with Tennyson it is an existence.
Tennyson's knowledge is extensive and
great. In science he keeps fully abreast of
the times; he is a master of philosophy as
well as poesy; and in botany he is almost
without a peer. His knowledge is exact.
As well as Huxley he is the very genius of
verification. It is Tennyson's custom af-
ter writing a poem, to have it put into type,
carefully corrected and then put away for
years, until the time comes when the au-
thor sees fit to have it published. His
egotism has often been condemned but it is
magnificent. There is nothing small or
mean about it. He is always altering his
verses, but ever for the better. Willis
once said in that habitually felicitous man-
ner of his, that a literary reputation could
only be built up, like the walls of Jerusa-
lem, with a trowel in one hand to plaster
in friends, and a sword in the other to
smite down foes. But Tennyson has been
as a rule, supremely scornful and regardless
of all his critics.—"The Pulpit of the Day."


"EXPERIENCE" says Jean Paul Ritcher,
"is the best schoolmaster, but the school-fees
are somewhat heavy."


184		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SCRIPTORIAL DRAMA.

				SELECTED.

	The scriptorial drama of "Joseph and his
Brethren," says the "Northern Echo," has 
been performed in the hall of the Mechan-
ics' Institute, Darlington, before a large and
appreciative audience, by an amateur com-
pany of Primative Methodists. The scrip-
torial narative has been divided into nine
scenes, which were gone through with
much spirit by the performers, who were
all dressed in character. Pharaoh's throne,
and crown, Joseph's coat of many colours,
Bejamin's sack with the king's cup, to-
gether with the necessary Oriental cos-
tumees, were all represented with remark-
able fidelity. At intervals, between the
scenes, appropriate pieces of music were
rendered with much vigor by the brethren,
who, whether singing or acting, entered
heart and soul into their respective roles.
The representation was received with much
favor, and it will shortly be repeated.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	IT is said that the United States Weather
Bureau is ahead of any in the world in the
accuracy of its forecasts.

	ANOTHER cure running race with that of
blue glass, is now doing wonderful work
in France. It is termed the metallotherapy
and electric homoepathy: it consists of the
application of metallic plates or cylinders—
gold, copper, or iron. It is stated some
very remarkable cures of paralysis have
been affected.

	Scientists assert that a system of tele-
graphy originated long since in Africa
among the negroes; it has been in opera-
tion from time immemorial on the west
coast of Africa in Cameroons county. The
instrument is called the "illeembic," and
through sounds produced upon striking it,
the natives converse across miles of Terri-
tory with ease and fluency as if standing
face to face, the noises constituting a com-
plete language, as intelligible to the opera-
tor as speech. The method is telephonic
and the signals are read by sound and not 
sight.

	THE great engineer of the Suez, M. De
Lesseps, made a calculation in regard to
turning the great Desert of Sahara into a
sea, a manufactured ocean. The French
marines discussed the matter, and consider-
able excitement was caused by it. Time,
however, has elicited a cooler calculation,
and Prof. Maury (who is, we believe, con-
sidered an authority on such questions)
says it "would not impoverish the seas
proper, no more than a man is impoverished
by a dollar dropped into the contribution
box." Science waits the "denouement."

	SCRIBNER'S Monthly describes a new
form of gas stove, designed to give warm
fresh air to a room, and provide for getting
rid of the products of combustion by means
of the chimney. It consists of two upright
cylinders, enclosed one within the other;
the outer cylinder is open at the bottom,
and is connected by means of a pipe with
the chimney. The inner cylinder is con-
nected at the bottom with a fresh air box or
pipe, and takes air from out-of-doors, and is
open at the top. The gas is burned in the
outer cylinder, and serves to heat both the
outer walls and the inner cylinder, through
which air is drawn from out of-doors, and
sent warmed into the room."


PEN AND SCISSORS.

 DIOGENES on being asked,  "Of which
beast is the biting the most dangerous?"
answered,  "If you mean wild beasts, 'tis
the slanderer; if tame, the flatterer."
	"LET every man" said Sydney Smith,
"be occupied, and occupied in the high-
st employment of which his nature is
capable, and die with the consciousness that
he has done his best."  If the highest em-
ployment is not to be found in our daily av-
ocations, let us seek it in our leisure.
 THE affection which shrinks from pub-
licity, seeks to be invisible, and avoids cer-
emony, is more true and deep than that
which finds its solace in that outward dis-
play which invites the comment of the
world at large.


[Column 1]
			A CARD.

	A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them sell in this market. We wish to state that it is
not so. We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
						R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Salt Lake City, U.T.
PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOOLCOTT'S PAIN PAINT
					IS THE
GREAT HOUSEHOLD REMEDY
For Inflammation, Fever or Heat. Does not burn, smart
	or color the skin, and requires no rubbing. Recom-
		mended for all Eruptive Diseases, Rheumatism,
		Bruises, Wounds, Colds, Frosted Feet, &c.
PRICE FIFTY CENTS!
		Hundreds of References in Salt Lake City.

	The Ogden Junction says: "Pain Paint is a wonderful
remedy and ought to be widely known."
	☞ A HOME PREPARATION ☜
	ONLY CITY AGENCIES—11th and 15th Ward Co-op
Store, Deseret Bakery, Main Street, Morgan's 7th Ward
Cooper's, 17th Ward( and Woman's Commission House.

				AGENTS WANTED.
	No Capital but Bishop's Recommend required. Ad-
dress this office.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 5		 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1877.  No. 24.﻿


RUSTIC WARBLINGS.

The birds are building their pretty nests,
	And sounding their love notes clear and sweet;
The bees are busy and nothing rests;
	Nature seems dancing with fairy feet.

Dear little birds, you may chipper and sing,
	While art and industry your home secures,
As if for your sakes alone came Spring—
	But I know a love tale as sweet as yours.

Beautiful spring-time! cheery and mild,
	With silvery showers and radiant sun:
I could frolic once more like a joyous child,
	Only for work that must be done,

I have thoughts to think, almost too dear
	To lock in my bosom, or to unfold:
I will pencil them down on the paper here,
	And who shall know if they're weak or bold?

I know somebody good and true,
	Whose manly heart is just and kind:
If his eyes are not of the "deepest blue,"
	And his hair "so beautiful!" never mind.

Although not a favorite with the girls,
	Who puff their dresses and flaunt and flirt,
And simper and gossip and shake their curls;
	Although in courting he's no expert;

Yet, children around him feel no neglect,
	The poor are blest from his ample store,
He treats the aged with great respect,
	He is good to his mother—what man does more?

He can laugh as heartily as the best,
	And greatly enjoys a pleasant joke;
But he makes the Sabbath a day of rest;
	He drinks no wine and does not smoke.

Indeed my hero has virtues rare,
	He is free from fashion's unhallowed taint,
He has good, sound sense, he has learning fair,
	He's a model man, he's a brave young saint. 

He loves and his love he dares confess,
	Like the most and best of moral men;
Some young lady may whisper "yes!"
	And she'll be somebody's darling then.

Dear little birdies, sing love tales,
	Irrespective of listening guests;
It is happy May and love prevails,
	So chipper and whistle and build your nests.

My heart is o'erflowing with gladness too,
	My dream of love is so sweet and pure;
I wish I could warble it forth like you,
	But now I must go to my work "for sure."

		WAMSUSIE.
May, 1873.


[For the EXPONENT.
OUR DUTIES AS DAUGHTERS
OF ZION.
"Let us then be up and doing
With a heart for any fate."
 The above are the words of a poet, and
let us put them into practice, and see if we
cannot accomplish more good than we are
now doing.
 Every little while, my dear sisters, we
hear of missionaries being called to go to
different parts of the world to preach the
gospel, others to make new settlements;
and many other duties to perform that
would not be advisable for us to step for-
ward and do.  But for all this we can do
thousands of things that we are not very
diligent in performing, where we would
not be counted stepping over the thresh-
hold of modesty and propriety.  If we can-
not go to foreign countries and preach to
the heathens, if we cannot go and make
new settlements, and help to widen the
borders of Zion, if we cannot quarry, polish
and lay up rock for the temple, we need
not be idle, God never designed that we
should work in this way; but He has given
us our portion of work, and it is for us to
step forward as brave sisters and do it;
we can encourage the brethren in being
faithful to the principles of their religion
and help to build up the kingdom of God.
 We can learn to raise silk, make our own
dresses, ribbons, hats, bonnets, flowers,
trimmings, laces, gloves, and many other
things too numerous to mention, that would
save a great expense and what we save, give
as a donation to a temple, or for some other
noble work that will bless the people of
God.
 By hard study, diligence and persever-
ance, we may qualify ourselves as school-
teachers, clerks, cashiers, telegraphs opera-
tors and fill positions of honor and trust.
Then let us be faithful and let it not be
said that men are kept from other duties
to fill positions that we might occupy to our
credit.
 Let us step forward as brave volunteers
in this great work and take upon ourselves
the responsibilites of accepting situations
in our schools, our stores and telegraph offi-
ces, etc.  Let us be straightforward and
firm in our dealings, gentle and loving in
our governing, courteous and polite in our
manners, lively interesting and instructive
in our conversation ,constant and confiding
in our friendships, and love all that is good,
noble and exalting, ever striving to help
one another, and keep the commandments
of God our heavenly Father.
 We should learn to be our own doctors,
by having faith in the power of the Priest-
hood, and have power to heal the sick by
the laying on of hands.
 We should set an example that will be
worthy of following, and let our every act
be our recommendation into good society.
Encourage the brethren in their works, and
strengthen them in the faith by our pray-
ers.
					MAY B. EUNO.
Fairfield, April 25.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	VASSAR COLLEGE is doing a good work
for future generations by giving opportuni-
ties to women of obtaining not only a high-
er education for themselves but these wo-
men will bequeath to posterity the impress
of their work.
	A MONTHLY magazine is published in
London called the English Woman's Re-
view, which is devoted to social and indus-
trial questions. The "Woman's Journal"
says, it is a perfect mine of facts and infor-
mations on the Woman question.
	THE FRENCH Societi du Deoit des Fum-
mes" held an interesting meeting lately in
Paris in the Salle Lax, which was presided
over by M. Armard Duportal, Deputy for
Toulouse; supported by M. Brisson, mem-
bers of the Municipal Counsel of Paris.
One of the questions brought before the
meeting and upon which papers were read
and speeches were made was "la recherche


de la paterniti." The French law forbids
every attempt to make known the paterni-
ty of illegitimate children. Statistics were
presented showing the number of these
fatherless children, who either die in the
first months of their existence, or live to
people the prisons and galleys.—Ex.
	It seems fully time that women were per-
mitted to speak in their own defense where
such cruelty and oppression exists to
wards the unfortunate. If the women of
America obtain Universal Suffrage it is
probable they may in many ways assist wo-
men of other countries in the protection of
their liberties and rights. Would such laws
as these exist if woman was allowed a voice
in the matter? No! the love of offspring is
too strong with woman, and she bears too
much the impress of divinity in her na-
ture.


NATIONAL WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE
			CONVENTION.

	The Tenth Annual Convention of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association,
will be held in Masonic Hall, corner 6th,
Ave. and 23d St. New York, May 24, 1877.
	"The great effort of the National Wo-
man's Suffrage Association this year, will
be for the 16th amendment which shall
specifically declare woman's right to the
ballot. The right of petition is woman's
only recognized method of influencing leg-
islation; a million names to the 45th Con-
gress would have great moral influence up-
on Congress and the nation. The United
States already has three classes of voters,
the black man, naturalized male citizens,
and amnestied rebels; each of these has
right to the ballot under United States au-
thority. Though by decision of the Su-
preme Court, in case of Virginia L. Minor,
of Missouri, all women were remanded to
the States, yet as the National Government
had power to invest with the ballot in the
above instances, it has like power to en-
franchise woman.
	"Let us therefore meet and discuss the
best methods of attaining this great object."
	The circular is signed by Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Ch. Ex. Com., and the information is
respectfully given also that all contributions
to this convention should be sent to Ellen
C. Sargent, 1733 De Sales St., Washington,
D. C. Letters should be addressed to Mrs.
Gage, Fayetteville, N. Y.


FLOWERS.

	THAT time is wasted which is not used
to the best advantage.
	NATURE is the art of God.—Sir Thomas
Browne.
	CONSCIENCE is an upright judge but not a
law.—Whateley.
	THERE are words which are worth as
much as the best actions, for they contain
the germ of them all.—Mme. Swetchine.
	PERSONS of extended views—Panorama
painters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting
which convenes semi-monthly in the Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms was crowded
to overflowing on Sat. April 28. President
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks up-
on labor and its reward; the return of the
brethren and sisters from the Temple, and
the subject of Storing Grain. Said that as
war was now declared on the Eastern conti-
nent the sisters could see the wisdom
of this mission; thought the sisters ought
to do all in their power to be wise virgins.
Counselor Mrs. P. Woodruff said she re-
joiced to to be with the sisters again, but
greatly enjoyed her visit to the Temple and
with the settlements on the journey. Said
the people south were united and were will-
ing to devote themselves to the kingdom
of God. Mrs. Margaret P. Young referred
to the pure enjoyment she had in the Tem-
ple, and the good influence which seemed
to pervade its surroundings and associations,
and the gratitude and thankfulness she felt
at all times in reflecting upon her visit.
Counselor Mrs. E. Howard, said she felt
the spirit of God poured out upon the hand-
maidens of the Lord; thought it was time
the sisters stopped depending upon Baby-
lon, and should make more sacrifices to-
wards building Temples. She felt it was
necessary to retrench from everything
impure and foolish and prepare our hearts
to enter the Temple of God. Mrs. Martha
B. Young made an earnest exhortation to
the sisters; Mrs. Higgs and Mrs. East testi-
fied to the spirit of God that was manifest.
Mrs. East particularly exhorted the sisters
to offer up their sacrifices to God, and lay
all upon the altar, that they might secure
the great reward promised and not fall
short.
		SPANISH FORK, Apr. 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The second annual reunion of the Young
Ladies Retrenchment Association of this
place was held in the City Hall on Monday,
Apr. 2nd. The exercises commenced at 2
o'clock p. m., by singing and prayer.
Speeches, songs, recitations and original
compositions, together with the reading of
the Annual Review by the editor Miss Alice
Jex; interspersed with sweet strains of mu-
sic by Messrs. Thomas Hitchens, John Mor-
rison, and Miss Emma Isaacs; constituted
the afternoon's entertainment.
	Bishop Geo. D. Snell expressed his pleas-
ure at seeing so many present; spoke of the
advantages to be derived from our Annual
Review; as it enabled us to see the progress
made in the year past: spoke of the necessi-
ty of union and adherence to the rules and
regulations of the society: exhorted the sis-
ters to make their own fashions, and not
follow those of the world.
	Mrs. M. J. Morrison's remarks were full
of kindly feeling and expressions of the
pleasure she felt in having the opportunity
of doing good, and hoped to be able to hon-
or the mission assigned her as president of
the association; she also bore a strong tes-
timony to the healing power which she had
seen made manifest in a recent experience;
spoke of the changes that had taken place
in the society since their last reunion. She
concluded by expressing her desire that as
a society they might be more in earnest in
doing the will of our Heavenly Father, that
they might more fully enjoy His blessings.
	Miss Jane Powel spoke upon the subject
of charity, hoped the sisters would culti-
vate it in their daily lives. Bro. Geo. H.
Brimhall, Prest. of the Y, M. M. I. A.,

[Column 2]
made a short address; he was much pleased
to see the energy and diligence displayed
by the sisters.
	Bishop Snell presented the following offi-
cers for the ensuing year. President, Mrs.
M. J. Morrison; Counselors, Misses M. J.
Thomas, Maria Finch, Elizabeth Martell,
Mary Beckstrom, Clara Conrad—Miss
Jane Robertson was accepted as counselor
in the place of Mrs. Jane Reese, who re-
signed on account of ill health. Superin-
tendent Mrs. Jane Powell; Treasurer, Miss
Jane Robertson; Secretary, Miss Hannah
Snell; Ass't. Secretaries, Misses S. Warren
and Emma Evans; Corresponding Sec'y.,
Mrs. Hannah Cornaby; all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Intermission for one hour, during which
time about one hundred and fifty persons
sat down to tables bountifully spread with
picnic which was very tastefully arrang-
ed by a committee previously appointed.
The evening exercises were of the same
character as those of the afternoon. Bish-
op Snell, in connection with other brethren,
blessed and set apart the officers of the so-
ciety after which each officer was called up-
on to express their feelings and they all
expressed their willingness to perform the
various duties assigned them to the best of
their ability.
	The Treasurer read the financial report for
the two past years which showed that the
sum of fifty-seven dollars and forty cents
had been collected, and a disbursement of
forty dollars and fifteen cents, leaving a
balance in hand of seventeen dollars and
twenty-five cents. A five cent Temple
fund, donations received weekly, is in suc-
cessful operation in the association to which
the members contribute. A library has al-
so been started to which books are added
by donation and purchase.
	The second anniversary of the Society
was a time of real pleasure, and ended with
expressions of mutual good feeling and a
determination in the future to be more
zealous of good works.
				HANNAH CORNABY,
							Cor. Sec'y.

			WALLSBURG, Apr. 18, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	By request of our worthy President, I
take the privilege of writing a few lines to
let you know how our society is getting
along in this little place; we hold our meet-
ings twice a month and a spirit of peace
and union prevails in our meetings; our
society is small compared with many oth-
ers, about forty members in all; the sisters
feel to be united with other sisters in carry-
ing out the counsel of President Young;
our place is small, and our means limited,
but we intend to do all we can in STORING
GRAIN, and have about forty bushels safely
stored.

		BEAVER CITY, March 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We have had quite a spiritual feast of
late listening to the teachings of the breth-
ren and sisters that were on their way to
the General Conference at St. George. The
company of the Twelve Apostles held two
days meeting here which was highly ap-
preciated by the saints of Beaver and other
adjoining settlements. On the first even-
ing after their arrival Elder Joseph F.
Smith gave a very interesting lecture to
the Young Gentlemen and Ladies Associa-
tion, on the rise and progress of the Mor-
mon Church. The following evening Mrs.
Zina D. Young, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff and

[Column 3]
others addressed us, gave much valuable
instruction concerning our temporal as well
as our spiritual welfare; urging us as a com-
munity to be self-sustaining and patronize
home manufactures; they also gave excel-
lent advice to the young; in fact all the
meetings were good and interesting and we
felt to thank the brethren and sisters for
their many valuable instructions.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sister,
						M. J. Shipp,
							Ass't. Sec'y.
	I also send you the Petition of the ladies
of Beaver, which were three hundred in
number, for publication if you feel so dis-
posed.
	PETITION TO THE HONORABLE MAYOR
	AND CITY COUNCIL OF BEAVER CITY,
	UTAH TERRITORY.

	We the undersigned lady residents and
citizens of Beaver, beg respectfully to rep-
resent to your honorable body, that there
are seven liquor saloons in our city and that
the great amount of spiritous liquors sold
has a demoralizing effect upon the youth of
our community. We consider intemperance
the bane of crime in all civilized countries
where the sale of liquor is not kept under
proper control or prohibited altogether.
The latter we would fain ask at your hand,
but understanding as we do, that the late
Governor Woods refused to sign the amend-
ment to our City Charter with the power
to prohibit; we simply and humbly ask that
you restrain as far as practicable the bane-
ful demoralizing traffic, and raise the li-
cense fee to a figure that will only make
it profitable for medicinal purposes. We
would also ask for the sake of our sons and
brothers that the ordinance forbidding to
sell to "minors under sixteen years of
age;" be made to read twenty-one years
of age; and that the police authorities
be instructed to see that the law is rigid-
ly enforced and give such other relief as
your honorable body deem for the best
good of the youth of our growing com-
munity, and as in duty bound your peti-
tioners will every pray.

			LAKE VIEW, Feb. 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a few words from our little
place, to let you know how we are getting
along with our meetings. We have com-
bined the Young Men's Meetings and our
Retrenchment Meetings together and the
young men take charge of the meetings
one Sunday night and the young ladies the
next; we all enjoy the spirit of the Lord,
all get up and bear a strong testimony to
the work of God, and the holy spirit rests
upon us in our meetings, and we all take
an active part in making them interesting
and we know that it is our duty to help
bear off the kingdom of God. How proud
our parents would be to have their sons and
daughters grow up to be mighty men and
women in the church of Jesus Christ; and
if we do not improve ourselves while we
have a chance we will have to endure the
consequences, for we will never have the
opportunity to come back and retrace our
footsteps, either before or after we pass
away from this earth. I never felt more
like doing good than I do at the present
time, and we trust that all the young men
and women may persevere in the good
cause.
					J. G. MARTIN.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EVER THE CHILD "ROSABELL."

Searching ways and haunts of childhood,
	Down its lanes, o'er meadows green,
Through the orchard, field und wildwood,
	For a wreath to crown my Queen.
Ling'ring fondly by the brooklet,
	Rippling through its mossy dell;
Culling flowers by its waters.
	To bedeck fair "Rosabell.

Emblem of a true affection,
	Breathing of a love sublime,
Reaching through the years eternal,
	Of a sinless, deathless clime.
In the dewy morn of childhood,
	Liveth ever, Rosabell"
Why she never merged from girlhood,
	There's no mortal tongue can tell.

There she lives a fairy creature,
	Bright and joyous as of yore,
Sunshine gilding every feature,
	Time can never reach her more.
Turning o'er historic pages
	Pressing back the weight of years,
All the agony of ages,
	Joys and sorrows, hopes and fears,

Sunny life of bud, and blooming,
	Like genil ruled by charmed ring,
Come to me with love's adorning,
	Voices from a far off spring.
Clear blue eyes to mine upturning,
	Rosy lips breathe loving words,
Fragrant as the air of Eden,
	Musical as song of birds.

Bud and bloom of nature's glory,
	Love-light twining "immortelle,"
Fairy tale and simple story,
	Crown the brow of "Rosabell."

Salt Lake City.
	Affectionately inscribed to E. B. W.
		By Sister LU.


[For the Exponent.
		A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	One hundred years have passed away
since our grandsires fought and bled, and
suffered almost every privation to assist in
establishing a Constitution which guaran-
teed unto all, "Liberty and Equal Rights"
—that all who wished might come and wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own consciences, and rest secure under
the Nation's broad escutcheon: Our fore-
fathers were filled with a heaven-born hope
that their children from generation to gen-
eration would appreciate and sustain these
inalienable rights bequeathed to them by
their Veteran Fathers.
	It was the spirit of God which inspired
Columbus to search out this contintent,—and
by the same spirit and power our forefath-
ers, although they may not have realized it,
fought and gained the victory, that a Free
Republic might be established and a land
and people prepared that God might again
reveal Himself to His children, and set up
His kingdom never more to be thrown
down.
 What has transpired in this short vista of
time. For a few years the people were
blessed and happy, although there were a few
wars and schisms, yet those who held the
reigns of government, and those who ad-
ministered the same with many others,
stood nobly and firmly for right regardless
of party or sect, and America was free and
blessed above all other nations.
	About the middle of the century the
Lord began to reveal the Gospel and to re-
store His Holy Priesthood again to man.
Then Satan began to stir up the people to
persecute those who believed in direct rev-
elation from God revealed through Joseph
Smith, the prophet whom God raised up in
this the last dispensation to restore the Gos-
pel taught by Jesus and the Apostles, and
also by the ancient prophets; these prophets
when speaking of the corruption of Baby-
lon in the last days, said, "Come out of her,
Oh! my people that ye partake not of her
plagues," and that a people should gather
from every nation under heaven to a land
prepared for them.  When these things be-
gan to come to pass, prejudice sprung up 
among those who administered the laws of 
the land and they disregarded the claims of 
justice; and it was not long before mobs
combined here at home, in our boasted land
of liberty to destroy the Saints of God.
The thought makes the blood of old '76,
that runs through my veins, boil with in-
dignation and shame, that I, a child of the 
Republic with many others whose grand-
sires had fought and died to bequeath to 
their children rights and a law to protect
them in their religious views and the exer-
cise of religious liberty, were compelled at
the point of the bayonet to walk barefooted
through the crusted snow, cruelly cutting
our feet, so much so, that the path made by
us was a trail of blood.  Ah! methinks if 
the fathers of our glorious Republic and 
framers of the Constitution could have
viewed the scene, their very ashes which
have lain mouldering for years must have
been stirred in their graves.  Not only did 
this great wrong exist among the minor
officers and administrators of the laws
of the land, but those who stood at 
the head of the nation were embittered
with the same prejudices.  When the saints
appealed for justice and redress, to Presi-
dent Van Buren--his reply was "Gentle-
men your cause is just but I can do nothing
for you."  Well might liberty blush and re-
tire to the mountains, and justice hang its
head in shame, because there was no Exec-
utor; and thus were the Saints driven from
city to city and from state, to state and in-
to the Great Americcan Desert which has 
indeed been made "to blossom as the rose."
Still have our enemies continued to send
their shafts of venom after us.  They think
themselves better provided with a pretext
than our former persecutors were, for they
have now a great HOBBY HORSE on which to 
ride called "polygamy," and one after an-
other of their immaculate politicians ride
to Congress with a bill to be passed against
the Mormons.  But strange to say ever
one who has gone with this HOBBY HORSE
gets worsted and are politically killed.  This 
is in fulfilment of a portion of Scripture.
The Lord says in speaking of the enemies
of His people that He will "put a hook in 
their jaws."
They do not realize the hand of God but 
walk in darkness, the blind leading the 
blind, and corruption and bribery prevail in 
high places, seeking to deprive people of 
the rights guaranteed by our beloved Con-
stitution.
Oh! how my soul is pained when I see
the rights and privileges of citizenship
trampled upon, and changed to suit the ca-
price of men who would sell themselves
and the liberties of their fellow-beings for 
money and for office.  Stooping to become
partizans regardless of the oaths they have
taken pledging themselves before high
heaven and all men to maintain inviolate
the Constitution and its relations to the 
rights of the people, whose cause they re-
resent.
In their zeal to do away with the system
of polygamy they seem confused in their 
plans some proposing one plan and some
another.  I would say to you gentlemen
this is because you do not understand what 
you are dealing with; hundreds and thou-
sands of your predecessors have been in the 
same sad dilemma; because as phyicians are
sometimes puzzled so are you to understand
the nature of the object you are contend-
ing against.  Grant, in his version of it, calls
it a twin relic of barbarism, or a loathsome
ulcer and like a quack Doctor, has been ex-
perimenting during his presidential career,
but has neither killed or checked its growth.
To be continued.


SILK CULTURE.

	As the time is fast approaching to begin
raising the silk worm, I am daily interroga-
ted, "How shall we proceed in silk raising?"
For the benefit of those wishing to engage
in the business, I will make a few remarks
in regard to it, founded on my own experi-
ence,which has heretofore proved success-
ful.
	In the first place we must be alive to our
business. Now the first thing to be done is
to secure silk worm eggs before the weath-
er gets too warm, to avoid them hatching,
and before the leaves are far enough ad-
vanced to begin feeding. In order to avoid
their hatching, place them in a cool dry
place or cellar, if not damp, in a box of any
kind, to preserve them from the mice,
with a goodly portion of gimlet holes bored
in the ends and sides to admit of the circu-
lation of air, there to remain until wanted
to hatch. From the first to the 15th of June
bring the eggs from your cool repository,
and spread them upon a newspaper upon a
table. Leave them in a cool room. It is
best not to expose them too suddenly to
warmth that would hatch them. Leave
them in a cool room a day or two, then take
them to a warmer room, and spread on a
table as before. In a few days they will
begin to hatch. They commence early in
the morning and continue hatching until
near noon.
	Now your labor commences. As soon as
they hatch, they start off in search of food.
Pluck your tenderest leaves, about the size
of a quarter of a dollar, leaving the tip end
and one small leaf. Cut the leaves in halves,
lay them on the worms, where they are the
thickest. When they are all on the leaf, if
it is not full of worms, place it in another
spot, and so on until the leaves are full.
Have another paper near the one you have
your eggs upon. Then take a pen-knife,
and take hold of the edge of the leaf full of
little worms, placing them on the paper
you previously laid on the table, taking
them up one by one as they fill up, lay them
side by side, until all that day's hatching
are taken care of. Now gather some ten-
der leaves, laying one on the top of anoth-
er, say from five to one dozen, according to
the number of worms. Lay them on a
board and cut them with a sharp knife,
about an eighth of an inch wide, and cross-
ways the same. Then sprinkle them light-
ly over the young worms; be careful not to
put on too many, as the worms will attack
the first leaf they come in contact with.
If there is more than enough for them the
top leaves will wilt, and dry up before the
worms can get to the top. Repeat this op-
eration every two hours. If the worms do
not come up it is a sure sign that they
have had too much feed, and are unable to
get up. Then you must feed lighter. Ov-
er-feeding is a great fault in the first stage
and must be avoided. Continue in this
way each day during hatching, taking care
to keep each day's hatching by themselves.
	Any person wishing silk-worm eggs can
be accommodated by addressing the under-
signed.
	MRS. ANN K. DUNYON,
		Draperville, Salt Lake Co.
—Deseret News, May 1st, 1876.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS. } Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.

 Publishcd semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
 Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake Cily, Utah. 
		SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

ASSOCIATIONS OF NATURE, HER
WAYS OF PLEASANTNESS.

	Spring has come again with its buds and
blossoms speaking to the heart in hopeful
promise, and revealing as it were, truthful les-
sons of the Infinite. The glad waters have
burst their ice-bound fetters, and as they flow
freely along, one fancies they babble of the
prison-lfe in which cold stern winter had en-
thralled them. The glorious sunshine regener-
ates everything which it rests upon; not only
producing vegetable life and bringing forth in 
profusion everywhere, grasses and flowers, leaf
and shrubbery, but the human body receiving
a portion of its penetrating and invigorating
rays, is imbued with freshness, elasticity and
vigor. The birds returning again from their
southern tour are caroling sweet melodies, as
if their anthems of praise were uttered for all
animate creation. Thoughts and anticipations
come with the spring-time in rich profusion
too. Many writers have indulged in ridiculing
the various odes, poems, compositions and es-
says upon Spring; but the mind bubbles over
with its effusions at this season of the year be-
cause of its kinship to all animate nature; and
feeling that the season is one propitious in the
effervescing of ideas congenial and conducive to
their rhythm, it is but natural to dedicate to 
this Goddess of Spring suitable tributes in hon-
or of her life-giving power and strength.
	She is also the herald of Summer with its
wealth of beauty and ways of pleasantness; its
long bright days, its gorgeous sunsets draping
the mountain-slopes with their reflection in 
pale purple and blue, shimmering leaf and
flower and tree top with blended golden green.
Must not all this beauty have its effect upon
the senses? Bringing always its own peculiar
train of pleasant associations in the mind, dif-
fused with light and warmth and vigor, im-
parted by the outward presence of the truly
natural and beautiful, acting upon the suscep-
tible imagination. Plans for useful labor for
pastime and out-door enjoyments begin to
be formed, and contrast with similar scenes
and episodes in the past. Involuntarily mem-
ory calls up what last season afforded of pleas-
ure and joy, and the experience it brought, of 
how best to economize all things to make cap-
ital out of the smallest resources for enjoy-
ment.
	To us the Spring brings many pleasing re-
membrances, many happy remnisicences of
days gushing over with the enthusiasm of love
for nature's wildest haunts, its dreamiest
nooks, its most enchanting imagery. All these
are ways of pleasantness, and if the spirit of
content be strong in one, the way to be good is
so plain and old-fashioned that everybody
knows it, therefore it is not entertaining. If

[Column 2]

all that the cleverest geniuses have written
against the world in general were combined,
the volume would be too massive and ponderous
for use, but there is a vast amount of beauty
in the world, even in nature's world, and no-
ble hearts and noble actions and youth and
hope are all around us. Youth is fleeting but
hope is a permanent and reliable characteristic
and one which leads us always in pleasant
ways, lights up the darkness of the mind, cast-
ing back the shadows that have fallen in one's
path and helping one to rise supreme over
trifles and doubts on the journey of life. Hope
is the companion and twin sister of faith, that
faith which is rich in wisdom and help to all
weary toilers in this “work-a-day world."
There is no person so perfect but they need
strength from all available sources, and if one
can drink in true inspiration from without, it
may help to solve doubtful questions, and en-
courage to lives of usefulness by opening new
avenues of thought and feeling. One very im-
portant requisite on all occasions is good na-
ture; it is good for holidays and it is good to 
have a large stock for every-day use. Good
nature pays, and it costs something too, for it
needs constant cultivation of the soil of the
heart, and if all persons are not capable of 
great achievements they may possess them-
selves of this attribute which will yield them
happiness in bountiful proportion to the seed
sown. Good nature is a virtue, for it is the
best nurturer of kind feelings. Constant brav-
ery in all little trials and crosses, thankfulness
for all favors, and such culture of heart as can
endure the hardest lessons of life without mur-
muring are worth the attention of all who as-
pire to genuine goodness.
	If to good nature one adds the desire to please
others and do good to those who need help or
kind attention, then indeed will it lead to ways
of pleasantness; and whatever changes come,
like to Mrs. Hannah More's "Shepherd of Sal-
isbury Plain," sunshine will bring beauty, and
clouds the fatness of the earth." Every day
will be a holiday then and all seasons will pro-
duce their relative pleasures. This would
make true philosophers of men and women and
add materially to human happiness in the ag-
gregate.
	One cannot but feel impressed with the idea
that this beautiful world, so full of everything
to gladden the eye and give zest to earth-life,
was not formed and created with so much care
and wisdom and manifest forethought, for poor
mortals to grumble at as they partake of its
life giving elements and bask in the sunlight
of the countenance of heaven.
	E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	DIED: In Centerville, Davis County, Jan.
21,1877, of dropsy, Eliza, wife of Joseph Hon- 
css.
 Deceased was born in the year 1803, in the
Parish of Newington, County of Kent, Eng-
land. Received the Gospel in 1842, and re-
mained in full faith until her death. During
her lingering illness she manifested that pa-
tience, and implicit faith in a Divine Power, 
which characterized her whole life. She leaves
a husband and family of children, and a large
circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED: At Harrisville, of small pox, Ja. 17,
1877; Sarah Jane, daughter of John M., and
Louisa A. Brown, and wife of S. F. Wilson;
born in Ogden City Utah; May 26, 1855. De-
ceased was born in the church of Jesus Christ
of Latter day Saints; was baptized when eight
years old; she was married to S. F. Wilson 
Dec. 12, 1870, and was appointed teacher of the 
Relief Society in the summer of 1871, which
position she filled in a praiseworthy manner.
She was esteemed by all who knew her; was
kind and benevolent to the sick arid poor and
friendly to all.
	She leaves her husband, three children,
mother, brothers and sisters to mourn her de-
parture, and who feel the loss of an affection-
ate daughter, wife, mother and sister. She
lived a virtuous and honest life, and died in
peace as if going to sleep, and in the faith
and hope of a glorious resurrecteon. For she
had a testimony that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet, for herself and not doubling, for she
saw him in a vision.
							COM.

	DIED: In Farmington, April 20, 1877, after
a short illness, Mrs. Lucy Robinson, wife of
Oliver L. Robinson, (now on a mission to the
States,) and daughter of Henry W. and Elvira
Miller of St. George.
	Mrs. Robinson was forty years of age and
the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
are now living; she had filled with dignity the
office of teacher in the Relief Society for a
number of years; and had proved herself
worthy of example in polygamy. We know
she is now better off, yet cannot but feel the
loss of her society.
	In Farmington, March 24, 1877, Lemira Mc-
Bride also departed this life, after having lived
to a good old age, nearly completing her eighty-
fourth year. Her friends felt more like rejoic-
ing than mourning at her death as she had
filled up her days in usefulness and with honor,
and for some time she had prayed that the
change might lake place. She was one of the
first settlers of Farmington. and died as she
had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint.
							COM.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the two-days meeting
held May 12th and 13th, the General Retrench-
ment Meeting in the Fourteenth Ward which
would have convened on the 12th was post-
poned until the next regular meeting day, Sat-
urday, May 23th, when it is hoped the sisters
will assemble with renewed ardor and spiritual
strength. 

	THIS PRESENT number completes the fifth
volume of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We fully
intended making some change in the size and
appearance of the paper which we most hearti-
ly desire to do, but are entirely unable at pres-
ent, unless subscriptions come in more quickly
than we have any reason to anticipate, judging
from the delinquencies of the past year. The
women of Utah certainly should sustain
their own paper, and if they do not, they de-
serve to be misrepresented by their enemies
abroad. The power is in their own hands to
represent themselves in a way that cannot be
misunderstood. The paper is now having a
wide circulation and the world already begin
to see that Mormon women have an opportu-
nity to express their views on all subjects of
universal interest.

	[The following paragraph is part of a letter
written from Logan to one of our sisters.]

	*It perhaps will be of interest to you to
hear from our Society which was reorganized
in Dec. last, by yourself and others. I am
happy to state that there has been a disposition
manifested among the young ladies to seek
more after the things pertaining to the
kingdom of God since than befere. We now
have enrolled the names of one hundred and
eleven members. 	Our desires are to be
more energetic in the future than we have
been in the past, and assist in the great work


which is before us. * Praying God to bless
all who are interested in Zion etc.
	Such reports as this and similar ones coming
from all parts of the Territory are significant
of the future which is just unfolding, when
woman will be qualified through her own faith-
fulness and good works to do her share and do
it well, in the great events which are about to
transpire in the last days.
	THIS IS the season for all those interested
in the silk culture to commence, if they have
not already, making preparations to carry out
the vote of the conference on that speciality.
It is very generally believed that silk manufac-
ture will yet be a source of wealth to this com-
munity. If the sisters will only take hold of
this branch of business as they are capable of
doing it will be sure to succeed. Industry and
perseverance, with the skill Utah is competent
to furnish, having ingenious workmen from
foreign countries thoroughly trained in many
of these departments of labor, will accomplish
in a few years that which may now seem to
many utterly impossible. Who would have
anticipated a silk dress pattern being made
here without machinery, beside silk laces cost-
ly and magnificent, fit to add to the ward-
robe of a queen. Yet these things have been
done and many more. It has been prophesied
and this people profess to believe it, that in
Zion there should be the finest productions of
workmanship, and the nations should come up
to learn of these fine arts. There must be a
beginning, and it is surely time now for the
commencement if we expect to fulfill it.
	SERICULTURE.—The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met pursuant to adjournment, Friday,
May 4th, at the Fireman’s Hall, Mrs. Horne
presiding.
	Mrs. Horne said she was well satisfied with
the success of the Association. Was pleased to
see so many present, a proof that we were pro-
gressing, and we had no need to doubt any
longer that silk could be raised and manufac-
tured here, as the evidence was before us. She
referred to the silk dress which had been
raised, reeled, and twisted by Sister Nancy A.
Clark, of Farmington, and woven by Mr. Jo-
seph Hatfield, of the same place. The people
used to laugh and make sport at the idea of
raising and manufacturing silk in Utah, but
that time was past.
	Mrs. Barney said she was well repaid for all
she had done; was pleased to see the interest
that was being manifested to make the enter-
prise a success, which at the present time had
a good foundation. It only needed a building
to make this one of the greatest sources of
wealth to this community.
	Mr. George Pyper said that he had been
very successful in raising silk worms, and
thought it best not to change the f[-]ed by giv-
ing them wet leaves one day and dry the next,
but to adopt one plan or the other and keep
to it.
	The meeting was also addressed by Mrs.
Snyder, Mrs. Hardy and others.
	Adjourned until the first Friday in June.
		R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WISHES AND SUGGESTIONS.

	While sauntering about the lot this morn-
ing, I was led to wish that bee keepers would
have the good taste and good judgment, not to
try the experiment of domesticating their bees
in so close proximity to neighbors that orch-
ards, gardens, and houses must be infested
with them.
	Few persons are more fond of honey than

[Column 2]

myself; but I would prefer to have it extracted
from fields of buckwheat raised for put-
pose, rather than from my pears, peaches, ap-
ples, &c., while they are in blossom.
	I know that honey bees are always held up
as patterns of industry; but as for politeness
and honesty, they are imbued with these about
as much as a cross cow might be, when left
to walk through the street and pick her living
where she can find it.
	One day last summer when we were sitting
down to dinner, several of these useful little
plagues entered the open window; and with-
out waiting to see whether we would offer
them an invitation to dine with us or not, they
seated themselves comfortably upon the edge
of a dish of honey in the middle of the table.
When they began sipping daintily from my
favorite dish, I raised an objection and tried to
make them understand that their company
was not desired in our house. They refused to
comprehend, or at least to comply with my
wish for them to leave. So my husband inter-
feared, and finally succeeded in driving the
little marauders out through the same window
they had entered; but not until he had receiv-
ed a slight wound from one of their weapons
of defense, and broken a pane of glass. That
meal was by no means the only one which
was made uncomfortable for us, by the inva-
sions of our neighbors' saucy bees.
	It seems to me that a very good plan would
be to have an apiary conducted far enough
away from town to warrant security from mo-
lestation by the bees, to the inhabitants in
general of the city; and extensive enough to
supply this honey-loving community with the
delicate sweet.
	The roses will soon be blooming in abund-
ance. I wish that mothers would teach their
children that although it is not so dishonest to
beg as to steal, it is almost as contemptible.
It is trying to get something without earning
it or paying for it, and is a practice that child-
ren should be taught to abhor. What woman
could be willing to leave her work twenty
times a day to answer the summons from some-
body's child that she knows nothing about,
"Please ma'am will you give me a rose?" And
if without going to wait upon them, you ans-
wer, "you may take one," almost any of these
little rose beggers will fill hats, aprons or what-
ever will carry them, with the most choice
roses and buds they can find on your bushes.
	Children should be taught, that people who
have fine roses and flower gardens have to
work hard to take care of them, or pay garden-
ers for doing so. And that if they have flow-
ers to give away, they most likely have dear
friends to whom they prefer giving them.
	Watching and listening to the happy birds
that came with the joyous spring, reminds me
of a chapter I once read from a book written
by an old and wise man. I never think of it
without also thinking, it is a chapter which
very many young men would do well to read
and heed. A portion of it is as follows:
	"Husbands and fathers do stop your drive,
drive, hurry, hurry; long enough to do your
duty to your wives and children! Pattern af-
ter those dear little birds. They have built
themselves a pretty home, and the female is
filling it with eggs. How many charming lit-
tle attentions her consort lavishes upon her!
How completely devoted and exquisitely ten-
der! Thereby he renders her all happiness,
and sweetness, and this stamps the impress of
loveliness upon her embryo eggs. How sweet-
ly he warbles in surrounding branches; thus
charming away her tedious hours, and making
her happy by notes of love."
	If the lesson given in these few words, could

[Column 3]

only be learned and its importance realized by
all our young husbands and fathers, what a no-
ble generation might be reared up by the sons
and daughters of Israel!
	MABEL.


SPECIAL CONFERENCE.

		  TWO DAYS MEETING.

	On Saturday and Sunday, May 12th and 13th
a Special Conference of the people belonging
to this Stake of Zion commenced in the New
Tabernacle. There were on the stand, the
First Presidency, Brigham Young, John W.
Young, and Daniel H. Wells. Of the Quorum
of the Twelve Apostles there were seven, the
Patriarch of the Church, John Smith, Presid-
ing Bishop, Edward Hunter, some of the Presi-
dents of Seventies, and of the Quorum of the
High Priesthood and the Presidency of this
Stake of Zion, with many resident Bishops and
Elders of the Church from different parts of
the Territory.
	Prest. Young called the congregation to or-
der, Saturday morning at ten o'clock. Pre-
sident John W. Young offered up the opening
prayer. During this Conference, the people
have been exhorted most earnestly to live their
religion more faithfully and devote their time
and energies to the building up of the kingdom
of God upon the earth.
	President Brigham Young has preached con-
siderable during the Conference on all practical
subjects pertaining to the interests and welfare
of Zion, entreating the people to keep the Sab-
bath day holy, and to observe the covenants
they have entered into. Some missionaries
have been called, mostly to Arizona.


ABOUT THE "LITERATI."

	"The Story of Galileo;" this book which
has just been published in Rome contains
much matter of interest, from the research-
es of Prof. Dominico Berti, who studied in
the Vatican, and throws new light upon
the subject. The original papers are now
published for the first time. Their history
is peculiar. Napoleon once ordered them
to be printed but for some reason it was 
never done. The original documents are 
said to be contained in a book with a faded
green cover. One proof of their authentic-
ity is they agree with Galileo's letters, with
the facts of his life, and with other docu-
ments which have been discovered, and
with the copies made in the register of the
holy office at Rome. Galileo after the publi-
cation of his first book the "Munzio Sider-
io," in 1610, went to Rome with the desire
to have his studies sanctioned by the priests
and Collegio Romans. His recent discov-
eries of the telescope and the sattelites of
Jupiter won so much admiration from the
greatest men in power that it attracted the
attention of the Inquisition. Cardinal Bal-
larmino commenced a persecution against
him, saying his doctrines were opposed to 
Scripture. The secret myrmidons of the
Inquisition were ever on his track, and in
1616 at his first trial by the Inquisition he
was forbidden to write or speak further on
those subjects. Cardinal Ballarmino ad-
monished him to abandon his opinions.
The history adds "never was command
more arbitrary and more absolute. Galieo
promised to obey but the sources of his in-
tellectual life were closed for seventeen
years; at the end of that period he was
brought again before the Inquisition. After
this he seemed unable to restrain himself
from telling the truths which tormented
him and began again to publish the re-
sults of his studies. Galileo was threatened
with torture, and the decree for his execu-
tion now exists.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	CLIFTON, IDAHO TER., Apr. 21, '77

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I would like to ask the sisters if they re-
alize what our missions are here on the
earth. We come here to receive our earth-
ly tabernacles, to gain an experience and
to die. Is this all? No, it is not. We come
here to improve ourselves and to do all the
good we can and just as little harm as possi-
ble. We should be honest and truthful and
teach of our children the same principles, also
teach them to observe the Sabbath, to rev-
erence God the giver of all good and per-
fect gifts; and that it is THEIR duty as well
as ours to bow before our heavenly Father
and thank Him for His loving kindness to-
wards us; again, here is a lesson or all.
We should not wait till the hour of adver-
sity and sorrow comes, before we pray; but
we should pray at all times, so that in the
time of need we may have claim upon His
mercy and blessings. We are all weak and 
erring mortals, but by doing the best we
can according to our knowledge, by help-
ing one another and doing good to all; we 
may overcome many of the frailties natu-
ral to human natures.
	 We have a Relief Society here number-
ing thiry-five or forty members, who are 
willing to do all they can towards Storing
Grain, and helping the poor and needy. 
	There are a few of your papers taken in
this place, and I am convinced that a much
greater good would be accomplished if
they were taken by every family.
	We have a Young Ladies Mutual Im-
provement Society, which seems to do
much good and promote the growth of in-
telligence and happiness among the young.
	I will close for the present as I am writ-
ing with a babe in my arms. My wishes
are that the Women's Societies may in-
crease in numbers, knowledge and wisdom. 
					Yours Truly,
								K. E. D.

	BLOOMINGTON, BEAR LAKE CO.,
						March 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I take this opportunity of communicat-
ing a few of my thoughts to you and in-
form the sisters how we are getting along
in this little branch of the Lord's Vineyard.
The Relief and Retrenchment Societies
are doing well; the former meets twice a 
month and are abundantly blessed; we en-
gage in singing and prayer and conversing 
upon the pure principles of the Gospel that 
are calculated to exalt all those who are
humble and obedient enough to receive
them. We read the EXPONENT in our 
meetings which is truly interesting and ed-
ifying; we have not done a great deal in
the Grain Movement because the grain was
not plentiful last year on account of the
early frosts, but the sisters of our Society
feel to respond to all the requirements of 
those in authority over them and to carry
out the counsel of President Young in
storing grain and in the building of Tem-
ples; and feel to do all they can in their
humble way to build up the kingdom of
God upon the earth. The young ladies in
their Association are doing well, and they
ever manifest a willingness to assist in the
good cause. There is also a Young Men's 
Mutual Improvement Association which is
prospering, and they have the earnest pray-
er of every thinking mother, that they may
awaken our youth to a sense of the impor-
tance of their work in these the last days.

[Column 2]
	We were called to mourn the death of
Mrs. Margery Bateman on the 17 of Feb., of
child birth. Deceased was born Nov. 20,
1855; came to this country in 1874. She
lived and died a full believer in the Gospel 
of Jesus Christ; she attended to all the or-
dinances which will ensure her eternal life;
and in the morning of the resurrection we
hope to meet our beloved and enjoy her so-
ciety through an endless eternity. "She is
not dead but sleepeth."
							M. A. J.

				GOSHEN, April 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT: 
	I thank you very much for your kindness 
in taking an interest in the young ladies in
this place, and for your good advice and 
counsel, and I hope that I will profit by it.
I did not desire to hold the position of 
President of the Young Ladies Retrench-
ment Association, for I felt I was not capa-
ble of magnifying the office; but the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society and others, tried
to encourage and assist all in their power,
and were very diligent in trying to get
the young ladies organized, and they helped
us in every way possible after we were or-
ganized. We are not very many in num-
ber in our society, for our settlement is but
a small place and we have not many young
ladies here, but the majority of them have
joined the association and try to do all they
can to assist in rolling on the great and
glorious work we are engaged in. We
meet together twice a month, also take the 
EXPONENT and find it a great benefit to us;
it is always laden with good counsel which 
we read along with selections from the 
Church books in our meetings. We also 
converse with one another and strive to 
make the meetings as interesting as possi-
ble. The sisters of the Relief Society visit
us occasionally to instruct us. We edit a 
paper to read in our meetings and have
some very good compositions in it.
	I hope you will be blest in your undertak-
ing, for it is a noble one and will result in
good. The EXPONENT is a great credit to
the editors, and a great blessing to the wo-
men of Utah.
	That the Lord may bless all who are try-
ing to build up the kingdom of God is the
earnest prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
				HATTIE J. HIGGINGSON.

	26 TENBY STREET, BIRMINGHAM,
				ENGLAND, April 3, 1877.
	To Mrs. Mary Meiklejohn, President, and 
the officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety of Tooele City.

DEAR SISTERS:
	Feelings assured that a few lines from us
would be acceptable to you, and feeling in-
terested in every good organization or en-
terprise calculated to benefit or increase the 
happiness of the saints in Tooele, although
a distance of over six thousand miles inter-
venes between us, yet the memories of
past associations are ever with us, and give
us pleasure in our reflections, and it is very
happifying to us as we hear occasionally of
your progress, and the success attending
your labors in assisting to erect a suitable
hall for the benefit of your society, and to
enable the young, and others who are fond
of amusement to procure the same under
proper management, namely, the Holy
Priesthood. We know that the Relief So-
ciety is a great help in government having
seen your good acts in administering to
the sick and otherwise in times past, and

[Column 3]
when we hear of the grand mission assign-
ed the Relief Societies, in STORING GRAIN
and their success in other places, the ques-
tion arises in our mind, how is it with
Tooele? But the answer to us, juding
from former acquaintance, that you are not
behind in any good work, and we pray that
God may bless you in your labors. We re-
alize tha the responsibilities of mothers
are great, who so well qualified to make
lasting impressions on the minds of the
youth, and to learn them to appreciate their
peaceful, happy homes, where they are far
removed from the wickedneess, vice and cor-
ruption which exist in this and other coun-
tries; this ought to suggest to us the neces-
sity of redoubling our diligence in throw-
ing a guard around our youth and direct
their [-]eet in the paths that will lead them
to eternal life which may God give you the
power to do.
	We should be very ahppy to hear from
you as a society, if you could make it con-
venient to write to us.
	Kind love to all, and may the God of
heaven bless you, and lal the faithful saints
is the prayer of your brethren,
					JOHN ROWBERRY,
					GEORGE ATKIN.


SYMPATHIES WITH CHILDREN

	Do you want to learn how to make the
children love you? Do you want the key
that will unlock the innermost recesses of
their nature? Then sympathaze with
them always. Never allow yourself to ridi-
cule any of their little secrets. Never say,
"Oh, pshaw!" when they come to show you
a new kite or marvelous top, and "I can't
be troubled!" when the hard knot won't be
untied, and two and two obstinately refuse to
make four on their little slates. Kites and
knots are only the precursors of older
thoughts and deeper trails, which the pa-
rents may one day plead to share.
	Don't laugh at any of a child's ideas, how-
ever odd or absurd they may seem to you;
let them find your sympathy ready in all
their wonderments and aspirations. The
little folks are too much crowded out in this
world; people generally seem to think they
can be put anywhere, or made to eat any-
thing, or crammed into any out-of-the-way
corner, to amuse themselves anyhow. We
don't agree with these cross-grained wise-
acres. It don't take much to make a child
love you and trust in you; and the benefits
to him are absolutely incalculable.
	Oh, how much better it is for children to
bring all their cares and troubles and temp-
tations under the gentle eye of a kind par-
ent! What a safeguard it is for them to
feel that there is always a kind ear to listen
to their doubts and griefs, and a gentle
shoulder for their little heads to nestle
against! Respect their rights; never think
you can say bitter things, in their presence,
or do unjust actions. They are the finest
discriminators of fair and unfair in the
world. Somebody says: "When you are
inclined to be cross with children for being
slow to learn, just try a moment to write with
the left hand. See how awkward it proves,
and then remember that with children it is
all left hand." Above all, do not be ashamed
to let them know that you love them. Re-
member they will be men and women some
day, and the slightest word which may in-
fluence their future lives should become a
thing of moment in our eyes.—Selected.


POPULAR prescription for a sick lady—A
new bonnet, a Cashmere shawl and a silk
dress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


STORING GRAIN

	FAIRFIELD, SEVIER Co., Apr. 5, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give some information
concerning the progress of our society; we
assure you the sisters of Fairfield are not
altogether dead, although so long unheard
from. We read with surprise the instruc-
tions when first given through the EXPO-
NENT for the Relief Societies to store up
Grain, and our hearts were filled with a
true desire to obey the call from the vener-
able leader of our church; it is a proof of
his confidence in the sisters, and we ought
to rise up in our might, yet with all humil-
ity to engage in this noble enterprise re-
membering that thereby we shall be able to
make restitution for past wrongs, for had
we as a general thing been obedient and
wise, much more could have been accom-
plished towards the building up of Zion.
The sisters here felt almost disheartened at
first, our ready means in the society was
very limited, our husbands had no grain,
they work faithfully in the United Order
for which we are thankful, yet we were not
satisfied, for here was another call; so we
concluded we would make an effort, trust-
ing in God for its success, and He has in-
deed heard our prayers and blessed our la-
bors, and we have now stored up about two
hundred bushels of wheat, and five hun-
dred pounds of flour and we keep adding
to it; at first we bought the wheat with
what little cash we had at seventy five cents
per bushel, and exchanged with oats, and
so on; some of the sisters donated of their
gleanings, or solicited their husbands for
donations of what little they had raised,
and in various ways added to our store.
Then we petitioned the Board of Directors
of the United Order, as our Society had
credit there to the amount of one hundred
and forty-one dollars, which was counten-
anced by our Bishop who acted very nobly
and kindly and used his influence in be-
half of the sisters; our petition was granted,
and the amount paid out to us in wheat, at
their own price. We feel very thankful
and trust in the Lord for continued success.
	Desiring the welfare of Zion, we are your
sisters in the Covenant.
	M. C. PETERSEN. Prest.
	F. ANDERSON, Sec'y.

	CEDAR FORT, Apr. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place have
been persevering in storing grain, we have
nearly one hundred bushels of wheat; the
Young Ladies Association donated gener-
ously towards it. Bishop Cook has kindly
loaned us a bin in the Tithing Office, until
we can get one of our own prepared, which
we intend doing as soon as possible:
	We have donated twenty-three dollars to-
wards our Temple, and a considerable sum
towards gathering the poor from other
lands. Although we are remote from the
presidency of the church still we are doing
all we can to be one with our sisters in
working for, and gaining inheritances in
Zion. We are not personally acquainted
with our sisters who preside in Salt Lake
City, yet we feel drawn towards them in
love, and good wishes for we are all striv-
ing for the same object, viz. a salvation in 
the kingdom of God.
	The EXPONENT is ever hailed with pleas-
ure as a counselor and friend; wishing it
success, I subscribe myself your sister in
the gospel,
	MALINDA COOK, Sec'y.


Mother
			____
"Hush my babe, lie still and slumber.
	Holy angels guard they bed:
Heavenly blessings, without number,
	Gently falling on they head." 
			____
 It is the cry of the infant just from the
cradle; it is the only balm that will heal the
Wounded heart in  youthful days.  "Mother,
I'm hurt!"  "Mother, I'm tired!"  "Mother,
sing to me!  Rock me - tell me stories."  It
is always "mother" with the child and lad;
no one like mother; no hand that falls on
the fevered brow as softly as hers; no words
so soothing as those that pass her lips; the
house would be a grave without her; life
would be a dreary, thorny road without her
warning voice and ever guiding hand.  A
father may be kind, may love not less,
but the wearied child wants the mother's
arms, her soft lullaby songs, the caresses of
her gentle hand.
 All childhood is a mixture of sunshine
and shadow.  A kind word brings a smile,
a harsh word a sigh.  The first footsteps,
weak and trembling, grow stronger by the
guidance of a mother's love.  The little
wounds, the torn clothes, the headaches and
heartaches, the trials all vanish at the
words of a mother; and there is a built up in
the heart of every man an edifice of love
and respect that no crime of his can over-
throw-no prison wall affect.
 And a lad grows to be a man only to find
that "mother" is the same.  If he errs, she
weeps; if he is good and manly, she re-
joices.  Hers is the only love that lasts--en-
dures forever.  The wolf of starvation may
enter the door, but her love is only tried to
shine the brighter.  All the world may call
her son a criminal, but the mother believes
it not.  Trials may beset you, storms gath-
er over you, vexations come, rum drag you
down; but there is one who ever stands
firm in your cause, who will never leave
you.  The criminal on the scaffold has suf-
fered in feeling because his bad deeds
would cause a pang in mother's heart. The
low and wretched, dying in some dark
abode of sin, have died with that dear and 
never to be forgotten name on their lips.
There is no praise like her praise, there are
no sad tears that pain us as much as
her.
 Thank God, then, reader, that we have
kind, loving, and affectionate mothers.
How pleasant it is in after life, to recall
those fond recollections when we used to
sit on her knee and hear her sing those
sweet, dear old songs so familiar to us all.
 Earthly things may pass away and be for-
gotten, but the good, all-embracing love of
mother will never be forgotten on earth or
in heaven.
				Frank Berry
Waverly Magazine.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Mother's Fruit Cake.—One cup of butter, two
cups of sugar, one-half cup of molasses, one cup
of sweet milk, one pound of chopped raisins, one
cup of currants, four eggs, one teaspoonful of sal-
eratus; two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, spice
as you like, and flour according to your judgment,
five cups being nearly right. This cake can be
kept well for six months.—Ex.
	Ginger Cookies.—Two cups sugar, two cups
molasses, two cups scant full of shortening, one 
cup hot water; one tablespoon saleratus, two table-
spoons ginger, one teaspoon alum, one teaspoon
salt—if there is none in the shortening; put half
of the water on the saleratus and half on the


alum. Roll them to a medium thickness and bake
a light-brown in a quick oven.
	Soft Hop Yeast.—Pare six medium-sized po-
tatoes and boil in two quarts of water; when they
are done nicely, put them in a pan and throw
over them a pint of flour—then mash together.
Tie a handful of hops in a cloth and boil about
twenty minutes in the water the potatoes were
cooked in; then take out the hops and pour the
water on the potatoes and flour. Stir well and
when nearly cool, stir in two good yeast cakes
which have been dissolved in a little warm water.
Keep warm till it is very light; then set in a cel-
lar, or some cool place where it will not freeze.
Bread can be made with this yeast much quicker
and better than if started with a yeast cake. One
teacupful is sufficient for three or four loaves.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	The absence of employments which develop
strength of body and brain puts women at a dis-
advantage, and their indoor, artificial lives, with
breath-depriving dresses, rob many of the blush
of health before they are twenty. Many among
all classes, are ill from causes beyond their con-
trol; many others because they have lived without
regard to the conditions on which health depends.
Having the care of
	"A harp of thousand strings,"
they have, either inadvertently or carelessly
strained, mutilated, or broken so many strings,
that the music of life, instead of being harmoni-
ous and sweet, has become discordant and painful.
	Is there a remedy for all these ills? For some
there is; some cases are too far gone; some ves-
sels are unseaworthy; they have sound parts, but
so many timbers are rotten, and so many strained
and twisted, that the vessel does not admit of re-
pairs—it must be abandoned. So some bodies,
sound. enough in parts to last a hundred years,
have been so abused in others as to be beyond re-
pair. They must inevitably soon be cast upon the
wharf. Still, as it is said, "while there is life
there is hope." The human machine is self-re-
pairing, and wonderful power of self-repair does
it often show when given a chance. "The begin-
ning of wisdom" in the treatment of disease, is
the recognition of this self-healing tendency in the
human body. Illness uncaused does not come.
Every invalid should inquire: "Why am I ill?"
and, finding the cause should remove it. The
words of scripture contain a remedy for human
ills which is nearer a universal panacea than any
which chemists have discovered. It is this:
"Cease to do evil; learn to do well."


SPLINTER'S.

	Littell's Living Age; of Apr. 28, con-
tains a literary parallel of Daniel Deronda's
mother......The most precious diamond in
the world is said to be the "Pitt Diamond,"
it is now valued at $1,000,000......The "Kin-
tergarten" publishers, New York, have is-
sued a new work entitled "The Cyclopedia
of Education."


A WESTERN paper says: "Wanted at this
office an editor who can please everybody.
Also, a foreman who can so arrange the pa-
per as to allow every man's advertisement
to head the column."


A WOMAN hearing a great deal said of
preserved autumn leaves, tried the experi-
ment by putting up a few jars of them. Af-
ter a time she said to a neighbor she might
as well have thrown away the sugar, for she
was sure they never were going to be fit to 
eat.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.

			FAIRVIEW, SANPETE Co.,
						April 15, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having been edified and encouraged in
the performance of our labors through read-
ing correspondence from Relief Societies
published in your valuable paper, and hav-
ing, as we hope, a laudable desire to be
known as co-laborers in the good work
which the women of Utah are accomplish-
ing, allow us to state that our society hold
their meetings semi-monthly, with general
good attendance and a lively spirit of faith
and works, at which times we receive much
valuable instruction from our worthy presi-
dent, Mrs. Mary A. Prichett and others,
exhorting us to practice in our daily lives
the counsel given for the temporal and 
spiritual salvation of the saints; and al-
though we would not presume to compete
with the older and numericaly stronger so-
cieties, yet we feel justified in being some-
what proud of our labors; some of which at
the present time are as follows: The Sunday
Eggs, the general term applied in this sec-
tion, are reserved as a fund for the benefit
of the proposed Temple in Sanpete, in ad-
dition we are also making quilts to assist in
the same purpose. We have secured and 
safely deposited, for a beginning, some-
thing near a hundred bushels of wheat and
subscribed liberally for the publishing of
the book "Women of Mormondom," and
still our labors go on unremittingly. We
are also happy to inform you that the Re-
trenchment Association of this place is in
a prosperous condition, holding weekly
meetings with a firm resolve for improve-
ment; and while the self-righteous, the
prejudiced and wicked are unnecessarily
exercising their minds upon the Mormon
Question; still we go plodding along,
knowing in whom we trust, with the Mor-
mon creed "Mind your own business," free-
quently occurring to our minds. Accept
kindest regards. 
				Yours etc. 
				MARY J. HOWELL
						Ass't Sec'y.

				RICHMOND April 14, 1875.
EDITOR'S EXPONENT:
	We have not been heard through the col-
umns of your valuable paper before, yet we
feel pleased to be able to say that our wor-
thy President has ever been ready to watch
for a profit by instructions from those in
authority, and has striven to lead us in the
wake of our fellow-laborers in the cause of
truth. We have endeavored to look after,
and help the poor, whether in sickness or
health, during the past, and hope not to for-
get them in the future. We are also sav-
ing up grain and over one hundred bush-
els is stored carefully away in the Tithing Of-
fice, where our honorable Bishop M. W.
Merrill has loaned us a substantial bin for
the present. We have not had many work-
ing meetings during the winter, but as de-
lightful spring is now here, we will try to
work in the hive of Deseret with the rest
of the busy bees. Our sisters have done
nobly this winter in helping and waiting
on the helpless and we know that God will
bless them for it. Our farmers are busy
plowing and planting and may God give
them an increase, despite the grasshoppers
expectant. We have had a great deal of sick-
ness among us this winter and many souls
have gone to meet their Father in heaven.
   We love to read your excellent paper,

[Column 2]
and feel sorry to say there are not many
subscribers in Richmond, but we look for-
ward to better times, and hope to improve
in this as well as many other small duties
in our lives. Our esteemed president and
counselor Mrs. Pond, and Mrs. Hendricks,
desire to be remembered to you all.
				BESTY BROWER, Sec'y.


DIVERSIONS.
	"THAT'S the only wedding trip I shall
probably ever take" said an old bachelor as
he stumbled over a bride's train.

	BOOK-KEEPING, said an old lady, is not a
sedative employment, because, she added
thoughtfully, they must get so much exer-
cise running up and down the columns.

	A PHYSICIAN wrote a prescription and
as the patient left the room said to him, "I
wish you would let me know if it does you
any good, for I have been troubled with
rheumatism myself recently."

	A Spaniard and an American dining to-
gether, the former passing a dish of brains
to the latter said, "What you lack." The 
American offering the spaniard a plate of
tongue answered "What you have a surplus
of."

	THERE are two things people in this age
need to learn--When to say nothing, and
when anything is said  say it well. Bless-
ed is the man or woman who knows enough
to be silent.


A CARD
	A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them sell in this market.  We wish to state that it is 
not so.  We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
Salt Lake City, U. T.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on

INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS

	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES' JACKETS,
STOCKINGS, YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
 Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter. Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
Table Salt, Band Boxes and 
Dixie Cotton.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.
THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are pnt at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to         C. R. SAVAGE,
                                  Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of 
Millinery of any house in town.
Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in 
her Emporium.  Do not forget
17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.
Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
 DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City

