
WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 9.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1880.			No. 1.


A FABLE.
Once, (so I heard) in some far land,
Two happy lovers wedded, and,
A fairy mother to them brought
A chain of gold, richly o'er wrought
With quaint designs, and legends strange,
Befitting life in every change.
Each golden strand was made of two,
Divided once yet linked anew.
She blessed the gift, bidding the pair
To take of it most sacred care.
And for awhile I scarce need tell,
That all for them in life went well.
At last, (such ills will come along)
One day, something with them went wrong;
And hastily one of them spoke
An unjust word. Instantly broke
One golden link. No mortal hand
Could mend the work from fairy land.
So ever hung before their eyes,
The broken strand, a sad suprise.
Ah! said the fairy, now I fear
There's going to be trouble here,
With patience broken, there are few
Can guess how  much there'll be to rue.
And sure enough, it was not long,
Before some other thing went wrong;
And judgment, without mercy sweet,
Like Shylock, urged his claim complete.
And 'neath the stress and burden hard,
The strand that broke, was true regard.
Though started, the wrong doer sought
No angel aid, but inly thought;
Why yield my heart to vain regret?
The strongest strands are left me yet;
Why bind the powers of my soul,
And  impulse fresh, control?
Shall I my nature free, restrain?
'Love' and 'forgiveness' yet remian,
And pure as gold, and strong as steel,
These two can bear all life can feel.
And keeping always before view
Reliance on this anchor true;
Turned here and there, and every where,
The plantom joys of life to share.
Thinner and thinner grew the strands,
Upheld oftimes by trembling hands.
The lovely emblems on them traced,
Became by careless use effaced.
But never dimly shone the gold,
And still they bore a stress untold
That heavier grew; until one day
The hand grown weakest dropped away.
And severed thus, they drifted wide,
One out upon life's restless tide;
The other silent and at peace,
Grown fairer since the soul's release;
With the safe passport to that land,
Where He, mends all life's broken strands.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHERON.
May 19th 1880.


CHARITY FOR  THE FALLEN
	"Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more."

	How forcibly do these simple  words of Jesus
portray his charity for a fallen woman; but how
different the charity of  men and women profes-
sing the same religion ! When  a woman falls a
victim to man’s evil persuasions, it is the custom
among all Christian people to look upon her as a
thing beneath their  notice,  except it be  to point
the finger of scorn at  and  call  vile names; and
yet, if we possessed one spark  of  the  charity of
Jesus, the worst accusation  that  we would  feel
justified  in making is, that  she was very weak:;
and in many  instances, could  we  know all the
circumstances and  realize  the  power of' the
tempter, and the arts and devices used to deceive
and lead astray, and how long and cunningly the
betrayer has  pursued  his  victim,  our censure
might be  turned  to admiration  for the strength
that resisted so  long.  But we only see  the fall;
God alone sees the conflict, and  He only is com-
petent to judge;  He  alone  knows how  to draw
the line between wilful sin and  the  temptations
too strong for our resistance.  Were  we permit-
ted to read  one chapter  in  the  pre-natal  exist-
ence of many  persons,  and  know  the  traits of
character bequeathed  to them  by their parents;
how they were endowed  with  propensities that
were so  indelibly  stamped  into their existence
were so  indelibly  stamped  into  their existence
that they cannot  be  eradicated by any teaching
and influence in after years, together with weak-
ness  and  indecision  that were never  taught to
bow  in submission  to  principle, we would pity
the poor helpless  creatures  thus  born  with  no
armor of  protection, for they are destined to be-
come an easy prey to the flattery and temptation
of unprincipled men.
    Parents, if you  have an  erring daughter, that
you would  turn  from  the  protection  of  your
home and love, look back to the time before that
child was  cast  upon  the  great  sea  of  human
trial, and see if  a  remembrance of your former,
selves cannot arouse  within you feelings of char-
ity and pity for one you sent into the world to
battle with its temptations, with no  shield, and
then, perhaps you maybe able to say, “Neither
do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more.”
   I know that such arguments and such charity
as I would urge in behalf  of a  sister who has
stepped from the pleasant path  of  virtue would
be met by many with  the  taunting  reply that
“you are as bad as she, or you would not have so
much charity.” Yet, who would think of cast-
-ing reproaches upon  the purity of Jesus  because
of his charity?  The virtuous may abhor sin, yet
pity  the  sinner;  and it  is  their  love  of  virtue
that would prompt them  to reclaim  with kind-
ness those who have forsaken its path.  I might
plead the same excuse for men  that I have for
women, did they  not already  claim  too much
sympathy  from  society;  but  I plead for helpless
women, who are sinned  against so much more
than they sin.  Society supports and smiles upon
man  while he injures  woman,  who can  claim
no redress,  no sympathy from  the  same source
that shields  him.  The wickedness of a man
who pursues a woman to her ruin is only wink-
ed at by society, while  the woman  may plead
for mercy,—may wash  out  her  sin  by  night
with  bitter tears of repentance,  and walk the
earth by day beneath the crushing sense of shame
and humiliation;  but that  will  avail nothing.
Society  does not speak the words of Jesus; it
only turns reproachfully  and  says, “You have
sinned once, that is sufficient; there  is  no help
for you now, no hope, only to go down to deeper
degradation  and  eternal  misery.  But who is
much to blame for this state of things?  Woman
herself.  Woman, Remember that you are a part
of that society that would scorn  you should you
fall.  Be not you the one to crush  your fallen
sister; do not draw  your  untarnished  garments
around you with such an air  of  superiority,  but
ever think,“You might have fallen as low as she,
had you been tempted equally." And you may yet.
see the time when you can say, “She has  but
stumbled iu the path that I in weakness trod.”
No human being can be frozen  back to a life of
virtue more effectively than  they can  be  drawn
back by kindness and  true charity.  Few hearts
are so innately bad that they cannot be reformed
by the power of love.	OLIVE BRANCH.


[Column 1]
THE INFLUENCE OF HOME.

	Good, bad or indifferent characters are mold-
ed at home, and polished abroad. The more
perfect the mold the more valuable the casting.
The more careful the polish the more lasting
the article. I will attempt to apply the above
figure of speech to the molding and permanency
of the human character. The cheerful family
circle, radiant with smiles, suggestive of pure
motives, appreciative of one another, are essen-
tial in framing minds that prefer to make home
the place in which to spend their leisure time.
The welcome "Good night" brother, or, "Good
night" sister, in retiring; or the "How I enjoyed
that reading," "the game you proposed," or simi-
lar sayings are intended to bind children and
parents with inseperable ties thatever find them
prefering home affection to the cold formalities
of the outer world. If there is one place more
like heaven than another, it is a bright, sun-
shiny home; where love is the ruling element,
and where each one's aim is to promote the hap-
piness of the other members of the family.

[Column 2]
Such a home never entirely fades from the mind
of any one who was reared in its purifying ele-
ments; and no matter how far they may have
strayed from its peaceful influences and as far
from its teachings, be assured in moments of re-
flection, they are carried back to those early and
happier days. If children are taught to realize
that home means happiness, (which can be done
by giving them plenty of home amusements)
they will have no desire to visit questionable
places of recreation. Home is the birthplace of
good and evil deeds. Upon the different influ-
ences around us in childhood, depends our future
career; if good, our course through life will show
it; if evil, nothing good can emanate from it. It
is not alone a home of drunkenness and vice that
exerts an evil influence over children. We can,
any of us, point to homes where the parents are
moral and industrious, but they lack the ele-
ments that constitute a good home. Parents get
angry and let their passions rule them instead of
calm reflection. A mother or father's notice
and appreciation of a child's wants and presence
should never be overlooked; for a child who is
continually crossed in his wishes can never
be amiable. Parents should refer in as few
words as possible to a child's errors, and then
show a forgiving disposition; slight reproof is far
better than an angry denunciation. For many
an erring one would have come back, like the
dove to the ark, after the first transgression, but
are cruelly driven beyond recall by harsh
words and menacing taunts; the savage charity
of an unforgiving soul. Forgiveness for sins re-
pented should be one of the rules of home. The
same offence, if possible, should never be refer-
red to. Speak volumes of praise and mild re-
proofs, and you'll find love and liking beneath
your roofs. Associations with sin are the direct
results of the want of union at home. The
parent who fails to mingle with and enjoy the
society of his children, and children that with-
hold familiarity with parents, and dread their
presence, and use deception rather than frank-
ness, are subjects of pity; and are in danger of
ruin and self-neglect; liable at any time to fan
into a flame discord and contentions that sepa-
rate the family, sending young men into dens of
iniquity, and gambling hells, and driving from
parental roofs, fair daughters to become outcasts
and women of the town.
	All our great men and women who have ob-
tained notoriety for their works, say that to
home, and most of all to their mothers, is due
the credit for the fame they have gained. Then
you, parents, are the builders of our characters,
and our lives. Parents who are too ready to lis-
ten to, and believe hearsay accusations against
their children, are the direct framers of a founda-
tion that will dissolve a united family, and scat-
ter the inmates, causing them to become associ-
ates of strangers. To such parents I would say,
believe what you know to be true, and be a con-
fiding parent, ever ready to protect your child
against slanderous talk; confide in him your fears
of wrong, with mild and affectionate words, and
if he will not then tell you all his acts, I judge
human nature wrongfully. Who should be
more confiding than parents and children? Who
should protect and defend a child against wrong
with the greatest force of determination? Cer-
tainly you will say "a parent." Yes, it should
be a parent; but how often do we find it the re-
verse. And parents who take again within the
home circle, an erring one, are the brightest
flowers met with on the pathway of life. Young
men and young women I appeal to you for aid
in inducing each other to be more frank and
confiding to your parents. If you err, confide
the fact to your best counselor; one who gave
birth to your existence; one who is ever ready
to stand by you in sickness, and soothe your
fevered brow; one who has shed and will shed
the bitter tear at your misfortune, sickness or
death. Withhold nothing that may concern
your character, and be assured you will be less
liable to deceit and equivocate before your par-
ents. Guard well against committing wrongful
acts, and your reputation will require no other
protection.					NANNIE WORLD.
	Salt Lake City, May 1st, 1880.


2		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONTINUATION OF THE MEMORIAL OF
ALICE AND PHOEBE CORY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are circumstances in every life, though
some may be so small that we fail to note them
at the time they occur, that yet cause a leaf to
be turned in the book of life, which will color all
the future. We see this in the important step
Alice took in starting to New York to begin life
on her own account by means of her pen! With
her great and grand mind, her strong will and
brave endurance, her character was still strictly
feminine, and had she married as she expected
at that time the man she loved and to whom
she was engaged, her life would have been that
of a devoted wife, a loving mother—in fine, a
woman of the highest type.
	Business interests brought into her home
neighborhood a man—at that time her superior
in age, culture and fortune; he sought out her
family as superior to the surroundings, and
Alice most especially; an attachment sprang up
between them, to her he became, the man among
men, the king of her youthl She never loved
another! His family were proud and prosperous,
and exerted all their influence to prevent his
alliance with a poor, obscure, uneducated rustic!
Years after she said, in speaking of this epoch
of her early life, "I waited for one who never
came back, till after a time,I read his marriage in
the paper!! Think what life would be, loving
one, wating for one who never came back!"
Years after he did come back; his wife was
dead, and Alice was dying! "The grey haired
man sat down by the grey haired woman." Life
had prospered with him, suffering and death
had taken all from her save the lustre of her
wondrous eyes; from her wan and faded face
they shone full upon him with the tenderness
of youth. She forgave him for her blighted,
weary life, with a smile as divine as ever beam-
ed on the face of an angel! Thus they met who
had parted plighted lovers in early youth! Alice
Cary's was no weak nature, all its fine feminine
gold was set in a will of iron. All its deep ten-
derness was walled in by justice, common sense,
and strict integrity; she outlived that sorrowful
youth to become one of the workers of the world;
she had many offers of marriage, some splendid,
but she never entered into another engagement;
the king of her youth passed out from her life,
but the niche in her heart's temple remained
vacant. It was in this desolation of her youth
that she determined to go to New York and
make a home, and life work for herself, she did
so and after a short time sent for her sisters
Phoebe and Elmina to join her. Of this depar-
ture from their paternal home Phoebe says,
"Without advice or counsel of any but
ourselves, we resolved to go to New York, and
after the manner of children in the story book,
seek our fortune." They hired two or three rooms
in a quiet neighborhood, and set earnestly to
work to earn a living by the pen! They lived in
a very humble, economical way, writing for
whatever papers would accept their contribu-
tions and taking any remuneration that was
offered them, thus they managed to live and
keep out of debt. They had a horror of board-
ing, and from the first determined to make a
home, however humble it might be; and this
made their life a success. Alice papered the
room with her own hands and Phoebe painted
the doors, framed the pictures, and "bright-
ened up" things in general. Their
home was a cheerful and a happy one
and they drew friends around them, who were
friends to their closing scene of life on earth.
One of the most devoted was the celebrated
Horace Greeley; he was faithful even unto death,
and attended the funeral of Alice to its last
resting place, and saw the last sod laid upon her
grave. He refers to their early tea parties as
follows: "Being already an acquaintance, I
called upon the sisters, soon after they set up
their household gods among us, and met them
at intervals thereafter at their home or at the
homes of their friends. Their parlor was not so
large as some others, but quite as neat and
cheerful; and the few literary persons, or artists,
who occasionally met at their informal invita-
tion to discuss with them a cup of tea, and the
newest books, poems, or events might have
found many more pretentious, but few more en-
joyable gatherings."
	Thus began in 1851 the life work of Alice and
Phoebe Carey in New York. The next year saw
the coming out of Alice's first series of "Clover-
nook Papers," their very simplicity and freshness
won all hearts; they sold largely in this country
and in Great Britain. She was free on her na-

[Column 2]
tive heath, when she painted rural scenery and
rural life. These papers were translated into
French at Paris. Her active brain and soul pro-
duced in twenty years eleven volumes, every
word and thought of which wrought from her
own being, and every line of which was written
by her own hand.
	In the same number of years Phoebe, be-
sides aiding in the editing of several books, the
most important of which was "Hymns for all
Christians," published by Hurd and Houghton,
in 1869, brought out "Poems and Parodies," pub-
lished by Ticknor and Fields, 1854, and "Poems
of Faith, Hope and Love," issued by Hurd and
Houghton, besides at their death poems enough
uncollected to give each name two added vol-
umes, one of each a book of child poems. I have
much to relate about Phoebe, but have no more
room at present.


GRATITUDE
	Having been, greatly  benefitted  and blessed
by the impulses recurring  from  gratitude, I in-
dulge in a few reflections  upon  such a manifest
boon, and  which  I am proud to  say it is one of
the choicest  component  parts  of  my  nature.
Had I the ability to do justice to its goodness, I
would wield my pen loudly  fraught with  its
praise.  I value  it as a noble  trait of  the mind
when we frame  our  hearts  to  give it free exer-
cise. It inspires  alike  the  old and young, the
rich, the poor, the generous aud the good, and to
cultivate which is much to our interest such a
heaven-born sentiment enriches  and exalts.  It
is an influence which should  be  fostered,  for  it
impresses  and  strengthens  us  in  our daily la-
bors;  its  happifying  features  are ever welcome
to the honest in heart. It calls forth our best
emotions  and  has  a large claim upon our finer
feelings; also  as  consoler and comforter,
giving new and invigorating  life  and content-
<js as="" a.="" consoler="" and="" comforter,="" giving="" new="" invigorating="" life="" content-="" ment="" to'those="" who="" can="" fully="" appreciate="" it.="" wo="" would="" lose="" much,="" were="" our="" hearts="" devoid="" of="" such="" a="" treasure.="" let="" us="" train,="" then,="" not="" careless-="" :="" jy="" crush="" heavenly="" attribute,-="" for="" it="" glad="" dens="" the="" heart-="" makes="" oheerful="" home,="" but="" ever="" tender="" our,sincere="" thanks="" to="" father="" in="" heaven="" sop="" reel="" pus="" jewel.="" may="" al-="" ways="" jc="" tain="" promiiient.place="" bosoms="" flow="" with="" prayers="" lor="" mercies="" extended="" towards="" us.="" ",r="" me="" is="" constant,="" .companion,="" my="" heart="" teems,="" gratefulness,="" when="" i.="" r.="" behold="" -the="" works="" creator,="" am="" led="" many="" times="" exclaim,-="" thank="" god!”="" viewing="" nature’s="" pcenery="" or="" hearing="" warbling="" .of="" birds="" murmuring="" rill,="" snew,="" the;="" sunshine,="" rain,="" the.="" dew="" drops,="" all="" possess="" charm="" nip,="" i="" cheerfully="" give="" daily="" bread,="" ’for="" children="" ,="" pray="" realize="" words,="" fti="" ani="" .the="" bread="" life.”="" that="" they.,="" praise="" their="" maker="" while="" they’ve="" breath.="" ascend="" continued="" advdtftages="" we="" have="" these="" peaceful="" vales,="" only="" realize,="" show="" gratefulness="" privileges="" thi?="" dispensation,="" which="" sense;="" are="" truly="" living="" very="" .eventful="" times;="" 6urely="" theudgmentsof="" god="" at="" doora="" told,="" commence="" nfc="" house="" lord.="" been="" afflicted="" here="" months="" terrible="" disease="" diphtheria,="" thankful="" say="" abating.="" people="" ac-="" knowledge="" chastening="" hand="" lord,="" know="" he="" desires="" live="" nearer="" him,="" whether="" will="" do="" so="" remains="" be="" seen.="" those="" called="" part="" little="" ones="" sorely="" tried,="" lord="" calls="" must="" submit.="" -="" taught,="" great="" consolation,="" reserving="" choice="" seed="" unto="" himself.="" 1="" feel="" tlio="" priesthood,="" head="" church="" 'generously="" inspired="" this="" year="" jubilee,="" ;="" 'ahd="" hope="" lord’s="" poor="" rejoice="" goodness="" mercy="" god,="" offer="" up="" thanks;="" what="" blessing="" storage="" wheat="" prove="" many,="" sisters="" hot="" slacken="" theirenergies="" curry="" out="" counsel="" servants="" god.="" also,="" organizations="" sisters;="" members="" thereof="" enjoy="" &="" greater="" portion="" holy="" spirit="" since="" thfey="" insti-="" tuted,="" better="" understanding="" gospel="" plan="" salvation,="" good="" instruction="" receive="" societies="" nature="" cause="" reflect,="" teachings="" entirely="" lost="" upon="" us,="" as-="" -sistus-in="" sustaining'each="" other.="" digress-="" ing="" from="" subject,="" fear="" lest="" tiro="" you,="" conclusion="" believe;="" inutile="" principle="" plural="" marriage,="" where<="" div="">ment to those who  can  fully appreciate it. We
would lose much were our hearts  devoid of such
a treasure.  Let us train, then, and not careless-
ly crush  such  a  heavenly attribute, for it glad-
dens  the  heart  and makes  cheerful the home,
but ever tender our sincere thanks to our Father
in  Heaven for so precious  a jewel.  May it al-
ways retain a prominent place in our bosoms and
flow with  our  prayers for the mercies extended
towards us.
	To me it is a constant  companion,  my  heart
teems with gratefulnes when  I  behold the
works of our  Creator, and  am  led many times
to exclaim, "thank God!" when viewing nature's 
scenery or in hearing the  warbling  of the birds
or the murmuring  of the  rill,  the  snow,  the
sunshine, the rain, the  dew drops, all posses a
charm for me, and I cheerfully  give thanks for
my daily  bread, and  for  my children, who I
pray may realize the words, "I am the bread and
the life," and that they  may praise their Maker
while they've breath Let  our  prayers ascend
for the continued  advantages  we have in these
peaceful  vales, and not  only  realize, but show
our gratefulness for  the priveliges extended to
us in this dispensation,  which  I can  sense; we
are truly living in  very  eventful  times;  surely
the judgments of God are at our very doors  and
we are told  commence  at  the  house  of  the
Lord.   We have been afflicted here for months
with  that  terrible  disease diphtheria, which I 
am thankful to say is abating.   The  people  ac-
knowledge  the  chastening  hand  of the Lord,
we knew He desires us to live  nearer to Him,
but whether we will do so remains  to be seen.
The hearts of those who  have been  called to 
part with their little ones have been sorely tried,
but when the Lord calls we  must submit.  We
are taught, which is a great consolation, that he
is reserving a choice seed unto himself.
	I feel thankful for  the  priesthood,  and  that
those at the head of the Church have  been so
generously inspired in this the Year  of  Jubilee,
and hope the Lord's  poor  will  feel  to  rejoice in
the goodness  and  mercy of  God, and  offer up
their gratefulness in thanks; and what a blessing
the storage wheat  will prove to many, and may
the sisters not slacken in their energies to carry
out the counsel of  the  servants of  God.  I am
also thankful for the organizations of the sisters;
I know  the  members thereof enjoy a  greater
portion of the Holy Spirit since they were insti-
tuted, and have a better  understanding  of  the 
Gospel plan of salvation,  the  good  counsel  and
instruction which we receive  in  these Societies
are of a nature to  cause  us  to  reflect, and the
teachings are not entirely lost upon us but as-
sist us in sustaining each other.  I am  digress-
ing from my subject, and I fear lest I  tire  you,
but in conclusion  let  me  say I believe  in the
principle of plural marriage, and when or where


I may be will aid its progress.  I have been much
interested in reading the  intelligent speeches of
our sisters upon political  questions,  and  hoped
they will soon  be  looked  upon  not  only as  co-
workers, but co-equal with man, in all that per-
tains to the welfare of society.  I pray our father
in heaven to abundantly bless you sisters in your
labors of love, and may we continually strive to
live our religion,  is the wish of,  Your Sister in
the Church of Christ		M.	A. TILL
	Goshen, May 11, 1880.


﻿A MOTHER’S REFLECTIONS. 
				   _______
    I have never written any before for our much
respected  EXPONENT, I say  our  EXPONENT be-
cause I feel much interested  in  that paper  and
in the great work that is  being  brought  about
in these last days.  As a mother in Israel I feel
to add my mite with my sisters.  I often wonder
to myself  if  we  mothers  realize  the  great  re-
sponsibility that rests  upon  our  shoulders  in
rearing our children  in a  right  and acceptable
manner before  the  Lord,  and  teaching them
correct principles, both by precept and example,
and in being very careful that  the  example we
set before them at home and with our neighbors
is in strict accordance  with  our  teachings, for
children  even when very small will notice very
particularly the actions of their parents and if
they see any traits  of  dishonesty  in  their par-
ents in any way they seem to take up  with that
at the first glance, ofton-while young, but some-
times when they grow older they see the wrong
and turn away, from  such  a  course.  What an
awful censure  it  would  produce  in  our  own
breast to have our son  condemned  to  death by
law, or imprisoned for life, to have him state, as
some have done, that their mother had screened
and protected  them  in  many,  you  might say
small  wrongs,  when  very  young,  and  they
would  go into their neighbor’s orchard or melon
patch.  If their father did  not  allow  such  con-
duct, and  he  was  informed  of it, the mother
would say “I do not want my  children  to steal,
but I cannot blame the boys if they  do take his
fruit for he has plenty  of  it  and  will  not give
them any of it;” or if they should find anything
and know whom the owner  was, if the mother
would  lay it away  and  never  make  the child
take it to the owner, and never  let  the  father
know anything about it, which is very wrong in-
deed, and one wrong leads  to  another, and get-
ting out of  one  wicked deed, very  easy,  gives
children more confidence  that they can get out
of another still a little larger  until  finally, per-
haps they come to the gallows or some bad end,
and then blame  their  too indulgent  mother or
father. But there are two extremes  in raising
children; while some  parents are  too indulgent
others are very stern and  severe beyond reason,
and seem to forget that they were once children
themselves; and  as  Paul  said  when he was a
child he acted as a child, but when  he became
a man he put away  childish things.We have
to look over  a  good  many  of  their  innocent,
childish ways, but we  cannot  be too particular
in watching over them and teaching them not to
act wickedly  in  anything.  There is great re-
sponsibility resting upon the mothers as well as
the fathers.  My dear sisters, as we were placed
here upon  this  earth  to  become  helpmeets to
our husbands  we  should  stand  by their side
and battle for right,  and  never allow ourselves
under any  circumstances  to  speak  one  word
against any principle that the Lord has revealed
through his prophets for his people to be govern-
ed by in  these  last  days.  Our  settlement  is
small, but we have good  meetings  here  in our
Relief Society, and a good  peaceable spirit pre-
valls among the  sisters,  and  we  are  trying to
carry out the counsel of those  whose  duty it is
to counsel, as fast as we can, which may we ever
continue to do. 		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY
	Mt. Carmel, May 2, 1830.


ORGANIZATION OF SERICULTURE.

	Brother Daniel Graves, with Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith, Zina D. Young and M. I. Horne,
visited the Relief Society, of Mill Creek, for the
purpose of organizing the silk association.
	Under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller,
Mrs. Margaret White was chosen president,
Mrs. Elizabeth Hill and Mrs. Ann Morgan,
counselors; Mrs. Elizabeth Carlisle, secretary,
and Mrs. Mary Samuels, treasurer. All were
unanimously sustained. After which Mrs.
Elizabeth Hill resigned and Miss E. S. Carlisle
was chosen second counselor. The majority of
the officers have been practically engaged in the
work.		ELIZABETH CARLISLE, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		3


A FEW THOUGHTS.

What though our nation hate us
	And with the Saints contend?
And Babylonish customs,
	Our phalanx strong would rend?
We will still extend our borders,
	And make our bulwarks strong,
For the keys of truth and knowledge,
	Do unto the Saints belong.
They drove us from our Temples,
	That we had reared with toil;
Compelled to seek for shelter,
	In a more congenial soil.
We crossed the Rocky mountains,
	And many a sandy plain,
And suffered much privation,
	Because there was no rain.
And many a barren desert,
	Our weary feet have trod
To find a habitation,
	Where we could worship God.
We've settled here in Utah,
	Where the skies are clear and bright.
And built our habitations,
	In which we do delight.
We've built up many cities,
	Four temples are in view;
Which show to Jew and Gentile,
	What Mormon hands can do.
Our sons are growing mighty,
	Upon this fruitful sod;
To build these holy Temples,
	Unto the Lord our God.
							THOMAS MORRIS
One of the Mormon Battalion.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

Dear Aunt Em:

	I was both amused and interested when I read
your "Midnight Soliloquy," and hoped you
would give us more, and of the days "When you
went gipsying." It took me back to the dear home
of my childhood, although it is far away over the 
ocean, and in fancy I saw all the old familiar
spots where I delighted to run and gather the 
fragrant wild flowers, and smell the sweet scent
of new mown hay. And I reflected like this:
What if we had never heard the sound of the
Gospel, or having heard had not obeyed, what
would have been our lot in life? But having
embraced it in my youth, for the love of it, I am
now blessed with a kind husband, good and af-
fectionate children, all "born in the covenant,"
and a comfortable home in these peaceful vales,
which I would not exchange for all the fleeting
pleasures of the world. And who is there that
enjoys such thorough contentment and peace of
mind as the Latter-day Saints? feeling a securi-
ty in the valleys, or, as they are rightly called,
"chambers of the Lord," some of them may well
be compared to chambers, surrounded as they
are by towering hills and lofty mountains.
	I think that problem, "There is no excellence
without labor," must now be solved to your un-
derstanding, and had you not given heed to that
inward monitor, but had continued in your day
dreaming you might not have been as well pre-
pared to fill the position you now occupy as you
are. Trusting you may never grow faint in
spirit,
	Believe Me, Yours Truly,		E. B.

				ST. GEORGE, May 15, 1880.

Dear Editor:

	As it was decided some time ago to only send
an annual report of our Stake Conference, our 
much respected President, Minerva Snow,
thought it would be well to address you a few
lines, if only to let you know that we are still
interested in all that pertains to the welfare of
Zion, and are endeavoring to work to that end.
	The Relief Societies are (as far as we are post-
ed) in a healthy and prosperous condition. We
meet every two weeks to make quilts, sew car-
pet rags, knit socks or anything that is needed,
and on the first Thursday of every month we
have a joint meeting, which is really the most in-
teresting, as the time is devoted to speaking, and 
many who go, feel well repaid for the time spent
and realize that they have had a spiritual feast,
and that the Lord blesses his daughters as well
as his sons, with his Spirit when they rely on him.
There are many good sisters who would like to
attend, but are detained at home by domestic
duties and the care of little ones, but these are
not forgotten.
	Our last meeting was devoted to the subject
of silk culture. President McAllister was pre-

[Column 2]
sent, and gave some good advice; also Bishop D.
H. Cannon. He advised the sisters to take care
of what worms they had, but not to increase
them until more mulberry trees could be plant-
ed, so as to have plenty to feed them on; said he
would donate towards buying a lot and assist in
planting trees.	*	*	*
	We had hoped ere this to have had the plea-
sure and benefit of a visit from Sister E. R.
Snow and other sisters who accompany her, but
we will have patience and hope on, and as the
railroad is coming nearer, it will not be such an
arduous journey or take as much time.
	We have had quite severe weather the pastwinter for this country, and considerable sick-
ness, but at present the general health is good
and the weather delightful, except when the
wind blows. We are in hopes the summer will
not be as sultry as the last on account of there
being large quantities of snow in the mountains.
There is one thing we have superior to what you
have in Salt Lake City, and that is the singing
of the birds. We have the mocking bird and
wild canary, with many others, who give us a
morning serenade, and they have their liberty,
which seems much better than to shut them up
in cages.
	Lest I weary you with too lengthy a commu-
nication, I will close, with kind regards,
			Believe Me Your Sister,
					E. BENTLEY, Cor. Sec.

		BRIGHAM CITY, Apache County,
					Arizona, May 2d, 1880.
Mrs, E.B. Wells:
	Dear Sister.—Your interesting and valuable
paper comes duly by course of mail and is a great
source of comfort and consolation to us, situated
as we are in this far-off and rather isolated coun-
try. We are thankful for good mail facilities
which bring at an early date the proceedings and
moves that are made by our brethren and sisters
in the north.
	It is a great source of comfort and rejoicing to
know of the generous moves that have been
made at this Conference in behalf of the "Lord's
poor," "for the poor ye have always with you,"
as if to say there would always be an opportuni-
ty for the rich, or more fortunate ones to bestow
of their substance for charitable purposes. I feel
that the Saints are being blest, and will be ac-
cording to their diligence in keeping all of the
commandments, but when it says in breaking
one ye break all, we sometimes think the Lord is
too strict; and our authorities wish to bind us
and take away our freedom. We are free to act,
we have our agency there is no compulsion, but
God is and will be just and merciful, and while
we are presuming on his mercy, let us be careful
not to arouse the indignation of an offended
Father, Friend and Benefactor who has called
us all the day long and entreated us to hearken.
The Word of Wisdom, President Young said,
was a commandment. Do we heed his words?
Can we trample with impunity upon them?
Shall we not lack oil in our vessels if we do not
observe this law of heaven in connection with
others. We as a people have commenced a new
era and proclaimed a jubilee, let us try with re-
newed diligence to emancipate ourselves from
the errors into which some of us have incau-
tiously fallen. We have a Relief Society here,
a Young Men's and Young Ladies' Association;
hold weekly meetings—have conjoint monthly
meetings. The Wreath is issued semi-monthly,
edited by the young ladies.
	With many prayers for your success; we de-
sire an interest in your prayers that we may be
numbered among the faithful in Zion.
			Yours with respect,
						ELIZABETH SMITH.


[Column 1]
PIPSEY PAPERS.

NO. XIII.

	Our EXPONENT comes to hand freighted with
good things, as usual, and as I glance over its
columns and learn from the pens of my sister
writers the thoughts and aspirations that occupy
their minds, my heart swells with enthusiasm,
and I long to join hands with them and say how
fully I appreciate their feelings and ideas.
	I know not if woman will be acknowledged in
a higher sphere, but I do know that she must-
work for her own enfranchisement. I do not
know if she is yet ready to hold position in polit-
ical circles, but there is a wide field before her
in which to labor for the elevation of her sex
Ignorance and folly meet us in every path of life
Woman must raise herself from the bonds of

[Column 2]
rror, and strive to enlighten her mind, that her
understanding may be enlarged and her sphere
of usefulness will grow broader and fuller. As
the wife, the mother, the friend, her influence is
felt in all circles; but before she can govern,
must she not learn the essential elements of gov-
ernment? If there be women in this world ma-
terially different from those who come under our
own observation, I cannot say. But as far as
my observation extends, I see them laboring
from a common standpoint. First, home and its
duties call their attention, and they seem
fitted to shine more pre-eminently in social than
political circles. If, to hold a higher position or
serve a higher law, woman must mingle in the
politics of the day, must soil her mind or man-
ners with the grosser elements which fill the
lower organizations of the political circles, then
I would say, God forbid. But if there be those
whom education and circumstances qualify for
holding offices, the salary of which would en-
able them to support themselves in comfort and
honor, should they be denied the position
simply because it is a government office, paid by
the revenue of the State or Territory? Such a
thing seems rank injustice. How many wo-
men support themselves by teaching? Does not
that call for intelligent labor, quite as much as
many of the offices which are in the disposition
of government? Does it not also tax a woman's
time quite as much?
	That woman is man's equal I would not affirm
and yet how many women are infinitely his su-
perior. Woman in her own attributes may excel,
and well perform the mission of her kind.
She may be a superior housekeeper, a judicious
and loving mother, an accomplished lady in all
womanly attributes; but does man ever aspire
to her position? Man is a ruling spirit, nature
qualified him, for contact with the coarser ele-
ments of life. His capacity of mind and superi-
or strength of physical organization, places him
in ranks which woman's finer nature should
never be forced to tread. I think we all under-
stand this, and few intelligent women would
wish to usurp his position.
Many, however, who are born to man's estate
are not endowed with intelligence to use it wise-
ly, and how many are unfitted by nature to fill
the place in the world allotted to them. If woman
cultivates her higher faculties, her sphere will
be enlarged and her power to do good will ex-
pand with the powers of her mind and moral
faculties. If she earns a place in literature and
is worthy to hold it, why should she not be es-
teemed according to her merit? If she is en-
dowed with a gift for art or science, let her hold
the path her strength may choose to win. It
makes her no less womanly that she is endowed
with a high order of intelligence, and men of
taste and judgment will give her all the honor
that is due. Let us then press forward and en-
large the sphere that is given us, wherein to
labor, train our children in the ways of right-
eousness and fit them for honor and esteem. If
our lives fall short of the goal we are ambitious 
to attain, let us strive to exalt them to a posi-
tion wherein they may reach a higher plane and
more exalted sphere.
	Through all the organizations of nature we
find every object formed for a distinct purpose.
Is any one less perfect of its kind because it does
not fill the mission of another?
	That man, under all circumstances, does not
hold his true position to woman is too evident.
That he holds his superior strength to oppress
and degrade her, is a wrong to which every pulse
thrills with indignation, as we reflect upon it. If
higher political rights would give her better
strength for self-protection, then we would pray
that God in his own way and time, would open
the way whereby she might obtain them. In
the meantime, let us labor for our moral and
spiritual advancement, that we may the more
perfectly acquit ourselves of the duties which
lie before us.
	It is a blessing, perhaps, that we were defeat-
ed in the object we were striving for and denied
the exercise of political rights. A too easy suc-
cess might have inflated our self-esteem, and
crowded us into positions we were unqualified to
fill.
	Our brethren need not fear that we shall wrest
the sceptre from them, for wisdom of the
Almighty prevails, and each will be ennobled in
the position he or she is called to occupy. If my
heart is filled with melody and my soul inspired
to songs, why should not my voice be heard,
even though I am not a Milton or Mendelssohn.
God in his infinite wisdom understands the jus-
tice or these things, and will bless the efforts of
those who strive in the right manner to enlarge
upon the talents which He has bestowed.
									MARY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S 'EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  -  -  Editor.
 Published  semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one yer, $2.00; one copy six month
1.00   Ten  copies  for teh price of nine. Advertisin
rates:  Each square, ten  lines  of  nonparell space, on
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00.	A [--]eral discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Offic, Lower  West  Room  of  the Council
House,  South  Temple Street.	Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN"S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah
_________________________________________________
			SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1880


THE BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June, flowery June, the month of roses and
of bloom. The first day of this pleasant month
should be specially endeared to this people, be-
ing the anniversary of the birth of their beloved
prophet and illustrious, former leader Brigham
Young. His name will be held in honored rd-
membrance down to the latest generation, as-
sociated with the peculiar exigencies of the
Latter-day Saints in the mobbings and drivings
they have suffered. In the exodus from Nauvoo
he enacted well the part of a modern Moses,
leading this people out from bondage and op-
pression, and pioneering them into the heart of
the Great American Desert, and founding the
Territory of Utah, a remarkable country of
which the half is not yet known; and whose
future history will no doubt develop that which
will reflect greater glory upon its founders, both
men and women, than has as yet been been ac-
corded to them. They may yet be recognized,
as the London Times once called them "a na-
tion of heroes."
	The memory of this heroic man should be kept
fresh in the hearts of the children now growing
up in Zion. They should become acquainted
with his great and strong characteristics, that
were so apparent to all who knew him,even those
who did not believe in the principles he had
embraced, and to which he devoted his life, and
his energies. His determination, his untiring
zeal, his great forethought and caution, were all
brought to bear with admirable force in the life.
work in which he so eminently succeeded. He
possessed the true genius of a man born to lead,
and was therefore a fit instrument in the hands
of the Almighty to bring his people up
into the valleys of the mountains, that they
might there raise an ensign to the nations ac-
	ording to the Prophet Isaiah.
	The Saints will ever cherish his mem-
ory and teach their children to em-
ulate his greatness. President Young al-
ways had something practical to say to mo-
thers, in regard to their life and health, and the
care and training of their children. He seemed
to enter into the smallest details of every day
life and appreciate trifles as perfectly as the great-
er and more important questions with which
he had to deal. He possessed the greatest ver-
satility and adaptability of character of any man
we have ever known. He was greatly and sin-
cerely beloved by the Saints, and as strongly
hated by his enemies, or the opposers of the
work in which he was ardently and devoutly
interested and earnestly engaged. Blessed be
the memory of this great, good and wise man.
Let us all strive to follow in the path he trod,
and be as true to the principles of salvation, and
as zealous to obey them,unto death as he was.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE have several times requested our contrib-
utors to be sure and write on one side of the paper
only.  This  is  a rule  every  one  who  writes for
the press should understand and observe.

	MRS. Ann  Wheeler presented  us  with  a  fra-
grant bouquet of  wild  flowers  for  the office, for
which we tender our sincere  thanks, more espe-
cially as we have not the leisure time to ramble
over the hills to gather them, which  we should
very much like to do.

	A GREAT many  leading  suffrage women have
gathered at Chicago from all parts of the United
States  to  attend  the  presidential  convention
and urge the claims of women citizens to a voice
in the selection  of their  own  rulers.  They are
pretty sure to  do  some  good,  strong  work, as
they most certainly have the requisite executive
ability in their ranks.  We  say  success  to  the
women citizens.

	WE have been requested by Mrs.  M.  Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief  Societies  of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion, to ask the  secretaries of
all the branches  of  Relief  Society  in this Coun-
ty to furnish and forward a definite and full sta-
tistical  account  of  their respective Society for
the Sisters’ Quarterly  Conference,  to  be  held
about the 21st of this month.  Be  particular  to
state the number of  officers and members, as the
Secretary of the Stake wishes to make a full  re-
port for the Stake Conference.  Any  business
transactions should also be clearly reported.  Be
sure and send in the reports at any early date,
all directed to the care of this Office.

	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT has now entered
upon its ninth year.  We  regret  we  could  not
bring out the first number in  its new dress, but
ere long we hope it  will  make a more pleasing
appearance.  We  would  respectfully  urge  the
sisters who are interested in advancing the inte-
rests and  promoting the  welfare of the  women
of this  kingdom  to  use  their influence for the
wider circulation of the EXPONENT.  Only a few,
comparatively, take it,  whereas  it  should be in
every home  of  the  Saints  where  there  are
mothers or daughters.  It  is  really  a woman’s
paper and is in a certain  sense  the written his-
tory of Mormon  women, their life,  work and
labors.  Sisters, subscribe  for  your  own paper,
and thus help to sustain it.
	THE new silk factory, situated on  City Creek,
just this side the residence of Dr. J. R. Park, is
now nearly completed.  The building is of brick,
with a  good,  substantial  rock  foundation;  the
largest room where the machinery will be put up,
is 21 feet by 18 feet, aud has four  large  windows,
and  the  ceiling  is  10  feet  high.  The smaller
room, intended for reeling purposes, is 6 feet by
18 feet, and will accommodate two reels and two
persons at each reel. The building  is well ven-
tilated.  The machinery  is on  the  premises and
will be properly put up next week.  There is a
good water power, and the water-wheels seem to
be well built and  strong.  Around  the  factory
on the grounds, 460 mulberry  trees  have  been
put in, some of them quite a good size.  The space
will admit of 800 trees.


SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL.

	On the 21st  of  June, Dr.  Ellen  B. Ferguson
will  open  a special  course in vocal and instru-
mental music, in the Utah Conservatory of Mu-
sic, for  the  benefit  of  those who cannot devote
much time  to  these  studies  during the regular
school year.
	Daily private lessons will be given on Piano or
Organs, and daily classes held in musical theory,
harmony, note reading and voice culture, mak-


ing the course the  most  complete  ever  offered
to musical students, and guaranteeing the great-
est  advancement  in  the  shortest  time.  The
course will continue eight weeks  and  consist of
forty lessons in each branch.
	Terms:—Instrumental music  on  Piano or Or-
gan, forty  lessons  with  theory,  $15.00;  Vocal
Culture, solo and chorus singing, $8.00.
	Pupils admitted for one half  the course at the
same rates. 
		Dr. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
							Director.


OBITUARIES.
	Died, in Tooele, City,  of diphtheria,  May 12,
1880,  Mary  Ann  Spiers,  beloved  daughter of
George and Janet Spiers, and  granddaughter of
John Lyon, of Salt Lake  City, aged  18 years, 4
months and 28 days.
	In memory of our much respected and beloved
sister, who has been removed from our midst by
the hand of our Heavenly  Father, who giveth
and taketh away  at his  own  will and pleasure,
we desire  to say she was much beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her; she was a counsel-
or in the Y. L. M. I.  Association and a teacher
in the Sunday School.
	Be it Resolved,  That the members of the As-
sociation deeply mount her  loss and sympathize
with the bereaved parents, relatives, and friends
in the loss of so good and esteemed a friend and
beloved daughter.
	Resolved, That  these resolutions  be  given  to
the parents of the  deceased  and be recorded in
our General Record Book and  also furnished for
publication in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							ANN TATE.

	Departed this life on the 3d  inst., in Beaver,
our beloved sister Jane Neyman, after a severe
illnes of three weeks, caused by a paralytic stroke
on the left side, aggravate by a fall in attempt-
ing to rise from her bed, which bruised her and 
caused  great  soreness.  Deceased  was  born in
Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, September
21st, 1792.  She  embraced  the  gospel  in  1838;
came to Nauvoo  in  the  year  1840,  where  she
buried  her  companion,  a  good,  faithful man,
true to his family and his religion.  She married
the second time a brother, Fisher, attended him
faithfully through  a  lingering  illness; he died,
and four  other members of her  family  in  one
year.  To relate  her  sufferings  in  poverty and
persecution would occupy too much  space here,
but the Prophet Joseph Smith was her unvary-
ing  friend; he  rebuked  those  who  falsely  slan-
dered her; her calling was to nurse the sick, and
faithfully did  she  discharge  that  duty.  She
crossed the plains at the time when the cholera
raged fearfully  in  the  camp,  and  many  were
buried by the wayside.  Mother Neyman shrank
not from the hazardous task of administering to
the victims of that disease, both  temporally  and
spiritually,  believing that  if  she  did  all  in  her
power  to save others, the Lord would spare her,
and thus it proved.  She  lived  to  do  good,  to
wash anoint and nurse hundreds of her sex, to
soothe and comfort their hearts, to which office
she was set apart by the holy priesthood, and in 
many  instances, through  her  faith,  was  the
power of God manifested in a marvelous manner.
The writer knew her intimately  for  more  than
thirty years, and never did I know of her wav-
ering in her faith in regard to one single ordin-
ance,  or  principle  in  this  kingdom. Mother
Neyman was President of the Relief Society  of
Beaver  in  its  first  organization;  was a  wise
counselor, untiring in  her efforts  to  relieve the
wants of the needy; being aged when  the  busi-
ness of the Society had greatly  increased, she
chose to resign  her  office  to one  younger and


stronger, still continuing to visit and bless the
sick, and bless them she did in very deed. In
her last illness her spirit seemed often com-
muning with persons gone behind the vail
often calling those who visited her by the 
names of people long gone to the spirit world.
She had for a long time been very hard of hear-
ing; many prayers have been offered for her that
the affliction might be removed. She had be-
gun to hear better, and after the stroke could
hear as well as she ever did in her life. The
burden of her desires were that when she en-
tered the home of the redeemed, she might hear
the welcome applause, "Well done, good and
faithful servant, thou hast fought the good fight,
hast kept the faith, hast done thy work, and
done it well, enter thou into the joy of they
Lord." As she drew near the close, she repeat-
ed a verse of a favorite hymn:

"The soul who on Jesus has leaned for repose,
I will not, I cannot, desert to his foes;
That soul, tho' all hell should endeavor to shake,
I'll never; no never, no never forsake."

	She leaves two faithful daughters, who were
greatly attached to her, a host of grandchildren,
and several of the fourth generation. Long will
they miss her in the family circle, and greatly
shall we miss her in our society meetings. Sweet
be the sleep of her we loved.
							L. B. PRATT.

	Sister Truelove Ward, widow of the late
Thomas Ward. who departed this life in Spanish
Fork, April 19th, 1880, was born May 24th, 1802;
embraced the gospel in Leicester, England, May
24th, 1852, and emigrated to Utah in 1864. She
was a faithful member of the Relief Society of
Spanish Fork. Her cheerful disposition, kind-
ness and integrity to the principles of the gospel
endeared her to all with whom she associated.
It is difficult to mention the special character-
istics of a life that has been filled with goodness
in the various relationships of wife, mother, and
an active member of the kingdom of God. She
leaves a daughter (Sister Truelove Thompson)
and several grandchildren. She retained her
faculties to the last, and died suddenly while on
a visit to one of her married grand-daughters.
						HANNAH CORNABY.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


EARLY REMINISCENCES.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[Continued.]
	Among the mob who  surrounded  the  breth-
ren  were  men  who  had  once  professed to be
beloved brethren.  They had  piloted the  mobs
into the city, two  of the  first Twelve Apostles
and  two  of  the  witnesses  to the  Book of Mor-
mon and many others were led by Neil Gillium,
a white man who was  painted  and styled him-
self the "Delaware  Chief."  A  portion  of the
troops  were  also  painted  like  Indians.  They
pointed  their  guns  upon  the  brethren  and
swore  they  would  blow  out  their  brains, al-
though they were disarmed and helpless.  Wil-
liam  E.  McClellen  wanted  to  know  where
Heber C. Kimball was, when some one pointed
him out as he was  sitting  on  the ground.  He
came  up  to  him  and said; "Brother Heber,
what do you think  of  Joseph  Smith the fallen
prophet now?  Has he not  led you  blindfolded
long enouth; look  and see  yourself,  poor, your
family  stripped  and  robbed and you brethren
in the same fix, are you satisfied  with Joseph?"
He  replied,  "Yes,  I  am  more satisfied  with
him, a hundred fold, than ever I was before, for
I see you in the  very  position  that he foretold
you would be in;  a Judas to  betray your  breth-
ren, if you  did  not  forsake your adultery, lying,
and abominations.  Where are you and Hinkle
and scores  of others;  have  you  not  betrayed
Joseph and his brethren  into  the hands of the
mob,  as  Judas  did  Jesus?  Yes,  verily  you
have; I tell you Mormonism is true, and  Joseph
is  a  true  prophet  of  the  living God, and you
with  all  others  who  turn  therefrom  will be
d----d and go to  h--l and Judas  will  rule over
you."
	Most of  the brethren  had been without food
for twenty-four hours, not having time  to go to
their  houses  before they were taken  prisoners,
and  when  things  began  to be a little  more
quiet my  father desired to go to his home  as
he had been without food  for many hours.  He
asked some who were standing near, if he could
have  the  privilege  of  going  to  his  house
a  little  distance  off;  they  referred  him
to their Captain- Bogart, the Methodist preach-
er, he went to him and told him what he want-
ed.  Bogart first spoke of sending some one with
him, as he would be liable to  be  shot  down  if
found alone, but in a short time said, "I will go
with you."  This happened the day after we had
stayed all night with Sister Mary  Smith.  My
mother prepared dinner  after  they  came,  and
Bogart ate and laughed and  chatted  as  though
he had been an  invited guest.  They  then  re-
turned to  where the brethren  were  still under
guard.  They were released  the  next  day,  but
could not leave the city as it was surrounded by
a strong guard.  The Saints who had fled to Far
West brought  with them  what  they  could, in
their haste.  Their stock were running loose in
the streets, and during  that  time  all  had the
privilege of killing if they were in need.  During
this  time I remember of but once eating wheat
bread.  I took the wheat and went to one of  our
neighbors who owned a large coffee mill and were
kind  enough  to let  us use it, and it took  me a
good portion of the day  to grind sufficient  for a
short cake.  My mother made it for supper  and
my father often spoke of  it  afterward  as  being
the best cake he ever ate. It contained bran and
all.  We had  an abundance of  milk and  honey
and hulled corn, and  were blessed  with  health
and  excellent appetites, with  the exception  of
my  mother,  whose  health  was delicate.  The
evening after  the  brethren were released, my
oldest brother was sent a short  distance  on  an
errand, and before he returned, a guard had been
set near our house.  At my  brother's  approach
the guard drew his rifle and  threatened  to blow
out his brains, if he stepped one inch further to-
wards the house.  Through the agency  of some
friend; father was notified of it.  He went to the
man and spoke to him in a friendly manner and
conversed with him about the beautiful country,
so much  more  so  than  England,  or  any  of
the countries or nations he  had  been  travel-
ing in.  The guard  became  very  much  in-
terested  when  father  pointed  out  his
son telling him that was his boy, and he said,
"If that is your son he may pass, he may go
home."  That  evening  he  left  his  post  and
spent the whole evening at our house, and came
a number of  times afterward  and  tried  to per-
suade  my  parents  to  leave  the "cursed  Mor-
mons," told them they were too good  to  follow
such a d----d set, etc.  William McClellen also
came and  spent an evening, and seemed to feel
a lingering  regard  for  father, notwithstanding
he had given him  so  sharp  a rebuke he  plead
with him to leave the  deluded  Mormons.  We
had not  been  in  Far West  over  three  weeks
when  the  mobbing  commenced, and  in  the
bleak month of February we started in company
with Brigham  Young  and  family  and  several
others who left  on the 14th.
	My father remaining behind  to  help the poor
Saints in getting away, as  well as  to  assist the
Prophet and his brethren in making their escape
from prison.  He being  almost a stranger there
could stay with less danger  than Bro. Brigham,
who was obliged to keep  himself  disguised, and
he was seen but little with us in the  day  time.
We suffered considerably from cold at  the start,
as  the  people  for  some  distance  around  Far
West were very  bitterly  opposed to  the "Mor-
mons."  The day  we started  the  weather was
terrible, and my mother and Sister Young, with
their children, stopped at a house and asked the
privelege of  warming  themselves.  There were
no  men, only  women there, but  they  began
talking about the horrible "Mormons" and eyed
us very closely.  Sister Young  and my  mother
appeared to believe all they said, and looked hor-
rified and  we  children  imitated  them.  We
found some  who  were  more  humane and we
were allowed the privilege of  staying  all night,
at other times we were  obliged  to content  our-
selves with a  fire  by  the  roadside.  Our  bed-
room was one little wagon, which  contained all
we had left.  One day in particular I remember
was so cold  we  were obliged  to  walk  to  keep
from freezing.  My  oldest  brother, who drove
our  cow,  had  gone  ahead,  and  becoming
very  sleepy  in  consequence  of  the  cold,
got  off  from  his  horse,  and  putting  the
bridle over his arm laid down to sleep. Dr. Levi
Richards, who was  traveling  with  us, and had
also gone ahead of the  wagons, soon  overtook
him, and by hard shaking and a few well mean-
ing blows, which  made  him  angry  enough to
fight, started the blood to  circulating and saved
his life.  We soon after arrived at Bishop Vin-
cent Knight's house, where  his feet were found
to be badly frozen.  We  remained  there  until
the next morning.  The Lord was with us, and
although  we  never heard  from  my  father for
nearly  three  months, yet  we found friends as
the Lord told him that we should.  We crossed
the  Mississippi  to  the  town  of  Atlas.  There
through  the instrumentality of  Bro.  George
Pitkin, my  mother  was introduced to a  widow
by  the  name  of  Ross, who let her have a nice
room and the privilege of cooking in her kitchen,
and was as kind to her as an own mother or sis-
ter.  She seemed  greatly  interested in her his-
tory, and  wanted  to  introduce her to her most
intimate friends.  A very sweet lady, a relative
of hers, who was also a widow, manifested much
sympathy and invited us to  her beautiful  home
where we were treated  with the greatest polite-
ness.  They appeared to look upon my mother as
one who had known better days. Bro. Brigham
rented a  vacant storehouse for his family a few
rods from us. We tarried there seven weeks and
only had to pay fifty cents a week.  At the end
of that time  John P.  Greene  came  and moved
us up to Quincy and rented a comfortable room.
My father in his journal says: "My family having
been  gone  about  two  months,  during  which
time I heard nothing from them.  Our brethren
being in prison, death and destruction following
us wherever we went, I felt very  sorrowful and
lonely.  The following words came to me, and
the  spirit  said  unto  me  write, which I did by
taking a piece of paper and writing on  my knee
as  follows: Far  West, April 6,  1839.  A word
from the Spirit  of  the  Lord  to my servant He-
ber C. Kimball.  Verily, I say unto my servant
Heber: Thou  art  my  son, in whom I am well
pleased;  for  thou  art  careful  to hearken to my
words and  not  transgress  my  law, nor rebel
against my servant Joseph, for  thou hast a re-
spect to the words of mine anointed, even from
the least to the greatest  of  them;  therefore thy
name is written in Heaven  no  more to be blot-
ted out forever because of  these things;  and my
spirit and blessing shall rest down upon thy pos-
terity forever and forever, for they shall be called
after thy name, for thou shalt  have many more
sons  and  daughters,  for  thy  seed shall be
numerous as the sands upon the sea shore, there-
fore my servant Heber, be  faithful, go forth  in
my name, and I will  go  with  you,  and  be  on
your right hand and on your left, and my angels
shall go before you and raise you up when  you
are cast down and afflicted; remember that I am
always with you, even to  the end, therefore be
of good cheer, my son, and my spirit shall be  in
your heart to teach you the peaceable things  of
the kingdom; trouble not thyself about  thy fam-
ily, for they are in my hands;  I  will  feed  them
and clothe them and make  unto  them  friends.
They  never  shall want for  food  nor raiment,
houses nor lands, fathers  nor  mothers, brothers
nor sisters, and peace shall rest upon  them  for-
ever, if thou  wilt be faithful  and  go  forth  and
preach my gospel to the nations of  the earth, for
thou shalt  be  blessed  in  this  thing,  and  thy
tongue shall be unloosed to such  a  degree  that
has not entered into they heart as yet, and the
children of  men  shall  believe thy words, and
flock to the water for baptism  even as they did
to my servant John; for thou  shalt  be great in
winning souls to me, for this is thy gift and call-
ing, and there shall be no gift  withheld  from
thee, if thou art faithful, therfore be  faithful
and  I will  give thee favor  in the eyes  of  the
people: be humble and kind and you shall obtain
kindness; be merciful, and you shall obtain mercy,
and I will  be  with  you  even  unto the end.
Amen."
	My father found us at Quincy, Ills., well and
in good spirits, on the 2nd day of May, 1839. He
says: "In reading the words of inspiration  which
I had written, my wife bore record  to  the  truth
of that part which says 'trouble not thyself about
thy family," etc.  She had had no lack of friends
and had every comfort bestowed  upon  her  that
she could have had among her own kindred, and
I say in my heart that God  bless  them  all, and my
brother Brigham for his great kindness in assist-
ing them into Illinois.  God bless all who aided
and assisted my family; for Jesus says every man
shall be rewarded  for every  good  deed  that  he
doeth.  In  relation  to  that  part which  said I
should have many sons and  daughters, my wife
rather doubted that, as she  considered she  was
too far advanced in years, and the  thought  had
never entered her mind, or mine, that the Lord
would establish  in  this  Church the doctrine  of
plurality of wives in our day, still I  believed  it
would be restored to  the  earth at  some future 
time."


6		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS

	The Payson Relief Society held their twelfth
annual meeting May 29th, 1880. President Mar-
garet T. Smoot was present, and her Counselor
Mrs. Mary Johns, also visitors from Spanish
Fork, Salem, Santaquin, Spring Lake and Ben-
jamin.
	After the usual exercises, C. D. Evans, Bishop
of Salem, Elders H. W. Barnett, I. M. Coombs,
addressed the sisters, cheering and comforting
their hearts in their labor of love, feeling that
they are a great blessing to the Ward.
	The Young Ladies of the M. I. Association
being present, much good an dpractical instruc-
tion was given to them, showing how great was
their mission on this earth; that they should
strive to live so as to have power from on high to
teach and nurture the noble spirits that are
coming forth, heirs to the kingdom and destined
to be mighty in rolling forth this great work of
the latter days.
	President M. T. Smoot was pleased with the
remarks of the brethren and wished she had the
same ability as the brethren that preceded her;
was pleased with the remarks of Brother Coombs
respecting the silk, for that was part of the Gos-
pel and the will of the Lord to us. We have
everything to encourage us. Prayed that the
Spirit of the Lord might rest upon the sisters.
Counselor M. Johns endorsed all that had been
said, and that it should be our aim to press for-
ward with all the ability we have. Many of us
do not realize the day in which we live.
	President Jane Simons felt thankful for the
remarks that had been made. There were pres-
ent Presidents from several Relief Societies in
the surrounding settlements, also brethren that
she would like to hear from, but time would not
permit.
	After singing, prayer was offered by Elder
Barry Wride.
	Over 200 children then convened in the meet-
ing-house, looking bright and happy. After va-
rious exercises, such as recitations, reading of the
papers, etc., which were very creditable, they
were very agreeably surprised in partaking of a
picnic prepared for the occasion by the Presiding
Teachers of the districts. The little folks felt
proud of belonging to the Primary Association.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor with us
							M. A. HARDY.

			PARIS. BEAR LAKE.

	The members of the first and second ward
Primary Associations of Paris met and held
their first anniversary in the Paris first Ward
meeting house, on Tuesday at one o'clock, May
18, 1880.
	Present by invitation Apostle C. C. Rich,
Bishop H. J. Horne, Elder R. S. Horne, Sister
Julia Lindsey, President, and Sister Maria
Rich, Counselor of the Relief Society of this
Stake and quite a number of the parents of the
children.
	Meeting called to order by Sister H. B.
Humphrey's. Song by a company of little girls
entitled "Welcome to all," Brother R. S. Horne
playing the accompaniment on the organ.
Prayer by Bishop H. J. Horne. Singing, "We
thank thee O God for a prophet." Sister Julia
Lindsey then addressed the children for a short
time, after which there was a reading, recitations,
dialogues and songs by the children.
	The first number of the paper entitled "The
Primary Monthly," (first ward) edited by Mary
A. Rich, was then read by her.
	Sister Maria Rich then spoke a short time to
the children, and urged mothers to be diligent in
sending the children to the meetings.
	Brother C. C. Rich occupied a short time ex-
horting the children to obedience, etc..
	Singing, "Do what is right." Benediction by
Brother R. S. Horne. The children then en-
gaged in dancing for a short time. Picnic being
provided by the parents was then passed
around. Dancing till six p.m., when all dis-
presed feeling that they had enjoyed themselves
very much. Number of children present 97.
	Names of the officers, first ward, President,
Elizabeth Nye; Alvira Ricks, Mary A. Rich,
Counselors. Second ward—H. B. Humphrey's,
President; Alice Athey, Sarah Clifton, Coun-
selors; Ellen Price Secretary.
					LOTTIE INNES, Sec'y

	The second Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held at
Heber City, April 30th, 1880, Mrs Emma Brown
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
the minute of the last conference were read and
accepted; the reports of the several wards were

[Column 2]
also read, also reports for the Y. L. M. I. and
Primary Associations; all the reports, both ver-
bal and written, showing each respective society
in a prosperous condition. There was a good at-
tendance, many of the brethren were present,
from whom we received much good and valu-
able instructions. The sisters all seem to be
alive to their duties and callings and always
ready to look after the poor and to comfort and
relieve the sick, which is the first duty of the
Relief Societies. Many of the sisters spoke on
the training of our children, that we should
teach them the principles of the Church both
by precept and example, that they may thereby
become good citizens and horoable members in
the Church and Kingdom of God.
	President Hatch spoke a short time. Said the
Relief Societies were helps to the Priesthood, and
if counsel was needed, to go to our Bishop. He
wished the sisters to use their influence to help
establish a High School, that our young men
and ladies might be educated at home, and to
strive and put down drunkenness and other
evils which exist in our midst.
	A vote was taken to sustain a co-operatieve mil-
linery store, to be located in Heber City, which
was carried unanimously.
	President Brown addressed the sisters, coun-
seling them to be faithful in attending to all
their duties, that we may thereby enjoy the
blessings promised to the faithful.
			EMMA BROWN, Stake Presdent.
			MARY BRONSON, Secretary.
		PAROWAN STAKE.

	The Parowan Stake Relief Society held their
Second Quarterly Conference on the 16th of May,
1880, in the Cedar City meeting house, com-
mencing at 10 a. m.  Present on the stand
officers of the Stake and branch presidents of
Parowan, Cedar City, Paragoonah and Summit
branches, also Presidents of the Young Ladies
and Primary Associations, Prest. Henry Lunt,
Bishop C. J. Arthur, and others of the priest-
hood. The hall was filled to overflowing with
brethren and sisters. After the usual exercises
the morning was occupied by the presidents
giving in verbal reports of the different Societies
and Associations over which they presided,
showing that much good was being done and
improvement made. Sister Jane P. Mackel-
prang was voted in as corresponding secretary.
Brothers Wm. Mitchell, Lars Mortensen and
Wm. Holyoak spoke very spiritedly in the inter-
est of our religion and admonished all the gain for
themselves an assurance of the truth of the
work. Thought nothing could assist the breth-
ren more than the influence of a good wife;
encouraged the sisters to continue in
well doing and the Lord would bless them.
Prest. Ellen Lunt made a few remarks, desiring
the sisters to spend their time in doing good.
	In the afternoon, after opening exercises, sac-
rament was administered,and the time occupied
by several of the sisters speaking on the princi-
ples of our holy religion—polygamy, Word of
Wisdom, home industries, etc., all expressing a 
desire to do all the good they could, that they
might have a claim to the reward in store for
the faithful. Pres. Ellen Lunt said the time had
been well spent and that she would bear testi-
monty that much good had been done and a
marked improvement made by the sisters since
the first organization of a society in Cedar City,
which took place in November, 1856, and was
called the Female Benevolent Society, with 95
members, of whom there were only 14 now re-
maining in this place. A few years afterward
the President, Sister Lydia Hopkins, departed
this life. The meetings were discontinued, and
in June, 1868, the Relief Society was organized
with 56 members. A great many others have
been added since, who have done a great
amount of good. President Lunt advised the
young sisters to make the best use of their time,
not to spend it foolishly, so that in future years
when they were called hence they would have
nothing to regret. Bore her testimony to the
truth of plural marriage. Referred to this as
being the year of jubilee and counseled the sis-
ters to assist and relieve each other, as well as
the poor, thus making it a continual jubilee.
	Bishop C. J. Arthur made some pleasing and
good remarks; said that it was a source of great
pleasure to see the sisters stand forth in defence
of the principles of their religion.
	President Henry Lunt reviewed the meetings
of the day with much pleasure and spoke in an
interesting manner of the beauty and wisdom of
God as shown through his servants in the dif-
ferent organizations in the Church of Christ on
the earth.

[Column 3]
	Conference adjourned till Saturday, the 14th
of August next, to be held in Paragoonah, Iron
County.
	The congregation stood upon their feet, and
with the choir, sang the Doxology, "Praise God
from whom all blessings flow." Benediction was
pronounced by our Patriarch and President,
Henry Lunt who dismissed all with his bless-
ing; after which, the young men of the brass
band struch up a lively air, while the brethren
and sisters from the surroundings settlements
started on their homeward journey and the rest
to their several homes.
		ELLEN W. LUNT, President,
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
	Cedar City, May 20th, 1880

	A Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete County was held at Ephraim, May
17, 1880. It should have been an annual confer-
ence but on account of secretaries failing to for-
ward their reports in time, and some not at all,
a condensed report for the year could not be
made until next conference.
	Conference was opened by singing, prayer and
singing. Reports of R. S., P. A. and Y. L. M. I.
A. were read. The several societies were also
verbally reported as being in a good ondition.
President E. R. Snow and Counselors were
unanimously sustained in their places.
	Many excellent instructions were given by the
sisters who spoke. The surrent of their remarks
were on the signs of the times, how in this day
cyclones, accidents and crimes are raging
among the nations,and especiallly in our nation,
and more especially where our people have been
mobbed and drien, our prophets martyred, and
the Saints exiled from their midst, an dnow
they are reaping their reward, and the fulfill-
ment of the prophecies of ancient and modern
prpohets. Much was said of the rich feast and
appropriate and truly heavenly instructions
given by the three apostles, Wilford Woodruff,
Erastus Snow, and Brigham Young, also others
who addressed the late conference.
	Pres. Mary Ann Hyde urged all to prepare
and sanctify themselves for the events in the
future which are awaiting the righteous. She,
and her counselors, are stiving with energy to
magnify their calling by traveling through the
Stake, encouraging the sisters to diligence and
faithfulness in the cause for which they are
working.
	Brother Wareham made a few remarks, blessing
and encouraging the sisters. Singing, benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until August 17,
1880.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec.

				HYRUM,
	Our Relief Society held their annual meeting
on the 10th of May. Our worthy Bishop, O. N.
Liljenquist and a few of our brethren met with
us. Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After the reading of minutes the secretary read
the report of the Society since its organization,
which was accepted. President Liljenquist made
a few opening remarks. Mrs. F. Stephens re-
presented the Teachers Quorum, spoke encou-
ragingly of the teachers. Miss H. Osborn, Pre-
sident Y. L. M. I. Association reported the As-
sociation trying to improve in good works. Mrs.
L. Wilson, President Primary Association, in-
vited the mothers to attend their meetings and
to send their children. Bishop Liljenquist
Father Osborn, Father Benson, and Brothers C.
C. Shaw and H. E. Nielsen made very interest-
ing remarks, and congratulated us upon the
great amoung of good we had accomplished; gave
very good instructions and encouraged us to per-
severe in the good work we are engaged in. The
officers were then presented and sustained by
the unanimous vote of the Society. Sister C.
Johnson then presented President Liljenquist
with a beautiful set of glass ware, as a small
token of the love and respect of her sisters.
Prest. Liljenquist responded with a few suitable
words, thanking the sisters for their confidence,
and hoping she might prove worthy of their
trust.
	After singing and benediction the brethren
and sisters adjourned to the Relief Society
House, where they sat down to a bounteous re-
past, superintended by Sister C. Johnson. There
were eighty persons present, including our age
brethren, widows, missionaries wives and the
poor. We also remembered the sick, and sent
them to share to cheer and confort them. Each
one enjoyed a happy time and felt that it was
indeed a year of Jubilee.
	I will send our financial report for the twelve
years since our organization.
				M. M. NIELSEN, Secretary.


Balance sheet of Hyrum Relief Society, organ-
ized May 9th, 1868. Our total income during the
twelve years since the organization of the Relief
society is $2,348.25. Disbursements: To mis-
sionaries, $209.22; Perpetual Emigration Fund,
$139.88; sick and needy, $295.29; Temples, $558.-
85; centennial expenses, $33.68; pnblic debt,
$33.40; carpet, clock, .etc., for meeting house,
$89.25; Logan Factory, 25.00; Sabbath Schools,
$14.55; paid for Relief Society house and build-
ing granary, etc., $639.87; sundry expenses,
$106.29; to library, $40.00; total expenses, $2,173.-
28.
	Balance on hand including house and granary,
books, cash on interest $730.30; making a gain
in twelve years of $555.33. We have also 389
bushels of wheat lent out, according to counsel,
to our brethren, to be paid back after harvest.

PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Annual Report of the Primary Association of
East Bountiful, organized one year ago to-day,
the 19th of April, 1879, with 182 members, in-
creased to 224 during the year. Meetings held
weekly on Saturday afternoons. Average, 48
meetings during the year; average attendance,
125. Cards of merit have been distributed twice
during the year. The exercises of the meet-
ings have been similar to the following: After
the usual opening exercises, remarks are gener-
ally made by our President and Counselors;
then recitations, singing and essays from the
children, and a number of children bear their
testimony; questions asked the children by our
President. They have also learned the ten com-
mandments, a prayer and some poetry; had
reading from the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, and other select works;
have also taught them some of the first princi-
ples of the gospel.
	Have received from the children on their five-
cent donation the sum of $9.85. We have also
had two concerts and one party; proceeds,$33.90;
full amount of proceeds, $43.75. Paid out for
presents for the children and sundry articles for
the Association the sum of $36.10, and $7.65 left
in the treasury.

Donated to the Relief Society, three bushels
	of wheat, 75 cents per bushel, $2.25
And two bed quilts for the Temple, $4.25
	each,	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 8.50
	Officers of Organization:—President, Mrs.
Ann Dustin; Counselors, Mrs. Mary Evans and
Mrs. Sarah Easthope; Secretary, Miss Olive C.
Sessions; Asst. Secretary, Miss Hannah Call;
Treasurer, Miss Lucina Sessions.

	On the 25th of October last Sister E. R. Snow
visited Morgan and organized the Primary As-
sociation of South Morgan Ward, with your cor-
respondent as president and Ann Fry and
Jeanette Hogg as counselors; 67 names were
enrolled and our first meeting held November
1st, from that time to May 8th we have held 22
meetings, we have now 81 members, and during
this time the members have paid in dona-
tions to the Temple the sum of $10.15 and have
$1.65 on hand. On the 21st of this month we
had an entertainment, forty children taking
part therein which consisted of recitations,
songs, dialogues and speeches, and to help pass
the evening in enjoyment Captain Daniel Bull,
with the brass band, was in attendance, dis-
coursing sweet music whenever called upon.
							HARRIET WELCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		7


[Column 1]
WHEN WE WENT GIPSYING.

YES, those days were romantic enough for 
the most imaginative and yet the hap-
piness was positively real. In some re-
spects childhood is fairy land and in a certain
sense it is to the ideal mind like the land
of enchantment. Beautiful in the distance as
we glance far back over the blue and gold hill-
tops of memory. Sweet memory, that brings us
by night and by day, visions of the friends and
scenes of other days. How gladly we weave
them into the grey and sombre present, in our 
after life, with its multifold duties, its cares and
its wearisome burdens.
	When we have waded through a deep river
and are securely landed, we can look back and
contemplate its maginficent beauties, but while
we were exerting all our powers to combat the
difficulties in our course to stem the stream, a
swift, flowing current, or perhaps i[--] some parts
a raging torrent, we could not see the beauty, the 
grandeur of the waters, but when we are landed
on the shore secure from danger, we look with

[Column 2]
admiration at the billowy foam and the rippling
wavelets, and mark how beautiful the sunshine
plays and shivers upon its surface.
	There are points of sublimity in life that appal
us in contemplation, that exhaust all our ener-
gies in the struggle for victory; but when we
have passed the ordeal, we wonder how it so en-
vironed and confused us that we realized not the 
grandeur of the awful moment. The full rich-
ness and pathos, and the more just appreciation
of moments full of a wondrous fascination come
to us in our afternoon of life and throw over all,
even the severest struggles, a halo of splendor,
as the reflection of the setting sun clothes with a
graceful violet and purple radiance the eastern
heavens when it approaches the glorious earth,
and mingles as it were in one dreamy, mantling
cloud of gentle beauty. Thus does the effulgence
of our riper years cast its shadow backward and
light up with a beauty almost divine, the earlier
years, coloring them with a ruby tint, causing
them to resemble in the fanciful picture, the
Elysian fields of Paradise.
	Music loud and even discordant is mellowed
by distance. The chime of clamorous bells a
long way off are softened to the ear. So child-
life touched up by the long interval of time
grows quite resplendant and sparkles like old
wine, and refreshes our minds as we recall its re-
collections perhaps even more. We forget in
general the unpleasant things, and remember
only its sweetnesses and its joys. We scent the 
new mown hay, and we ignore the dust, the
fatigue of the hot summer weather. The blue-
bells and daisies were there, we plucked them
and carried them off as a trophy, but we remem-
ber not that the bees, the wasps, the hornets
and alas! even the snakes sometimes daunted us
when we were wont to recline upon the grassy
knolls among the precious flowers and shrub-
bery.
	O, yes, we went gipsying in our young days,
or nutting and berrying, gathering autumn
leaves, and so forth and so on, which amounts to
the same thing. A merry crowd we were, with
full lunch baskets and light hearts, tripping
gaily over the rough pastures or hillsides, climb-
ing on our way the quaint old rail fences, be-
decking ourselves, with floral treasures, singing
in the merriest strains snatches of songs and
rhymes, and querying if gipsies themselves, of 
whom we had read but never seen, enjoyed with
as keen a relish the open air and bright sun-
shine. Sometimes, we kept within proper
bounds, but occasionally we grew reckless with
the spirit of impetuousness, to which youth is
prone, and gave loose rein to romance, which led
us into difficulty, and had not some kind guar-
dian of youth and innocence watched over us,
we might have been beset with direful danger.
	On one occasion, I do remember me, there
was a giddy crowd of country village maidens,
and one solitary city girl, quite a belle among us,
who had come up from Boston to breathe the
country air, to smell the fresh hay in the mead-
ows as it was tossed about, to drink new milk
and eat the coarse brown bread famed in New
England for its health restoring qualities. We
were bent upon having "a good time," and had
wandered far over the fields and into strange
pastures, when we came upon a small lake, or,
as we would term it, a pond, where upon the bank
was moored a little skiff, or small canoe, with
oars alongside. The city girl, whose word was
law with us, and whose ignorance far exceeded
ours in all practical matters, proposed we ven-
ture out in the old boat and gather water-lillies.
Our knowledge of rowing was very inadequate,
as we had been accustomed to trust our brothers
with this part of the pastime, but we deter-
mined to make the attempt. Four of us under-
took to row, but ere' long we found the boat
leaked and was fast filling with water, and in
our desperation we commenced to dip it out
with our leghorn hats. We pulled off the gay
ribbons, cramming them in our pockets, and
baled out the water as fast as possible; but fear
was depicted on every countenance, and we for-
got the water-lillies and all else except our diso-
bedience, our wayward recklessness for fun and
frolic. Sober and thoughtful, we tried to steer
for shore, and tremblingly we watched the sun
go down, and wondered if we should be able to
reach our homes ere nightfall. But fortunately
for us, we had not gone far from shore, but
weary and faint, trembling with cold and our
feet dripping wet, we reached the muddy shore
at a point far from where we "sailed away" so
gaily. A sorry looking crowd we were, and
scrambling out, we left the poor old boat and 
rushed almost wild through bramble and bri-
ars, scarcely daring to think of the danger we
had escaped. And though we had not

[Column 3]spoken of it until we were safely
landed, some of us knew that rumor
said there was a place in the pond that had no
bottom. This was gipysing with a vengeance.
Moral: Never venture beyond what reason and 
good judgment dictate for the sake of frolic and
fun and a "jolly good time." Remember, dis-
cretion is the better part of valor, and keep the
propensity for romance always under the dicta-
tion of sound common sense. If we would always
observe this, many serious perplexities might be
avoided. Many a pun[--]minded young girl has
made a fearful record by indulging in the exces-
sive and uncontrolled love of romance; and the
denouement has often been more thrilling and
sensational than the most imaginative in their 
youthful impulsiveness anticipated. Our strong-
est and wildest passions beautify our life,but they
require skill in their management and the dis-
cipline and restraint, which is only to be obtain-
ed by carefully contrasting them with the stern
realisms of every day experiences.
								AUNT EM.


WOMAN AMONGST THE NEPHITES.

	It is somewhat noticable how little promi-
nence is given to womankind in the historical
narrative of the Book of Mormon, and unfortu-
nately when mention is made of her it too fre-
quently grows out of man's sins and her misfor-
tunes. Of all the descendants of Lehi and Sariah,
but two women are mentioned by name; one,
Abesh, a converted waiting woman to a queen of
the Lamanites; the other, Isabel, a harlot of the
land of Siron, whose meritricious charms seduc-
ed Coreanton, the son of Alma, from the work
of the ministry among the Zoramites.
	Although we have but few individual charac-
ters standing out in relief from the historical
background, yet from many incidental referen-
ces as the story of the Nephites is told, we are
led to the conclusion that women amongst that
people enjoyed a much greater degree of liberty,
and wielded a more powerful influence than they
did amongst contemporary Gentile nations on
the eastern hemisphere—say in Babylon, Persia,
or Greece. We deem this mainly attributable
to two causes, first, the Israelitish origin of the
race; and again, the power and grace with which
the principles of the gospel were preached by a
long succession of prophets, who almost unin-
terruptedly ministered to the seed of Nephi.
That this latter cause had much to do with
woman's pleasing condition amongst that peo-
ple is evident, for we find from the historical
narative that whenever they turned from the
Lord it was then that tribulation and oppression
came upon their wives and daughters, and they
suffered from the iniquities of their husbands
and the savage fury of their enemies. With re-
gard to the first named cause it is generally ad-
mitted that the Hebrew women of antiquity en-
joyed greater liberty and possessed more privi-
leges than did those of the surrounding nations
of the same epoch. Let the Bible and the his-
tory of contemporary nations be compared and
the difference is evident.
	The Nephites lived in a dispensation varying
considerably from that of the Latter-days. They
observed the law of Moses, to which was added
the higher code of the Gospel. Our readers know
how well both these protect the rights of wo-
man, and how sacredly they guard the marriage
covenant; infidelity to that sacred bond of
union being regarded, whether in the man or
the woman, as a most heinous offence, and wor-
thy of the severest penalties.
	At the commencement of the Nephite nation-
al life, when they were few in numbers, they
seem for a time to have been tinctured with
some of the social vices of the now degenerate
people from whom the Lord had separated
them. They committed great immoralities and
took wives for utterly unworthy purposes with-
out the fear of the Lord before their eyes; and
after they had taken them, they frequently
abused or neglected them, until their suffering
cries came up before the Eternal Ones, and Hea-
ven forbade any man among them from taking
more than one wife, but adding this proviso, "For
if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed
unto me, I will command my people; otherwise
they shall hearken to these things." This in-
junction, we are of the opinion, was afterwards
removed, and the foreshadowed command given,
as it is evident from the later history of the Ne-
phites, that in a better era of their national life,
polygamy was sanctioned by the law and prac-
ticed amongst them, and that, indeed, by the
men most favored of God. As an example, we
will cite the Prophet Amulek, the devoted


friend and zealous fellow laborer of the younger
Alma; the only man in all the vast city of Am-
monihah, to whom an angel was sent, and in
whose behalf mighty miracles were wrought.
He expressly mentions his women, and as he
places them next to himself and before his chil-
dren, his father and all his other kinsfolks and
kindred, and nowhere uses the word wife or
wives, it is evident that his wives were meant
and not serving women. No one, surely, would
argue that he would give such the place of
honor in his address to his fellow citizens, before
his parents and his children. As another in-
stance, the great number of Chief Judge Pa-
horan's sons is incidentally mentioned.
	It was during the brighter days of the rule
of the Judges, that woman of any time before
the appearance of the Messiah on this continent
seems to have been most highly regarded and
esteemed. The Nephites were then living un-
der that excellent code of laws drawn up by the
inspired King Mosiah, which bear evidence of
having been most admirably adapted to a peo-
ple worthy of a large amount of liberty. This
age was adorned with the presence of such
men as Alma, Moroni (the Prophet-General of
the Nephite armies), Ammon and the other
sons of King Mosiah, Heleman, Amulek and
others conspicuous for their devotion to the
laws of God and the rights and liberties of the
people. General Moroni, than whom a more
devoted man to the cause of truth and human-
ity never lived, is especially conspicuous in his
untiring efforts for the safety and happiness of
the wives and little ones of his people. On the
standard to which he rallied the patriot warriors
of the Republic, which he named "The Title of
Liberty," he inscribed, "In memory of our God,our
religion and freedom, and our peace, our wives
and our children." This seems to have been
his watchword throughout the long and san-
guinary succeeding campaigns, in which he de-
fended the Nephites from the savage onslaughts
of their Lamanitish foes. Again and again we
find him rallying the hosts of Nephi with this
soul stirring cry, and under the ardor it wrought
in their hearts, carrying triumph to their ban-
ners and freedom to their land. One series of
events that occurred during this long war
which sheds a most pleasing light upon the
inner life of the faithful among the Nephites is
found in the story of Heleman and his two
thousand striplings, who though very young,
were so full of the spirit of faith implanted in
their hearts by the wise counsels of their loving
and God-fearing mothers, that in the might of
Jehovah they went forth against the enemies of
their adopted country (for they were Lamanites
by birth) and no power could withstand them.
Their mother's teachings and their mothers'
proyers were weapons of destruction to
their foes and shields of defence to
themselves. They went forth conquering and
to conquer, and the All-seeing One only knows
how much the teachings of those saintly women
effected towards the preservation of the Nephite
commonwealth from imminent destruction.
	And what shall we say of the condition of wo-
man in that blessed Sabbatic era succeeding the
glorious appearing of the Redeemer on this
western land, when for two hundred years
this continent enjoyed undisturbed and
heavenly peace; when all men devoutly wor-
shipped the Lord and dealt justly with their
fellow's—man or woman. It was an age in
which no woman was wronged, no deserted
children pined in the streets, no abused wives
mourned in secret, or lifted their sorrowing
hearts in anguish to the Great Father of man-
kind; no brazen courtesans flaunted on the broad
highways, or ruined maidens hid their sorrow
and shame wherever seclusion was the most
profound. The inspired historian tells us that if
ever there were a happy people on this earth,
here they were found, and most happy must
have been the gentler ones, who bear in the
stubborn battle of life so large a share of its sor-
rows-and misfortunes.
	But this golden age was soon followed by its
opposite, when every virtue seems to have been
supplanted by a vice, and all good was turned
to evil. At almost lightning speed, the people
having once taken the downward track, the
nation rushed to ruin, until this continent
beftame one vast field of carnage, rapine, and
misery over which devils gloated and hell
enlarged herself. Indeed, the whole land
seemed peopled with a race of demons who
perpetrated cruelties that could alone be con-
ceived in the hearts of the damned. During
these lengthened years of untold horror the fair
daughters of the land suffered unspeakable bar-
barities. Life, virtue, everything was the play-
thing of the victor, be he Nephite or Lamanite,
until in the hate of revenge and the fury of de-
spair they joined their national leaders on the bat-
tle field,and with their husband, sons and broth-
ers, dyed their hands red in the blood of the foe.
Nor did they arm themselves alone, but with
feelings turned to those of monsters, they put
weapons into the hands of their children and in-
flamed their young minds with the savage love
of slaughter. The war was not one for suprema-
cy alone; it was for national and individual ex-
istence, and midst a sea of carnage,unparalleled
on any land save ours, the Nephite nation was
swept out of existence, leaving scarce a trace be-
hind, a most terrible instance of divine mercy
scorned and divine laws abused. 			G.


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	Died at her residence in Oxford, Idaho, March
19th, 1880, Mary Hunt, wife of Samuel Hunt.
Born December 23d, 1835, at Corton, Norfolk,
England. Baptized 1853; Emigrated to Utah in
1868. Sister Hunt was a faithful Latter-day
Saint and an active member and teacher in the
Relief Society, and filled her position with
promptness and dignity, and was highly respec-
ted by all who knew her. The sisters of the Re-
lief Society deeply mourn her loss. Her testi-
mony was to the last mingled with faith and
hope of a glorious resurrection. Then we hope to
meet our beloved sister again and enjoy her so-
ciety.
						LOUSIA CROSHAW.
	P. S. According to her request, her remains
were taken to Salt Lake for interment.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
[image] SAFE BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the 
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX' 541.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADF TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER. Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z.C.M.I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special department for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.			97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.

IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in
FURNITURE
Spring Beds, Wire Mattresses,
Feathers Wall Paper
and
Baby Carriages.
75, 77 & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1880.		No. 2.


DERNFORD DALE.

MY EARLY HOME, WRITTEN THIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO.

Shall others, sweet Valley thy praises rehearse
And unstrung be my lyre, and silent my verse?
Forbid it my musc! and if lowly the strain.
When the heart shall dictate, 'twill not all be in vain.

But who in this age of refinement, and art
Will deign to admire my favorite theme
Where nature alone presides over the scene?

So be it—by me 'tis by no means despised,
'Tims my Home!—in that word is a volume comprised;
There I've tasted the mixture of life, good and ill,
And such has endeared it more lastingly still.

But hayfields, and cornfields, and water and wood,
Are deem'd in a landscape essentially good,
Then I fancy we still have a claim 'twill be found.
For in these my loved valley is known to abound.

If these have no merits, then come to "the grove"
The song of the nightingale, all surely love!
There, she reigns Prima donna, and charms the whole
	scene
And black bird, and thrush pour their sweet notes be-
	tween.

I love too, to stand on the rush covered "fen"
And list to the cry of the lapwing—and then
The voices of frogs, far away from the scene,
All these speak of hours, and days that have been.

I, love, when the day and its turmoil is done,
To ramble unheeded, unthought of—alone,
Then ascend to the hill, overlooking the dell,
And list to the sound of the sweet village bell;

Oh! those sweet village bells are delightful to me,
How often I hear them ring out o'er the lea;
And that morning we walked out of Church side by side
How joyous they welcom'd the Bridegroom and Bride.

On xmas-day morning, how blandly they ring,
And the old year's departure—the new usher in!
Yes, yes while I live I'll remember those bells,
Their tongues have a language that nothing else tells.

These are pleasures that pall not, they soften the heart
And peace, and serenity ever impart;
They draw us from earth, our thoughts fly to Him
Who made this fair world, our Creator and King;

These are some of the beauties, and charms of my sphere
You may think that which follows a simple idea,
That immured in a Town I shonld ever bewail
The simple enjoyments, of dear Dernfod Dale!

								HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS ON THE BRIEF REVIEW
OF THE LIVES OF ALICE AND
PHOEBE CARY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In reviewing the lives of celebrated men and
women, many are apt to consider them as be-
ings apart from the rest of mankind; and indeed,
in a large sense, they are so; in other senses
they are of the masse. It is very true that
they have a world of their own, a region in
which the spirit "lives and moves and has its
being;" a withdrawing room, if you please, into
which they retire at any moment, and feel there
they breathe an atmosphere that feeds, regen-
erates and invigorates their soul! An "inner
temple" into which they take only themselves
—and God! There they have a consecrated
shrine, there they feel heaven is around and
about them; holy spirits administer to them,
and they come out renewed and refreshed. Out-
side that door they leave the world, their cares,
their petty annoyances from those who do not
understand them, from those whose spirits are
not of their calibre; therefore often jar the
chords of the fine instrument of a thousand

[Column 2]
strings, whose music is heard only by the
spirit's ear. But they emerge from this Elysium
and they become at once "one of us," knowing
good and evil, seeing it, feeling it, and in some
measure, sometimes partaking of it to their 
sorrow; for such spirits feel keenly, suffer and
enjoy in the same ratio; they are organized for
heaven, but like the rest of the human family,
they have to pass through an earthly probation;
such, with many others, were Alice and Phoebe
Cary, they had their "inner temple" ever
"swept and garnished," but they came out and
shut the door and went about their daily avoca-
tions of life as other people did, assisted in house-
maids' duties, in the cooking, in the confection-
ery, and were excellent in all; went to market
basket on arm, brought home the needful for the
table as business like as "Bridget" herself could
do it. Phoebe would always remember to bring
home a sweet bouquet for Alice's breakfast table
and another for her writing table, which were
ever inspirational, for they were the offerings of 
the sweetest love that one mortal could offer to
another. She also ever brought with her a
spirit of "fun," reciting at the breakfast table all
the ridiculous scenes she had witnessed in her
marketing tour, causing merry laughter, that
assisted digestion marvelously and helped the
spirit to a healthy tone for the rest of the day,
making observations on life's motley phases, as
few have the tact for doing, weeping over
some--yes, ever ready to weep with the
mourner, as to rejoice with the happy, and then
all this would be simmered down into thrilling
and beautiful articles for the papers, for the
magazines, for poetical morceaus, that has made
the world ring with their praises, has often com-
forted the mourner, cheered the depressed,
and made them weep and laugh almost in the
same moment; by their pathos, and by their ri-
diculousness. In reading Phoebe's productions,
they excite the same contrariety of feeling as in
reading that pathetic writer Lawrence Sterne;
her writings call out the same contrast of feel-
ing as in Sterne's "Maria," "Le Fevre," "The
Prisoner," etc., one moment we cannot read for
laughing, the next some sentiment is evolved,
so exquisitely touching, that we are obliged to
stop and swallow down the heart-sob that ar-
rests our voice. Yes, Phoebe, dear, I love thee!
I appreciate thee, and thy revered sister Alice!
What women these were to be proud of, their
pictures ought to adorn every woman's room,
their beautiful writings be found on every wo-
man's table; for they were worthy of all imitation;
in their self-reliance, in the noble way in which
they fought the battle of life! in their devotion
to their God! they worshipped Him "in the beau-
ty of holiness," in literally working out their
salvation to the best light they had. Oh! my
young sisters, read their lives, and then imitate
their self-reliance, self-supporting indomitable
perseverance; truly were they workers for the
public good, truly were they help-meets to wo-
man; and to attain this end, laying daily on the 
altar of self-sacrifice. Let none think that the
lives of the literati are lives of ease and emolu-
ment; whatever they receive, rest assured
they earn it by the sweat of the brain
and by the sweat of the heart, for no one, whose
harp has not been strung by the hard hand of
experience, can write so as to strike the chords
that lie deep in every heart. An imaginative
writer may touch and excite the senses—but it
is only the one who has passed under "the Car
of Juggernaut" that can touch the heart and
infuse into it the spirit by which the writer has
been inspired. We ought to be very grateful to
those who lay out the beautiful material of their
own heart and brain for our edification, and
amusement, for our comfort and refreshment;
who hold up to our view a mirror as it were, in
which we can view character and discover
wherein we resemble the model, and where we
are deficient; and though many read, and lay
aside the missive with thoughtless apathy and
non-appreciation, yet I am thankful to say there
is still a mighty mass of mind, full of gratitude
and love, for the brain-workers of the world;
those heart explorers who delve deep in the hid-
den mines of human wealth, and bring up to the
surface the gold and silver, and the jewels

[Column 3]
that were before buried in "the dark unfathomed
caves" of human hearts and brains. God gives
them inspiration, and they wear the "singing
robes" that He prepares for the minstrels, that
are also ministering spirits in his hands and
missionaries on his earth.


AN ADDRESS TO MAN.

	The general medley of remarks, good, bad and
indifferent, made by both sexes and all classes,
and creeds; calls up in my mind these questions:
What is woman? What is her mission in this life?
And what rights does she claim?
	The Scriptures tell us that woman was created,
for a companion and helpmeet to man, because
"it is not good to be alone." They twain to be
one, and their mission in this life; to people the
earth with intelligent beings. These intelligent
beings, the embodiment of the immortal spirit
with the mortal body; unlike other creatures-
they begin life with such protracted helpless,
ness, that no one would attempt to say, that
woman's mission,could end with the "bearing
of the sons of men." No! It is but a beginning
of her task.
	The intelligent mother knows even intuitively,
that the molding of the infant mind, is her task,
as much as the framing of its body: and her
cares and anxiety increase with the age and
number of her offspring.
	Men whose mother's love, teachings and
prayers, have followed them through life, like a
halo of light, through the darkness of doubts
and temptations; will readily allow woman's
voice, to be heard in all matters pertaining to the
social weal.
	Drop all traditions into oblivion and taking
consistency for a guide, consider whether wo-
man, in her own sphere, that is, by the side of
her husband and surrounded by her children;
has not as great, if not a greater interest than
her brother man, in the uprightness and moral-
ity of the politics and government of the country
in which she lives.
	How much safety, is there for the virtue of
mothers and daughters, aye and sons, in a na-
tion ruled by a fraudulent and corrupt govern-
ment? None. But says one! There are so many
foolish, giddy women! Well, my friend, are wise
men the mojority? If so, whence all this general
mistrust, contention and fraud? Whence this
gigantic extravagance on which is wrecked
honesty, loyalty and confidence.
	Women foolish, vain and giddy? Yes, many
are, and whose fault? Have not men, brought
about this state of affairs, by giving to the vain
butterflies, the preference over women of worth?
Shape and turn the question as we will, the ugly,
but palpable fact stares us in the face; that man
has hitherto endeavored to keep woman ignorant
and incapable of solid pursuits in life; that she
might be a mere toy in his hands, and in some
countries his slave, de facto. Nay my brother
man! Fear not, that woman may arise, as your
rival, and perchance, tangle the meshes of poli-
tics more than they are already. She wishes not
to be a rival; but a true helpmeet. Not a lob-
byist, to assist in working out fraudulent
schemes; but to openly, and in her own right,
assist man in bringing about a reform, without
which, society must necessarily become a wreck.
	It is not that Woman wishes to rule, but she
demands the privilege of a voice in electing, the
men who shall rule over, and make laws for her-
self and offspring.
	Deny her not! For her love pure and unselfish
urges her on, and she not rest, until her
hand grasps the Rudder of this great Life Boat.
									E. C. F.
	Morgan, June 10th, 1880.


HOME PUBLICATION:—"Prose and Poetry" is
the title of a new book in pamphlet form. A
collection of originial articles from the pen of
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, of St. George. Some
of them were written in the Temple. The book
contains 88 pages, and is for sale at this office.
Price 50 cents.


10		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EARLY REMINISCENCES.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When I first commenced these reminiscences,
I only gave a short sketch and did not think to
continue them, but having been urged to write
more, I will copy a few more lines from my
father's history to show some of the cruelties
and injustice of our enemies and that there
were a few in the State of Missouri who revolted
at the horrible deeds that were committed.
"The legislature of the State of Missouri ap-
propriated two thousand dollars to be distributed
among the people of Davies and Caldwell Coun-
ties, the "Mormons" not excepted. Judge
Cameron, Mr. McHenry and others attended to
the distribution. Judge Cameron drove in the 
hogs belonging to the brethren, many of which
were identified, shot down in the street and
without further bleeding they were half dressed,
cu[-] up and distributed by McHenry to the poor,
charging four or five cents per pound, which,
together with a few pieces of refuse calico at
double and triple prices, soon consumed the ap-
propriation.
	The Prophet and others petitioned Judge
Tomkins or either of the Supreme Judges of the 
State of Missouri for a State's writ of habeas
corpus, that he and his brethren might be
brought before either of those judges, that jus-
tice might be administered. I was requested by
Joseph to go to Jefferson City and present the
petition. The committee met and appointed
Theodore Turley to accompany me. We took
copies of the papers by which the prisoners were
held, with the petition, to the Supreme Judges,
and immediately started a distance of 300 miles,
visited the Judges and laid the whole matter
before them, individually, according to our best
abilities. Neither of them would take any ac-
tion in the case, although they appeared friendly
and acknowledged that they were illegally im-
prisioned. We also presented a petition to the 
Secretary of State, the governor being absent,
he appeared very kind, but like the other offi-
cers he had no power to do good. We immedi-
ately returned to Liberty and made Joseph and
the brethren acquainted with the result of our
mission, through the grate of the dungeon, as we
were not permitted to enter the prison; Joseph
told us to be of good cheer, and get all the Saints
away as fast as possible. In company with Bro-
ther Turley I visited Judge Austin A. King, who
was angry at us, for presenting his illegal pa-
pers to the Supreme Judges. He treated us
roughly. At a meeting of the committee Brother
Daniel Shearer and I were appointed to visit
Judge Hughes, who had formerly been an In-
dian agent, and get him to go to Davis and at-
tend the sitting of the Court there. He express-
ed himself in friendly terms towards Joseph and 
the brethren; being a very rough man in his
language, he G—d d—d the Judges, and the
Governor and everybody else that would not
step forward and help those men out of the
hands of their persecutors, for he did not believe
they were guilty of any of the crimes alleged
against them. Said he, "the Mormons have
been treated d—d mean," looking us directly in
the eye he said, "By G-d, look at their eyes,
see how bright and keen they are, they are
whipped but not conquered, you can see that in
their eyes."
	There were several men in Liberty who were
friendly to the brethren; I called on them when
I went there, and they treated me with great
civility, General Doniphan and Atchsion and the 
tavern keeper where I put up, and several of the
foremost men, who belonged to the Masonic
fraternity. At the tavern the hostler was
a black man, and being friendly to me I
gave him a dollar and told him I had to ride
much, and requested him to be kind to my horse
and brush him down well. Next morning, when
I came to take my horse out of the stable, he
was foundered and so stiff I could hardly get him
out of the stable; the hostler had given him too
much grain. Those men whom I have named,
and several others, revolted at the scenes enact-
ed against the Mormons, and would have liber-
ated the brethren had it not been for the "out-
side pressure," that is, the strong prejudices
imbided by the people against us; and the blood-
thirstiness to kill the Prophet, which was in the 
Governor who should have been a father; but,
because he was a tyrant, he will be d——d
and go to h—lll, with all who raise their tongues
against this work and people. The committee
made me a present of a fine sorrel horse, as I had
considerable traveling to do.
	14th—The committee moved 36 of the poor
and helpless families into Tenney's Grove, about

[Column 2]
25 miles from Far West. I was obliged to se-
crete myself in the woods and cornfields during
the day and went evenings to counsel the com-
mittee and brethren in private houses.
	18th.—This morning, as I was going to the
committee-room, to tell the committee to wind
up their affairs and be off; or their 
lives would be taken, I was met on
the public square by several of the
mob, one of them asked if I was a d—d Mormon.
I replied, "I am a Mormon." They answered,
"Well, g—d d—n you, we'll blow your brains
out," repeating the oath again, they tried to
ride over me with their horses, in the presence
of Elias Smith, Theodore Turley and others of
the committee. It was but a few minutes after I
had notified the committee to leave, before the
mob gathered at the Tithing House and began
breaking clocks, chairs, windows, looking glasses
and furniture, making a complete destruction of 
everything, while Captain Bogart, the county
judge looked on and laughed, and a mobber
named Whittaker jumped about and laughed
like a mad man; and all this at a time when we
were using our utmost endeavors to get the
Saints away from Far West. The brethren
gathered up what they could and fled from Far
West in one hour; the mob stayed until the 
committee left and then plundered thousands of 
dollars worth of property which had been left by
the brethren and sisters to assist the poor to re-
move to Illinois.
	One mobber rode up and finding no conven-
ient place to fasten his horse, shot a cow that
was standing near, while a girl was milking her,
and while the poor animal was struggling in
death he cut a strip of her hide from her nose to
her tail, to which he fastened his halter. At that
time the great crime consisted in being united and
having bishops, priests, etc., and believing in the 
spiritual gifts of the Gospel which Jesus taught
his disciples; but now we are toid that the prac-
tice of Polygamy is the only thing they have
against us as a people. What nonsense and how
foolish this sounds to those who remember all
these things and the scenes which the Saints
have passed through. The ignorance of the mass
is only surpassed by their intolerance. Our
greatest persecutions and our drivings were be-
fore the principle of plural marriage had been
revealed. The "Mormons" who were driven
from Missouri were mostly from the Eastern
States and were industrious and enterprising and
much more refined than the majority of the
Western people, who were satisfied to live in
little log huts, with one pane of glass, and often
none at all; their fire places generally covered
one side of the room, and that with the broad
chimney and one door, which was generally left
open winter and summer, to let in the light,
served their purpose. Their living consisted
mainly of coffee, hominy, and corn dodger, corn
meal wet up with cold water, whithout any short-
ening, and transparent bacon. The richest land,
stock and slave holders aspired to little more:
but the spirit of union, industry and enterprise
which they saw in our people filled them
wlth jealousy and hatred like unto Cain,
and this spirit was encouraged by apostates,
who sold the Prophet and his brethren, and they
received money for betraying them. Governor
Boggs and his minions were guilty of offering
their prisoners the flesh of their murdered breth-
ren to eat, and when our cause was laid before
the President of the United States, his answer
was, "Gentlemen, your cause is just, but I can
do nothing for you; if I take up for you I shall
lose the vote of Missouri." And this is a land of 
LIBERTY, FREEDOM AND EQUAL RIGHTS. None
but Saints would have endured such wrongs,and
they are the only people who practise what they
profess, or even believe these words of the Sav-
ior, "The servant is not above his Lord; if they
have persecuted, me, they will persecute you
also;" and that all the trials through which the 
Saints have passed are in fulfilment of the words
of the prophets since the world began. It
would be well for the world to discern the signs
of the times, and more especially those who pro-
fess to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, but are careless and luke-
warm, that the day of the Lord may not overtake
them as a thief in the night."
	I have not indulged in these reminiscences out
of any feeling of revenge, no, my heart aches for
the suffering, even of our enemies. I pity and feel
to pray for them, for they know not what they
do, but the blood of the innocent is crying for
vengeance. This nation has a terrible debt to
pay. In Illinois the Prophet and Patriarch
were murdered in cold blood and the Saints
again forced in the dreadful month of February,
1846 to leave their beautiful city and their hard-

[Column 3]
earned homes to their enemies, who hoped and
expected they would all perish. The poor and
the aged, sick and infirm were afterwards driven
across the Mississippi in the sickly season of the 
year, and scores of them died. They took from
us five hundred of young able-bodied men to
fight in the Mexican war, which made it impos-
sible for us to travel, and hundreds died at our
Winter Quarters from diseases brought on by
privations; being so long without vegetable food
and the hardships and exposures endured on
that journey.
	The travels of the Saints from Nauvoo to these
valleys were marked by the graves of their loved
ones. The Saints have borne all in patience
because they had faith in the Almighty who
said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay."


ORIGIN OF THE Y. L. M. I. ASSOCIATION.

	In the year 1869, President Brigham Young,
contemplating the increasing influence the
worldly element in our midst was gaining over
the hearts of our youth, by its importatious, ex-
travagances, and customs, in contrast with the
simplicity in which our youth had been reared;
sought by the organization of a Society, a reform
in dress and table expenditures. It was in-
tended also to present such instructions as would
benefit the body, cultivate the mind and
inculcate a knowledge and love of the Gospel in
the hearts of those who should associate them-
selves therewith.
	Under the instructions of Pres. Young, Sister
E. R. Snow organized a Society composed of
members of his own family, which organization
was called the "Young Ladies Department of
the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Associa-
tion;" the Resolutions of which were written by
Sister E. R. Snow. Immediately following this
Organization, in accordance with the wish of
Pres. Young, Sisters E. R. Snow, M. T. Smoot,
and M. I. Horne, organized Retrenchment As-
sociations in other Wards.
	The movement was regarded by many as an
innovation, and the first members felt a degree
of isolation and restriction in accepting its first
adopted code of Resolutions; and in inviting
their young companions to unite with them felt
a delicacy in doing so, as though proposing some-
thing requiring considerable sacrifice of feeling,
and unusual force of character to sustain, and
met with gunine gratitude those who became of
their number. It was a high tribute to woman,
that of her was asked the founding of an insittu-
tion whose corner stone was self denial; for love
of adornment, and display in dress, are by many
considered to be stricly feminine attributes.
Not many were the volunteers, and a few lost
heart and left the ranks, under the raillery of
companions, little dreaming the importance the
organizations would yet attain to, of the honor
that membership would confer, and the high,
honor of being an acknowledged auxiliary
to the servants of God, in the establishing of his
kingdom upon the earth. We do not forget the
gratitude expressed by mothers, with fervent hope
their sons might yet have such organizations for
their welfare.
	In 1877, in accordance with the authorized and
accepted course of exercises, the organizations,
unannimously, by vote, adopted the title of Y. L.
M. I. A.
	Recognizing the necessity of a presidency over
the then numerous associations: in September
1878, Mrs Mary A. Freeze, of the 11th Ward,
S. L. City was by unanimous vote of the Con-
ference of the Sisters of Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
appointed President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake County. Subsequently (1879)
Mrs. Louie Felt and Mrs Clara, Y. Conrad,
were appointed Counselors, and Mrs. A. J. Croch-
eron, Sec'y to Pres. Freeze.
	The Y. L. M. I. A.,number upwards of eleven
thousand members, at this time, the end of the
first decade. Who can measure the possibilities
of the next ten years, for the daughters of Zion?
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHEON.


THE DUTY OF ALL.—The Phonograph, At-
lanto, Ga., talks as follows: "If sick with any
of the diseases for which Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are a specific, if old or young, it is the duty
of all to take them if anxious to be cured."


HOW TO INVEST.—The Democrat, Goshen, N.
C., says: "It may not be improper here to add
that health is accumulated, the sick made well,
and a large interest of comfort and happiness
secured by investing in 'Warner's Safe Rem-
edies.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		11


THE  DARK  CLOUD.

BY  MAY MAPLE.

Across the sky so bright and blue
	On a peaceful Summer's day,
A great dark cloudlet quickly flew-
	And vanished then for aye

The sun, obscured but for a time,
	Came forth again with might;
And naught was left to mark the place—
	All, all, was pure and bright.

As I gazed on the dark mass moving,
	So swiftly through the air,
I thought  to this cloud our troubles
	We easily can compare.

In the flush of sunny strength and hope
	A trial comes along;
It drowns all our pleasant feelings
	Banishes jest and song.

Our hearts are so low and so hopeless,
	Our prospects dark and drear;
We bow to each passing opinion
	And shudder with nameless fear.

Ev'ry hour is most anxiously watched,
	Each day we  fear things new.
And yet our surroundings brighten not—
	The world is dark to our view.

But soon in the great dark covering,
	A ray of light we see;
Broader, and broader yet, it grows—
	Our cares commence to flee.

And soon our dark pathway brightens up,
	Our fears have sudd'nly fled
And our anxious cares and troubles all
	Are vanished like the dead,

All, all, once more is pure and bright
	Our life seems much more dear,
Because we have gained again the light,
	Have passed the dark and drear.

Salt Lake City, Utah.


AN OPEN LETTER.

Dear Editor:
	I wonder if you can find a few moments to
read some of the thoughts floating through my
brain at this time? I seem to want to think
palpably to one who is my compeer! It is a
most lovely evening in leafy June; I am be-
holding one of our most glorious Utah sunsets,
than which nothing can be more gorgeous and
sublime! The turmoil of the day is passed, I
have walked into my withdrawing room and
shut the door, and left earth-life outside, hence
I want you with me; as in measuring character
I have concluded that when you were undergo-
ing the process of organization, a goodly spice of
poetry and romance were thrown into the com-
pound, and hence I feel that we are compeers.
If you veto the consanguinity, all right, it will
not alter facts; but bear in mind, according to
my definition of words and ideas, there is noth-
ing derogatory to you! But let me proceed. I
have organized this retreat according to my own
taste. There I meet those influences congenial
to me. We walk in the Elysian fields, where
beautiful flowers are ever springing. We inhale
their perfume, and we partake of the ambro-
sial food that nourishes the ethe-
real and the immortal; we sip from
the founts overflowing with the nectar which
exhilarates our spirits, and quickens every
sense, especially those of love and adoration to
the Great Giver and Author of all! Were you
here, I should propound the question whether
those who have discovered that which will
make, in a great measure, their happiness on
earth, have not attained to a knowledge of them-
selves, which will enable them to make much
of their present life a heaven on the earth?
Knowledge certainly is a power in such a case;
and it is not in greatness and grandeur of means
or position that true happiness is to be found.
No, verily, it is in "the cool, sequestered vale of
life" that her presence and her influence hovers
and is felt much more forcibly than among
wealth and its appliances. When any attain
this knowledge of themselves it will give them
repose of character—a happiness and independ-
ence the world can never give nor has power to
take away. Or course there is room for discus-
sion, but look abroad. Have you not seen crowds
who could not tell what would make them hap-


py? They imagine this or  that,  but when pos-
sessed,

"The beauteous toy so fiercely sought,
Loses its charm by being caught."

	I hear you say enough, and it is now twilight.
		Your friend,
									REX.


A TRUE STORY.

	In the fall, of 1869 a man with his young wife
and their only child, a little girl about eight
months old, started out on a journey of over a
hundred miles to visit their relatives. They
made the journey in about four days, and visited
around among their friends some three months,
at the end of that time the chilly winds of De-
cember warned them of the near approach of
winter, and the distance they had to travel be-
fore reaching home. After some preparation
they started for their home in northern Utah.
The third night out they drove into the little
town of C., a pleasant little valley situated in
the tops of the mountains; that night the wind
whistled and the snow drifted, and to the trav-
elers it seemed as though winter had in very
deed set in, however, the next morning they re-
sumed their journey, having paid a man $2.50
for taking his oxen and helping them over the
divide, a distance of about three miles; the snow
was drifting terribly, and it was all a span of
mules with the help of the oxen could do to draw
the wagon, although the load was very light;
when they got over as far as the man had been
hired to go, they tried to hire him to go farther,
but money was no temptation, so severe was the
storm. I have many times since wondered if
that man had a heart, and always concluded if
he had, it must have been callous, to leave that
man with his wife and babe in a snow bank as it
were with no possible way of escape. The mules
could not stir the wagon, and when the lash was
applied to them they could only plunge and
pant. O! what shall we do, was the question
that agitated both husband and wife. Help, we
must have help, was the husband's answer. Can
you stay here alone while I go and bring that
man back. I will make him come said he. des-
perately. There was a silence as of death, all
the imaginations of her nature were aroused;
what if her husband should start off alone facing
such a storm and should get so exhausted that
he should sink down to rest. My readers know
the result that would be likely to follow, and
none of them could realize it more forcibly than
did the wife at this particular moment. At
length, the silence was broken, "Speak quick, or
it will be too late to overtake him." Her only
reply was, go! He started off in pursuit of the
retreating oxen and their driver, and to
the anxious husband it seemed that
locomotive power had never traveled half
so fast as did those same oxen. The hope to
overtake them was soon gone,but he would make
his way as best he could to the little settlement
and obtain help; he struggled on, but made slow
progress. What was the young wife doing all
this time? crying and wringing her hands? No,
she was praying to her God with all her might,
beseeching Him to preserve her husband from
the terrible fate that seemed to threaten him;
her only thought seemed to be of him. Mo-
ments, which seemed like hours of anxious
waiting, elapsed, when to her unbounded joy
she heard shouts; they had scarcely died away
when shouts still farther off reached her ear, the
Lord had heard and answered her prayer. Help
was at hand; her husband had struggled along
until he got to the top of the ridge, where below
him lay some wagons; he could scarcely tell wheth-
er they were moving or not, so slow was their
progress and blinding the storm, until shouting
with all his strength he received an answer. The
remainder of that day was spent in breaking
roads; the men, part of them, formed in line,
and would walk in front of the wagons, each
wagon in turn taking the lead. Their rest was
frequent and sometimes quite long, giving the
animals plenty of time. In that way they suc-
ceeded in getting through the canyon, and about
8 o'clock in the evening they arrived in the lit-
tle town of W., where kind and hospitable
friends entertained them for the night. The
next day they reached their home, feeling
thankful to the God of Heaven for his unbound-
ed mercy in preserving their lives, and still they
have cause to rejoice, for that same God that de-
livered them in that hour of peril has delivered
them through other trials and difficulties, and
his hand is still over them for good.
									TINEY.
	Salt Lake City, June 4th, 1880.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	We took up a petition to the California Legis-
lature, signed by 1,002 names. The fight was
directed towards giving women the ballot upon
all school questions and in the selection of trus-
tees and superintendents. The Senate received
us with great courtesy and the Assembly gave
us a cordial greeting; unfortunately there was a
considerable portion of the hoodlum element
represented in the lower house, and you know
ignorance and vulgarity arc the parents of preju-
dice and brutality, and consequently are anta-
gonistic to real reform, especially that reform
which will place direct power in the hands of
women, who constitute the conscience of society,
and who will always fight on the side of temper-
ance and refinement. Still we found a great
number of friendly sympathizers, and it was
curious to note the evident superiority of our
friends. This was so marked that even our op-
ponents would say, "You have some pretty fine
men to support you."
	We called upon the Governor, who declared
himself in favor of giving women the full and
entire franchise, saying that he considered this
reform to be necssary for the salvation of the
republic.
		The Assembly tendered us the use of the As-
sembly Chamber for a special hearing on the
evening of the 11th. Then I learned that it was
expected that I should represent the women of
Santa Clara County in a speech. For a person
so inexperienced, it was a great trial, but I
nerved myself for it. Mrs. Laura de Force Gor-
don and Mrs. Foltz ere to speak. These ladies
are lawyers, and Mrs. Gordon has well earned
the reputation of being a remarkably gifted wo-
man A Miss Kellogg, physician, of Sacramen-
to was to make some remarks. Miss Kellogg
is a very popular lady, of charming appearance
and excellent taste in dress. Her discourse was
pretty, but she is not a gifted speaker. How-
ever, her popularity did more to help us than
any amount of words. The Assembly Chamber
was crowded; the Assembly men gave up their
front seats to the ladies and took the sides and
back of the hall. The galleries were a black
mass, all men. I spoke first, and my heart
did not fail me at all. I wish I could send you
some of it, but there was no correct report
made. Mrs. Gordon made the argument of the
evening. Altogether the meeting made a very
favorable impression.
	I received numerous compliments and my
own friends were delighted. I really think if I
could have sufficient practice I could make a
pretty good speaker. I become so excited or
enthusiastic that I forgot myself and then I
like it.
	Then at last the bill came up for a third read-
ing—all the bills have to be read three times—
crowds flocked to hear the debate and some of
the members did me the honor of quoting some
points of my speech. At 11.30 p.m. there were
yet several members who had not spoken, so
the vote was adjourned until the following
week. The debates were quite fine in our favor,
the opponents did not attempt to argue, but
tried ridicule, or went back to the garden of
Eden. One Lane burlesqued the petitions and
proved himself an admirable clown.
	The bill lingered so long that none of our dele-
gates could remain. This was a pity as our
presence seemed to keep the members up to a
sense of their responsibilities. At last the bill
was voted upon and passed by five majority.
Great was the rejoicing, but alas for the insta-
bility of masculine nature, the very next morn-
ing, some member moved a reconsideration of
the bill which movement was carried by a
small majority. Then seven of the members
went back upon their votes, so that the bill was
indefinitely postponed by a majority of two.
	The general feeling is that it was a cowardly
and disgraceful proceeding. Really I think that
this meanness will do us more good in the end
than a victory would have done. It will make
people think.


﻿DIED.—In this city. May 24th,1889, of injuries
received by being thrown from a wagon; John Y.
Green, aged 53 years, 8 months and 3 days. He
was the youngest son of John P. Greene and
Rhoda Young, who were known in the early
days of the Church as staunch and true friends
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He also became
a member of the Church at an early age, and
was one of the company of Pioneers to Utah,
and he died in faith of the Gospel. A kind and
loving husband and father; he has left a wife
and nine children, and numerous relatives and
friends to mourn his loss.—[COM.


12		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six month
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertisin
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, on
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount t
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple St[-]eet. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO BRIGHAM CITY.

	MONDAY afternoon, June 7th, in company
with Sister E. R. Snow Smith, we left home
en route for Brigham City, to attend the Sisters'
Conference of Box Elder Stake of Zion. We ar-
rived safely about eight o'clock the same even-
ing, at the residence of Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
It is a large rambling, old-fashioned house, and
reminds one of the country homes of New
England. We were both warmly welcomed,
and in fact Sister Eliza is most fondly and af-
fectionately cherished by all the residents of
this unique town, as a sort of godmother, and of 
course this alone would secure a welcome for any
one accompanying her.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock, the Confer-
ence convened in the Court House, Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow presiding. On the platform were
many of the presidents and other officers of the
several branches of womens' organizations from
the different parts of the County, Sisters Annie
Sawyer and Elvira Harrison, Malad, M. A.
Hubbard, Willard, and many other sisters from
a distance, earnest and zealous workers in the 
the cause of woman's progress and elevation.
	The morning was partly occupied in reading
Relief Society reports, after which, by request,
the meeting was addressed by the sisters from
Salt Lake City. In the afternoon the several
presidents of Relief Societies gave verbal reports,
and bore strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel and their interest in the work of reforma-
tion and redemption in these "latter days."
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Pres. Joseph Young,
Sen., each made encouraging and interest-
ing remarks, and "Sister Eliza" made a most
eloquent appeal to mothers and in fact all, in
regard to sustaining home industries and living
above every trial and thus obtaining victory over
self and the powers of darkness.
	After the meeting had adjourned we were in-
vited to visit the young ladies' bazar, in the
lower hall of the building. This bazar was all
composed of home-made, fancy and useful arti-
cles, made by the young women of the Mutual
Improvement Association of the Third Ward,
and the object was to get money to purchase
books for a society library. The president of 
this Association, Mrs. Amy Maddison, is a
most energetic and faithful worker in the ad-
vancement of all that pertains to the interest
and welfare of the young sisters. The articles
are good and many of them are very pretty.
These young ladies certainly deserve great credit
for their industry, and the young ladies in other
localities who have had better opportunities
might well imitate their example.
	Wednesday morning, the Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference commenced, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow pre-
siding. The platform was nearly filled with
officers from the several Young Ladies' Associa-

[Column 2]
tions in that Stake. And we are proud and
thankful to say these young women are most
earnestly devoting themselves to the higher
elevation of humanity, and ably working to
promote the interests of Christ's kingdom upon
the earth. The reports from branch Associa-
tions were indeed gratifying, and the secretary,
Miss Lydia Snow, reflected credit upon herself,
and dignified the position by the manner in
which she performed her special part, of the
exercises. After the reports had all been read,
the Stake President of the Y. L., Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, addressed the meeting in a very able
manner; she was followed by others, each and
all of them manifesting a spirit of obedience,
humility and nobility in strict keeping with the
Gospel and its divine teachings. The sisters
from Salt Lake also addressed the young ladies,
speaking upon culture of mind, manners and
heart, and dwelt much upon the deleterious ef-
fects of novel reading and light literature.
	Taken as a whole, the remarks of the young
ladies in that Conference far surpassed anything
we have ever heard from the young at any con-
ference; they were full of intelligence, and wis-
dom, and the spirit of improvement, and were
truly encouraging.
	The afternoon of the second day was devoted
to the Primary Associations, and after the re-
ports were read, the presidents reported verbally,
and many excellent things were said in the very
best spirit and manner. Mrs. Lizzie M. Felt,
who is counselor in the Primary Association of
the 11th Ward in this city, was present, and
was called upon to speak. She responded in a
very happy manner, and her remarks were in-
teresting and edifying to all. Several speeches
were made, which were both eloquent and
inspiring, and the Conference adjourned for
three months.
	At five o'clock the same evening about four
hundred children assembled at the Court House,
and this meeting was indeed a feast to all. These
conferences for the children are not only inspir-
ing to the little folks, but to all who are interested
in the future welfare of Israel.


[Column 1]
LETTER WRITING.

	Letter writing is spoken of frequently as an
"art" as an accomplishment and so forth, but
certain it is that a correspondence between per-
sons of intelligence and education is decidedly
beneficial as well as pleasurable. Most people
know how delightful it is to receive letters that
contain not only news,but ideas and sentiments
fresh from the heart's inner fountain no inter-
mingling with other peoples fancies but genuine
effusions thrown off at the point of the pen, in
an unaffected and simple style that goes direct
to the heart of the recipient of the favor. This
is a part of the education of the young that
should not be neglected,and it is something that
can be acquired with little expense, and by oc-
casional practise one may become quite an adept
in the art of letter writing. We do not wish to 
be understood as advising promiscuous corre-
spondence, far from it, but to be able to give
pleasure, comfort and consolation to those we
love when separated from them, by means of
epistles which will convey in the best manner
possible our true sentiments, is something des-
irable for all, who wish to do good and promote
other's happiness. The gift of conversation is
one which almost all desire, that they may con-
vey to others in a pleasing manner their thoughts
and make themselves thoroughly understood,
but less is thought of the efficiency and profi-
ciency of letter writing. "Well I shall seldom
have occasion to write letters and do not need any
preparation for that," is the general idea, but it

[Column 2]
should in my opinion form a part of every child's 
education.
	I have always thought it a good plan to inter-
mingle correspondence with compositions, that
is in selecting subjects for pupils, give them a
chance to write letters occasionally, either to
friends, or unknown persons, intended only to
be criticised, as other essays and compositions
are. This gives to the child an idea of correct-
ness of style in addressing persons, and of the
manner of expression also. Use the choicest
words, there are a great variety of words in our
language, and the very best should always be
selected. This is good discipline for the young.
	There are some things which should always be
carefully observed in letter writing. Always
write respectfully and so construct your sent-
ences as to make your true meaning, perfectly
clear. Respect for one's self as well as the per-
son addressed should always characterize a
letter, and such being the case no letter will be
carelessly worded. Simplicity of expression is
much more elegant, and, indicates greater re-
finement and culture than the more elaborate
forms of composing. Whatever the subject of
your letter preserve your own originality of
thought, and write as if you were speaking as
nearly as possible. Bear in mind too, that your
letter may perchance fall into other hands than
those of the person for whom it was written and
affect you and perhaps others to a greater, or
less extent for good or ill. There is one import-
ant thing which should be strictly observed by
all, and that is never to notice an anonymous
letter. The art of letter writing although one of 
the greatest blessings, is often subverted to most
wicked purposes. There is scarcely any blessing
we enjoy in this life, but has its "other side,"
and perhaps no accomplishment has ever been
productive of more evil than that of being able
to write fascinatingly.
	Letters are preserved for generations some-
times, in fact it is quite common to keep them
for years, and long after the hand that penned
the faded lines is cold in the silent tomb, they
are capable of bringing back tender remem-
berances,and calling up familiar scenes,and sweet
associations, and are thus silent messengers
coming back to us as it were to offer consolation
and revive our friendship for the loved ones
of "other days." Who is there in this age of ed-
ucational culture, who has not packed away
in some quiet corner a bundle, or two, or more
of old letters, that are worth more to the pes-
sessor than their weight in gold. Methinks
there are many of these precious letter parcels
tucked away here and there tied with a faded
ribbon, that the very sight,or touch of is sacred.
Jewels could not produce the sensation of hap-
piness, or so inspire the heart, as do these same
poor, silent treasures. Their worth cannot be
estimated. Then how particular we should be
in addressing our friends, never to wound by a
single word, or hint, for long afterwards it may
reawaken, evil or unpleasant feelings, which
might otherwise have sunk into oblivion. Let
us give all the comfort, all the pleasure we can,
through this prolific source of bestowing happi-
ness. To the young especially, I would say
 remember that through this channel of com-
munication, (letter-writing) you may do great
good to your friends, or even hand down your
name to the future.					AUNT EM.


SPEEDY AND SURE.—The Journal of Com-
merce, Boston, says; "As a speedy and sure
cure this (Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver
Cure) remedy is "Safe," and the cases wherein
it misses are those beyond the reach of human
relief."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		13


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY OF ONE OF
OUR OLDEST VETERANS.

	Thursday June 10th a few friends assembled
at the house of our old and long tried friend Sis-
ter Vienna Jacques to offer her congratulations
upon her arriving at her 94th natal day.
	A number of distinguished ladies intended
paying her their respects, but duty called them
elsewhere.

	The old lady's apparent lease of life and vigor
is remarkable still and bids fair to give us all the
rare privilege of beholding one having lived an
hundred years.

	The erectness of her carriage is sufficient to fill
many of the Misses of the nineteenth century
with envy. May she live as long as she desires,
and may the angel of the Lord preserve her from
all evil both seen and unseen is the prayer of all
her numerous friends.				R. B. P.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Sisters' Stake Conference in Tooele Count-
ty was held on Saturday and Sunday, June 12th
and 13th. Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, of Salt Lake
City, attended the meetings.

	Mesdames M. Isabella Horne and S. M. Hey-
wood visited South Jordan and several other
Wards in this county in the interest of sisters'
organizations, June 10th, 11th and 12th.

	WE have received newspaper notices in full
almost of the Convention of the N. W. S. A.
held in Indianapolis, Ind., May 26th and 27th,
but we cannot find room at present for more
than the resolutions adopted by the convention.

	THE Primary Hymn Book for the children,
edited by Eliza R. Snow Smith, is now in the
hands of the publishers. It will contain 128
pages, and will, it is expected, be sold so reason-
ably that all the children in the Territory can
have one.

	THE air is heavy laden with the breath of
June roses, fragrant honeysuckle and other deli-
cious perfumes. These with the charming sun-
sets, the clear sparkling rills, and other delight-
ful features of the scenery in this sequestered
vale in the "tops of the mountains," gladden the
heart and refresh the soul.

	WHO is to be b e the next President of the
United States? is the popular question now agi-
tating the public mind. The nomination of
General Garfield by the Republican party has
taken the people by surprise, so also, perchance,
may the nomination of the Democratic candi-
date. There are many surprising as well as won-
derful things happening nowadays, and none can
tell what a day may bring forth.


WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its annual meeting May 26th and 27th, ac-
cording to appointment, in Indianapolis, Indiana.
In absence of the President, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Vice-President-at-large presided. The
ladies were earnest in their work and system-
atic in the manner of conducting the business of
the convention.
	Mrs. Gage, chairman of committee on resolu-
tions, reported the following platform and reso-
lutions:
	The National Woman Suffrage Association is
an organization with the special object of secur-
ing national protection for women citizens in the
exercise of the right of suffrage. It recognizes
the fact that our government was framed on the
political basis of the consent of the governed as
the security of all rights, and that the Declara-
tion of Independence struck a blow at every ex-
isting form of government, by declaring the in-
dividual to be the source of all power, upon
which newly proclaimed truth .. our nation rose.
The members of this association, outside of our
great question, hold diverse political beliefs and
affiliations, but for the purpose of gaining their
great right to the ballot, its members hold their
party predilections in abeyance; therefore,
Resolved, That in this year of presidential
nominations and political campaigns, we an-
nounce our determination to support no party by
whatever name called, unless such party shall
in its platfo[-]m first, emphatically endorse; and
W[-]ERE[-]S, Self-government carries - with it
the right to examine and control all great re-

[Column 2]
formatory and governmental questions as shown
in the United States, by the use of the ballot,
which has raised us in influence and power to
the first rank as a nation, and rendered us the
hope of all oppressed, down-trodden people of the
earth; broadening and developing all grades of
native and foreign born men, in whose hand the
ballot has been placed; and
	WHEREAS, The interests and welfare of both
men and women in all the relations of life are
identical, and whatever affects one class, for
either good or evil, also affects the other in the
same manner and in the same proportion; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That what the ballot has done for
man, native and foreign-born, it is equally capa-
ble of doing for woman, and we demand it as a
means of self-culture as well as a security for
our inherent rights of self-government.
	WHEREAS, The era of force is rapidly giving
way to the era of intellectual and moral power,
as shown in the substitution of arbitration for
war; in the proposed disarmament of Europe; in
the great industrial expositions of various coun-
tries, which bring the people of different nations
into acquaintance and harmony; in the spread of
commerce touching every distant and savage
tribe; in the explorations which leave no part of
the globe untrod; in the rapid strides of the rail-
road and telegraph; in the advance of science;
in the general diffusion of knowledge; and
	WHEREAS, The opinions of women are power-
ful upon these questions; and
	WHEREAS, The Woman Suffrage movement
does not arise from personal grievances, but is a
question of human right in exact union with the
announced principles of our government; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That we demand the practical appli-
cation of those principles to the women citizens
of the nation, who not only compose one-half of
the people, but who are acknowledged to pre-
eminently carry with them the great moral
forces which are now so rapidly coming to gov-
ern the world; thus securing responsible recog-
nition of woman's opinions upon all the great
questions which rise for discussion and settle-
ment.
	Resolved, That the present stage of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement is practical, and the
duty of Woman is to take the position and as-
sume the responsibility of citizenship as far as is
possible
	Resolved, That republican government depends
for stability upon the full representation and en-
lightenment of all citizens, and the people, wo-
men as well as men, can safely be trusted to re-
present themselves.
	Resolved, That we hail with delight the ad-
vance of public sentiment among all classes in
favor of Woman's enfranchisement, and es-
pecially do we view with profound thankfulness
the growing conviction in the minds of "Chris-
tian temperance women" of their need of the
ballot, and of the duty and responsibility rest-
ing upon them to labor for its possession in
order that they may more effectively work for
those reforms in legislation which so vitally
concerns the welfare of their homes, and of so-
ciety.
	Elizabeth Boynton Harbert, of the Chicago
Inter-Ocean recited her poem entitled, "The
Coming Man." Addresses were made by
Mesdames Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Lillie Devereux Blake, Miss Mary
B. Clay and Mrs. E. L. Saxon.
	The following resolutions were also presented
on the second day:
	Resolved, That human rights are inherent in
human nature, and the inalienable right to life
and liberty can never be rightfully surrendered
to majorities, in despotisms, nor in republics, nor
dependent on the will of any government. And
so freedom is not less a duty and obligation than
a right.
	Resolved, That the right to see comes with
the eye and the sight; as the right to breathe
with the lungs and the air, and the right to lib-
erty is no less divinely guaranteed to every
human being possessing the qualities and attri-
butes necessary to constitute an intelligent,
moral and responsible being.
	Resolved, That no man was ever born with
three ballots in his hand—one for himself as a
birthright, the other to be given, as a boon, to
his wife or daughter, or withheld as his caprice,
convenience, or despotic choice might dictate.

[Column 3]
And any such claim by man, or a government
of men, is highhanded robbery to be resisted at
whatever cost.
	Resolved, That taxation without representa-
tion is no less tyranny to-day than a hundred
years ago; is even more tyrannical when im-
posed on women than it could have been when
suffered at the hand of a distant and despotic
government of our revolutionary ancestors.
	Resolved, That while the women of Massa-
chusetts are favored by careful computation, to
be paying annually one-eleventh part of all the
taxes imposed on that Commonwealth, and the 
women of Connecticut nearly if not quite the
same, we can but approve and admire the devo-
tion to principle of Abby Kelly Foster, of the
former, and Julia and Abby Smith, of the lat-
ter State, for refusing voluntary payment of
such cruelly and unjustly levied impositions,
though always at great pecuniary sacrifice and
loss. Nor can any reason be given why. Had
they a General Lafayette to come to the rescue,
as to the aid of George Washington in the war
of 1775, their own homesteads should not be
made the Lexington and Bunker hill of another
revolution, the most righteous war recorded in
the history of the human race.
	Resolved, That the rapid advance in public
sentiment and State legislation, upon the rights
of women, and the respect shown by Congress,
indicate that our demands are in harmony, with
the spirit of the age, and that the political party
that opposes the civil and political equality of
women will have a brief lease of power.
	Resolved, That granting to women the right
of Suffrage in so many states and municipalities
on questions of education, and the means and
methods for suppressing the frightful evils of in-
temperance, has forever answered all questions,
principles or expediency as to Woman's fitness
and capability to exercise that right; and we
hold it as most undeniable that if Woman
shonld be permitted to vote for laws to protect
her sons from drunkenness, she should have
equal voice in legislation to preserve her daugh-
ters from those dreadful dangers to which they
are every day becoming more and more ex-
posed through the unbridled and insatiable lust
of men. Nor has the law-making power to-day
one single valid reason to urge w[--]y women
should not be permitted to exercise all the
rights, and assume at once all the responsib-
ities of equal citizenship.
	Resolved, That the thanks of this association
are hereby tendered to the Republican party in
Congress, for requesting the national committee
to provide seventy-six seats for women delegates
in the Chicago presidential convention.
	And our thanks are especially due to Hon.
Thomas W. Ferry, of the Sentate, and to Hon.
Edwin Willetts, of the House of Representa-
tives, for advocating this provision for women.
	Resolved, That we are a nation and not a con-
federacy of states; that we are all citizens first of
the United States, and second of the States
wherein we reside. Hence the right of self-
government should be guaranteed by the nation-
al constitution to all citizens, and should be
protected by the ballot everywhere under our
flag.
	Whereas, The women of the land, defrauded
of their earnings and of their personal liberty,
can not educate the 20,000,000 of men concern-
ing their rights as citizens; and
	Whereas, Whenever State legislatures have
submitted our rights to the rank, and file of the
men of a State, the solid liquor interest and the
kindred forces combine to defeat us; and
	Whereas, To enfranchise the women of one
State does not establish woman's rights as a
United States citizen to vote; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress to
submit to the legislatures of the several States
an amendment to the national constitution,
securing women citizens the right of suffrage.
	Whereas, A nation's chief wealth does not con-
sist alone in its material resources, but also its
love of justice, and its desire to secure equality of 
opportunity and rights to all; therefore,
	Resolved, That corruption in politics, the
decline of patriotism, the lack of justice and the
prevalence of sentiment of disloyalty, which now
endangers the life of the republic are traceable
to withholding from women all participation in
the affairs of government, and since the child
is influenced by the condition of the mother and
its first training comes from her, therefore wo-
man's absolute freedom from all restraint upon
her powers, as well as her endowment with all
the rights of citizenship, is not only imperative-
ly necessary for the perpetuation of our free in-
stitutions, but for the securing of a higher type
of humanity.


14		WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	A brief report of Portage Relief Society, Box
Elder County. We held our annual meeting on
the 15th of May. The following officers were
elected and unanimously sustained: Mrs. Lu-
cinda Hoskin, President; Mrs. Julia A. Gibbs
and Mrs. Margaret John, Counselors; Jane H.
John, Secretary; Eliza A. Hall, Asst. Sec'y;
Jane Hall, Treasurer. There are about forty
members enrolled, we meet every two weeks
and enjoy a goodly portion of the Spirit of the
Lord. Our society is in a flourishing condition,
our meetings are well attended and we are often
blest with the encouraging remarks of our worthy
Bishop, O. C. Hoskin and his assistants, and we
feel like doing all in our power to held build up
the Kingdom of God. The sisters of our Society
are trying to carry out the counsel of the autho-
rities of the Church in storing grain, for we
know it will be our salvation in days to come.
Our crops for the last two or three years have
been cut off by frost, grasshoppers and crickets,
and it is rather a hard matter to lay up grain
where there is none, but we intend to try, try
again; and hope in time to succeed. The breth-
ren are now at work on a water ditch, which,
when completed, will be a great benefit to this
settlement, as water is very scarce in this part of
the valley. We have a week day and Sunday
School, a Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association. We are also
called upon to donate means to assist in build-
ing the Temple in Logan, and it is our desire to
re[-]pond to every call made by the servants of the
Lord. In conclusion, I will say that the Expo-
nent is an ever welcome visitor and is highly ap-
preciated; we read it in our meetings and are
greatly benefitted by its valuable instructions.
May God bless the noble women that spend their
time and talents in helping to roll forth this
mighty work, is the prayer of
			Your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZA A. HALL, Sec'y.

BEAVER.

	The first Ladies conference of the Beaver
Stake of Zion convened at Beaver in the meet-
ing house, May 14th, 1880. Present on the
stand were the several presidents and counselors
of the several branches of this Stake President
Lucinda Houd presided over the Conference.
President John Ashworth and several other
brethren met with the sisters and manifested a
liberal disposition to aid the ladies in their good
work.
	Reports of the different branches were handed
in. The societies of the Y. L. M. I. were well
represented, as also was the Primary Associa-
tion of the Beaver Branches. Two days were
spent by the sisters in this interesting capacity.
	Statistical and financial report of Beaver
Stake for the year ending May 14th, 1880. Mem-
bers, total, 207; real estate, $2,822.50; capital
stock in co-op. store, $100; wheat loaned out,
274 bushels; disbursements to the poor, $30.80.
			FLORA S. HILL, Stake Secretary.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY REPORTS.

	The first annual meeting of the Primary As-
sociation of Samaria was held Thursday evening,
May 6th, 1880. A large audience convened—
several of the Priesthood of the ward were
among the number. The evening entertain-
ment consisted of songs, recitations and dia-
logues. Six of the little ones, under ten years
of age, gave a very nice dialogue on Spring, four
others gave a dialogue entitled, "The Bound
Girl," and one little girl, eight years old read
the chapter from the New Testament, which
speaks of the widow's mite, and, although the
house was crowded every word was distinctly
heard to the other end of the room. We have
also made a commencement in the straw busi-
ness and several of the little girls have learned
to braid straw and they wear hats braided by
their own hands, and I am happy to say that
several of the children have taken Sister Eliza
Snow's counsel—when they had five cents
given them they have put it into the Association
and by that means have raised enough to buy
blocks for the straw they braid. they are
anxious to attend their meetings, and when I
am unable to attend through sickness, the old-
est of the little girls will carry on the meeting,
and feels glad to do so, and when the minutes of
that meeting have been read I have been truly
gratified to hear them. I often look back to the
time they were organized and feel grateful to

[Column 2]
my Heavenly Father for the progress they have
made. It is true it seems slow work with the
little ones while laboring with them, but I feel
thankful to the Lord for the assistance of his
Holy Spirit enabling us to persevere in this
great work, realizing the time will come when
these little ones will stand forth battling for
truth against error; then will their petitions as-
cend to God our Heavenly Father for blessings
upon those that organized them and those who
have labored with them, teaching them the
laws of God, preserving them from wolves in
sheeps' clothing who seek to draw the young
from the fold, and who try to bring destruction
upon the people of God. To mothers I would
say, encourage your little ones to attend their
meetings, attending them also yourselves; do
not think it too much trouble, they will repay
you in the future, becoming bright and shining
lights, crowned with immortality and eternal
lives: may our Heavenly Father bless all that
labor with the young and rising generation is
the prayer of your co-laborer,
							AMY DAVIS.

RICHMOND.

	Yearly report of the Primary Association of
Richmond, beginning June 1st, 1879, and ending
June 1st, 1880: Received in donations from mem-
bers, $3.90; Received January 1st, 1880, on pro-
ceeds of Primary dance, $9.00. Disbursements:
Paper and pencil, 20c.; Paper, 20c.; Candy for
children, $2.35; To poor, $3.50; Cards for mem-
bers. $3.15; Total amount received, $12.90; Total
amound disbursed, $9.40; Remaining in treasury,
$3.50. Our yearly concert was well attended
and a good spirit prevailed. The children enter-
tained us with a choice selection of songs, reci-
tations and dialogues, which were weli prepared
for the occasion. I must make mention of two
little boys of Brother Monson's, one six and the
other seven years of age, who sang "Our lovely
Deseret," with such earnestness that they were
highly applauded. President Brown sang a
song composed for the occasion on "Brigham
Young pioneering the Saints to the West."
Brother A. C. Brower made very instructive re-
marks to the children, and also Brother Gibbs
gave us some good advice. Brother Whitehead,
our organist, was in attendance, and we had a
general good time. "Closed with singing, "Al.
ways Cheerful." Prayer by President H. Brow-
er. H. Brower, President; M. Monson, Vice-
President; M. W. Thompson and E. Jarvis,
Counselors.				M. A. WEBB, Secretary.

	The Primary Association of East Bountiful,
held their first Annual Meeting in the Taber-
nacle, April 19th, 1880. There were present,
President Anson Call, Counselor William Thur-
good, William Muir and several more of the
brethren. Sister E. R. Snow and others were
expected but did not come, which was a great
disappointment. There were quite a number
present. We had recitations and singing from
the children, also some very good instructions
from President Call, Counselor Thurgood and
William Muir.
	The President of the Association made some
very appropriate remarks; after the close of the
meeting, there were presents distributed among
the children to the amount of $27,30, consisting
of 38 Diamond Dictionaries, two Child's Natural
Histories, twelve of George Q. Cannon's "First
Mission" and other books and cards for the
smaller children.
	About six weeks ago,some of the larger children
of the Association got up a surprise party, and
went to President Ann Dustan's and presented
her with a set of glass dishes, as a token of re-
spect; also, three pairs of dishes to the Counsel-
ors and Secretary.
	The children seem to be progressing very well.
Many of the children manifest a willingness,
when called upon, to speak or dismiss meetings.
						OLIVE C. SESSIONS.


[Column 1]
A STORM IN THE MEDITERRANEAN.

[In the very region of St. Paul's shipwreck.]

	The following is an extract from a letter re-
ceived by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city,
from her sister, a missionary in Palestine,
in charge of the Episcopalian Orphanage at
Nazareth—

	Sunday, Sept. 21, 1879.—Mrs. G. and I had
been early to bed the previous evening, with a
view to being also early to rise, as the sailors had
told us we might expect to pass Messina about 6

[Column 2]
o'clock the next morning, and had planned such
nice readings and talks; the glorious weather we
had all the way from Marseilles having led us to
forget two important factors in our reckoning;
now if we make any plan we are careful to say
wind and weather permitting. The view when
we went on to the upper deck was magnificent.
The rocky coasts of Italy and Sicily on either
hand. I read the Litany, Psalms, etc., for the
day to Mrs. G., but there was a heavy ground
swell on, and we thought we had better find a
more comfortable seat than the one we had been
occupying. Mrs. G. went down to the cabin for
something she required, but did not return, and
by the time I had begun to wonder at her long
absence, I found it more prudent to remain
quiet myself. I had not been ill all the
way and did not wish to run any risk.
The wind increased continually and the
heavy clouds ahead of us soon burst in
sharp showers; while thunder was heard in the
distance. The storm raged fiercer; suddenly we
seemed to be enveloped in hissing, crackling
flames and roaring sound. Every one sprang
up and looked first at each other and then
round at the vessel. There seemed to be great
commotion among the sailors, a number of them
rushed to one particular spot and one whispered
to me under his breath, "la pondre." The en-
gines now stopped while the vessel was being
examined and as no injury was found anywhere
it was concluded that the electric current had
been diverted into the sea, though even the
Captian said he could not be sure it had not
passed by the conductor attached to the mast.
Before this announcement was made I went
down to the saloon to look for Mrs. G. whom I
found in her favorite corner not much alarmed,
having only heard a tremendous clap of thun-
der. I stayed with her a little while and then
went back to the upper deck. There the French
Dr. attached to the ship came and congratulated
me on my courage, which gave me an opportu-
nity of commencing a conversation with him that
lasted nearly two hours. He confessed
to being totally ignorant in matters
of religion, but promised to read anything that
I gave him. I soon found that he was a red-hot
Democrat. I wished I had had a French Bible,
but fortunately I found the Gospel of St.
Matthew and a little tract in French. I said to
the Doctor, I hoped the storm was over. "No,
madame," he replied, "it has not yet commenc-
ed." At this time the sun shining brilliantly,
the sea was a more exquisite blue than it had
been even at Naples; any ultramarine ever put
on canvass would be only a mockery of it. Soon
there followed a lurid calm, sweltering, suffocat-
ing heat, and how I longed for one breath of the
winds of God. They came indeed before long in
fitful gusts at first, but later on, in terrible fury.
The roof of the saloon forms the upper deck
which is covered in fair weather by an awning.
When the sailors came to take this in we knew
what to expect, and the steward advised us to
descend if we did not wish to be drenched. In
the saloon we found Mrs. Zunacool, a Greek
lady, and her little girl in a state of extreme
terror on account of the light which was flash-
ing incessantly all around us on the horizon. As
the Captain passed the door, madame begged
him to come in and reassure the child. He said
the weather would not be worse than it was
then, but I think I should have known from his
manner that this was false even if experience
had not taught me that sailors, like doctors,
think it their duty to suppress unpleasant truths.
As the darknes gathered the lightning became
more vivid. For some time the wind had been
shifting to all points of the compass, driving up
the clouds all around us, when we were thor-
oughly enveloped it settled behind us, and for
six hours pursued our now little shivering
vessel like a lurid, stinging flame. When I
speak of incessant lightning I mean incessant,
for it was only about every three or five minutes
that there was sufficient interval between the
flashes to show the blackness of darkness that
reigned in their absence. Sometimes the light
was mauve, sometimes greenish, producing most
magnificent effects on the white foaming waves.
Suddenly it seemed as if we were surrounded by
by batteries of artillery all concentrating their
fire upon us, and the bullets rattling and crash-
ing all around us but especially on the roof of the
saloon. It was no use asking what was the
matter, for no voice could be heard. I went to
the door and met a gentleman entering with a
hailstone in his hand, a solid cube of ice, at
least 1½ inches every way. Later on the second
officer brought in some the size of an ordinary
egg. Till now I had not seen one [--] the flashes of
lightning and it was a sight neve[-] to be forgot-


[Column 1]
ten. I can compare them to nothing but quiv-
ering cataracts of molten fire poured from the
clouds into the sea. As there was nothing to
cause reverberation the thunder was not extra-
ordinary, but we knew that every single clap
meant one of the fiery cataracts descending on
one or the other side of us. There was one gen-
tleman in a state of the most abject terror, and
when complimented by some of the other pas-
sengers on my courage I was glad to be able to
bear testimony to the power that was keep-
ing me not only safe but calm; we remained
up stairs until the saloon was closed for the
night, about 11 o'clock, but though the storm
had somewhat abated, there was no chance of
sleeping, for the fog signals were shrieking and
roaring every few minutes. Imagine if you can
with what feeling we read the psalm for the
day (107th.) "They that go down to the sea in
ships," etc. "These see the works of the Lord
and his wonders in the deep."
	How often I had pictured to myself our arrival
in the "Morning Land," and how sure I felt all
the time, that the reality would be something
quite different from any of my pictures, and so
it was.
	The Austrian Lloyd's steamer Oreste, in which
we embarked at Port Said, contrasted most em-
phatically with La Leyne of the Messageries, at
sea or at anchor, she was equally unpleasant, and
poor Mrs. Gilbert was ill from the first and all
the time. I, though not actually ill, never felt
sufficiently at ease for sketching, hardly for
reading. At Jaffa, where we touched early on
Monday 6th, a whole colony of Germans came
on board, and made a genuine picnic on the
deck, conspicuous among them a bridal pair
whom we afterwards found to be Dr. Schmidt
(British Consut at Halifax) and his bride, re-
turning from the wedding. Both then and
since Dr. Schmidt has been extremely kind and
useful, especially in getting my packing cases
through the custom house. I wish I could give
you any idea of the scene at the moment
when the invading army of Arabs
that swarm around a vessel arriving in
port are permitted to swoop upon the prey, the
unlucky passengers. They come round about you
like bees, not being allowed in the saloon or the
cabins, they stand at the door craning their long
brown necks inside, and jabber and yell and
stretch out their long lean arms and clutch at
you with their skinny fingers. How thankful
we were on arriving at Haifa about sunset to
learn from Yusuf Souidan, the agent, who came
on board, that Mr. Bellamy and Mr. Huber were
waiting for us on the shore, and to be put in
charge of Mr. Duck, a German gentleman, so
that we were not left at the mercy of those
frantic Arabs.
	It is their pleasing practice when they have you
safe in the small boat and half way between the
steamer and the land to cease from rowing and
refuse to proceed till you give or promise an ex-
orbitant "backsheesh." Poor Mrs. Gilbert, who
had left the steamer in a partially limp and bat-
tered condition, was now almost fainting and
would heve been an easy prey, but Mr. Duck of
course would not stand any nonsense. He was
telling me that we could only reach the land by
being carried on the back of an Arab, when we
found ourselves aground in the surf, and again
surrounded by swarms of yelling Arabs. I
was trying to explain the situation to
Mrs. G. when we saw Mr. Duck go over the side
and had only time to remark that his figure as
he disappeared in the darkness was not digni-
fied, when we also were seized by long brown
arms, and invited to "Get on my back Missus."
So over we went, and I had not thought much
about anything but keeping my toes out of the
water, when I was deposited on terra firma,
and a cheery voice enquired out of the darkness,
"Is that Mrs. Gilbert or Miss Brook?" Having
proclaimed my identity, I was most warmly
welcomed by Mr. Bellamy and then by Mr.
Huber, and then we turned to look, or rather
feel for Mrs. Gilbert, and soon we were jolting
off to the hotel of the German Colony in a wagon
of primitive construction. How thankful we
were to sink down, at last, in a fresh, clean bed,
and how little we cared that the floor of our
room was of pebbles and flints, and the appoint-
ments of the plainest and roughest. Everything
that night was German, and not till the morn-
ing did we realize the "Morning Land," when
we looked out on Carmel, with its monastery,
and the sweep of the Bay of Aere, with its white
houses and fringe of palm trees on the blue Me-
diterranean, with its white winged vessels gleam-
ing in the radiant sunshine, and over all the
dazzling Syrian blue. Mrs. G. made a sketch of

[Column 2]
it all, after breakfast while I was finish-
ing my letters for the mail. We intended
to start at 10 a.m. but did not get fairly off till
an hour later, a delay which we had reason to
regret at the end of the journey. The one ve-
hicle of Haifa, which has any features of a car-
riage, had been secured for us and the wagon
for our luggage. Our mounted escort consisted
of Mr. Huber, Mr. Bellany and the Houri
Jerins, the native C. M. S. clergyman from
Mujadel who had ridden in some fifteen miles to
greet us. The one decent road in the country is
that made by the German's of the colony from
Haifa to Nazareth but one does not duly esti-
mate its superiority till after trying a few of
the other roads. To us it seemed more like a
track through an illimitable stone quarry than a
road. Quitting the shores of the Great Sea we
found the region increasingly wild, stony and
barren. The Kishon at this time of the year is
merely a trickling stream and after crossing it
we went on for miles over the sandy, stony,
burning plain, passing here and there a few
goats or oxen grazing on the bare sand as it
seemed, for we could not perceive a blade of
grass anywhere. Not a cloud in all the
expanse of blue, and the sun shining
in his strength. With what force the
words of the prophet came to our minds, "The
shadows of a great rock in a weary land" as we
looked at the deep blue shadow away on the
sides of the Carmel range. We did not feel the
heat as much as we should have done but for
our experience in Cairo and the Desert.
	After about two hours on the plain we reached
the oak forest, which was very disappointing.
The Arabs from far and near have all these cen-
turies been cutting at it for firewood, and as the
idea of planting young trees to take the place of
the old ones has never entered their heads, it is
not surprising that it did not come up to our idea
of a forest. Under the half way oak, one of the
largest of the trees, we dismounted, the horses
were unharnessed and taken into the shade with
their nose bags, and Mr. Huber refreshed us
with bread and cheese, grapes and impromptu
lemonade. Here it was that a young English
gentleman named Gale, who had rashly set out
to walk to Haifa by himself, was murdered
about two years ago, and his remains only found
when search was made on his being missed, a
fortnight later. "Here is my friend" he said,
when taking leave of Miss Tanner; show-
ing a splendid revolver, and for the sake
of this "friend," it is believed that
he was killed, stunned first by a blow from
behind while he was resting under the tree.
	When we were again en route, the Houri rode
forward to prepare his wife for our approach, and
she, having first ordered her house for visitors,
mounted her husband's horse and came out
about half a mile to meet and welcome us.
Leaving the horse with an attendant, she
mounted to the seat between us on the carriage
and kissed us on both cheeks. It was a some-
what embarassing interview, as after the first
exchange of courtesies, our intercourse was
limited to smiles and nods, and I was glad when
we alighted at Mujadel. The place and our recep-
tion there I must describe in full

THE ORPHANAGE.

	Nazareth, Oct. 27, Thermometer, in my room
75, in the sun 100.
	The illustration in Farrer's "Life of Christ,"
"Nazareth from the southwest," gives a good
idea of the situation of this fine building which
is often called the palace and such it is by com-
parison with anything to be seen in this part of
the Holy Land. From the delightful balcony,
on to which the large hall opens, we have a
view which I imagine is hardly to be equalled,
and we often watch a few moments at sunrise,
sunset, moon or starlight as well as during the
"all golden" days and feast upon it. There lies
the town with its flat white roofs surrounded by
its amphitheatre of hills. Beyond the hills south-
ward stretches the plain of Esdradon, bounded
by the hills of Samaria, and eastward a succes-
sion of hills, then the Jordan Valley, and then
again the hills of Gilead and Moab distinctly
visible through the "diaphanous air." It is all
lovely even now when the slopes are parched
and brown, what would it be in early spring?
Come back to the house and let me show you
the large lofty apartments, the immense hall
in the centre of the building intended as a din-
ing hall, when the funds shall allow of the
place being filled, the dormitories with their
long rows of little white beds. On the other
our bed-rooms and sitting-rooms, all with mar-
ble floors and all spotlessly clean; cleanliness

[Column 3]
and order are the Lares and Penates of the in-
stitution and a grand lesson it is for these Arabs
whose life is passed in indescribable dirt and
disorder, to show them over the place. There
is room for 100 girls but only beds for 35. If any
one would like to do a real kindness let them
them send us £12 for a bed a year for three
years and we shall be able to take in one of the
fifty poor little creatures for whom application
has been made, or if they cannot do so much the
£2 for an additional bed. It is a sight for "sair cen"
to see the procession of 36 brownies in their
pink print frocks and white muslin veils wend-
ing down the narrow, steep, dirty, stony streets
of Nazareth on their way to church, and a sad
contrast to look at the swarms of grinning, rag-
ged little street Arabs who stand back against
the walls to watch them pass. These 36 girls,
ranging from 4 to 16 years of age, are taught to
read and write and are made thoroughly ac-
quainted with the Scriptures. Those who have
sufficient ability are taught English and trained
as teachers. There are only two servants.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE

Dear Editor:
	On Thursday, June 3d, we started on a tour
through Southern Utah. As steam carried us
swiftly along, the soul felt to exclaim, in the
language of the great Morse, "What hath God
wrought." The long and weary miles that were
once traveled so tediously, are now skimmed
over as lightly and pleasantly as the little bird
flits through the air.
	To a lover of the beautiful, how grandly sub-
lime are these dear old mountains. As the eye
feasted upon the beauteous panorama of hill and
dale and snow-capped peak, and e'en the wide
expanse of blue above, that methinks Italian
skies could not excel—I thanked God for living
in a land so lavishly dowered with nature's
charms. Passing around the mountain's point,
where in early days we feared and trembled
with the pitching to and fro of the old wagon, we
beheld the placid waters of Utah Lake, still ever
the same and unchanged, on whose shores our
childish feet had made imprints in the shining,
shifting sands, and our nimble fingers gathered
the romantic shells. Passing still on and glanc-
ing to the left, what memories flooded the heart at
sight of the hills that rose before us like old fa-
miliar friends, not a hill we have not climbed,
not a crag nor a cliff we had not scaled, nor
a dale we left unscanned for the dainty violet,
the wild honey suckle, and the sweetest and
fairest of flowers—the Lily of the Valley. To-
day other feet tread the same paths, other hands
cull the lovely flowers, while we, thronged
with life’s cares and burdens, scarce have
time for pleasant retrospection.
	How soon do we pass from the free and joyous
days of youth—those days fraught with happi-
ness and bright anticipation to the cold, stern and
sometimes withering realities of life. But even
though experience teaches us that life is a pro-
bation, wherein we must learn to endure, over-
come, and suffer and make ourselves perfect
through suffering, we still cling to it tenaciously.
	At 10 a. m. we reached Provo, stepping from
from the cars we soon found a conveyance which
took us to the door of our esteemed friend, "Ma
Smoot," who although a comparative stranger,
greeted us kindly. Where on earth do we find
that sympathy and cordiality on meeting each
other for the first time that we do among Saints.
We feel a kindred tie that binds the heart at
once. She was just off for fast meeting, so we
accompanied her. And felt well, as we ever do,
in listening to inspired teaching.
	In the afternoon the Relief Societies of the
four wards met in their respective School-houses.
I attended that of the 1st Ward, while “Ma
Smoot” and Father Graves (the friend of wo-
man) drove around to the different wards to no-
tify them of our lecture in the evening. The
word was well circulated, consequently a good
audience. At the close of this public lecture to
both ladies and gentlemen, I announced my in-
tention of forming a class for a series of private
lectures for the ladies. The idea met with ap-
proval, and quite a number accordingly met
me on Friday afternoon at the B. Y. Academy,
several of the students of this institution joining
the class.	
	Saturday afternoon attended an entertainment
given by the Primary Association of the 1st
Ward. The exercises were very credit-
able, both to the children and their
President. At the close a rich repast


was served to all, the little folks here having the
preference. The Bishop remarked these things
are to encourage the children, let them be wait-
ed on first. We liked the idea; children should
not be made to feel they are of no importance, it
lessens their dignity and self-respect.
	At 5 p.m., gave the last lecture of the series,
which met with general satisfaction and appre-
ciation.
	A prominent physician lately remarked, "The
women of Utah are the most ignorant upon their
own physical organization of any class I have
ever met." In the past, it is true, we have not
enjoyed those facilities for this higher and very
desirable education possessed by the older east-
ern cities, endowed as they are with their hos-
pitals, collages and houses of learning, yet we
feel and know we have here talent and ability,
and all that is needed is the opportunity where-
by it may be developed. As we grow wiser
both in theory and experience we come to realize
there is nothing that will better secure useful-
ness, and as a result of that usefulness- happi-
ness- than health; and in order that we should
possess health, we must understand and prac-
tice the great physical laws that govern these
mortal beings. Feeling the great need of this
knowledge among women, I have, for some time
past been engaged in the pleasing task of teach-
ing and inculcating these truths by a series of
lectures. I feel ambitious for the women of
Utah. I would wish them to be the best, purest
and noblest, the wisest and most thoroughly
educated of any women on earth, and for their
emancipation from ignorance and tradition I am
willing to work earnestly and energetically.
	Ever feeling interested in woman's cause,
which you, with voice and pen, so nobly advo-
cate, I will say adieu for the present.
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D.


16		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRONUNCIATION OF ENGLISH NAMES

	A recent work published by F. Warne & Co.,
London, entitled, "The Manners and Tone of 
Good Society," has a chapter on the pronuncia-
tion of the proper names and titles of the Eng-
lish aristocracy, which will be of peculiar service
to those who are much given to the reading of
of English history or English novels. The fol-
lowing condensation of the examples furnished
by the author are given herewith—Such are
Cholmondeley, pronounced Chumley; Majori-
banks, pronounced Marshbanks; Cockburn, pro-
nounced Coburn; and Cowper, pronounced Coo-
per, Again, Mainwaring is Mannering; McLeod
is McCloud. In Elgin and Gillott the "g" is
hard; in Gifford and Nigel it is soft; in John-
stone the "t" should not be sounded. In Moly-
neux the "x" is sounded, and the name is pro-
nounced Molynoox, with a very slight accent on
the last syllable. In Vaux the "x" is also sound-
ed, but it is mute in Des Vaux and likewise in
Devereux. In Ker, Berkeley, and Derby, the
"e" has the sound of "a" in far. In Waldegrave,
the second syllable, "de," should be dropped.
and so should th&nbsp;"th" in Blyth. Dillwyn is
Dillun, and Lyveden—Livden. In Conyngham,
Monson, Monkton and Ponsonby, the "o" takes
the sound of "u," and Blount should be
pronounced as Blunt, the "o" being
mute. Buchan should be pronounced Buckan,
and Beauclerk or Beauclerc is Boclare, the ac-
cent being on the first syllable, Wemyses
should be pronounced Weims, and D'Eresby—
D'Ersby. In Montgomerie the "t" is elided and
the two "p's" have the the sound of "u" the ac-
cent being on the second syllable. In Hertford
the "t" is elided and the "e" has the sound of
"a" in far. Strachan should be pronounced
Strawn; Colquehoun is Koohoon, the accent be-
ing on the last syllable; Beauchamp is Beacham,
and Coutts is Koots. Another formidable name
to the uninitiated is Duchesne, which should 
be pronounced Dukarn; Bethune should be
Beeton; and in Abergavenny the "av" is not
sounded. Menzies is pronounced Mynges; Knol-
lys as Knowls; Sandys as Sands; Gower as Gorr,
Milnes as Mills. Finally, Dalziel should be pro-
nounced Deeall, with the accent on the first
syllable; Chartres is Charters; Glamis is Glarms;
Geoghegan should be pronounced Gaygan, and
Ruthven is Riven. We may add that the ac-
cent is frequently misplaced in pronouncing
British proper names, and a few of the words
liable to mistake may be here noted. In Tadema
and Millais, the accent is on the first syllable:
in Clanricarde and Breadalbane, on the second;
while in Burnett, Bardett, Kennaird, Parnell
and Tremayne, the last syllable is accented.—
Transcript.


FAULT FINDING

		     BY JULIA SPENCER

	This is one of the greatest of evils. One begins
before they are aware saying something about
their neighbors, or some unfortunate person,
that has strayed from the path of duty, or who
has taken some wrong step that excites the pub-
lic mind. We are all apt to take such a subject
for our topic to talk about at some bee, or social
gathering, and thus give vent to what we think,
meaning no harm, and little thinking how much
harm will be the result. One commences and 
tells what she knows or has heard; it soon
spreads through the crowd. Each has some
story, or a fault to add,so they get the faults and
wrongs picked out of a person's character, and
portray them in such glaring colors, that if a
stranger to the said person happened to be pres-
ent, he would readily come to the conclusion
that that person had never done a good deed in
all his life; for truly, I have never heard of .a
person, he or she, who was past forgiveness.
When faults, mistakes, wrongs, and evil deeds
are all put in one heap, some truth and some
fiction, and then spread before our eyes in the
blackest dyes, no good can we discern.
	Now, my dear sisters, stop! How wonld we
like our faults arrayed in such a manner? for
none can deny having them, for none of us are
perfect. Supposing we take the good deeds of
the person for our topic and portray them in just
as bright colors as we have the faults, and when
we have finished, O, what a contrast! The
good outshines the evil, so that it lessens the
magnitude of faults until it looks like a speck in
the ocean, The view of this person’s character
is greatly changed. If we would take this course,
we would see more beauty in human nature
and make a better record for ourselve; and we
would be a more happy and peaceable commu-
nity.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFT TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Roghester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST
[image of dentures to left]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Fraunels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarn,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.
[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[---] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high [--]s self-
setting and self threading hu[--]le, and absence of springs
and [---] [---] both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. [-]. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1880.		No. 3.


OFFENCES VERSUS TRUTH.

	"Thy Word is Truth."—Jesus.
	"It must needs be that offenses come but wo, to him
by whom they come"

While facts are true, we needs must rue—
	That oft they are offensive;
But Truth—the Eternal word of God—
	Is pure, as comprehensive.
His Truth is pure, it must endure,
	For Right it sanctions ever:
His law we deem the Truth supreme—
	'Tis just, and wrongs us never.

Too much alas! for Truth doth pass,
	Man's soul it oft embitters;
The good inclined, are greived to find,
	"All is not gold that glitters."
Perchance we trust, to men unjust,
	And find them much too clever;
And so, forsooth, we blame the Truth,
	But Truth betrays us never.

And not a few, whose hearts are true—
	Whose simple word suffices,
By sharpers bold are caught and sold,
	Betrayed by mean devices.
Pretentions and pretenders too,
	Should be combated ever;
Fraud, should be sifted through and through,
	But Truth, defrauds us never.

'Tis well, 'tis wise, to scrutinize
	Their plans who feign to bless us;
'Tis braver far, with wrong to war
	Than to aid what would oppress us.
Truth! S[-]ck and hold as purest gold,
	That men from dross dissever,
Is aught amiss? be sure of this,
	By Truth, we're injured, never.

Why should we choose, to Truth abuse,
	To good by evil measure?
	If others lie, shall we deny
The Truth? In our displeasure?
	Truth makes us free, and yet we see—
	The wheat and tares together;
Alas! these tares, exist as snares—
	But Truth, ensnares us never.

These tares must with the wheat remain
	Until the harvest season;
Why 'tis ordained, Christ has explained,
	And potent is the reason.
When God doth reap, no tares He'll keep,
	They'll all be burnt together;
But the garner'd wheat, all clean and sweet
	Like Truth, will perish, Never!

Lo! God is pledged to wisdom give
	Most liberally and surely
To every one, upbraiding none,
	Who ask Him for it purely.
Armed with this key, both you and me
	Offences can out-weather;
'Tis wisdom's plea—the just will be
	By Truth offended, Never!

What-ever others say or do,
	Or friend, or foe, or brother,
We must be to our conscience true—
	We're judged not for another.
For strength each day, 'tis well to pray,
	To help our true endeavour
Offences lead the weak astray,
	But truth misleads us never.

					EMILY HILL WOODSMANSEE.


THE ladies engaged in home industries and
enterprises of various kinds, should make a good
representation of their several departments of
work on the 24th inst, especially as they enjoy
the privilege of the franchice, of which nearly
all the women are deprived.


[Column 1]
BYRON'S MONUMENT.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The mortal remains of England's greatest
poet, have been in the tomb fifty-five years,
with no other monument than the simple tab-
let placed in Hucknal Church, in the vaults of
which lie his mother and many of his ancestors,
and where his remains repose by the side of his
mother, by his own request. This tablet is Gre-
cian of pure, white marble, and bears the follow-
ing inscription in Roman capitals.
	In the vault beneath Carebury, where are
many of the ancestors of his mother, lie the
remains of George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord
Byron of Rochdale, in the County of Lancaster,
the author of "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage."
	This, with a circular medallion upon the
House in Holles Street, Cavendish Square, Lon-
don, where he was born, have hitherto been
the only public memorials of one, whose rest-
ing place was legally and honorably won in the
great Mausoleum of the country, Westminster
Abbey; but through the puritanical, canting,
small-mindedness of Doctor Blomfield, Bi-
shop of London; at that time, the doors were
shut against the illustrious dead! The subject
was brought before the House of Lords, and the
great Lord Brougham defended the case, and an
angry altercation between him and Bishop
Blomfield took place in that august assembly,
but the Bishop carried the day, and Huckmal
Church, like a fostering nurse, opened her doors
and received the precious remains. Could By-
ron have dipped his magical pen into the
ink that he ever made immortal, would
not the scene have been a second edition of
"English Bards and Scotch Reviewers?"
	Five years have elapsed since, at a meeting
of the enthusiastic promoters of a memorial to
Lord Byron, held at Willis's Rooms, under the
presidency of Lord Beaconsfield, a stanza from
the fourth canto of "Childe Harold" was quoted
with telling force by one noble speaker. Re-
minding his appreciative hearers that the
famous poet was not without consciousness of
his own assured immortality, Lord Rosslyn re-
peated the lines:

"But I have lived, and have not lived in vain;
My mind may lose its force, my blood its fire,
And my frame perish e'en in conquering pain;
But there is that within me which shall tire
Torture and Time, and breathe when I expire;
Something unearthly, which they deem not of,
Like the remembered tone of a mute lyre,
Shall on their soften'd spirits sink, and move
In hearts all rocky now the late remorse of love."

	Lord Byron penned these lines from the
"Eternallity," was there not a prophetic fore-
taste in his mind, that seven years after his
death the greatest of English reviewers would
speak of him in his old enemy the Edinburgh
Review, in the following terms: "At 24 Lord
Byron found himself on the highest pinnacle of
literary fame with Scott, Moore, Wordsworth,
Southey, and a crowd of other distinguished
writers beneath his feet! There is scarcely an
instance in history of so sudden a rise to so dizzy
an eminence." From 1831 to the present time
the fame of the noble poet has suffered neither
abatement or decline. Despite the insurrection
which has now and again burst forth against
some of his dark portrayals, the reaction of public
opinion, not only in England, but especially in
the United States, and wherever the English
tongue is spoken, have set "the most celebrated
Englishmen of the 19th century" upon a sum-
mit to which eyes and hearts of all countries are
offering their incense of love and gratitude!
	But to return to the doings of this committee
convened as before described. Once again was
an effort made to render something like the just
homage due from a great country to one of her
greatest sons, and at last to these promoters of
Byron's monument England is indebted for
the bronze statue, by Belt, now placed in Ham-
ilton Gardens. By the efforts of this committee,
three thousand five hundred guineas were col-
lected from the pockets of men and women scat-
tered far and wide over the earth, who, in Em-

[Column 2]
erson's words, "speak the commercial and con-
quering tongue of England." At last the poet
is before his country, the land of his birth; as he
looked and seemed when in 1813, he was the idol
of London society, the cynosure of every eye.
Mr. Belt is the favored artist, and his work will
render him an immortality in art. The statue
is in a sitting posture in deep repose, and the
manuscript of "Childe Harold" upon his knee;
contemplating from the rock that supports his
colossal figure, the ocean, which was ever his de-
light. At his feet crouches the Newfoundland
dog "Boatsawin," whose epitaph his noble mas-
ter wrote so feelingly for his love and constancy.
The yachting dress in which the figure is
clothed, suggests the element upon which the
poet's eyes are bent, and the entire absence of
affectation in his mien and attidude harmonizes
with his well-known antipathy to the theatrical
and pretentious ways. The generous Greek Gov-
ernment have contributed the pedestal, which
is of Hellenic marble, hewn from the quarries of
the Peloponnes, in honor of the hero, who, "hav-
ing dreamed that Greece might still be free,"
died in his efforts to restore her to liberty!
	In presence of this statue, let the voice of
blame, which may have some justice in it, and
of censure, which is wholly malignant, be for
ever silenced, as, in common with Sir Walter
Scott, writing upon the day following Lord By-
ron's death, "We feel as if a great luminary of
heaven had suddenly disappeared from the sky,
at the moment when every puny telescope was
levelled for an examination of the spots which
had dimmed its brightness." According to Lock-
hart, Scott's poem of "Rokeby" had failed alto-
gether to gain public approbation, because
simultaneously with its appearance "the deeper
and darker passions of 'Childe Harold' the auda-
city of its morbid voluptuousness, and the
melancholy majesty of the numbers in which it
defied the world, had taken the general imagi-
nation by storm." Such, however, was the
generous verdict of the author of "Rokeby"
which "Childe Harold" had smothered.
	Hucknal Church is about two miles from
Byron's paternal home, Newstead Abbey, and
about the same distance from Annesley, the
home of Mary Chaworth. In these regions the
poet boy had written his first effusions, and con-
ceived the most impassioned and perhaps the
purest love of his life for Mary Chaworth. I
would like to write more, but have no space but
for, Resquiescat in pace.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs Garfield is reported to have been called
upon by more than 2000 people at Mentor,
June 8th. The lawn of her pretty home was
crowded by eager talkers, and in the drawing-
room stood Mrs. Garfield receiving the congra-
tulations other visitors with great composure,
yet with signs of frank pleasure.—Woman's Jour-
nal.

	It is always healthy for young people also and
for everybody to note the rise of a man like Gar-
field, and of a woman, we may add, like Mrs.
Garfield. It is an old tradition, but it is a prec-
ious one that comes true every state and national
election, that future presidents, governors and
statesmen and their wives sit on the benches of
the primary schools of to-day,and taste the life of
infancy in all the common-place circumstances of
the great people.

	Mrs Garfield will honor the White House by
her gentle presence. She is a woman of a sweet
and winning spirit, and of bright and cultivated
mind. As Miss Lucretia Rudolph she was an
exceedingly pretty and interesting girl, and her
marriage with the General was on both sides one
of ideal affection. Her intellect has kept pace
with her husband’s; she has studied the book she
studied, taken up languages with him, and has
so trained herself as to fit her boys for college in
the most thorough manner. She is an excellent
Latin scholar, and is also proficient in several
modern languages. She is a little lady, graceful
in carriage,and having most frank and charming
manners.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LIFE INCIDENTS

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes which are familiar to the Latter-
day Saints of an earlier day, are but little known
to those who have since been gathered from the 
different nations, nor to those who have grown
up in the peaceful valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Until within a few years, the world
knew nothing of our true history. Falsehoods
were manufactured and sent out to serve the
purposes of our enemies, and apostates have been
their willing tools. The bitter prejudices felt by
the outsido world makes it almost an impossi-
bility for them to believe or become acquainted
with our faith and principles; but the history
ot this people is always interesting to the Latter-
day Saints, and incidents of our travels and ex-
perience are calculated to benefit the young and
rising generation. The spirit of unbelief which
has crept into our midst is lamentable, and a
stupor seems to have come over a portion of this
people, who, I sometimes fear, will need the
judgments of God to awaken them from its influ-
ence, and we know that they are sure to come
upon the slothful and disobedient, if they do not
repent.
	I can truly say that I feel an interest in the
welfare of all, and if some of the incidents of my
life could impress the minds of others, as they
have my own, I would feel amply repaid for
writing them. There seems to be a great curi-
osity in the minds of strangers about the “Mor-
mon” women, and I am willing, nay, anxious,
that they should know the true history of the
faithful women of Mormondom. In the brief
sketches which have been given from time to
time, the trials and sufferings of the Latter-day
Saints have scarcely been touched upon. Since
writing my reminiscences I have thought of the
names of many who lived and died for the truth.
Among these was the widow of Brother David
W. Patten. She was a noble and self-sacrificing
woman, who left all for the Gospel’s sake, and
her husband being a missionary, she was
early thrown upon her own resources, and
though she had a slight and delicate frame she
had a persevering and energetic spirit, was
neat, and naturally of a refined nature and
could not be happy in idleness. She was a
seamstress by trade and worked for her living.
The hardships and privations incident to a
Western life, particularly to the Latter-day
Saints, soon broke her down and brought on
consumption. After her husband was killed,
she, being, like the rest destitute, felt that she
must do something for her support, and not
finding anything else that she could do, conclud-
ed to take a few boarders. Among them was a
young man who, though not a member of our
Church, bore a good character, and, to be brief,
he loved her, and seeing her lonely condition,
proposed to marry her. She accepted. This
step, at the time, caused many to think her
weak in the faith. When we afterwards met
her in Quincy,Illinois, she told my parents why
she married without asking counsel, said she
was no longer able to work and had no one to
take care of her, and she knew what the counsel
would be if she asked it, and not wishing to dis-
obey, she did iton her own responsibility. As
soon as he heard and-understood the Gospel he
received it. After father came, to us in Qniney,
they having a house with two rooms, gave us
one to live in while father went up to Com-
merce to prepare a place for us. His name was
Bentley, he was a carpenter by trade, industri-
ous and well able to provide everything she
needed, or desired, and though a number of
years younger than she, he was perfectly devot-
ed to her, and his study by day and by night
was to make her comfortable. No one could
show greater love and tenderness toward a wife
than he did, until her spirit took itsflightwhich,
if I remember rightly, was the second year after
the Saints settled at Nauvoo. He lived but a
few years after her death. She was an exem-
plary woman, and enjoyed the love and respect
of all who knew her. While we were living
with them in Quincy, when I was about ten
years of age, I had a severe attack of fever, and
a heavy storm coming on, the weather was
quite cold, and not having a fire-place in the
room, mother pieced a kettle of live coals in the
centre of the apartment. Just as she stepped
out into the other room, my little brother, aged
about four years, came in and accidentally fell
into the kettle, and burned him badly. I was so
frightened that I was upon the point of leaping
out of bed when mother heard him scream, but
he sprang out before she got into the room and
cried for her to anoint him with the, conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil. She immediately administered it,
and was silently praying, when he cried, “Pay
loud.” She obeyed him, and in a few minutes
he was sound asleep.  He never cried from the
burn after the oil was administered, and it was
healed from that moment. What a pity we
cannot always have faith like a little child, and
instead of calling upon doctors who have no
faith in the ordinances, call on the Great Physi-
cian, who giveth freely to all and upbraideth
not. When we can do this, there will be less
suffering and fewer graves to weep over.
	In the month of July, father moved us up to
Commerce; he pulled down an old log stable be-
longing to a Rro. Bozier, about one mile from
the river, and laid up the logs at the end of the
Bozier house (which had a number of rooms and
contained several families; he put on a few
shakes” to cover it, but it had no floor or chink-
ing; when it rained the water stood near ankle
deep on the ground; the chimney of the other
house, being built on the outside, served us as a
fireplace. My mother, not liking the dirt floor,
had a few little boards laid down to serve as a
substitute. I remember the evening of the 23d
of August, 1839,we were visited by a heavy rain
storm, and those boards floated on the water;
My mother had bread light and ready to bake in
a tin oven or reflector, and it had to be propped
up so as to bake the bread before the fire, which
was built upon andirons. Under these
peculiar circumstances I was allowed to go and
stop with one of our neighbors, and when
I returned in the morning I was informed that
a little stranger had arrived that night. This
was truly a wonderful event and created quite a
sensation in our midst. He was named after
David Patten, and although born in a stable, he
was a prince in our estimation.  This was their
sixth child, four of whom were then living.
Father purchased five acres of woodland from
Hyrum Kimball, and Brother Parley P. Pratt
purchased the same number of acres adjoining.
They went to work and cut logs and invited a
few of the old citizens; viz.: Brother Bozier Squire
Wells, Louis Robinson and others, to assist in
putting up their houses, as our people were
mostly prostrated by sickness. Brother Pratt
soon sold out his improvements and went with
his family on a mission to England. Father was
building his chimney and had just got to the ridge
of the house when he was taken down with
chills arid fever. The hardships and exposures
consequent on beidg driven from Missouri in the
winter, had made the Saints easy subjects for
the ague to prey upou in that swampy country;
nearly all were taken down, one after another,
and the ones who were not shaking or delirious
with fever, would do their best towards waiting
upon those that were. Many had to see their
dear ones die and not one of the family able to
follow them to their last resting place; hundreds
were lying sick in tents and wagons. The Pro-
phet visited and administered words of consola-
tion and often made tea and waited upon them
himself and sent members of his own family
who were able to go, to nurse and comfort the
sick and sorrowful. He was often heard to say
that the Saints who died in consequence of the
persecutions, were as much martyrs as the ones
who were killed in defence of the Saints or mur-
dered at Haun's Mill. There are many living
martyrs who remember those days and some
will yet wear a martyr’s crown. The powers of
darkness seemed to have combined to put a stop
to the work of the Almighty, but Satan’s plans
have always been frustrated, and they always
will be.
	One night while we were living in the Bozier
House, we were awakened by our mother, who
was struggling as though nearly choked to death.
Father asked her what was the matter, when
she could speak, she replied, that she dreamt
that a personage came and seized her by the
throat and was choking her. He lit a candle
and saw that her eyes were sunken and her nose
pinched in, as though she were in the last-stage
of cholera. He laid his hands upon her head
and rebuked the spirit in the name of Jesus, and
by the power of the holy Priesthood commanded
it to depart. In a moment afterwards, some
half a dozen children in other parts of the house
were heard crying, as if in great distress; the
cattle began to bellow and low, the horses to
neigh and whinnow, the dogs barked, hogs
squealed, and the fowls and everything around
were in great commotion, and in a few minutes
my father was called to lay hands on Sister
Bently,the widow of David Patten, who lived in
the next room. She was seized in a similar man-
ner to my mother. They continued quite feeble
for seyeral days from the shock.

[Column 2]
	One day after this circumstance had taken
place, my father was visiting the Prophet. In
his diary he says: “He took me a walk by the
river side and requested me to relate the occur-
rence at the Bozier house. I did so; and also told
him the vision of evil spirits in England on the
opening of the Gospel to that people. After I
had done this, I asked what all these things
meant and whether or no there was anything
wrong in me. “No, Brother Heber; at that
time when you were in England, you was then
nigh unto the Lord. There was only a vail be-
tween you and Him, but you could not see Him.
When I heard it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew that the work of God had taken root in the
land; it was this that caused the Devil to make
a struggle to kill you.” Joseph then said, the
nearer a person approaches the Lord, a greater
power would be manifest by the Devil to pre-
vent the accomplishment of the purposes of God.
He then gave me a relation of many contests
that he had had with Satan, and his power had
been made manifest from time to time since the
commencement of bringing forth the Book of
Mormon.”
	In another place he says: “I crossed the river
to Commerce with several of the Twelve, and as
I was standing by the railing of the boat, look-
ing at thebeautiful site of Nauvoo,and I remark-
ed, ‘It is a very pretty place, but not a long
abiding place for the Saints.' These remarks
reached Elder Rigdon and family, and caused
them to feel somewhat sad, as they were well
situated in a nice stone house built by Dr. Isaac
Galland, and otherwise comfortably situated.
When we met in council in Joseph’s house, the
case of 	*		*		"was brought up for in-
vestigation and disposed of in a summary man-
ner. Elder Rigdon then arose and said he had
some feelings toward Elder Kimball, saying, I
should suppose that Elder Kimball had passed
through suffering and privations, mobbings and
drivings enough to learn to prophecy good of
Israel.’ I began to expect I was going to receive
quite a chastisement from Elder Rigdon, know-
ing his peculiar temperament, I arose upon my
feet and said, ‘President Rigdon, I’ll prophecy
good concerning you, all the time, if you can get
it?’ On hearing that, Joseph had a hearty laugh
with the brethren, when Elder Rigdon yielded
the point."


IN WHAT DOES BEAUTY CONSIST.

	There are many things in nature around us
which we look upon and recognize with enthusi-
astic ecstsay as being sublimly beautiful, filling
our souls with awe,reverence yea,love,raising our
thoughts, from mortal cares to loftier themes,
and inspiring us with adoration for the Creator
of so much beauty, harmony and melody.
	The grandeur of the mountains as ‘they tower
one above the other, higher and higher until
they appear to touch the very sky, and some-
times seem to reach far away into the realms of
space—whether they are crowned with eternal
snow, or burning with the lava-fire of nature’s
own kindling must inevitably strike the beholder
as one of the most truly beautiful features which
the earth affords.
	Who could ever have watched the glory;of an
exquisitely charming sunset without feeling
that it surpassed in real beauty all the
works of art; and that extravagant as the
language might be used to express its beauty, it
was still inadequate to the subject.
	The forests,the ocean, the lakes,and the rivers,
all these are indeed truly beautiful; the flowers
in all their vast varieties of hues and shades and
forms are among the most delightfully beautiful
of Earth’s wounderful productions. We cannot
enumerate the objects of beauty of which our
earth is filled—there is no stopping place, for
whatever is perfect, cannot fail to be beautiful.
To my mind, perfection seems to be the true de-
finition of beauty, but where there is a defect
beauty is marred. Nature’s works are perfect—
they are really beautiful.
	The sentiment of beauty is a true inspiration—
it elevates and refines the mind,in whatever form
of life it is presented. One must feel its influence,
and the inspiration of its presence in both ani-
mate and inaniamte nature.			M.
	Salt Lake City, June 1872.


FAITH AND CONFIDENCE.—The following is
clipped from the News, Maysville, Kansas: "In
calling the attention of our readers to 'Warner's
Safe Remedies,' we do so with a perfect faith in
the efficiency of their preparations, and an un-
bounded confidence in the truth of all that is
good and said of them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


WILD-WOOD LEAVES AND FLOWERS.

Dear leaves and blossoms, 'tis but poor showing
	Of tender love; with ruthless hand
To pluck thee, while so brightly glowing,
	On grassy knoll, or rocky dell,
				Or bed of sand.

Sweet wild-wood gems, to thus imprison
	Thy quivering forms, crush out thy light
And dim the beauty God hath given
	Would seem to prove but selfish love,
				And cruel might.

Yet for no idle whim or pleasure,
	I cull the from the mossy banks,
Thy dainty blossoms I fain would treasure,
	As simple token, of love unspoken,
				And grateful thanks,

To one who loves with fervent passion
	Sweet Nature's gifts, and Nature's ways,
Whose gentle hands with tender fashion,
	With love and pleasure, these flowers will treasure,
				For many days.

An honored friend, and gentle sister,
	Whose noble works our praise hath won.
Go little flowers and gently whisper,
	Of loving thoughts and grateful hearts,
				To cheer her on.

							ESTHER A. BENNION:


[Column 1]
SEEK A REWARD.

	'Tis early morning as I sit here at my window
watching the golden sun slowly rise above the
mountain tops, and listening to the sweet song-
sters of the forest just beginning their day's
work and warbling such sweet notes; and the
cocks just calling up the traveler and the toiler,
I seem to be filled with a spirit of love for all
mankind, but more especially for my Creator.
Oh, how merciful and how good is God. How
beautiful is this earth! how wicked are many of
the people. We have trials to endure but we
have a reward to gain; and how few of us care
for the reward if only we can escape the trials;
but how trifling are these trials compared with
the great reward, salvation. What a word is
that, oh, how great, how comforting. What
bcots it, if the path of life is rugged and its
steeps are hard to climb? The earth also is rug-
ged and its steeps are hard to climb, but as God
has given us power to mount these great
heights of nature so will He give us power to
mount the rugged steps of life; and grateful
ought we to be to Him that He has given us
trials, by which to gain a reward, for rewards
given, not earned, are little appreciated. I had
a dream one day, not in my sleep, but a waking
dream and if you like I will tell you of it. 'Twas
a lovely afternoon and the sky was as blue as
ever and the air was fragrant with the scent of
flowers, and the melodious song of the meadow-
lark, the thrush and the humming bird rang
sweetly in my ear; the earth was so beautiful
with its waving grass, its flowers, its lakes and
streams, its mountains and dells. All nature
seemed to join in praise to the Creator and my
soul joined harmoniously with nature.
	As I strolled along, I stopped near a cool and
silvery stream and there pillowed my head on
the turf and sank into a sweet reverie. There
in a lovely valley where all was happiness and
joy were collected from all parts beautiful little
children. Surely, thought I, this must be the
vale of my childhood's dream, this must be fairy-
land, for they are all so happy and so beautiful,
and so perfect and so good. As I watched I saw
a portal where the little ones had entered, and
I beheld a weary young traveler, standing as
though waiting for admission; presently a dear,
kind old man walked to the portal and opened
it. "May I come in," the child asked, "I am so
tired, for I have carried this lame back all my
life and my legs are so weak and weary, and I
want a little rest!" The old man opened wide the
gate and said, "Come in, my dear young friend,
you have earned the rest you seek and you
shall find it here." He entered and his weakness
seemed to leave him and his lame back grew
strong and then I lost sight of him in this beau-
tiful throng, for he grew like the rest and he
joined in the dance and sports and pastimes
and all seemed happiness again. Presently the
portal opened again and a little girl softly
felt her way along until she touched the dear
old man. Then she said, "Please, sir, may I
come in. I am very weary, and my way is so

[Column 2]
hard to go; for I am blind?" The old man kiss-
ed the little child and said, "Come my darling
and I will show you such lovely sights and you
shall join with my merry children in the dance."
But the little girl said, "O master, I cannot see
these lovely sights for I have been blind all my
life and I have so longed to see the dear blessed
earth and sky and the many pretty things of
nature;" and the old man answered, "Yes, my
child you have endured much and now we will
throw away the mist from your eyes and you
shall enter and join with the children." She
entered the gate and saw the pretty sights and
joined in the dance, and I lost sight of her for
she become like the rest. So again and again
the gate opened and others were ushered in yet
none entered with a burden, all these were left
behind. Some laid down bundles of sorrow
they had borne, but all burdens great and small
were left behind, and all who entered became
blithe and merry and joined in the dance and
true enjoyment of the beautiful place. Once I
looked when the old man was talking earnestly
with one whom, it seemed, could not enter, what
is this, thought I, the child is beautiful and yet
she cannot enter. In a moment I heard the old
man say, "My child, you have no burden, you
do not even sorrow for those you have left be-
hind, go back to the world and earn a reward.
Tarry longer on the earth and you will meet
with sorrows and many will be the rocks that
fall in your way, and when you come again you
shall have the reward that you have earned."
The child turned away little caring for she had
no sorrow or burden and of course she was light,
free and happy, but this had been the first re-
buff, this was the first rough place in her path,
but she stumbled many a time on her way for I
watched her as far as the eye could reach. I
seemed to lay in a trance and for a long, long
time I watched the happy throng. As I looked,
again the portal opened and the old man laid
his hand upon the little child that he had sent
back to earn her reward. I heard her softly
whisper, "Oh master, let me in, I am so very
weary now. I went back and found
my way so hard. Many taunted me
and called me proud and vain and wicked, and I
had become so, but no one ever told me and I
did not know that it was wrong till I came here,
but I bore the taunts and I tried to overcome
my pride and vanity and now may I come in?"
The old man gently took the burden from the
child and ushered her into the valley of happi-
ness, and she joined in the happy dance and
pastimes. A mist came before me now and the
joyous scene passed from before me. For a long time
I lay almost insensible, then I arose and thanked
God for what I had seen. Yes, arose feeling bet-
ter prepared now for my life's journey and the
burden laid upon all, of which I must bear my
share. O friends take warning from this little
picture, and do not frown and murmur because
you have burdens to bear, for if you have no bur-
den to lay at the portal of heaven, the gates of
that glorious place will not be open to you, and
the keeper will say "Go back to earth, and
bravely earn a reward, before you expect to enter
here and receive one."					W.


﻿PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	Annual Report of the Primary Association of
Moroni, Sanpete Co. Organized by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. E. Howard August 6th, 1879
with 138 members, increased to 203 during 10
months. Meetings held weekly on Saturday
afternoon. Average 32 meetings; (they being
suspended for a time on account of diphtheria).
Cards of merit distributed once.
	The exercises of the meeting are, after the
usual opening exercises, remarks made by Presi-
dent and Counselors; then recitations, songs,
essays, and select readings by the children: a
number of children bear their testimony; ques-
tions asked etc. They have taught them the
Ten Commandments and first principles of the
Gospel. We have received from the children on
their 5 and 10 cts. donations $10,00 and gleaned
8 bushels of wheat. Have had one party for
which the brethren and sisters donated money
enough to may all expenses. Have donated to
Manti Temple $4.60; paid out for presents for
the children $1.00; recieved of Moroni Co-op one
Minute Book. Officers of Association are, Mrs.
Deborah P. Irons, President; Mrs. Sarah Jolley
and Mrs. A. M. Nielson, Counselors; Jane Faux,
Secretary; Lizzie Bailey, Assistant Secretary;
Mary Yorgason, Treasurer. They are doing all in
their power to instruct the young. Our Associa-
tion is doing well,
					JANE FAUX, Sec'y,	[--]


SHUN AFFECTATION.

	There is nothing more beautiful in a young
man than simplicity of character. It is honest
frank and attractive. How different is affecta-
tion! The simple minded are always natural, they
are at the same time original; the affected are
never natural. And as for originality, if they
ever had any, they crush it out or have buried
it from sight, utterly. Be yourself young
friend.
	To attempt to be any body else is worse than
folly. It is an impossibility to attain it. Bu[-]
suppose you should succeed in imitating the
greatest man that ever figured in history, would
that make you any greater? By no means. Let
the fabric of your character though ever so hum-
ble be at least real.
	Avoid affecting the character of another, how-
ever great though you may emulate their virtues.
Build up your own. Be what God intended you
to be—your-self, and not sombody else. Shun
affectation.
							Ada Rollins.
		Snow Flake, Apache Co. Arizona.
	June 2d, 1880.


CORRESPONDENCE.

				Lone Pine, Arizona May 21th,
	Editor Exponent: Having just read the Ex-
PONENT of May 1st. while perusing its contents
I imagined myself attending one of those delight-
ful meetings reported in your very interesting
and valuable paper, which is a welcome visiter
here circulated from house to house: the one
subject, storing of grain, is proof sufficient of
the energy that characterizes the Women of the
Latter-day Saints; furnishing grain to feed the
poor, typical of Joseph's sojourn into Egypt.
Some of the brethren in this land are loaning
what grain they can spare to those who have
need and waiting until harvest for returns. I
do not know what some would have done if Bro-
ther Flake had sold his grain which he could
have done very readily; for there is no Joseph in
Egypt with corn for the Saints here, but I
suppose wheat and barley was called corn in
Egypt in those days as history informs us that
corn was found first in America.
	Notwithstanding the severity of the past
Winter and the cold, late Spring the Saints here
are filled with faith and good works, and very
few longing for the leeks and onions of Egypt.
The sisters express their desire to be organized,
and feel thankful that they have their little ones
away from that dreadful malady the diphtheria.
	The health of the people here is most excllent
they are glad to get plenty of corn and barley
for bread, as the wheat will not be harvested
until the latter part of July or first of August. I
have taken the interest to canvass among the
sisters in behalf of the EXPONENT, they have
invariably expressed a desire to send subscriptions
as soon as circumstances would permit.
	Some of the brethren here were a little sur-
prised at the bill before the Legilature last ses-
sion to remove the political disabilities of women;
to this we replied "if any are in bondage or have
not the rights that God designs they shall have,
He rules in the heavens above and the earth
beneath none can stay his hand. He is the
same God that heard the cries of the fair Daugh-
ters of Zion in the days of the Nephites upon
this continent. He has set his hand to bring
about the restitution of all things whatever He
does will be right." With the ballot in the
hands of the Women of this Territory (Arizona)
it would strengthen the hands of the brethren
by placing men in office that would greatly add
to the peace and safety of citizens as well as the
development of the resources of the Country.
	Eevr praying for the interest of Zion, I am
		Yours truly.					W. E.


SUNDAY morning June 20, several sisters were
invited to the 17th Ward, to assist the Bishop in
reorganizing the Primary Association. Bishop
Smith, Superintendent Dwyer and other breth-
ren and also sisters of the ward were present.
The Sunday School was admirably conducted
and the singing was very inspiring. Only a por-
tion of the exercises were given and "Sister
Eliza" proceeded with the organization. 140
members were enrolled. The ladies who had
been invited were presented with lovely bouquets
of choice flowers.


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1880.


SALT LAKE STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The regular Semi-Annual Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, on Saturday and Sunday,
July 3d and 4th, 1880, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. of
each day.
	There will be a meeting of the presiding offi-
cers and others interested in Relief Societies,
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations, Sunday Schools and
Primary Associations, in the Assembly Hall, on
Saturday evening, July 3d, at 7 o'clock, and a
general meeting of the Priesthood of the Stake,
on Sunday evening, July 4th, at the same place,
at 7 o'clock.
				ANGUS M. CANNON,
				DAVID O. CALDER,
				JOSEPH E. TAYLOR,
					Presidency of the Stake.


[Column 1]
JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

	A Jubilee Celebration is under contempla-
tion for the Twenty-fourth of this month. This
day is certainly a remarkable one in the history
of this Church. The day this people should be
anxious to celebrate, for it is the beginning of a
new era in their history. The day when the
weary feet of the brave and valiant pioneers
rested for a brief space in the heart of a great
desert; a land which Jehovah seemed to have
pointed out and specially designed for his coven-
ant people; a place which other white men had
shunned and looked upon as barren and unde-
sirable, and therefore it was not expected that a
people, who had been driven from the borders of
civilization, would be molested here, but find a
peaceful and safe retreat from the persecution
and oppression of their enemies. Many prophe-
cies have had their fulfillment in this peculiar
advent of the people. Isaiah said: "O, Zion,
that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the
high mountains!" "Thy watchmen shall lift
up their voice." Did not Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, and their
associates lift up their voices, and sing together,
when they arrived in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains? And were they not watchmen?
Had they not fully earned the title in a literal
sense, by watching, guiding and protecting the
people who had been driven, "scattered and peel-
ed?" Latter-day Zion, the prophets of old said,
was to be a place "sought out." These noble,
blessed pioneers sought it out, they did the first
practical work of the Latter-day Zion. They
traveled, foot-sore and weary, the great
unbroken deserts, the sand hills, the rocky
mountain passes, where the foot of the white
man for ages had not trod; the "Land of Pro-
mise," a refuge for the Saints in time of need.
President Young in his diary, July 24, 1847, says:

[Column 2]
"This is one of the most important days of my
life, and in the history of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. After traveling six
miles through a deep ravine ending with the
canon, we came in full view of the valley of the
Great Salt Lake; the land of promise held in
reserve by God, as a resting place for his Saints.
We gazed in wonder and admiration upon the
vast valley before us, with the waters of the
Great Salt Lake glistening in the sun, mountains
towering to the skies, and streams of pure water
running through the beautiful valley. It was the
grandest view that we had seen till this moment.
Pleasant thoughts ran through our minds at the
prospect that, not many years hence, the house
of God would be established in the mountains
and exalted above the hills, while the valleys
would be converted into orchards, vineyards and
fruitful fields, cities erected to the name of the
Lord, and the standard of Zion unfurled for the
gathering of the nations."
	How truly these things have been verified,
this country from north to south and from east
to west, speaks for itself in a language more
telling and forcible than mere empty words.
"The desert" does "blossom as the rose," and
"the solitary places are made glad," and the
Saints have rejoiced and loud hallelujahs have
oft arisen to the Father for his many mercies
and blessings; and it is meet to celebrate this
day; to the Saints it is "a day of days."
	Many, very many, of the men, and women,
too, who were the patient, energetic and earnest
workers in the early pioneer days of Utah, are
numbered with the cold and silent dead. Of the
one hundred and forty-three pioneers of '47, who
made the first roads and built the first bridges,
not nearly one-half remain. Of the three women
who came with them, only one is living—Mrs.
Clara Decker Young. Mrs. Harriet P. Young
and Mrs. Ellen Saunders Kimball have both
passed behind the vail. A few years more, and
all these veterans who converted the barren
wastes into a pleasant and fruitful garden, will
be no more known among the living. But their
works can never die; for Zion and her towers and
her strongholds will be imperishable. Their
names are so closely interwoven with the his-
tory of the Church that they will live in its
records, and be preserved in the archives of the
House of the Lord. The people should spare
no pains to make the Twenty-fourth of July,
a Jubilee in very deed, and one long to be re-
membered.


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PARTY of young people are getting up a
Concert, for the evening of July 8, to be held in
the Social Hall, for the benefit of Miss Mattie
Paul Hughes. The entertainment will consist
of songs and a drama, in three parts, represent-
ed by Miss Keetie Heywood, O. F. Whitney and
Hebe M. Wells. With these young people it will
certaiuly be a success.
	ERRATA.—Dear Em: In reading my “Rem-
iniscences” in your last issue, I see that the quo-
tation marks being omitted makes it read as if
nearly all had been copied from my father’s his-
tory, which part ended with the description of the
cow being killed while a girl was milking her
etc. Please mention the above and oblige,
	Yours truly,	H. M. W.
	THE Home Dramatic Club will appear on the
evening of the 5th of July, in “Extremes, or
Men of the Day,” and in the afternoon in
“Ours.” This company of young people have
talent and ability, and it is to be hoped they will
receive sufficient encouragement, so that we
may have once more in the history of Utah, a

[Column 2]
good strong stock company. Go and see the
plays.
	THE excursion for the “Old Folks” to Black
Rock and return, for the 7th of July, is in the
hands of the same energetic and persevering
Committee who made it such a pleasant success
heretofore, and no doubt the arrangements for
this time will be as perfect and as desirable as in
former years. The “Old Folks’ Excursion” in-
volves more benevolent work for the Relief So-
cieties, who are expected to attend to the picnic
details.
	We tender our sincere congratulations to Miss
Mattie Paul Hughes who has recently passed
her examination and will graduate in the Med-
ical Class of ’80 at the 30th, Annual Commence-
ment of the Department of Medicine and Surg-
ery of the University of Michigan; to be held in
University Hall at 10 o’clock A. M. Thursday
July 1st. 1880. We acknowledge a complimen-
tary invitation and would gladly be present if
circumstances would permit.
	Miss Mattie was a favorite of ours and earned
her first money towards defraying the expense
of her medical education by setting type for the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She is an interesting in-
telligent and brave young woman. Miss Paul
Hughes will graduate on the 23d, anniversary of
her birthday. She intends to further perfect her
study of medicine and surgery practically in
Hospital in Boston, Mass.
	There are many young women, yes even
young men who might follow her noble example,
with honor to themselves and credit to the com-
munity.	
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt delivered a lecture on
the physiology and anatomy of the human sys-
tem in the Theater on Tuesday afternoon June
22d, for the benefit of Miss Mattie Paul Hughes,
better known as Mattie H. Paul, who is now
studying medecine and surgery at the University
of Ann Arbor, Michigan. The object was a
laudable one, and the lecture in every respect,as
far as the subject, the manner and the facilities
for illustration were concerned, was a perfect
success. Financially it was not so much so—the
fault was perhaps in its not having been suffici-
ently advertised. The sisters should avail them-
selves of the opportunities so often afforded for
instrcution in these subjects and become better
acquainted with the human structure, its needs
and powers.
	WE have received of late two beautiful trib-
utes of affection.	
	One is from a lady we have never met. A cross
of sea-weed,delicate ferns and sea-shells bordered
with a vine of the same materials. We shall
have it framed for the office. It came all the
way from San Bernardino, and is really a very
lovely thing and displays artistic taste in arrang-
ing as well as refinement in the expression of
affection and as we are passionately fond of
things of this sort it could not have found a
more welcome nook to repose in, than in a corner
of this office, where we can admire its beauty
and shall think of the giver with feelings of
sincere admiration and tenderness. Some ver-
ses came with the cross from which we may-
select a few lines.	
	The other tribute alluded to was some lovely
wild-wood flowers “sweet wild-wood flowers,”
from a sheltered dell,where they grew in beauty
in East Caynon; there are more than forty
varieties. Of all the beautiful things in the
world there is nothing fairer or more equisitely
beautiful than the flowers, fresh from nature’s
hand. How they speak to the heart, how they,
refresh the soul, what restfulness they bring to
the weary, and what happy thoughts they in-
spire.


These wild-wood flowers were also accompan-
ed with  some lines which we publish on page
3d, they are as sweet and  as delicate as the ten-
der flowers of which they speak.  Words are 
poor, very poor to thank these kind friends and 
others who have brought their floral offerings to 
give us pleasure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BOOK NOTES.

	“PROSE AND POETRY”—a neat little book just
from the press is by Mrs. Emily B. Spencer of
St. George. It contains a variety of truths and
sentiments tenderly told in the simple unaffected
spirit of a true woman and a saint. Many of
them were written under trying cirdumstances,
which others similarly situated will fully appreci-
ate. Some are addressed to individuals and are
of a character peculiar to the circumstances and
time. Among the best of the poems are “The
True Christmas,” “Song of the Creator,”“Come”
“Who Comes,” “Evening.” There are a few
good prose articles interspersed. The book is
suitable for the young people’s library collections
and will no doubt carry comfort and hope to
many a lonely heart. It is for sale at this office
and contains 88 pages price, 50 cts.
	THE Primary Hymn Book is now in the hands
of the publishers at the Deseret News Office,and
is partly completed. The first 70 pages are already
sterotyped—and the work is progressing as fast
as possible. The Book will contain 128 pages and
will be neatly and strongly bound, in cloth with
a leather back; to make it suffiiently strong for
the children to handle without injury.
	This book has been edited and compiled by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of the Latter-
day Saint Women’s Organizations, with great
care and patience as well as an earnest love for
all and any work in the interest of the children
of Zion, whom she considers her special charge.
The first 70 pages are a choice selection of hymns,
from the pen of Sister Eliza herself and other
home writers. A part of them have been se-
lected by the lady editor from writers of distinc-
tion such as Watts, Heber. Dwight and others.
The book will probably be finished about the 10th,
of this month. Every child in the Territory
should have a copy. It will be suitable for the
use of Sunday Schools as well as Primary Asso-
ciations. It is expected it can be afforded as low
as eight copies for one dollar thus placing it
within the reach of every one.
	“Spring Blossoms.”—We are pleased to see
this new book added to the catalogue of home
literary productions. The authors of “Spring
Blossoms” Leo Haefeli, a German Professor,and
Mr. E. H. Anderson,are both connected with the
office of the Junction, Ogden. This interesting
little work contains 46 pages in prose and verse.
The prose articles entitled “The Good, the True
and the Beautiful,” or the three ideals of educa-
tion are really good, true and beautiful, just as
expressed in the title, and are interspersed
with choice selections from eminent authors.
The young people should read these and seek to
profit by the admirable lessons contained in
them. “Family Joys and Griefs,” by the same
author,speak to the heart.
	The poems which are by E. H. Anderson
“Eternity,” “Love” and “Home,” contain
good sentiment and bespeak poetical talent.
There are also Historical essays by the same
author very well-written. The book is suitable
for the libraries of the Young Peoples’ Associa-
tions, or the homes of the Saints.
	If we were permitted to suggest we would say it
was in bad taste to advertise in a book of poems.
	We have before us Two Poems pamphlet
form. They are from the pen of Bishop O. F.
Whitney. The first is entitled “The Women of
the Everlasting Covenant,” and is a delicate and

[Column 2]
affectionate tribute to woman, and more especi-
ally to the women of this Church who have en-
dured much for their religion.  The poem is rich
with pathos and glows with tender sympathy.
It is somewhat historical in character, and ex-
ceedingly pure in tone. The style of verse and
rhythm is pleasant and every line is expressive.
	It is dedicated to his mother and to all mothers
in Isreal whose lives show equal virtue and
integrity.
	The poem contains many exquisitely beautiful
passages, of which we will only quote one,

	"Of all the virtues that uniting frame,
	The lofty column ranted to Duty’s name—
	Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
	The deeds of those whose names refuse to die— 
	O’er crowning all in triumph of device,
	Is woman's life of love—Self-Sacrifice.” 

	“The Land of Shinehah” is a descriptive and
hsitorical poem. It contrasts Kirtland of
the present time with what it was
more than forty years ago. It is perhaps richer
in word painting and delineation than the other
and contains more variety but does not speak as
forcibly to the heart. It will be very interesting
to all, who cherish a tender memory of the first
gathe.ing place of the Saints.
	We are well-assured of one fact in connection
with both these poems they are sure to live.
The writer has talent which should be encour-
aged; and we hope he may be inspired to write
much more of a historic character.


OBITUARY.

	June 19th, 1880, of heart disease, Hans Peter
Lund, age 58 years, 11 months and 3 days.
	Deceased was born at Nexo, Bornholm, Den-
mark, He was baptized September 17th, 1853,
and ordained an Elder April 8, 1854, he labored
as a missionary in North Sjelland until Nov. 18,
'56, being released to preside over the Norwegian
mission, which office he filled to the satisfaction
of all concerned until January, 1858, when he
was released to come to Zion. After his arrival
he was ordained a Seventy in the 23d quornm in
the winter of 1858, and at the April Conference
of 1860 he was called to fill a mission in Scan-
dinavia, which he honored, laboring in said mis-
sion for three years.
	He was an exemplary man in every respect
and was truly loved by all his acquaintances;
as a Saint he was wholly devoted to the cause,
ever ready to answer every call. His all was
truly on the altar;he was not rich in this world's
goods, but he had laid up treasures in heaven
which he will receive with increased interest.
His funeral was largely attended and thoso who
spoke of his labors in his native home and of his
career while here, had only words of praise for
the departed.—Com.

	Died, at her residence in Manti, Sanpete
County, Utah Territory, June 15th, 1880, Ellen
Spencer,daughter of Thomas and Margaret Wil-
son, beloved wife of James C. Cahoon; born
in Liverpool, England, October 29, 1847; baptized
when eight years old. Lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saints. She leaves a husband, five
children and many kind friends!—COM.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	The Sisters' Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall, Friday and Saturday, June 18 and 19.
The first day was devoted to Relief Society re-
ports, business, etc. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Sung, "O, Awake My Slumbering
Minstrels." Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
Singing, "Come, O, thou King of Kings."
Minutes of last Conference read by the Stake
Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Reports from the

[Column 2]
several branches in the county were read, which
were very favorable. Pres. Horne made a few
remarks relative to the necessity of having correct
reports, and said she wanted the sisters to become
business women.
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith referred to the good
conference in Brigham City, where the young
ladies had spoken upon practical principles and
were putting them into practice. Said the city
council there had donated liberally of land for
the purpose of raising mulberry trees to promote
sericulture. Spoke of the calamities and
judgments that were coming upon the earth and
that Zion would be the place of safety.
	Meeting closed by singing, "O, Say what is
Truth." Benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
2 p. m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. After which seve-
ral of the presidents of Relief Societies gave
verbal reports. Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few re-
marks preceding the reading of an original poem
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, "The Women of the
Everlasting Covenant." She then introduced Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who read this grand poem in
a smooth, eloquent and effective manner. Pres.
Horne then spoke of a committee of two or three
sisters being formed in each Relief Society to
look after new comers. Joseph Smith had said
the mission of the Relief Society was not only
to look after the temporal wants of the poor, but
to save souls.
	"Sister Eliza" explained this subject clearly
and definitely and stated that there was a posi-
tive necessity for such committee and gave good
instruction on the subject. She then asked the
sisters to take shares in the Silk Association and
to interest themselves in this simple and useful
industry, which was now established upon a firm
basis.
	Bishop Johnson, of Provo, heartily endorsed
what had been spoken and blessed the sisters in
their labors; said he had realized the great help
the Relief Society was to the Bishops in many
respects. Sang "Lord dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	Saturday morning, June 19th. The middle
seats of the Tabernacle were filled with the
children of the Primary Associations of the city.
President E. R. Snow Smith presiding. Chil-
dren sang: "Sweet is the work, my God. my
King." Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer. Chil-
dren sang: "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet." The first business transacted was to ap-
point a central committee to preside over the
Primary Associations of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson was nominated
and sustained as President, Mrs. Camilla Cobb.
and Miss Annie Davis as her Counselors. "Sis-
ter Eliza,' then nominated Mrs. Louie Felt as
General Superintendent, to preside over all the
Primary Associations of all the Stakes of Zion,
which was unanimously carried. Mrs. Matilda
M. Barratt and Mrs. Clara M. Cannon were sus-
tained as her Counselors. "Sister Eliza" ad-
dressed the children for a few minutes and ask-
ed them some questions, which were promptly
answered. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a short
speech upon obedience, reverence, honesty, truth-
fulness, etc., adapting her language to the chil-
dren's comprehension. The children sang by
request, "O my Father." "Sister Eliza" an-
nounced that President Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were present, and asked the
children who they would like to speak to them;
they answered, President John Taylor.
	President Taylor said, "I am pleased to have an
opportunity of meeting with the children. The
ladies of the Relief Societies are doing a good
work in teaching the children correct principles,
and instructing them that they may grow up
to be honorable numbers in the Church of Jesus
Christ, and to be honors to the kingdom. I ap-
preciate the efforts of the ladies who are trying
to bring the children up in the fear of the Lord;
and the Presidents of these Primary Associa-
tions. Children you ought to be obedient to
your parents and pray morning and night for
them and for your presidents, that they may be
under the inspiration of the Lord, and God will
bless you and give you blessings upon blessings,
and he will build up Zion, and these sisters are
trying to instruct you in purity and in the laws
of God, that your names may be honored in and
through eternity; be careful to honor your fathers
and mothers. This is one of the ten command-
ments. We purpose having them written here
in this tabernacle, sometime—"Honor thy father
and thy mother, etc." Now I want to say a
word to the Relief Society. You had your meet-
ing yesterday, but as a number of you are here,
I will say a few words to you. I consider it a
duty for all to do all they possibly can to aid


in this work which has been begun in
this day. We are peculiarly associated;
teaching the juveniles. the young men,
and the young women, and the sisters to look
after the wants of the poor, the sick, and also
to look after the happiness of those they are as-
sociated with; it is a great thing to be able to
do good, and I have brought along a book here,
it is called "The Law of the Lord," and I will
have Bro. Nuttall read a little from this book.
Joseph Smith organized the Relief society in
Nauvoo.
	Brother L. John Nuttall then read from the
"Law of the Lord" concerning the orgnization
of the Relief Society, in the Lodge-Room, Nau-
voo, March 17, 1842, when Mrs. Emma Smith
was appointed President, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and Sarah M. Cleveland, her Counselors.
	After Brother N. had finished reading Pres.
Taylor made explanatory remarks concerning the
organization and the powers and duties it gave
to woman. He stated that Emma Smith had
been previously ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures, probably by the Prophet Joseph himself,
but he did not know, however he
(President Taylor) said he was present at that
time and was called upon by Joseph to ordain
Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, Emma's coun-
selors. Prest. Taylor gave much more instruc-
tion to the sisters, and closed his remarks by
saying, God bless the children and God bless the
sisters with Sister Snow at their head. Mrs. M.
I. Horne moved, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball second-
ed the motion that President Taylor publicly
appoint "Sister Eliza" as president of all the
Relief Societies. Prest. Taylor stated that Sister
Eliza had been secretary of the first organization
of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Prest. Taylor then
nominated her and she was sustained as presi-
dent. Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her coun-
selors, who were then nominated by President
Taylor and sustained by the conference; also
Sarah M. Kimball as secretary and M. Isabella
Horne as treasurer. These sisters form a cen-
tral organization for all the Relief Societies of all
the Stakes of Zion. The children's conference
was then adjourned for three months. Sung
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Benedic-
tion by Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
	Saturday afternoon, June 19. The conference
of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the Salt Lake
Stake convened. Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding,
the remainder of the minutes of this interesting
conference will be given in the July 15 number,
as we have not space. However, we must no-
tice the appointment of a Territorial Central
Committee for the Y. L. M. I. A. On nomina-
tion of Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Tayior was sustained as president of a central
committee, and Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor and Miss
Mattie J. Horne as her counselors; Miss Louie
Wells, secretary, and Mrs. Fannie Y. Thatcher,
treasurer. We regret exceedingly not being able
to publish full-particulars of this important con-
ference.							E. B. W.


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Fish Haven gave one of
our faithful Sisters a surprise. Sister Hulda
Teeples who is one of the eldest members in this
Church, and she is one that has passed through
many troubles, trials, and tribulations.
	We assembled ourselves together at the house
of Brother John Stock and proceeded from there
to the house of her daughter Henrietta Stock
where she has been visiting for some months,but
intends returning home to Holden, Millard Co.,
where a number of her children are at present
residing.
	This was her 68th, birthday.
	After shaking hands and wishing her many
good wishes we were ushered into her daughter's
front room where we were all comfortably seated
the sisters all feeling so well there were many
things talked about. After we had been seated
for a time cake and currant wine were passed
around, it was wine of our own make from ber-
ries of our own raising and it was as delicious as
any that can be made in any place from the
grapes. After this there was a Memorial read
by President of Relief Society Sarah Pope and
presented to her by the Society, for a keepsake,
then there were many presents made by differ-
ent sisters, after which Sister Teeples said she
was very thankful for the kindness that the
sisters showed her and that she was always
pleased to meet with the sisters of Fish Haven
and she felt well when she was with them and
that this was a day that would long be remem-

[Column 2]
bered by her; she also spoke upon many things
concerning the travels of this Church and she
hoped the Saints would never have to pass
through what they had before. She asked God
to bless the sisters with his Spirit that they
might prove faithful to the end. President
Pope arose and said that she was pleased to see
nearly all of the married sisters present on this
occassion it showed due respect to our aged Sister
she said that Sister Teeples had passed through
many trials that we knew nothing about, and if
we lived faithful and true to our God, although
we might never meet with her again in this pro-
bation, yet we should be sure to meet her again
if we were faithful for she had proven herself
faithful &c.
	Sister Sarah MacCann said that her experi-
ence in this Church had been very much like
Sister Teeples,and she had passed through many
trials for the sake of the Gospel, she told Sister
Teeples that as her day was, so her strength
should be &c.
	Counselor Frances Stock said she felt sorry
that Sister Teeples was soon going to leave us
and as this was her birthday she had felt as
though she would like to have a little surprise
together that we might remember the days that
we spent together and hoped we might prove
ourselves faithful to the end.
	Counselor Frances Howell said she hoped Sis-
ter Teeples would see many more happy birth-
days. The sisters sang the hymn "How Firm a
Foundation ye Saints of the Lord" after which
some other sisters spoke, hoping that Sister Tee-
ples might be blessed in many ways.
	Sang the hymn entitled"Zion Land:

Come, Come ye Saints of God
No longer stay,
Far from these wretched lands,
Haste, Haste away.
Farewell my native land,
From thee I roam;
Zion land, Zion land
Thou art my home.

			A. R. GARDNER. Sec'y.

	The members of the First and Second Ward
Primary Associations of Nephi held their first
anniversary in the meeting house at two o'clock
P. M., Saturday May 29th, 1880. Present on the
stand Patriarch, Jacob G. Bigler, Bishop John
Andrews,and Counselors. William Knight,Sister
Amelia Goldsbrough and Counselors of the R.
S. Stake organization, and also officers of the
Primary Associations of each ward. After the
usual opening exercises Sister Sarah Ann An-
drews President of the First Ward, addressed
the children a short time and gave them a verbal
report of her ward. The report was then read
by the Secretary; Sister Amelia C. Bigler of the
Second Ward made a few remarks and also gave
a verbal report, the Secretary then read the re-
port after which there were songs, recitations,
dialogues, select readings, by the children
of both wards. Members enrolled in the First
Ward 184 average attendance [10. Members en-
rolled in the Second Ward 120, average attend-
ance 55. Financial report of the First Ward
donations received, $7.80 cts. Donated to Manti
Temple $5.00; Expended for books and stationery
$1.25; Remaining in the Treasury $1.55.
	Financial report of the Second Ward. Dona-
tions received $3.90: paid out for books and sta-
tionery $1.90; Remaining in Treasury $2.00.
	Singing by the children "In our lovely Deser-
ret." Benediction by Patriarch Jacob. G.
Bigler, Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews President of
the First Ward; Mrs. Hannah Grover; Miss Ann
Midgley Counselors; Miss Alice Bigler, Secre-
tary; Miss Isabella M. Ord, Treasurer.
					Miss Lilzie Tolley, Sec'y.

	The Pangnitch Stake Relief Society held their
First Stake Conference on the 3d, of May, 1880,
in the Relief Society Hall; commencing at 10
o'clock, A. M. Present on the stand, Pres. Bar-
bara Myers and Counselors; Apostle Erastus
Snow, Pres. James Henrie and Counselors, Bish-
op J, C. Dame, A. S. Church, Wm. King, Seth
Johnson, and A. P. Schow and other brethren
and sisters, from all the wards of the Stake.
	After the usual opening exercises; Pres. Myers
made some good remarks, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness in the porformance of all their du-
ties, and also desired that as many as could
would take the WOMEN'S EXPONENT. Coun-
selors Clark and S. P. Crosby, made some re-
marks.

[Column 3]
	Brother Erastus Snow said he wished the sis-
ters to feel free, and speak as if they were at
home, around their own firesides and be cal[--]
and let the Spirit of the Lord be with them to
dictate them in all they said.
	The various societies of the Stake were verbally
reported showing, the societies in good condition
yet room for great improvement.
	Statistical and Financial report up to date
May 31st., was read as far as reported.
			Very respectfully,
				Barbara Myers, President.
				Sarah P. Crosby Sec'y.

	The Paradise Relief Society held their annual
meeting on Tuesday, June 1, 1880, in the new
meeting house. Present on the stand: Bishop
Orson Smith; H. C. Jackson, H. A. Shaw, coun-
selors. After the usual opening exercises the
report of the year was read and accepted. H.
C. Jackson spoke for a short time. His remarks
were calculated to encourage us to be dilligent
and persevere in the good work in which we de-
light. H. A. Shaw made very interesting re-
marks, encouraged the sisters to be true and
faithful one to another, and urged the necessity
of educating our children and to be careful and
diligent in guiding our sons and daughters into
the best paths of life, for upon them must
eventually rest all the responsibilities of an im-
portant era. Bishop Smith said he was pleased
in hearing the reports read, and spoke of the
great amount of good the sisters could and did
accomplish in these Relief Societies; urged us to
live up to our privileges and to do our duty with
cheerfulness, and be punctual in attending our
meetings and alive to our duties, and realize
that we should be co-workers with the brethren
in all the noble enterprises entered into to sus-
tain and build up Zion. Sisters E. Shaw and
Mary Price bore testimony to the truth of the
work. The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst.
We had an excellent time; many more of the
sisters were desirous to speak, but time would
not permit. Traying God to bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion,
		I remain your sister in the Gospel,
							EMMA SHAW.
	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies
of Weber County was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle, Thursday, June 17th, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. On the stand were Apostle
C. C. Rich, the presidency of the Weber Stake
of Zion; visitors,Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and President
Sarah S. Richards, of Summit Stake. After the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
President D. H. Peery took occasion to express
his fullest satisfaction with the report, which he
declared to be the best ever presented in this
stake. He also spoke very highly of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, counselling all the sisters to support
this good family journal.
	Apostle C. C. Rich then took the stand. He
spoke upon the subject of doing good, and said
we never got all the good done that might be
done. We all should feel honored and blessed
by the opportunity afforded to us of helping to
build up the Kingdom of God. We could do a
great deal of good by governing with wisdom all
our acts and words. We should earnestly study
how to bring about the millennium. When no
one did wrong, no wrong would be done. He
himself was always improving, at least he hoped
and tried to do so. It was the same with the
sisters. Upon them was resting the responsibility
of raising up the children of Zion and teaching
them the principles of the gospel. He was much
pleased with the good work accomplished by the
sisters: The more opposition we had, the more
eager and vigilant we ought to be in withstand-
ing the outward pressure, both spiritually and
and temporally.
	Sister E. R. Snow next addressed the meet-
ing. She said that if the sisters would lift their
hearts in prayer to God she had no fear of say-
ing anything that would be hurtful. We were
too apt to get drowsy and should always be
awake to the fulness of our holy duties. She
then took up the parable of the woman and the
unjust judge, spoken of by Christ. After this
she pointed out the necessity of administering to
the sick in the way pointed out by revelation,
until they were restored to health and well-
being.	*	*	The mothers of Israel should
realize this important fact. Something greatly
needed was a hymn book for the young,and she
was occupied in getting up one for this purpose.
The books would be sold at 12½ cents per copy,
as she did [--] her own work free in the interest
of the kin[--]om. Thus the books could be sold
at cost. We should have prophets and prophet-
esses among the young. The fear of infidelity was


the greatest danger of contagion existing. Sister.
Snow had also seen the young sisters at Bear
Lake, and had been highly pleased by their in-
nocent and primitive dress, which was far supe-
rior to the expensive fashionable follies of the
Gentile world. We should be prepared for the
troubles coming, and get the fulness of the spirit
by attending the meetings where the inspired
servants of the Almighty poured out the words
of life.
	In the afternoon the meeting was very numer-
ously attended, and the first speaker was Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who spoke principally upon the
education and culture of the young, the necessi-
ty of spiritual training, etc. Prest. E. R. Snow
then spoke at some length upon the need of
sustaining home industries and primary associa-
tions, urged the parents to encourage these insti-
tutions by their presence and influence, etc.
Counselor Middleton, Elders D. M. Stuart,
Robt. McQuarrie, and S. Eggleston, Sisters Sarah
S. Richards and Jane S. Richards each made a
few brief but excellent remarks. At the close
of the meeting the congregation arose to their
feet and sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning," which produced an inspiring effect.
After benediction, conference adjourned until
the following day, when the Y. L. M. I. Associ-
ations and Primary Associations were repre-
sented.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		23


[Column 1]
ORPHANAGE-NAZARETH.

	Yakoob (the man) takes the garden and out
door work. Autusi (the woman) reigns in the
kitchen and superintends the cooking. All the
rest of the work (which in this country includes
such things as picking and sifting corn for the
mill as well as cooking, washing, scrubbing etc,)
is done by the girls. The elder ones keep the
wardrobes &c., In repair and look after the tinies
some of whom are dear little pets. I shall often
have to speak of the two native teachers so I
hope you will remember their names Nasara and
Saada. The present manager of all is Miss Tan-
ner for Mrs Gilbert can only be a show figure
from her ignorance of Arabic, and of the strange
customs of the country; and I of course am not
yet on the staff. Miss Tanner seems to have a
perfect knowledge and command of Arabic and
carries out most ably and energetically the ad-
mirable system initiated by Miss Dickson. All
the girls are devoted to her, but are also very
kind and attentive to us and are only too proud
to be allowed to render us any service.
	It is amusing to see the troop of brownies that
rush shouting out of the large gates to meet us,
when we return from a walk or a ride; the
latter especially,as then we often take some of the
tinies up before us to give them a ride up to the
gate. You will notice our flag in the little sketch
I have made: this is hoisted always on Sunday,
and there is a large one that is put up on special
occasions, as the feasts, and the Queen's birth-
day.
	This last is celebrated with great honor, for we
are a very loyal set here, and the girls always
speak of her Majesty as "my gracious Queen"
fondly believing that they thus become real
English." Nasara, the head teacher, a very
handsome but most simple-hearted girl, said to
me; "I cannot think that any of the English are
bad, when I see them in my mind, they are
always singing in their Cathedral and I think it
is heaven."
	I must not forget to mention our dogs, very
important members of the Institute. Lao and
Majon, they have a reputation for fierceness and
inspire the beggar and roughs from the town
with a wholesome terror,for which there is really
small occasion, Majon is getting old, so last week
a new puppy was brought which I appropriated
as my property, where upon he received the
name of the Rajah; but Yakoob will not let me
pet him as he is to be reputed fierce like the
others.

MY FIRST MISSIONARY JOURNEY.

	Having mentioned in some of my letters what
led me to think it would be well for me to take
the opportuniny of accompanying Mr. Huber to
Shefamar, I need not go over that ground now.
Miss Tanner had also business to do in Haifa so
our plan was for us three with our man Yakoob
to start early on Monday, December 2d, to
spend about two hours in Shefamar, then go on
to Haifa, when the Austrian steamer with the
mails would be just due. For once we hoped to
get a chance of answering some of our letters by
[-]eturn of post, and then we purposed returning

[Column 2]
with everybody else's letters on Tuesday. As
usual in laying such plans I asked "if thy pres-
ence go not with us, carry us not hence." And
in spite of all that followed I must still believe
that his presence was with us. When I told
my Arabic master of the plan he immediately
said he should like to accompany us, adding,
"You know I cannot take a 'shemilhowar'
(smell the air) except when you do, as I cannot
have a holiday." This master of mine, Nasif
Bouteji,is—alas! now I must say was,the second
son of the native C.M.S. Clergyman, Seraphim
Boutaji and a particularly fine intelligent youth
of 18. He was so kind and loveable that not
only the natives, but all the Europeans in the
place were much attached to him. He had the
manners of an English gentleman and this is
saying a very great deal, you could not under-
stand how much unless you knew the ordinary
manners of Arabs to women and ladies. As
Miss Dickson and Miss Tanner are almost the
only English ladies whom the young men of
this place have seen, one must give them very
much of the credit of any culture and refine-
ment that is observed. Of course I said we
should be glad of his company and
when Mr. Huber found that Nasif
was going he said there was no need of Yakoob.
We had a most delightful journey to Shefamar
and then skirting the Mediterranean over the
sand hills and among the palm trees, and such a
description I had stored up in my mind for you
all of the loveliness I saw, but the tragic and
terrible event I have to relate seems to have
placed all the occurrences of those two sunny days
in the far off past. Poor Nasif was in the highest
spirits, and he had dressed himself particularly
well, as he intended to have his photo. taken in
Haifa; this I am sorry to say he did not accom-
plish, as the photagraphers had left. That
evening and next morning we had a great deal
to do and many people to see. Nasif was every-
where with us, carrying our parcels and making
himself most useful. We were rather late in
leaving the town at last, and Mr. Huber's man
Lalele, who was staying behind to await Mr.
Bellamy's arrival from Beyrout by the return
steamer on Wednesday, said, as he took leave of
us, "I am afraid now you will be late at Nazareth;
from Ab Horiyele mind you none of you speak
one word. This Ab Horiyele is a place of very evil
repute for raids and robberies; and it stands at
the head of a dreadful valley, several miles in
length, of equal evil repute. The reason of La-
lele's injunction was that our voices might not
betray that women were of the party. Nasif of
course was riding with an Arab saddle, a stupid
thing fastened with cords and strings, and sev-
eral times he had to dismount because it kept
slipping round with him; also the strap of his
gun had broken so that instead of having it
slung at his back as usual, he was carrying it
before him. Both Miss Tanner and I had been
very nervous all the way about this gun. I had
heard Miss Tanner ask him if it were load-
ed, and though I did n[-]t hear the reply I
concluded and hoped from the tone of it, that it
was in the negative. However, I took good care
not to ride near the muzzle of it. We had ac-
complished about one-third of the journey, and
were perhaps a mile from Haratiyeh (Harosheth
of the Gentiles), riding altogether, Mr. Huber
in front, Miss Tanner and Nasif side by side,
and I a little behind,when Nasif's saddle twisted
and turned with him again. This time he was
unable to recover himself; in falling his gun ex-
ploded, and we saw him on his face on the
ground. Mr. Huber dismounted in a second and
went to him, calling him by name, but there
was no answer—the poor fellow was dead, the
whole charge of shot having, as we afterwards
learned from the doctor, penetrated his left lung,
below the third rib. Miss Tanner immediately
galloped to Haratiyeh for help while I remained
with Mr. Huber, trying every means of restora-
tion, if possibly there might be still any life in
the poor fellow. When at last Miss Tanner
came back with some men, Christians, that is,
not Moslems, it seemed as if there was nothing
to be done but to leave the body in their charge
and for us to get to Nazareth as quickly as we
could. But now the sun was nearly down, and
we should have all that dangerous valley to go
through in the dark, with only Mr. Huber as
protector to the party. How we got through it
I hardly know. It seemed interminable. I
whispered to Miss Tanner, as we were coming to
Sofsafch, one of the worst spots, "I will trust,
and not be afraid," but I was horribly afraid
when every moment I thought I might see the
flash of a gun from behind each bush or project-
rock we came to, or hear the clatter of horses

[Column 3]
behind us. I thought afterwards that a more
appropriate quotation for me would have been,
"What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee;"
and through it all, we had the weight upon our
hearts of what we had left behind us and what
was before us. We had one serious fright just
after sun down, but that was owing to my igno-
rance of the customs of the country. Traveling
here after dark, if you see a party coming to-
wards you on the road, you cry out "Shou is
sole?" (Who goes there?), and the others, if
friendly, answer "Sahib" (Friend). There was
a party of natives running towards us, who
shouted to us, but I was riding in front and did
not understand them, and the noise of my
horse's feet prevented Mr. Huber hearing them.
Suddenly one of the men rushed forward and
took up a large stone to throw at
Mr. Huber. Explanations followed, but
as I cound not understand the words
and only saw the gestures, I was kept in sus-
pense as to their intentions till I saw them pre-
paring to move on. We were brought safely
through. I ask all of you to join in special
praises to our Heavenly Father for this great
mercy. I do think he must have given special
strength and understanding to our horses, for I
never saw creatures go as they did up that val-
ley. It is full of those rough stones and boulders,
and even in daylight it is wonderful how the
horses pick their way, but that night they went
on, and on, at a sort of fast shambling walk, and
not one of them, I think, made a false step, and
this at the end of such a journey. We reached
Mr. Huber's at last. Mrs. Huber was in bed
with the low, ague-fever of this country, so Mr.
Huber did not tell her anything. We had just
a cup of tea that was on the table, sent off a man
with everybody's letters and then addressed
ourselves to the terrible ordeal of conveying the
awful news to the poor father and mother.
We asked to speak to Seraphim alone. Of course,
seeing us without his son, his fears were at on[-]e
aroused. When, in a few words, Mr. Huber
had told him the sad story, the poor man seem-
ed utterly crushed, but at least all through he
has received the blow as a Christian; not so his
poor wife, who, though his wife, nominally a
Christian, has all the Arab customs and super-
stitions. She came in with wild eyes and see-
ing something was the matter, rushed at Miss
T. "Wain Nasif?" (where is Nasif) and this
she kept shrieking out all the time, not heed-
ing her husband who tried to calm her while
Mr. Huber gave some details of the story. Then
she tore off her clothes, beat with all her force
on her bare breast and rushed from room to room
pouring out volleys of imprecations on us and on
all the world; all her words of course I did not
understand, but I heard all our names and that
of "All, ali," and could be in no doubt as to how
they were being used. Then she and her daugh-
ter Julia rushed out to the door, and as soon as
the sound of wailing was heard, troops of women
flocked in and joined in the screams. The
wretched mother continued to rush backwards
and forwards, tearing her hair, rubbing her
hands in some dirty water that had been spilt
on the floor, and then all over her face. How my
thoughts flashed back to that company, "weep-
ing and wailing greatly" who had all to be "put
forth" before the Master could speak the word
which gave life to the dead. The poor father
went to the men around the door to tell them
what had happened, and send off a company to
bring home the body of his son. Then he im-
plored the crowds of women congregated in the
rooms to leave them with their grief—but no,
indeed—it is one of the women's rights of this
country to gather wherever sorrow is, like flies
around a festering sore. They squatround the ale
rooms for days and nights together and talk over
all the horrible things they have ever seen or
heard, and fabricate the wildest and vilest lies.
When we found that we could do no possible
good by remaining longer, we left; but not be-
fore the mother in her frenzy had sprung upon
Miss T. (while I was in another room) and
thrown her to the ground.
	At Mr. Huber's we mounted our horses and
slowly and sadly climbed the hill to the orphan-
age, there to have again the whole sad tale to
repeat to Mrs. Gilbert, and yet once more that
night to Esaad Daoud, who had been Nasif's
greatest friend, and who came up to hear the
truth from us. I need not say that we got no
sleep that night, and the next morning we heard
that the funeral was to be at 11. It was an al-
most impossible effort, but we thought we would
pay this mark of respect, and went to it.
	It is the custom here to take the lid off the
coffin before it is lowered into the grave, and
had I known this beforehand, I am not sure


[Column 1]
that I could have gone. It was too dreadful to
see that lifeless form again. I think that, at
that time, the day before he had been full of
life and vigor, with no thought of death or dan-
ger, and I am not sure that we did any good by
going. Then and ever since the wildest tales
have been circulated. "We had left Nasif ever
so far behind, and he was alone when the acci-
dent happened. We had left him alive; we had
left  him in the care of Moslems. We had
changed saddles with him and this had caused
the accident." These are a few of the reports
that have spread like wildfire about the town,
and though we made up our minds at last that
we would not go over the dreadful details any
more, except to satisfy reasonable people, or
Christian people or friends of the family, there
have been too many of these for us to have any
rest from the hopeless task of setting people
right. The one thing everybody harps upon is
our having left the body, and, with the terrible
experience we have now gained of Arab su-
perstition, I think we should none of us do the
same again. Still, what we should have done is
a question. If we had been able to get men
from Haratiyeh to bring it with us, we could
not have been home here till midnight, and
there would have been three houses kept in the 
most terrible anxiety. Moreover, if we had been
ever so familiar with the Arab mode of regard-
ing such things, we should hardly have expect-
ed to have to take this into account when it was
the family of the C. M. S. clergyman that was
concerned. * * * * *
And now I must relate the last iniquity of this
iniquitous government. Some time ago Esaad
Dauod told us to get rid of all our bishliks, they
were to be called in. Last week our man, Ya-
koob, came home from the market and said the 
government had announced that the bishliks,
wuzzeries and rhamsies were no longer current
coin, and that all the shops were shut. If in
England all your copper and silver coins under
five shillings were taken from you, you would be
in about our plight. We had nothing left but gold
majeedies, about seven shillings, to go on with,
and of course no trade could be done. On Sat-
urday the crier announced on the part of the
government, that the Turkish pound or lira (is-
sued at 147 piastres) was now to be 100, the
bishlik  (issued at 6¼)  to be 2½, and the other
coins in the same proportion, i. e. less than half
their former value. The piastre you must know
is a purely imaginary coin. Miss Tanner saw
one once, but in the eight years she has been
here, she has never had one in her possession;
still the value of the coinage is always reckoned
in piastres. Now, do you see the dodge of the 
government? It is nothing to the Sultan and
his advisers that trade should be paralyzed
throughout the Empire; they will take care that
the taxes are paid, and making the poor fella-
heen pay all their taxes at the new rate, is the
same thing as doubling—almost trebling—all
their taxes. We do not know whether this
tyranny is to effect all the Turkish Em-
pire, or Syria and Palestine only. We shall
hear nothing till we get our English papers.
The stray bits of news from Beyrout and Jerusa-
lem are not reliable. If it is only a piece of local
oppression you will not have heard of it: but
surely if it is to affect the whole Empire there
will be something like a revolution, and the
papers will take notice of it. I believe a reform
of the currency was to be one of the reforms so
much talked about, but England never dreamt
of such a method of initiating it. I will show
you how it works on a small scale in the limited
area of our observation. Having a well stored mag-
azine here at the Orphanage,and a good stock of ve-
getables already in the garden, we had not much
fear of suffering from starvation of trade, and
though Yakoob came from the market day after
day, "no meat to be had," that was a very small
matter, for these children (who do not care for
meat or any European dishes) compared with
the distress and even starvation their relatives
and the poor generally were enduring. You see
if they had a little money and were willing in
their extremity to part with it at its lowered
value, the tradesmen would not accept it.  Every-
body suspected a trick and very possibly when a
good part of the taxes have been got in, the gov-
ernment may raise the rate again and re-issue
the bishliks which they took at two and a half,
at their former value, six and a quarter. In Hai-
fa, the people depend almost entirely upon the
steamers for their supplies; last week, from stress
of weather, the steamer could not land her cargo
(only the mails), so there was no flour or wheat
in all the place, except with Mr. Ducks,a German
tradesman, and he would only sell for gold,
French or English. The starving people were

[Column 2]
going in companies through the streets, crying
and wailing, and some we hear are actually dy-
ing. 
	March 18.—We hear now that the lira is to re-
main at its former value—that the bishlik is to
be 3 piastres instead of 6¼,the wuzzeries 5 instead
of 7½, so our loss will be comparatively trifling if
things only stay as they are. But the wicked-
ness of it is that the very poorest are most ef-
fected by it. The bishliks are such dirty dis-
gusting coins that no one who has enough to 
change into gold would keep them by him one
hour longer than he could help; but the poor
living from hand to mouth have never more
than a few bishliks in hand at a time.
	A poor widow, the mother of our teacher
Saada, has been trying for years to recover a
large sum that was owing to her husband when
he died. She thought herself so happy last week
in getting part of this paid, but the canny debtor
had paid her in bishliks, and in a few days the
poor woman saw her little treausre dwindle
down to less than half its value.
	As a minor evil, but quite a sufficient trial of
one's temper, imagine keeping accounts here,
where we are not only subject to such things as
this, but where the currency is different in ev-
ery town. For instance Souidan sent my ac-
count for postage for the quarter. It was nomi-
nally 55 piastres, but reckoned in the government
currency it came to 77, thus making us pay
nearly half as much again for every letter as the
nominal postage. Whether we go to Haifa or
Beyrout, or Jaffa or Jerusalem,etc., etc., there is
a new currency to learn and to lose by.


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main Street, over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th
and 10th East Streets.
	☞ Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases
of Children and DISEASES OF THE THROAT, HEART.
AND LUNGS.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James. Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study nas been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Larg est Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED,
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARCE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Sh[-]wls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Bushes, &c.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not y[-]u should do so at [-]nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w thont any noise a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
se[-]ting and s[-]lf threading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders i[-]both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. R. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1880.			No. 4


DREAMLAND.

How often doth the tir'd and weary soul
Long to burst the care-chains which control
Its every impulse. When worn with grief,
What brings to weary hearts that pure relief
Which springs untainted from affection's fount?
Moments of sweet joy o'er which we count
As counts the greedy miser o'er his gold?
And on the crowded Bark of Life are rolled
Adown the dim and winding stream of years,
Freighted alike with pleasures and with tears.
What tones the harshest feelings of this life
To kindness? Forbids unceasing strife?
Softens pain? pillows sickness into sleep?
While o'er the senses there doth gently creep,
A nameless calm—a sweetness of repose,
Which but to feel we'd bear unnumber'd woes?
'Tis Dreamland—That oasis in Life's waste;
That freedom of the soul in which we taste
Again the pleasures and the joys of youth—
Unblemish'd love of beauty and of truth.
In dreams the soul, unburden'd of its care,
Floats on the wings of pleasure through the air.
With what unbounded joy it takes its flight,
And soars into those blissful realms of light.
Where the mind, untrammel'd, unconfin'd and free,
May revel in its own wild ecstacy;
And with a mother's fondness lingers o'er
Each infant joy (now lost forevermore)
As it lies cradled in the lap of Time,
In innocence and beauty half sublime.
In dreams, perhaps, the spirit views again
The little stream that wander'd through the glen;
The dear old cot, round which the woodbine clings,
And through long, weary years its fragrance brings;
The grassy spot, fair fields, the shady nook
Close seated near some softly murmering brook;
Moonlight bowers, bright skies, and waters clear;
The hum of birds, and songs it loved to hear;
And lonely walks, through woods and by the sea,
And happy meetings full of mirth and glee;
While at each turn it takes it seems to meet
The well-known faces that it loved to greet,
And deeper joys fill up each place
Like bright stars midst the dim in heaven's space;
And dreams, desires, and aspirations high,
And visions of bright hopes flit swiftly by—
All mingled in one glad, one joyous throng,
That bears the soul in ecstacy along.
Thus like the little honey bee that sips
Its garner'd sweetness from each flowr'ets lips,
The s[-]ul culls from the joys of by-gone years
A tenderness which this frail life endears.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*
O, Dreamland! Thou sweet haven of pure joy—
The only one man knows without alloy—
To thee we turn when sorrow bows the heart—
When willingly with this poor life we'd part—
To thee we turn, with many a weary sigh
And taste of pleasures that can never die.
Joy follows joy—each in succession gleams,
And from thy fountain well life's dearest dreams;
In thee we find what life can ne'er attain—
We feel a joy unmingled with a pain.
									OLD OAK.


MINERAL SOUVENIRS.—Mr. and Mrs. Wiliam
C. Folger have received from Mrs. Elmira P.
Tufts, a lady friend in Salt Lake City (to whom
they had sent a piece of Plymouth Rock and
other New England relics,) a collection of miner-
als, including a gold lump weighing 1-2 ounce,
dug from a mine in Tiutic District,Utah, a lump
of silver ore, specimens of gold quartz from
mines in Park City, Utah, crystalized salt from
Great Salt Lake, and salt obtained from the
mountains, iron ore, &c. &c., and a piece of gra-
nite rock from the Mormon Temple. Mrs. Tufts
has discovered that she is a descendant from
Tristram Coffin, and is very enthusiastic on the
re-union matter, sending the membership fees
for herself and entire family.


[Column 1]
            ﻿LIFE INCIDENTS.
                    No. II. 
    BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	On the 14th day of September, 1839, Presi-
dent Brigham Young left his family at Mont-
rose, and was brought by Brother Israel Barlow
to my father's house, where he remained sick
until he started with father on their mission to
England. He left his wife with a babe only ten
days old, and all his children were sick and
unable to wait upon each other. On the seven-
teenth Sister Young got a boy to carry her up
from the river in his wagon to our house that
she might nurse and comfort her husband to
the hour of starting. My mother’s babe was
three weeks old, and she was sick with chills
and fever. The day before they started my
father had two very heavy shakes of the ague,
and was very sick through the night. On the
morning of the eighteenth Brother Charles
Hubbard sent his wagon and span of horses with
driver, and their trunks were put into the
wagon by some brethren who had come to bid
them good bye. Previous to starting, while they
were taking breakfast, father got Brother Hub-
bard and another brother to cut down an old
hollow tree, which hung over the house, it had
worried him so that he could not bear to leave
till he saw it felled to the ground; when he
heard it fall he said, at the same time rising
from the table, "Now I am ready to go.” The
parting scene is best told by himself. He says:
"I went to the bed and shook hands with my
wife, who was shaking with the ague, having
two children lying sick by her side; I embraced
her and my children, and bid them farewell; the
only child well was little Heber Parley, and it
was with difficulty he could carry a two-quart
pail full of water from a spring at the bottom of
a small hill to assist in quenching their thirst.
It was with difficulty we got into the wagon and
started down the hill about ten rods; it appeared
to me as though my very inmost parts would
melt within me; leaving my family in such a
condition, as it were, almost in the arms of
death; it seemed to me as though I could not
endure it. I said to the teamster, "Hold up." 
Said I to Brother Brigham, "This is pretty
tough, ain't it? Let's rise up and give them
a cheer." We arose and swinging our
hats three times over our heads, we cried
Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah for Israel!" Vilate
hearing the noise arose from her bed and came
to the door; she had a smile on her face and she
and Mary Ann Young cried out to us, "Good
bye, God bless you." We returned the compli-
ment and then told the driver to go ahead.
After this I felt a spirit of joy and gratitude at
having the satisfaction of seeing my wife stand-
ing upon her feet, instead of leaving her in bed,
knowing as I did that I should not see them
again for two or more years." Although too
young to sense the deep anguish which our par-
ents felt yet we children wept bitterly when our 
father came to bid us farewell, not knowing that
we would ever see him again in the flesh. Both
he and Brother Young were going away so sick
they were unable to get into the wagon without
assistance. The scene is so vivid before me that
my eyes are blinded with tears as I try to write;
but words fail to describe it. Our grief for a
time was very great, but the knowledge that
they were messengers of the Almighty to carry
glad tidings to those who were in darkness that
they also might be partakers of the blessings of
the Gospel of salvation, sustained those who
were left. The hymn containing these lines
was often sung by us, and appropriate words
they were in our desolate condition and they
brought sweet comfort:
	"In every condition, in sickness, in health,
	 In poverty's vale, or abounding in wealth;
	 At home or abroad, on the land or the sea,
	 As thy days may demand, so thy succor shall be.
	 When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
	 The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow,
	 For I will be with thee thy troubles to bless,
	 And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress."

[Column 2]
The following sketch will show how the Apos-
tles went forth to preach the gospel. Father
says, "we were without purse or scrip, and were
carried across the prairie, about fourteen miles,
to a shanty near the railway, where Brother O.
M. Duel lived. We were unable to carry our
small trunks into the house; Sister Duel, seeing
our feeble condition, assisted the boy to carry
them in; we were very much fatigued. As soon
as we got into the house she made us a cup of
tea, which revived us, and prepared a bed for us
to lie on.	* 	* 	*	 *	* Next morning
Brother Duel took us to Lima, about twelve
miles. When he left us, he gave each of us a
dollar to assist us on our journey. Brother Bid-
well then carried us in his wagon to John A.
Miksewell's, near Quincy, about twenty miles.
The fatigue of this day's journey was too much
for our feeble health. We were prostrated and
obliged to tarry a few days in Quincy, when we
began to recover. The brethren preached a few
times in a meeting house close to the Congrega-
tionalist church. They commenced their
meeting at different hours from the brethren,
therefore they took a notion to disturb us by ring-
ing their bell furiously after we had commenced
our meeting. At one time Elder John E. Page
preached so loud as to drown the noise of the
bell, and thus brought some hundreds who
otherwise would not have come to meeting. I
was prostrated with the chills and fever, and
stayed most of the time at the house of Sister's
Laura and Abigail Pitkin, who bestowed every
kindness upon me they possibly could. Dr. Or-
lando Hovey, Sister Staley and her daughter
were very kind to me, and administered to me
in my feeble state.
	September 25th. We left Quincy at 11 a.m.,
feeling considerably better. My sorrow was great
to see so many of our brethren sick and dying,
in consequence of being driven from Missouri,
and exposed to hunger and cold. Brother Ly-
man Wight took us in a one-horse wagon and
carried us to Brother C.C. Rich's,at Burton,where
we stayed through the night. Brother Wight
predicted many things, and left his blessing
with us when he bade us farewell. May God
bless him and save him in His kingdom.
	26th. Brother Rich carried us to Brother
Wilbur’s; while on the road the chills came on
me again, and I suffered much pain and fatigue.
	On the 27th Brother Wilbur took us in a
buggy about 25 miles, to the home of James
Allred, in Pittsfield, Ill. 
28th.—Father Allred carried us to the place
where Brother Harlow Redfield lived, where we
preached to a small branch of the Church on
Sunday 29th.
	30th.—Brother Rodgers carried Brother Brig-
ham to Brother Decker's, and myself to Mr. Ros-
well Murray's, my father-in-law, they were liv-
ing within a few rods of each other, near Win-
chester, in Scott County. Here we also found a
few brethren in the church, who had been
smitten and robbed of their property in Missou-
ri; they were once more in comfortable circum-
stances, rejoicing in the Lord.
	October 1st.—We were carried to Lorenzo D.
Young's, a brother of President Young, where
we stayed and recruited our strength until the
4th, when he carried us to Jacksonville, where
we stayed the night. A sister in the Church
hired a horse and buggy to carry us to Spring-
field, and Brother Babcock drove us there, a dis-
tance of 35 miles, where we were kindly received
by the brethren, and nursed. Brother Brigham
was confined to his bed by sickness; Brother
Libeus T. Coon, who was practicing medicine,
attended upon him. Here he found Brothers
George A. Smith, T. Turley and R. Hedlock. I
went from house to house strengthening and
comforting the brethren, and teaching them the
things of the kingdom. I was so far recovered
that I preached on the Sabbath, which caused a
great feeling of love towards us; they got a two
horse wagon and harness, for which they paid
fifty-five dollars, and collected thirty-five dollars
in money for the company. Judge Adams, one
of the Judges of the Supreme Court, of the State
of Illinois, took me to his house. I stayed
with him three nights and the most part of
three days. He gave me five dollars when I


[Column 1]
left. I think he will come into the Church soon.
My father-in-law went with me to visit his
family and friends in the East.
	October 11th.—Resumed my journey in com-
pany with the brethren. We exchanged horses
in Springfield; and with the assistance we re-
ceived from the brethren living there, we suc-
ceeded in obtaining one horse and a two horse
wagon, in which the sisters fitted up a bed for
Brother Brigham to ride on, as he was unable to
sit up. We traveled eight miles with the three
horse team, and put up at the house of Father
Draper.
	October 12th.—We pursued our journey to-
wards Terre Haute, traveled all day; most of
the brethren being very sick, I walked most of
the way, at night I slept in the wagon with Fa-
ther Murray and Brother Hedlock and caught
cold; next morning I had to go until twelve
o’clock before I had any thing to eat, and then
it was transparent pork and corn dodger; the
wagon broke down twice, and the chills came
on me about two in the afternoon, and held me
till night, and then the fever held me all night.
I had the chills and fever three days, and lost
my appetite.
	The third chill was so severe that it seemed
as though I could not live till night. We arriv-
ed at Terre Haute about dusk on the 17th. Bro.
Young and I put up at Dr Modisett’s. Brothers
Smith, Turley, Hedlock and Father Murray
staid at Milton Stowe’s, who lived in one of the
Doctor’s houses. In the evening the Dr. went
to see them, as they were quite ill in health, and
Brother Stowe very poor. The Doctor expressed
great sympathy for them when he returned to
the house, relating over the poverty of Brother
Stowe and the brethren’s ill health, and seeing
them lying on a straw bed on the floor, he shed
many tears to see the brethren going under such
suffering circumstances upon such a long, mis-
sion; but he did not have quite sympathy enough
to buy them a chicken to make them some
broth, or even give them a shilling, although he
was worth four or five hundred thousand dollars;
he said his taxes amounted to over four hundred
dollars a year. 
	In the evening I became very ill. The Dr.
said he could give me something that would do
me good, that would relieve me of my distress,
and I would probably get a nap, but the old man
was so drunk that he did not know what he did,
and he gave me a tablespoonful of morphine; his
wife saw him pour it out but dared not say a
word, although she believed it would kill me.
In a few minutes after I took it I straightened
up in my chair complaining of feeling very
strange and wanted to lie down, on my attempt-
ing to go to bed I reeled and fell to the floor.
There was hardly a breath of life in my body.
Brother Brigham rolled me over on my back and 
put a pillow under my head and inquired of the
Doctor what he had given me and then learned
that he had given me morphine. I lay there
for a long time; when I came to, Brother Brig-
ham was attending to me with a fatherly care,
and manifesting much anxiety in my behalf. I
said to him “don’t be scared,for I shan’t die." In
a short time he got me on the bed and nursed
me through the night.			
It was through the closest attention of Brother
Young and the family that my life was preserv-
ed through the night. I was scarce able to speak
so as to be understood. In the morning the
brethren and Father Murray came to see us.
The brethren laid their hands on me and prayed
for me. When they left me they wept like
children. Father Murray felt very sorrowful,
said he, "We shall never see Heber again, he
will die."  I looked up at them and said, "never
mind brethren, go ahead, for Brother Brigham
and I will reach Kirtland before you will."
Brigham gave them all the money we had ex-
cept five dollars, and told them to take good care
of the team and make all possible speed to Kirt-
land.  They started that day.  In about an hour
after they departed I arose from my bed.
	October 22nd. Elder Babbit and Dr. Knight,
an eminent physician, came from Pleasant Gar-
den to see me.		*	*	*	*	Brother 
James Modisett took us in his father's carriage
twenty miles to the house of Brother Addison
Pratt, from thence we were carried to Plea-
sant Garden. We found a few brethren,
and remained there three days preaching to
the brethren, and those who wished to hear.
*	*	*	*	*	Dr. Knight and some
others gave us some money to assist us on our
mission.
	October 25th.—I received a letter from my
wife giving an account of her sickness since I
left, also of the children William and Helen. I

[Column 2]
<fwe shall="" never.="" sfee="" heber="" again,="" he="" "will="" die.”="" i="" looked="" up="" at="" them="" and="" said;="" “never="" mind="" brethren,="" go="" ahead,="" for="" brother="" brigham="" aiid="" l="" will="" reach="" kirtland="" before="" you="" will.”="" brigliam="" gave="" all="" the="" money="" we="" had="" ex-:="" 'cept="" five="" dollars,="" told="" to="" take="" good="" care="" of="" toam="" make="" possible="" speed="" kirt-="" lahd.="" they="" started="" that="" day.="" in="" about="" an="" hour="" after'="" departed="" arose="" from="" my;bed.="" octdbdr="" 22nd.="" elder="" babbit="" anddr,="" knight,="" ah.="" eminent="" physician,="" came="" pleasant'gar-="" den="" see="" ine.="" james="" modisett="" took="" us="" his,="" fatherfe="" carriage="" twenty="" miles="" house="" -addison="" 'pratt,="" from,="" thence="" were="" carried,to="" plea-="" sirnt="" ;="" garden.="" ‘="" found="" a="" few="" "="" remained="" "there="" three="" days'preaching="" tlie="" those="" who="" wished="" to.hear.="" -="" dr,="" knight="" .and="" some="" pothers="" to'="" assist="" on="" our="" '.mission.="" october="" 25th.1—x="" received="" a-letter="" frommy="" wifo,givlhgj‘an-'="" a6c6uht'ofhbr1="" sickafess'since="" left,="" also="" children="" william="" helen.="" wrote="" her="" comforting="" letter="" reply,="" praying="" lord="" bless="" little="" ones.="" 20thbrother="" babbitt,="" me="" his="" buggy="" twelve="" miles,="" scott:="" very="" glad="" seous,="" tarried="" witli="" through="" night.="" w="" 27th,="" sunday.—brother="" scott="" sent="" son="" john="" wlio="" carried.="" belleville,="" fifteen="" several="" journey="" fn="" rain="" storm,="" wliich="" "obliged="" tut="" topnt-="" up-at="" inn="" for-="" remainder.="" of.tlie:="" day="" and:="" was="" sick="" obliged="" bed.="" sat="" wait="" upon.hlmand="" spent="" even-="" ing="" with="" landlord="" lady="" preaching="" them;="" testimony="" kind="" us.="" 28th.—the="" rose="" early="" talked="" citizens="" travelers="" staid="" him="" the,night="" previous,and="" what="" heard="" say="" concerning="" gospel,="" neighbors="" flocked="" in,="" made="" many="" inquiries="" anxious,="" we.sbouid="" .tarry="" preach="" place.="" gaidoveral="" timoshe="" hoped="" stage,="" would,="" not="" come,="" might="" stay="" preach,="" as="" people="" much="" excited="" by="" haying="" great="" discussion="" between="" two.="" popular="" religious="" preacher.recent-="" ly.="" however,="" .came="" .along="" pbout="" 10="" o’clock,and="" way="" towards="" kirk-="" land,="" left="" tlio="" tears.="" while="" pleasant="" garden="" obtained="" soma="" money,so="" dollars="" when="" ,the="" brethren="" 18th,="" now="" amounted="" $13.50.="" got,="" into="" stage="" did,="" expect="" hde="" miles.="" wdfi.="" far="" indianapolis,="" ind.,="" paid,="" passage,="" gnd="" sufficient="" means="" .carry.="" jqs="" ltich-="" rhond,="" ind.="" arrived.at="" richmond,="" .take="" fq.daytci,="" which="" place="" proceeded="" .tarried,="" over="" night,waiting="" xot.="" another="" fine="" stages.="" ye="" expected,="" to.stop="" hero="" until="" got="" to.pursue="" journey.="" brother;="" brigh-="" ham="" went="" trunk="" get="" mopey="" pay="" bill,="" passage="" to.="" columbus,="" ohio,="" yyfrich="" .place="" m.="" ,="" we,="" paid="" bilj,="" he.found="" lie="" pur="" wooster.="" after="" part="" then="" wooster,.="" we.="" ar-="" rived="" there,="" fo="" ills="" again="" to.get.="" jo="" jay="" enough="" cjqyeland.="" town="" called="" strongsville,="" from.="" cleveland,="" evening,.="" a.strpngimpressjpn="" tqstop="" tavern="" wei="" first="" into,="" town,="" but="" did="" stop,="" so="" ,went="" on.="" arrived="" cleveland="" eleven="" o’clock="" night="" lodgings,="" and,="" rpma,ined="" next="" evening.="" november="" .3d,="" sunday,;="" in.="" morning,="" we;="" went,="" episcopalian="" church.="" returning="" abe="" hotel,="" met="" my="" father-in-law="" jeara(!$bat;ejders="" smith,="" turley="" hedlock="" jpst="" arrived,="" cleye-="" -land.="" father="" murray="" astonished="" alive="" though="" had.="" seen="" one="" risen="" dead.="" don’t="" think="" ever="" saw="" anan="" fedl:better="" than="" pip="" t;="" him,="" the:="" street.="" waited,="" short="" :="" distance="" in,good="" health,="" cbmpared="" been,="" arid="" spirits.="" learned="" tlipy="" stopped="" the,="" tavern,="" where,="" such="" strong="" impressions="" stop="" previous.="" picked="" eider="" tay-="" lor="" dayton,="" where="" jio="" left.,="" with.the="" ague.aud="" fever="" a,few="" days="" be-="" fore,="" coltrin="" who,proceeded,="" land.="" brothers.="" taylor="" and.="" .into="" us,="" eafly="" after-="" noon;="" rode="" willoughby;="" pro-="" ceeded="" fhp="" same="" ing,="" we-found.a="" .brethren,="" friends,="" thus="" fulfilling="" prediction="" on,="" pick="" bed="" brignam="" bno="" york="" sliilling="" left,andon="" looking="" ourexpenses,="" wp="" out="" $87.00="" $13.50="" had.at="" gar-="" den,="" whicli="" is="" to,pay="" .our="" passage.with.="" travelled="" 40p.="" wp.="" eight="" ,to="" ten="" cents.a-mile,="" taken="" meals="" foreach="" charged="" fifty="" cents,="" cents="" lodgings.="" brig-="" often="" suspected="" put="" trunk,="" or="" clothed,="" thinking="" bad="" purse="" monby-wllicli="" acquainted="" with,="" bukthis="" not.so;="" could="" only="" have="" bepn,[.put..in="" .trunk,="" byr-="" jieavenly="" mes-="" senger,="" ..who="" .administered="" to,="" necessities="" daily,="" tie="" knew'wd="" heeded.="" “there="" aidivision="" sentiment="" among="" kirtland,="" whom="" lacked="" energy="" move="" missouri="" lacked,="" disposition.="" nov.="" 10h,="" sunday.="" preached="" temple="" forenoon,="" afternoon;="" compar-="" ison,="" andhad="" freedom,="" 'compared"them="" a'="" parcel="" old="" earthern="" pots="" cracked="" burning,="" mostly="" apostates="" -were-hving="" there.-="" immediately="" -af="" ter-l="" re="" turn-,="" ed="" irabond;="" martin="" harris,="" cyrus="" smalling="" a'nd="" others'came="" at-="" tacked="" me.on.="" what,1="" load;been="" saying,="" .asking="" whpi="" referred="" in-,="" wmjtarisbnsj'said="" i,="" “to="" no="" particuiafj'.but="" toany="" bne="" coat="" fits.”!="" hedlock,="" canid’in'="" thfl="" f="" me-="" ment,="" talk="" withy="" laying;="" bed-rav-="" chill="" able="" talk.="" john:-moreton="" others="" declared="" never="" should="" house:="" again;,="" some,="" people0="" tried="" make,="" angry,="" as.="" quarrel="" ihe,="" failed.="" ,.="" nov,="" icthtmade="" hiy="" lidipts="" deati'="" gould’s="" house,="" ira.="" bond.="" they1="" diid="" families="" kihd="" as'="" comfortable="" ixs="" could,="" stayed="" tliem="" most="" bf="" ths="" time;="" was-in="" during="" weather="" stormy;="" ,1am="" thankful,gbt="" rid="" pf="" the.="" chills="" fliis="" time="" with-="" aidof="" medicine,="" continued="" aillict-="" .oou’gh="" caught="" riding="" flights.="" “!="" 7th,="" brotlier="" bfighatn="" forenoon;="" johri="" tayldr="" the"'after-="" noon.="" tn="" dvdnlng-brotherbrigliam="" anoint-="" :brother="" lord,="" jldving="" .previously="" washed="" himself="" pure,="" water;="" we.all="" temple.="" i.="" calofil,upon="" openedjne="" meeting="" prayer,="" when.="" brigham,="" ahqhited="" oil,="" pronounced="" .="" blessings="" upon="" spirit="" utt6rahkd7'="" .brother="" thteu="" ptayed.="" bro;.theodore="" turley,="" seventies,'was="" anointed="" daniel="" s.="" presidents="" seventies;="" both="" anoi="" n="" tin="" gs="" were;="" seal="" loud="" shouts="" hosannah!.="" their="" feet="" andfhe.meeting="" closed.="" coun-="" cil="" held="" brothers="" keilbg,="" moreloh="" others,="" wjio="" the;="" jead="" ipr.tlaha:="" w'e="" posed="" elders="" remain="" there="" arld="" preacli="" feny="" wgeks1.="" more-="" ton="" rep]ed="" they'="" had'="" talented="" preachers,="" chnsidared="" men="" ordiriary'="" talents="" as-="" this="" mtsaion,'could="" do="" no'good="" kirtland,he="" tprobably="" inaiitdo,="" but;he="" sure.”1="" v<="" div="">wrote her a comforting letter in reply, praying
the Lord to bless her and the little ones.
	26th.—Brother Babbitt took me in his buggy
twelve miles, to the house of Brother Scott; they
were very glad to see us, and we tarried with
them through the night.
	27th, Sunday.—Brother Scott sent his little
son John, who carried us to Bellville, fifteen
miles, several miles of the journey in a rain
storm, which obliged us to put up at an inn for
the remainder of the day and night.  Brother
Brigham was very sick and obliged to go to bed.
I sat up to wait upon him, and spent the even-
ing with the landlord and his lady preaching
to them; they received our testimony and were
very kind to us.
	28th.—The landlord rose up very early and
talked to the citizens abou the travelers who
had staid with him the night previous, and what
he had heard us say concerning the Gospel. The
neighbors flocked in, made many inquiries and
were very anxious that we should tarry and preach
in the place. The landlord said several times he
hoped the stage would not come, that we might
stay and preach, as the people were very
much excited by having had a great discussion
between two popular religious preachers recent-
ly. The stage, however, came along about 10
o'clock, and we started on our way towards Kirt-
land, and we left the landlord in tears. While
in Pleasant Garden we obtained some money, so
that with the five dollars we had left when the
brethren left us on the 18th, now amounted to
$13.50.  When we got into the stage we did not
expect to ride many miles. We rode as far as
Indianapolis, Ind., paid our passage, and found
we hd sufficient means to carry us to Rich-
mond, Ind. When we arrived at Richmond, we
found we had means to take us to Dayton, to 
which place we proceeded and tarried over
night, waiting for another line of stages. We
expected to stop here and preach until we got
means to pursue our journey. Brother Brigh-
ham went to his trunk to get money to pay the
bill, and found that we had sufficient to pay our
passage to Colombus, Ohio, to which place
we took passage in the stage and tarried over
night. When we paid the bill, we found he had
sufficient means to pay our passage to Wooster.
We tarried until  after part of the day and
then took passage for Wooster. When we ar-
rived there, Brother Brigham went to his trunk
again to get money to pay our bill and found
enough to pay our passage to Cleveland. When
we got to a little town called Strongsville, about
twenty miles from Cleveland, towards evening,
Brother Brigham had a strong impression to stop
at a tavern when we first came into the town,
but the stage did not stop there, and so we went
on.  We arrived at Cleveland about eleven
o'clock at night, took lodgings, and remained
until next evening. November 3d, Sunday, in
the morning, we went to the Episcopalian
Church. While returning to the hotel, we met
my father-in-law and learned that Elders Smith,
Turley and Hedlock had just arrived in Cleve-
land. Father Murray was as as much astonished
to see me alive as though he had seen one risen
from the dead. I don't think I ever saw a man
feel better than he did when I met him on the
street. We walked with him a short distance
and met the brethren, who were in good health,
compared with what they had been, and in fine
spirits. We learned that they stopped at the
tavern at Strongsville, where Brother Brigham
had such strong impressions to stop the night
previous. They had picked up Elder John Tay-
lor at Dayton, where he was left at a tavern,
very sick with the ague and fever a few days be-
fore, by Father Coltrin, who proceeded to Kirt-
land. Brothers Taylor and Hedlock got into
the stage with us, which left early in the after-
noon; they rode as far as Willoughby; we pro-
ceeded to Kirtland and arrived the same even-
ing, where we found a good many brethren and
friends, who were glad to see us, thus fulfilling
the prediction made on my sick bed. Brother
Brigham had one Yorkshilling left, and on looking
over our expenses, we found we had paid out over
$87.00 out of the $13.50 we had at Pleasant Gar-
den, which is all the money we had to pay our
passage with. We had traveled over 400 miles
by stage, for which we paid from eight to ten
cents a mile, and had taken three meals a day
for each, of which we were charged fifty cents,
also fifty cents for our lodgings. Brother Brig-
ham often suspected that I put the money in
his trunk, or clothes, thinking I had a purse of
money which I had not acquainted him with,
but this was not so; the money could only have
been put in his trunk by some heavenly mes-
senger, who administered to our necessities
daily, as he knew we needed.

[Column 3]
	"There was a division of sentiment among the
brethren in Kirtland, many of whom lacked the
energy to move to Missouri and some lacked the
disposition. Nov. 10th, Sunday. Elder John
Taylor preached in the Temple in the forenoon,
I preached in the afternoon; by way of compar-
ison, and had freedom, and compared them to a
parcel of old earthen pots that were cracked in
burning, for they were mostly apostates that
were living there. Immediately after I return-
ed to the house of Ira Bond; Martin Harris,
Cyrus Smalling and others came in and at-
tacked me on what I had been saying, asking
me who I referred to in my comparisons; said I,
"to no one in particular, but to any one that
the coat fits." I was so sick that I referred them
to Brother Hedlock, who came in at that mo-
ment, to talk with, as I was laying in bed hav-
ing a chill and not able to talk. John Moreton
and others declared I never should preach in
the house again; some of the people tried to
make me angry, so as to quarrel with me, but 
they failed.
	Nov. 16th I made my home at Dean Gould's
in the house of Ira Bond. They and families
were all very kind to me, and made me as
comfortable as they could, I stayed with them
most of the time, I was in Kirtland, during
which the weather was very stormy. I am
thankful I got rid of the chills this time with-
out the aid of medicine, but I continued afflict-
ed with a cough which I caught by riding in
the stage through the nights.
	17th, Sunday. Brother Brigham preached in
the forenoon, Brother John Taylor in the after-
noon. In the evening Brother Brigham anoint-
ed Brother Taylor in the House of the
Lord, he having previously washed himself
in pure water; then we all went to the Temple.
I was caledl upon and opened the meeting
by prayer, when Brother Brigham anointed
him with oil, and pronounced such blessings
upon him as the spirit gave utterance. Brother
Taylor then arose and prayed. Bro. Theodore
Turley, one of the Seventies, was then anointed
by Daniel S. Miles, one of the Presidents of the
Seventies; both of which anointings were sealed
by loud shouts of Hosannah! then their feet
were washed and the meeting closed. A coun-
cil was held with Brothers Kellog, Moreton and
others, who took the lead in Kirtland; we pro-
posed that some of the Elders should remain
there and preach for a few weeks. John More-
ton replied that they had had many talented
preachers, and he considered that men of such
ordinary talents as were on this mission, could
do no good in Kirtland, he though probably that
Brother John Taylor MIGHT do, but he was not
sure."


26		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SENTIMENT.

	You ask respecting my sentiments on the
woman question. My views on this gigantic
subject prior to my departure from Salt Lake
were quite premature, but you know how they
inclined, and I will here state that they have
strengthened as time has rolled on. I am now
fully convinced of woman's efficiency, not only
<jt only="" asqueen="" of="" the="" ‘home="" circle,="" the'molder”="" minds="" men,="" guiding,="" star="" youth,="" radiance="" which="" can="" never="" bh="" eclipsed,="" or="" rivaled="" by="" other="" lights,="" nor="" do="" these="" immense="" boundaries1="" limit="" ner="" sphere,="" butnslyie'w="" subject;her="" infllittlee="" for="" good="" extends,="" jar="" out="" into="" infinitude,="" herstppping="" place="" has="" not="" been="" designated,="" .nor="" can.="" line="" demarcation="" be="" drawn,="" especially="" now="" that="" flat="" gone="" fprth,="" and,.="" ere="" jpnglwill.="" heralded="" itijall="" na-="" trons,="" calling.earths="" fair'daughters="" in'all="" glory="" “of="" their="" womanhood,="" into1="" grand="" arena="" science,="" art,="" literature="" and="" religion,="" “the="" flay="" is="" coming="" when="" already="" daughters="" one="" family,="" shall="" dwellers="" in="" one'="" n&me.="" science="" shade="" key="" torch="" tppp="" her="" telescope="" before="" throne="" tne="" pternal;="" pursue="" studies="" ind="" dream="" dreams="" mystic="" at-="" posphere="" heavens="" own="" day.="" religion="" take="" ,two,="" sisters="" hand,="" smile="" upon="" tlpm="" with;="" peppapd="" majestic="" lo've="" a="" superior="" nature,="" introduce'="" them"="" to,‘thc="" i?r6senco="" chamber="" pf="" kihgof,kings,="" three-="" fold="" cord="" united="" to="" them="" forevpr.”="" .="" woman’s="" hitherto="" dormant="" affinities="" will="" called="" into;ac-="" tivifcy,="" .and="" she="" display="" an="" efficient="" executive="" ability,-that="" itself,="" 1="" recommend="" offices="" of.honor="" trust,="" <="" div="">as queen of the home circle, the "molder" of
the minds of men, the guiding star of youth, the
radiance of which can never be eclipsed, or
rivaled by other lights, nor do these immense
boundaries limit her sphere, but as I view the
subject her influence for good extends far out
into infinitude, her stopping place has not been
designated, nor can the line of demarcation be
drawn, especially now that the fiat has gone
forth, and ere long will be heralded to all na-
tions, calling earth's fair daughters in all the
glory of their womanhood, into the grand arena
of science, art, literature, and religion, for
"the day is coming when science, literature and
religion, already daughters of one family, shall
be dwellers in one home. Science shall shade
her torch and stoop her telescope before the
<jt only="" asqueen="" of="" the="" ‘home="" circle,="" the'molder”="" minds="" men,="" guiding,="" star="" youth,="" radiance="" which="" can="" never="" bh="" eclipsed,="" or="" rivaled="" by="" other="" lights,="" nor="" do="" these="" immense="" boundaries1="" limit="" ner="" sphere,="" butnslyie'w="" subject;her="" infllittlee="" for="" good="" extends,="" jar="" out="" into="" infinitude,="" herstppping="" place="" has="" not="" been="" designated,="" .nor="" can.="" line="" demarcation="" be="" drawn,="" especially="" now="" that="" flat="" gone="" fprth,="" and,.="" ere="" jpnglwill.="" heralded="" itijall="" na-="" trons,="" calling.earths="" fair'daughters="" in'all="" glory="" “of="" their="" womanhood,="" into1="" grand="" arena="" science,="" art,="" literature="" and="" religion,="" “the="" flay="" is="" coming="" when="" already="" daughters="" one="" family,="" shall="" dwellers="" in="" one'="" n&me.="" science="" shade="" key="" torch="" tppp="" her="" telescope="" before="" throne="" tne="" pternal;="" pursue="" studies="" ind="" dream="" dreams="" mystic="" at-="" posphere="" heavens="" own="" day.="" religion="" take="" ,two,="" sisters="" hand,="" smile="" upon="" tlpm="" with;="" peppapd="" majestic="" lo've="" a="" superior="" nature,="" introduce'="" them"="" to,‘thc="" i?r6senco="" chamber="" pf="" kihgof,kings,="" three-="" fold="" cord="" united="" to="" them="" forevpr.”="" .="" woman’s="" hitherto="" dormant="" affinities="" will="" called="" into;ac-="" tivifcy,="" .and="" she="" display="" an="" efficient="" executive="" ability,-that="" itself,="" 1="" recommend="" offices="" of.honor="" trust,="" <="" div="">throne of the eternal; literature shall pursue her
studies and dream her dreams in the mystic at-
mosphere of heavens own day, and religion shall
take her two sisters by the hand, smile upon
them with the serene and majestic love of a
superior nature, introduce them to the Presence
Chamber of the King of Kings, and in a three-
fold cord be united to them forever." Woman's
hitherto dormant affinities will be called into ac-
tivity, and she will display an efficient executive
ability, that of itself will recommend her to
offices of honor and trust.


IT is expceted Tremont Temple, Boston will
be ready for use to day.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		27


﻿FAITH AND FRIENDS.

Life's troubles are transient, only
	They are often a needful test,
Nor long will the brave be lonely
	Who with faith and with friends are blest.
God knows that we need refreshing,
	For sorrow He makes amends;
And He thus bestows the blessing
	Of faith and of thoughtful friends.

Oft the roughest roads lead upward,
	And the heavens they're nearer too;
So we'll trust our Father's purpose—
	For 'tis always kind and true.
We'll trust Him ever and always,
	Though to death He brings us nigh;
Though by ways unknown He leads us—
	Nor shows us the reason why.

From the crown of the hill, Experience!
	Are views that are always bright—
They always are wise who climb it,
	But oh! 'Tis a rugged height
Our God we must needs confide in,
	He'll lend us a helping hand,
We'll see as we're upward climbing
	A glimpse of "the holier land."

The way for the weak and weary—
	Is shorten'd and so 'tis best.
We know if we trust God's guiding
	We'll enter his promised rest.
If long or if rough life's journey—
	He is safe who on God depends;
He is rich who has yet the blessing—
	Of faith and of thoughtful friends.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, July, 1880.


[Column 1]
MARY CHAWORTH.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Annesley Hall was the paternal home of Mary
Chaworth, it is a short distance from Newstead
Abbey, the ancient possession of the Byrons;
both are situated in Nottinghamshire, England;
the estates join each other, and have been made
famous by the graphic pen of the poet. Mary
Chaworth was an heiress, and is described as
having much personal beauty, and a disposition
the most amiable and attaching. Lord Byron
had been introduced to her family in London,
and on taking up his residence at Newstead,
and after coming to the title, he renewed his
acquaintance with them. He was then only
sixteen, and the young heiress two years older.
His visits were frequent and familiar; a room
being appropriated to him whenever
he thought proper to make use of it.
A few happy weeks were passed riding,
boating on the lake, shooting at a given
mark, and such like, in which Mary always
made one, Byron being through all her devoted
Esquire. This short period of about six weeks
was probably the happiest, the sweetest, and the
least mixed with alloy of his short, but full life;
In them he imbibed a deep-seated passion for his
young hostess, that was to color all his future
life, and only bring to him bitterness and disap-
pointment. He writes in his diary of this time:
"When I was fifteen we formed a party to visit
Matlock, in Derbyshire; when in that most re-
markable cavern, where you have to cross a
stream, only two persons can occupy the boat at
the same time, and that in a reclining position,
this stream flows under the rock, with the rock
so close upon the water as to admit the boat only
to be pushed through the chasm by a ferryman,
(a sort of Charon) who wades at the
stern, stooping all the time; the
companion of my transit was M. A. C.
with whom I had been long in love, and never
told it though she had discovered it without. I
recollect well every feeling of those moments
but cannot describe them,let them pass. There
were five besides myself,and my M. A. C. Alas!
why do I say my? Our union would have sealed
feuds, in which blood had been shed by our an-
cestors! it would have joined lands, broad and
rich, and two persons not ill-matched in years
(she is two years my elder) united two hearts,
and perhaps strengthened one head, which by
the bye has never been quite right since! and
what has been the result?" These are his own
words.
	It seemed the lives of these two persons were

[Column 2]
mysteriously interwoven, yet destined never to
culminate; Byron has converted all the scenes
of these times into that beautiful, sad, but
graphic poem.—"The Dream"—That is the
strongest, the most thrilling and the briefest
biography ever written in the English language!
her name would not now be known but for the
immortality that this boy-lover gave to it, "even
now she loved another" and it seems she had no
prescience of mind to see, or comprehend the
brilliant destiny awaiting him; but prefrred the
associate of grooms and jockeys, to the poet-boy
who was hereafter to stand before the world the
cynosure of all hearts and eyesl aud alas! the
sequel was the old, old tale, neglect, and deser-
tion, by him to whom she gave her wealth, and
above all herself, who squandered her riches in
reckless extravagance, with horse-racing and its
usual concomitants. She awoke from her fal-
lacious dream to find the gay "John Musters"
over whom she had so fondly thrown the
mantle of her early love, was merely the Hero of
the steeple chase prominent on the race course,
the idol of grooms and jockeys, and men of ques-
tionable character, Yclept "Gentlemen"!—while
"the boy" she had seen no glory in, had become
a nation's glory associated with the royalty for
which mental wealth forms and bestows the
diadem.
	She sent for him and requested an interview!
but to his honor be it spoken, he declined that
which must have been distressing to both: No!
his love had been to him no child's play, no
dalliance with coquetteries, but a passion that
had drugged his soul with bitterness, thrown
his life under a cloud, so pure, as never
after to be trifled with so sacred, that it
seemed the very wedding of the spiritual, and
the eternal. He had passed from out that old
Hall never again to enter it.
	It is perhaps but just to offer excuses for her—
she was an heiress—and the petted, child of
adulation, which wealth engenders—she was
two years his senior which at the early age
they met, making a girl far ahead of a boy of
sixteen or less, he is then merely a being for her
to patronize; to trifle with, and this was her
course with Byron, severe was the penalty; her
mind, never a strong one, became by her sorrow-
ful change, "The Queen of a fantastic realm.
Her thoughts were combinations of disjointed
things, and forms impalpable and unpercived of
others sight familiar were to hers."
	Byron's name alone gives her half the laurel
which o'er shades his grave.


A FEW OF MY THOUGHTS.

	While reflecting upon the present state of so-
ciety and the prevailing sins and vices of the
world, we are sometimes ready to exclaim, with
the Prophet, "How is the gold become dim;
how is the most fine gold changed." How
often are our ears made to tingle and our hearts
to grow sad at the fearful accounts of crime and 
misery that abound throughout the length and
breadth of the land. While we read of the reve-
lations made by a Talmage and are shocked by
the horrible crimes prevalent. While dens of
infamy and debauchery flourish under the pro-
tection of the law, and the vile seducer of inno-
cence walks abroad with unblushing front
amongst the rich and honored of the land, while
the poor victim of his flattery and deception,
whose only crime was "loving not wisely, but
too well," and who has yielded to him all that
woman holds most dear (her purity) is forsaken
and cast out to be shunned and scorned by her
own sex and only sought by the opposite for the
gratification of the basest of passions and be cast
aside till she becomes a loathsome and degraded
thing unfit for the society of man or woman,
till in her agony and despair she is frequently
driven to commit the fearful crime of self-de-
struction, or perhaps thinking to hide her shame
to cover her guilt, she herself tramples on the
best law of our nature and becomes the destroy-
er of her hapless offspring, or vice robed in
splendor displays her gaudy garments at the
corners of the streets. While industrious and
suffering virtue is too often left to suffer and die
uncared for and unknown. Truly we are ready
to veil our faces to shut out the fearful picture
and to cry out in anguish of spirit;
Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physi-
cian there? Why, then, is not the health of my
people recovered? Surely the Lord will find a 
remedy, or the nation that is guilty of these
things will be followed by a strange punish-
ment, and be cut off; a fit reward for their deeds.
But who are they who are the first to cry out
against the revelations and institutions of the
Lord? Is it not the seducer, the debauchee, the


vile libertine, who panders to the lusts and pas-
sions of men? But these are not all. How
many of those whose elevated position, and su-
perior advantages of education and refinement
makes them a power in the land, who should
be the guardians of purity and virtue, and many
who profess to be followers of Him who is of purer
eyes than to behold iniquity; in whom was found
no sin, yet do not even they, the teachers of a
false system of religion, cry “Peace, Peace,”
when there is no peace, calling light darkness,
and darkness light, putting bitter for sweet and
sweet for bitter.
   "These are they who creep into houses" (hypo-
crites,) who, under the guise of religion, gain the
confidence of the unsuspecting, and taking ad-
vantage of the influence thus acquired, by the
basest of arts, "lead captive silly women."  Oh,
beware of them; trust not their promises; the
poison of asps is under their lips; the garland is
cankered; there is death in the cup that they
offer; the pillow is burning. May the day speedi-
ly arrive when woman shall understand her true
destiny; when she shall dare arise in the
strength of her purity, and say to the vain seek-
er of the pleasures of an hour, get thee gone! I
have nothing to do with thee. Then would the
libertine and profligate in vain seek for a victim.
Hasten the day of the Lord when righteousness
shall cover the earth.
			P. C. Y., 2d Ward, S. L. City


THE CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	A Fair held in Farmington by the Pri-
mary Association, under the supervision of Sis-
ter Aurelia S. Rogers and her assistants, to
whom great credit is due for their unwearied
efforts to make it a complete success. Sisters
Eliza R. Snow Smith and Ellen C. S. Clawson
visited it and gave a most interesting report of
the affair. It seems remarkable that children
with the help of one or two efficient and zealous
sisters could make such a showing of home man-
ufacture. It makes one feel like saying Hurrah,
for the children and the Primary Association;
they are becoming a power in the midst of Zion.
	The following are a complete list of articles on
exhibition at the Industrial Fair of the Primary
Association of Farmington, held June 29th and
30th, 1880. Mottoes, 9, in frames 23x12 inches.
Splint Work.—Three large paper holders, three
baskets filled with Tarlton flowers, eight wall
pockets. Wool—Flowers.—Four large oval
frames filled with wool flowers, three large cases
of wool flowers. Crochet Work.—Seven crochet
tidies, one lady's collar, two factory tidies, one
flower basket. Knitting Work.—Seven pairs
socks and stockings, three pairs wristlets, (wool)
one pair mittens, one money purse, four pieces
lace, one collar.
	Straw Work.—One large wall pocket, one
basket, two baskets straw flowers, four bouquets
straw flowers, seven home-made straw hats for
ladies.
	Mrs. Clark and five little daughters working
at table making all kinds of fancy straw work,
six dolls' bonnets, trimmed with fancy straw
work, one beautiful basket. Quilting Work.—
Sixty blocks pieced for quilting, eight quilts.
Marking on Card Board.—One in frame 21x13
inches, the Lord's Prayer, in colored silk, raised
at home, one inch frame 20x13 inches, the Ten
Commandments, in home-made silk, in colors,
very beautiful, two hanging flower baskets, one
balloon in cardboard, three match safes, one cor-
nucopia, fourteen picture frames, one oval bask-
et, one square box, one oval box, one mug.
Sampler Work.—Two large mottoes, three book-
marks, four alphabets.
	Miscellaneous Articles.—One rabbit of cotton,
one black-bird of cloth, one arm chair, wood,
one bob-sled, pair of grey-hounds in plaster
paris, one shovel plow and chain, two balls car-
pet rags, one wreath paper flowers, four large
bouquets, paper flowers, three tarlton mats, one
wax basket, nine handsome wool mats, one
piece embroidery, one bouquet cambric flowers,
one box covered with shells from the Salt Lake,
one plaited rag carpet, sixteen yards rag carpet,
model of church, view of Lake Shore Park, two
handsomely dressed dolls.
	Silk Worms and one hair switch. Specimens
of Cooking.—Fve loaves of bread, seven different
kinds of cake, vegetables, fruits, etc., raised by
members of the Association, strawberries, cher-
ries, gooseberries, honey in comb, pie-plant,
turnips, potatoes, beans, butter, flowers fresh
from the garden.
										COM.
	N.B—The above articles were manufactured
or raised by the members of the Association.


28		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	PLEASURE EXCURSION TO BLACK
	ROCK

	A very pleasant party of old people, almost all
over the allotted three score years and ten.
This company under the management of one of 
the most efficient and courteous committees
that could possibly be formed, went out to Black
Rock (via) the Utah Western Railway to spend
the day in social converse etc., on Thursday
July 8th, inst. They were gathered from all the 
various parts of the city, and the local regions
roundabout, in carriages, wagons and street cars.
They were accompanied by Pres. John Taylor,
Apostle Wilford Woodruff our aged veteran sisters
Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Eliza R. Snow
Smith, some other invited guests; a few news-
paper reporters and some musicians were also
members of the party.
	The train left the Depot in this city at 8. 20,A.
M. There were in addition to all the passenger
cars that could be obtained eight flat cars all
crowded.
	The ride to Black Rock was agreeable in every
respect, nothing occured to mar the enjoyment
of any, and the weather was most propitious.
Arriving at the destination about half past nine.
A star spangled banner was streaming from a
high point of the Mt., just by the Grantsville
brass band under the leadership of Bro., James
Ratcliffe and in handsome brand new uniform,
greeted the party with excellent music; Pres.
F. M. Lyman and his assistants had prepared a
bowery, tables and every convenience needful to
make the old people comfortable with lumber,
wagon cover and materials from Tooele. Re-
freshments of every kind imaginable had been
brought and were soon served,buckets of lemon-
ade were prepared and all who wished were
furnished with hot water for tea. The 7th,ward
band led by Bro. Wm. Foster played some lively
music and some of the old people were invited to
dance. Father Colborn one of Zion's Camp
aged 79,danced a hornpipe like a young boy; also
Elder Samuel Neslen 73 of S. L. City, Amos
Mc Bride Grantsville 84, and Wm. Jenkinson
16th, Ward S. L. City 72,(blind.) Sister Eastham
of Grantsville and Scotch Ann of 15th Ward S.
L. City. The company enjoyed the oocasion in
meeting with old friends and in bathing in the 
calm placid and exhilarating waters of the cele-
brated Salt Lake. A number of old people from
Tooele Co.,came to meet those from the city,and
participate in the social festivities.
	At one o'clock P. M., exercises were com-
menced in the bowery. Prayer was offered by
Elder Chapman, Wm. Foster sang "The Merry
Mormons," all joining in the chorus. Presiding
Bishop Edward Hunter; Chairman of the Ex-
cursion Committee made a few fatherly and in-
terestng remarks, Bro. Hunter is now 86 years
of age and is still full of life and vigor. Bro.

[Column 2]
Beers sang "The down hill of life." Sister Levis-
age aged 93 gave a page of her experience and 
sang a verse of the hymn "Now let us rejoice in
the day of salvation," Elder Neslen sung "The
King of the Cannibal Islands" nearly all the old
people joining in the chorus. The oldest man
was called for when Wm. Wilding aged 97 came
forward. A Duet by Bro. and Sister Moss
"We've lived and loved together." This aged
couple have lived happily together about 53
years, and have had 21 children. Elder Samuel
Neslen and his wife Sister Eunice Neslen have
been wedded 51 years, and lived in perfect har-
mony during the entire period. They have had
12 children 53 grandchildren and 6 great grand-
children.
	 President Taylor at the request of the com-
mittee addressed the assembly. He blessed the
people and those who had so thoughtfully re-
membered the "old folks." He expressed his
pleasure at being present to witness so much
happiness; remarked it was proper to pluck as
many flowers as possible in the journey of life;
spoke of the blessings of the everlasting Gospel,
and that this was what had brought so many of
us together under such favorable circumstances,
for which we of all people on the face of the
earth ought to be grateful. Said: "I suppose we
have a good many seventies here to-day; well
we are looking forward to the future when we
shall meet with those who have gone before, let
us try to benefit our fellowmen and help prepare
all that we can for the Celestial kingdom; let
union be our motto, we must be united, cleave
to God and to one another, live our religion,
keep the commandments of God, and we'll
meet on the other side of Jordan, Hallelujah, as
we used to sing." Blest Bro. Goddard and
Bro. Savage and said let us all seek to bless one
another and proposed three cheers for "the old
folks at home." Bros. Savage and Goddard pro-
posed three cheers for President Taylor, which
was responded to by the multitude.
	Bro. Savage, in behalf of the people, thanked
Bros. W. W. Riter, Hooper, Jennings, Teasdel,
also Walker Bro., and Alonzo Hyde and D. J.
Taylor of Black Rock, and other merchants and
private individuals for donating liberally towards
the excursion, and the prizes for some of the
oldest of the party, and generously assisting to
make the old folks happy. He then proposed
a vote of thanks for Pres. Lyman, of Tooele,
which was heartily accorded and three loud and
enthusiastic cheers were given for the "Repub-
lic of Tooele."
	Bro. Wm. Jenkinson (blind) sang "John, the 
sailor.'[-] Prizes were distrubted to those who
sang, danced, etc. Catherine Wilson, aged 87,
of E. T. City, who pulled a handcart across the
plains, and Daniel England, of Tooele, 81, the
oldest man present, who had drawn a handcart
across the plains, had prizes awarded them,
also two aged sisters for making neckties from
native grown silk. One of the fovorite singers
of other days, Elder William C. Dun-
bar, sang "My dear old wife and I," in
his happiest manner. The congregation sang
"Praise God," and the closing benediction was
pronounced by Bro. George Goddard. There
were many old people from Tooele and Grants-
ville. Everything passed off peaceably and
pleasantly, and some dear old people with
whom we are intimately acquainted de-
clared it the happiest day of their lives.
	It is very beautiful to see such manifestations
of reverence and respect for the aged, who are
deprived of many of the recreations and enjoy-
ments the younger and middle-aged participate
in. God bless those who thus administer, bless,
comfort and bring gladness and pleasure to the
weary ones who have toiled so long in this work-
aday world, and who are now nearing the "gold-

[Column 3]
en gates" of the celestial city. Success to Bishop
Hunter and Brothers Savage and Goddard, for
their annual entertainment of the old folks.
May they never want for any good thing, and
always meet with kindness, and a hearty God
bless you from all, both young and old.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of June 19th, and further re-
marks of President Taylor in the afternoon of
that day, are crowded out again.

	WE have several reports from Primary Asso-
ciations laid by for next time, also some poetry
and other articles; and we repeat again that
we must have the real and full name of those
who send articles for publication; otherwise we
cannot use them.

	THE Home Dramatic Club will appear in the
Theater on the night of the 23d and 24, of July
in the pretty, thrilling and romantic drama of
"Rosedale." Miss Keetie Haywood will person-
ate the beautiful and fascinating Lady Florence
May. Mrs. Ardelle Cummings the piquant
charming and interesting Rosa Leigh. The
principal character Elliot Grey will be performed
by Laron Commings and Matthew Lee M. D., by
O. F. Whitney. Hebe M. Wells will appear in
a new role the gentlemanly villain Col. Caven-
dish May.

	WE are pleased to announce to our readers and
the many friends of the young lady that Miss
Mattie Paul Hughes received her diploma on the
first day of July, Commencement at the Ann
Arbor University. She writes, "It was my day
of days" with two hundred and four other grad-
uates I marched triumphantly on to the great
platform, where we were presented with our
diplomas amid the cheers of the crowded Hall
and as we descended our floral gifts were handed
us. Mine was a basket of beautiful flowers rich
and rare."
	Miss Mattie goes from the University to the
home of an invalid lady who resides on the
banks of the St. Clair river: where she will re-
main until September, then go to the New
England Hospital, Boston, Mass.

	PREPARATIONS are being made for a magnifi-
cent display in the procession of the Pioneer
Celebration on the 24th inst., which will also be
a sort of Jubilee of the Fiftieth Year since the
organization of the Church. It should certainly
be a time of general rejoicing and a "day of
days" for Israel. The Decorative Committee,
with young ladies to assist them, are beautifying
the inside of the Tabernacle, by making new
baskets and wreaths of flowers and vines, mak-
ing the place more fresh and attractive, and
with the draping and other adornments it will
present a charming picture.

	ERRATA.—In July 1st number of the EXPO-
NENT, in the article entitled "Byron's Monu-
ment," some typographical errors occur which
must be corrected. The word Carebury, in the
inscription, should have been are buried. I in-
tended the inscription printed in the form in
in which it is inscribed upon the tomb. Here
it is, as it should be:

Where many of the ancestors of his Mother are buried
				Lie the remains of
		George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord Byron
		Of Rochdale in the County of Lancaster
		Author of Childo Harold's Pilgrimage.

	The other correction is Eternal City, which
reads as published, Eternallity.
						HANNAH T. KING.

	Two meetings of the sisters were held at Draper
on Tuesday the 13th inst. The Relief Society con-
vened in the morning at ten, Mrs. Harriet Burn-


ham presiding. After singing, prayer and the
reading of minutes, the meeting was addressed
by Sisters M. I. Horne, E. B. Wells and E. R.
Snow Smith. Bishop I. M. Stewart then endorsed
the remarks of the Sisters, and added a strong
testimony of the Gospel. Singing, benedic-
tion. At noon a party of the sisters were
invited to dine at Bro. Joshua Terry's; and after
partaking of a good substantial dinner, were
shown over the grounds. Brother Terry has
five acres enclosed as a garden, which is highly
cultivated. Fruit trees of almost every variety,
luxuriant grape vines, delicious raspberries of dif-
ferent colors, also strawberries that are now near-
ly all gone. We all quite enjoyed our pleasant
ramble through the grounds. At 2 p.m. a meet-
ing was held to organize a Primary Association.
There were as many present as could crowd into
the school-house. "Sister Eliza" addressed the
children on the subject of being organized and
explained to the parents and children the need
there was of spiritual training for the young, the
great lack there had been in this regard in times
past.	*	*	Mrs. Catharine Smith was
elected President, Mrs. Emma Terry and Mrs.
Elizabeth Day, Counselors; Alice Stewart, Secre-
tary; Eliza Stewart, Assistant Secretary, and
Delia Fitzgerald, Treasurer. One hundred and
six members were enrolled. Sisters' Wells and
Horne talked a little to the children, and the
meeting closed in the usual way. The children
kept excellent order and seemed much interested
in all that was said to them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARIES.

	The sistesr of the Minersville Relief Society
have been called to mourn the loss of one of
their most faithful members, the beloved wife
of our worthy Bishop, James McKnight. She
departed this life June 3d, 1880. Her complaint
was dropsy, from which she suffered six months
and two weeks. Sister Sarah McKnight was
ever faithful to the cause of truth, was a teacher
in our society for many years, always counseling
good to the members. She has endured many
afflictions, but by the exercise of faith she al-
ways possessed, she was enabled to overcome,
until her last sickness. She was a loving wife,
an affectionate mother and a true Saint of God.
She died as she had lived, in full faith of the
Gospel, with the glorious hope of coming forth in
the resurrection of the just. The deceased, Sarah
Howell McKnight, was born December 26th,
1833, in South Wales; was baptized at the age of
twelve years; emigrated with her parents to
Australia shortly after; was married to James
McKnight April 4th, 1854; started the same day
to the home of the Saints. She leaves her hus-
band and ten children, an aged mother, and a
large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
									P. A. Z.

	Died in Spring City, Utah, June, 1880, Sister
Caroline King and Lena Olsen. Sister King has
been a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints for 49 years, has passed
through a great many of the persecutions inci-
dent to the rise of the church. She has been
faithful to the last; a kind and dutiful wife and
mother, and we now feel assured she has gone
to enjoy the Fiftieth Year's Jubilee with the just
behind the vail. Sister Olsen was one of our
beloved teachers. She was a widow when she
emigrated from Scandinavia, but she brought
her family to Zion. She has suffered most se-
verely for three years with an inward cancer,
which finally caused her death. She was sur
rounded by a large family of children, who are
left to mourn her loss, though they were glad
she could be relieved for her suffering was so

[Column 2]
intense. She has done much good in waiting on
the sick and needy in our society.
				FANNY KOFFORD,
		In behalf of the R. S. Spring City.

	DIED in Pleasant Green, at fifteen minutes to
12 o'clock, June, 28, 1880, after an illness of two
weeks, Charlotte Brook Hirst, wife of the late
deceased John Hirst. She was born March,
1818, in Slaithwaite, England, and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in 1853, emigrated to Utah in 1868; was
the mother of thirteen children. She leaves one
son and nine daughters, thirty-nine grandchil-
dren and many friends, who deeply mourn her
loss. She was a good, kind, faithful wife and
mother. She has always had a desire that as
soon as the Lord saw fit to take her to her hus-
band, who died just twenty-one months and
twenty-one days before her, that it would be a
happy day. In the spring of 1879, Sister Snow
and Sister Horne organized a Relief Society in
this Ward, and Sister Hirst was elected Presi-
dent, the duties of which office she has perform-
ed well. Rather than miss her meeting she
would walk four miles. She was a woman of
the purest principles and greatest integrity, and
was well respected by all who knew her; wher-
ever she went she gained the good will of all her
associates. She was liberal to the poor, faithful
and true to her trust as a hand-maiden of God,
and as a good, useful member of the Ward in
which she lived. She has passed from earth
with a full assurance of an eternal salvation with
the redeemed and sanctified in Jesus Christ.

	"I'll praise my Maker while I've breath,
	And when my voice is lost in death,
	Praise shall employ my nobler powers;
	My days of praise shall ne'er be past,
	While life and  thought and being last,
	Or immortality endures."
								VIRA.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN June 28th, 1880.
	Aunt Em: While all nature seems hushed
after a threatening thunder-storm and the stifl-
ing dust lies beneath the carriage wheels as they
are whirling past in scores to enjoy the washed
air and the cooling breeze, and the leaves are
silvery from falling water that has so recently
bathed them, I find I have just time for once
to admire nature decked in her most beautiful
attire, and comment upon the "weather." I
almost wonder if I have just awakened from a
dream and have been asleep all these months
since I last wrote.
	Really, I have scarce had time to realize
whether I had a friend or foe, whether the moon
rose or the sun set. I have been lost to every
thing but books and lectures. You will please
remember where I turned the leaf down when I
was last talking to you: I had arrived at Ann
Arbor here I met Miss Mattie Paul Hughes she
is now very busy expecting to receive her Degree
as M. D., the 1st of July, is not this welcome
news? You would think so if you had traveled
the same road through brambles and briars, al-
though the knowledge is valuable the road is
rough and thorny, She has gained the point,
and won the prize and many readers in Utah
will have the pleasure of her acquaintance and
usefulness when she feels she has what she
wants and needs and the whisperings are—come
home.
	My visit at the college—my anticipations were
fully realized and I felt satisfied with the oppor-
tunity that I saw had opened for me. I found
just what I wanted to add to what I had at-
tained in Philadelphia I made no delay but again
the second time registered my name as a medical
student and went to work. The lectures are
now closed and with them I have completed
my studies in Chemistry and received my Cer-
tificate.	*	*	*	*	*
	It is astonishing what art and science of this
the 19th, century can do. The more one learns
the more they know: there is no end; and instead
of emerging from, they are merging into the great
ocean of knowledge, and the labor began can
only be continued in another sphere.	*	*	*


Everything pertaining to the college and lec-
tures seems well done, and well applied. The
Chemical facilities I learn cannot be equaled in
the United States. I do not know how many
hundred tables they have in the Laboratory for
Physiological, Chemical and Analytical work.
	The building is large, furnished with several
wings fitted up with gas and water works, and
suitable apparatus, yet this summer they will
still add to it. The grounds called the Campus
which is an enclosure of some 100 rods square is a
lovely place for a walk, one is shielded from the
schorching sun by the trees above, and the as-
phaltum walks so nice to the feet, and the bal-
ance is carpeted with green grass. In this en-
closure is situated the great University of Mich-
igan comprising the Department of Literature,
Science and the Arts including the Schools of
Mines) . The Department of Medicine and
Surgery the Department of Law, the schools of
Pharmacy, the Homoeopathic Medical, and the
Dental College. Two large Hospitals. There is
considerable clashing between the professors of
the Regular school of Medicine and the Homoe-
pathic, this could scarcely be expected otherwise
when the two schools are at such wide differ-
ences from each other. On the whole Ann Ar-
ber as its name implies is sufficiently feminine
to make the place attractive. More Anon.
							E. S. BARNEY.


SAN FRANCISCO, June 18th, 1880.
Editor Exponent:
	There has been nothing of late of special in-
terest at present merely the local news of a large
city which does not make a lasting impression.
Local news consists of murders, suicides, acci-
dents, embezzlements and scandals, of which we
have enough to sustain us from day to day;
sometimes we have an extra like the late awful
railroad accident. Each one of you who long
for a view of the world had best remain at home,
where you are comparatively safe and where you
can never dream the half that's being done in
the great, busy world. For the lack of other
amusement, I watch the children in these nar-
row streets, where children are so numerous,
and I reason within myself why nearly all of
them turn out bad, and I have arrived at the
couclusion that it is the lack of youthful amuse-
ments of which the children are deprived. Boys
in particular; girls can amuse themselves in the
house, but boys must be out and have breath-
ing room. All, or nearly all, of the games and
pastimes are prohibited by law. They are not
allowed to fly kites because they get entangled
with the telegraph wires; no ball games, for it
breaks people's heads; no hide-and-go-seek, for
there is no place to hide; no whistles, for there
are no trees; no sleds or skates, for there is no
snow or ice; no place to make a wagon, for there
are no boards, and for my part I sympathize
with the much abused boys; there is no place for
them to play but the street. If they go into a
park, there is a man to keep them off the grass,
and if they sit on the steps of the house, some
one throws water on them.
	The great cry is, "What shall we do with our
boys?" I think that in large cities, some suita-
ble place should be provided for them to play
beside the street. If the city should hire some
wagons to let the boys have a ride for once in
their lives, or provide some suitable amusement,
it would be cheaper than boarding them at the
State's expense. If they had something to oc-
cupy their minds, they would not get into so
much mischief. The depravity among the
children here is frightful. Boys six years of age
smoking and learning different vices from older
boys. Every day we can see little boys, seven,
eight, nine and so on, of age, taken to the pri-
son. They are initiated in crime so young that
the State prison has no terrors; and some of you
mothers who are so anxious about your own lit-
tle ones should feel content and thank God that
you are so far away from such wickedness.
	Everything seems to be on the change politi-
cally, financially and domestically, and we are
all living in a suspense; something seems to
threaten us, but what, time only will reveal.
	Respectfully,					NELLIE.


THE gavel used  at  the  Chicago  convention
was made  of  wood  from  Lincoln's  home.  the
handle was a cane  grown  on  the  Mt.  Vernon
estate.  It was presented as a souvenir to  Sena-
tor Hoar to carry home.  It is  said  he  made a
"most admirable presiding  officer" doing justice
to all interested parties and  commanding  their
respect.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


CURIOSITY.

	Woman's curiosity has become proverb[-]al, and
with me the question arises, what is  curiosity?
I  think it is nothing more or, less than an in-
stinctive desire for  knowledge, and I ask myself
again, is there any thing worth  man's knowing
that woman should not know?  Woman is an in-
telligent being and has her part to act in the 
drama of life  (and  no  very  unimportant  part
either) and should feel interested in all that per-
tains  to  the welfare  of  the  human  race;  then
why should she be kept in ignorance of  existing
facts, that are proper  for  man  to  know.  For
ages [-]ast it has been considered  unpopular, and
almost  disrespectful, for woman  to  know any-
thing outside of her household affairs;  but shank
God things are changing, women are  beginning
to   understand  their  rights,  to  indulge  their 
curiosity,  and  look  and  learn  for  themselves;
they are no longer satisfied to remain in igno-
rance and stupidity.
	Knowledge when rightly  used  hurts  no  one
but tends to exalt,  none  need  be  afraid  that
woman will know too much: the more she knows
the better able she  will  be  to  act  wisely;  and
with the spirit of the Lord to help her she can
more easily and better  perform  the  duties  and
labors of life.  It will make her tasks lighter  for
she will not have so many blunders to rectify so
many wrongs to make right, she will not need
to do the same things over twice or thrice when,
she knows  where,  and how  everything  should
be done and therefore is  enabled  to  avoid  much
unnecessary  labor.  Then  let  woman  as  well
as man strive  for  knowledge, and  let  none  be
ridiculed for being curious.
	Let old  fashioned  notions  be  buried  in  the
past and let women emerge  into  the  light and
bring forth  children  of  intelligence,  who  will
help revolutionize the world.
	No wonder the world is in a  deplorable condi-
tion when women, the mothers and teachers are
not to know only the few things that man thinks
proper.  It is sad to know that so much  corrup-
tion exists in the world.  And I  do not  wonder
that man's sensitiveness is disturbed  when such
gross [-]vils are exposed to the eyes  of  the ladies,
as it has been of late in the  Museum of wax fig-
ures;  but I saw nothing there more unfit for the 
ladies to see than  gentleman, in  fact  I think  if
either is excluded it should be the men.
	By  women  seeing,  and  understanding  the
causes and effects, as mothers, they may, by pro-
per teachings prevent much of the evil that now
exists in the world.  So let no more ridicule and
reproach be cast upon woman for  being  curious.
I say success to  "Women's  cu[-]osity."
	C. DOW.
	Salt Lake City, June 1880.


THE "WORD OF WISDOM."

	The Word of Wisdom, as given in the revela-
lations, includes many th[-]ngs beside the use of
tea, coffee, or tobacco. But as those are desig-
nated there, and I often find myself thinking
about the great demand for tea and coffee by the
sisters among the Latter-day Saints, and how
few of them ever refuse the cup of tea, and that
is always presented at our social gatherings in
some localities at least, I thought I would write
a few lines upon it. That it is a growing evil
amongst us is evident from the fact that many
of our young sisters require the cup of tea to help
them to perform the most ordinary duties of life,
and without it feel themselves totally unfit for
exe[--]on of any kind. And the majority of our
young mothers not only use it constantly them-
selves, but give it to their little ones, thought-
lessly no doubt, but to their injury nevertheless,
as helping them to imbibe habits calculated to
retard their capacities for future usefulness,
which every mother should always keep in mind
in the rearing of her children. How blessed
would we be could we only keep in our hearts
that first love of the Gospel so many of us expe-
rienced in those by-gone days, when we first
embraced its principles, when with light hearts
we not only left off the use of what the Lord
said was not wise, but left comfortable homes;
many of us left fathers, mothers, sisters and bro-
thers also for the Gospel's sake,how small in com-
parison is the abstaining from the use of tea and
coffee.
	If we could only be united in all our efforts
and learn to live by every word that proceeds
from the mouth of the Lord, we would then be
blessed indeed.					AUNT MARY.

	Brigham City, Arizona, June 1st, 1880.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	At the concluding session of the N. W. S. A.
Convention, held in Indiaanapolis, Indiana, on
the evening of May 27th, there was a very large
and intelligent audience, and the exercises were
particularly interesting.
	First on the programme was Mrs. E. T. Housh,
of Louisville, Kentucky, who read a pointed and
witty poem, entitled "Scrub up, for the Women
are Coming." Mrs. Carr, of Louisville, reported
woman's work in Kentucky. Mrs. Mary E.
Haggart, of Indiana, made an effective address
and was warmly applauded.	*	*	*	Mrs.
Belva A. Lockwood said:
	"I would not, if I could, add anything to the
eloquent arguments of the speakers who have
preceded me, but I will say that the question
that seems most important to me is which of the
great parties of this country will put in its plat-
form the plank of woman suffrage. That party,
whatever it may be, will be the party of the fu-
ture, for as sure as I stand here to-night, not a
decade will pass, before every woman iu this
country, black and white, will have the right to
vote. The mouth of woman is no longer closed,
the fear has been lifted, and we must become
citizens. It has been said, "When the women
of this country ask for the ballot they should
have it," and as sure as truth is truth, so sure
now is the time to ask for it. Already in many
States they are voting on the school question,
and we need only to have that suffrage extend-
ed. But will the women in their new political
condition render the body politic no better and
purer? They certainly will, and that quickly.
In other words, before we attempt to govern
others we must show that we have a capacity
for self-government. If the laws are bad, we
must be willing to obey them until we can make
them better. If the ballot is given to the women
of this country, let them show the people that
they are fit descendants of the forefathers who
planned the revolution of 1776. Revolutions
make and unmake men, but no single mind
can control the impulse that drives them for-
ward. Slowly but surely in the last half century
has woman been coming to the front, and soon
she will be placed side by side with man as his
equal in everything. The era of woman is now.
She has only to put forth her hand to grasp the
forbidden fruits of the past. What she wants
is thorough and liberal education. The sole ob-
ject of the women of the next generation will
not be to get married, but they will fit them-
selves for self-support. The girl must be educat-
ed like the boy to trades and professions, and the
world is gradually waking up to this fact. In
Europe, as well as in America, the universities
now practice co-education, which gives a new
impetus to artistic and literary pursuits. When
men and women stand equal in everything,there
will be but one code of morals for man and for
woman. Hitherto, men in marrying women
have demanded of them that virtue which they
themselves could not return. See ye not, oh,
woman, that the harvests are ripe and the la-
borers few? Then, indeed, it is time for you to
be up and doing. Show your individuality and
that you are necessary for the perpetuation of
the government. There can be no elevated wo-
manhood without a noble manhood, and equal
and exact justice for both. We want great states-
men in this country rather than great generals,
and intelligent and thoughtful women rather
than leaders of fashion. If women are to have
the ballot, as I believe they are, they should ac-
cept it as a sacred trust, and use it accordingly.
If we want the ballot, now is the time to strike
the blow, but we must have united and concert-
ed action all along the line. Already have Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Lu-
cretia Mott seen the promised land, and I pray
to God that they may be allowed to enter in.
(Continued applause.)
	The speaking was concluded by a lengthy and
carefully-prepared address by Miss Phoebe Couz-
ins. Lack of space prevents a full report, and a
synopsis would do a decided injustice to such a
literary and logical effort."

NOTES AND COMMENTS FROM THE INDIANAPOLIS
JOURNAL.

	By far the liveliest scene in the convention
was that at the election of corresponding sec-
retary the first day. The committee on nomina-
tions reported in favor of the choice of Rachel G.
Foster, an intelligent and earnest young lady of
Philadelphia, and on the motion to amend the
report by substituting the name of Mrs. Sara
Andrews Spencer, of Washington, who has held
the office for some years, a spirited discussion

[Column 2]
ensued. The committee claimed that they had
decided upon the change because they under-
stood Mrs. Spencer's health was not good, and
they did not desire to impose upon her further.
That lady pertinently suggested that when she
wanted to be relieved of the office she would let
the convention know it, and not before, besides,
her health was as good as anybody's. She was
enthusiastically supported by "Father Adkin-
son, the prehistoric suffragist," and a number of
the older members of the association. Miss Fos-
ter, who had done nothing to secure the nomi-
nation, very sensibly said nothing, and left her
claims in the hands of her friends, and there, as
is usually the result they remained, as she was
defeated by a decided majority. Mrs. Spencer
is known to be earnest and self-sacrificing in the
work, and has made an excellent officer, but her
opponents claim that she is almost too arbitrary
in her management of affairs.
	The re-election of Elizabeth Cady Stanton to
the office of President of the Association is a de-
served compliment, although it was done over
her protest. In her letter to Miss Anthony she
stated that she was in favor of the choice of Mrs.
Z. G. Wallace of this city, for president of the
Association, as she possessed all the qualifica-
tions of a first-class executive officer, besided be-
ing thoroughly in earnest in the work.
	Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, the distinguished
woman attorney of Washington City, arrived in
time for the night session Wednesday. In conver-
sation with a journal reporter last night she
said that she was detained in Washington by
important legal business and could not get here
sooner. When interrogated concerning the
Hill-Raymond case she said after attending the
Chicago convention she was going to Georgia
to collect testimony for the case. What the ul-
timate result of the trial will be she could not
say, but believed that it would be against Hill.
She said she had no interest in the matter ex-
cept that of an attorney, and as such she was
determined to press it to the end. Although,
she said, Miss Raymond had somewhat com-
promised herself by accepting money from Hill,
yet the case would be carried through all the
courts.
	In personal appearance Mrs. Lockwood is
rather large, with an excellent face and gray
hair, which is rolled above her forehead. She
was dressed in black silk and satin, and wore a
large gray felt hat, which gave her a decidedly
masculine appearance. In conversation she is
fluent and entertaining.
		*		*		*		*
	Miss Phoebe Couzins is probably the most at-
tractive looking lady in the convention, and
dresses richly and in perfect taste. She is an
excellent member of the Association, and her ad-
dress, delivered last night, was a masterly liter-
ary effort, one that any man might be proud to
have written.


RELIEF SOCITY, Y. L. M. I. A. AND
			PRIMARY REPORTS.
				
	Minutes of the Seventh Quarterly Conference
of the  Relief Societies of Utah Stake, held in the 
Provo  Meeting-house,  May  28th,  1880.  Meet-
ing  opened  by singing and  prayer. Minutes of 
preceding meeting read  and  approved.  The re-
ports  for the quarter  just ended  were read, also 
Primary reports. 
	President Mrs. M. T. Smoot said:  Although it
might seem  to some tedious to listen to so many 
reports, still they were of great importance. That
was what had called  us  together,  to  hear and 
learn of the progress  of  all.  The  Primary was 
a part of ourselves.  Time was far spent and pro-
fitably spent.  She  was  thankful that  she was 
able to meet with the societies again.  Although
her body was feeble, yet her spirit was vigorous. 
Realized that  God  was  very  good  to us.  Her
happiness was  increased  in  seeing so many  to-
gether,  and  as  we  were  favored  with having 
Brother Woodruff,  Sister  Phebe  Woodruff  and
Brother Teasdale with us, would hear the various
verbal reports  from the presidents of the differ-
ent wards and  hasten  our  business, in order to 
hear from  our  visitors.  The  presidents  gave
very interesting  accounts  of  the  doings and la-
bors of their wards,  showing zeal in the cause 
they have engaged in.
	Counselor John  was  very  much  gratified in 
listening to  the  progress  made  by her sisters.
Thought  the reports spoke  well  for  the  settle-
ments.  The speaker said we should be thankful
that we could by our feeble efforts do something to 
promote the welfare of Zion.  Prayed God to bless
all who took  an active part in Zion's cause.


[Column 1]
		BOX ELDER STAKE. 

	SISTERS' CONFERENCE, 
			Tuesday, June 18, 1880.
	Mrs. M. Snow presiding. Opening prayer,
Mrs. S. P. Booth. Among those present were
Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City. Minutes and condensed report
of March Conference read. Sister Eliza blessed
the sisters with comforting words. E. B. Wells
encouraged us with her eloquence. S. P. Booth
reported first ward. Upon motion conference
adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon. Presidents of Relief Societies
gave verbal reports, which were followed by re-
marks by Uncle Joseph Young, the sisters from
Salt Lake City and Apostle L. Snow, all re-
minding us of our many duties and pointing out
the path of salvation. Benediction by Bro.
Isaac Smith.
	June 10th. Devoted to Y. L. M. I. A., the
superintendent presiding. All presidents pre-
sent reported verbally. Remarks were then
made by other officers, all expressing a deter-
mination to improve.
	2 p.m. Dedicated to the presidents of Primary
Association to report verbally.
	5 p.m. The little folks' conference. Each
one of the four hundred present felt their pres-
ence indispensable. Upon the whole our con-
ference is one long to be remembered with grate-
ful feelings and many thanks to our dearly be-
loved Sister Eliza, and not forgetting others of
our sister visitors. Conference adjourned until
September 10th. Benediction by Lizze Felt.
	Financial, Cash and Property:
Receipts, 	-	-	-		$235,43.
		Disbursements:
	To Poor, $30.70; Temple, 30.05; Emigration,
29.25; Missionary, 11.50; Lamanites, 9.25; Build-
ings, 49.25; Home Industries, 90.05; Sta-
tionery, 6.19; Wheat, 44 bushels.
	Total on hand, 	-	-	-	$289,57.
						M. E. SNOW, 
					Recording Secretary. 

	The Young Ladies Mutual Improvement As-
sociation of the 8th Ward, Salt Lake City, met
as usual, June 25th, 1880, and were highly edi-
fied in listening to a lecture from Mrs. Dr. R. B.
Pratt. The Dr. said she would not give all she
would like to in one short lecture, but would
try and glean what would interest the young
ladies, which did so, and all felt very well paid
for attending. Before finishing Dr. Pratt ex-
horted the young ladies to study and learn in
regard to their health, felt pleased with the in-
terest of the listeners, said she would be pleased
at any time to meet with us. The Association
feel to thank Dr. Pratt for her lecture and sin-
cerely hope to hear from her again.
	We hold our meetings now once a month.
Our exercises consist of reading, select recita-
tions, songs, music, and teachings from various
members.
	We are pleased at all times to see visitors, and
cordially invite our good sisters who are working
for the improvement and elevation of the
daughters of Zion. 
				MARY S. LEAVER, President,
				S. A. HAWKINS, Secretary.

			BEAVER REPORT.
	The first Sisters' Conference held in the Bea-
ver Stake of Zion, in May last, had a good re-
presentation from every settlement in the coun-
ty. Sister Lucinda Howd presiding. Singing
by the choir, prayer by Elder Robertson. There
were many representative brethren and sisters
on the stand from the different settlements.
President Howd first stated the object of the 
Conference and then the reports were read from
the different places, representing all the societies
in a prosperous condition, temporally and spirit-
ually. President John Ashworth, Elder Wm.
Fotheringham, M. A. McDonny and L. Skinner
spoke of the many good principles pertaining to
our religion. D. F. Cox spoke of the
the many advantages the young people of the
present time enjoyed for improvement  compar-
ed to what we older ones had in our younger
days; exhorted the sisters to faithfulness in per-
forming all the duties enjoined upon them as
Latter-day Saints. Bro. Robertson spoke very
instructively and edifyingly, being filled with
the power of God. A good spirit prevailed
throughout the entire meeting, and every one
who spoke, both men and women, testified to

[Column 2]
the same. Bro. Blackburn spoke upon Celestial
marriage, said we should teach this principle
to our children. Many of the sisters
gave much good and glorious instruction and
bore powerful testimonies of what they had seen
and heard, which corroborated the truth of the 
everlasting Gospel. Sister Mary E. Lightner
went back in her remarks to the days of the
Prophet Joseph, and related many things plea-
sant to hear. Sister L. B. Pratt, our aged veter-
an of the cross, spoke of many interesting inci-
dents of her life; and said she was living on bor-
rowed time, and at her advanced age she had
learned not to fear man but to put her trust in
God. I will just say there is not power in my
pen to write the many good things that were
said in our Conference.
	Brothers Ashworth and Fotherignham said
they never enjoyed themselves better than dur-
ing this conference. They would not say the 
sisters had done some good preaching lest they
should not like it, but they would say they had
done some very good talking. And the presi-
dents of the young ladies gave some very good
and intelligent instructions. 
	Jane Gillis, president of the Primary Associa-
tion, and her counselors, L. Shepherd and Irene
Hills, presented their little intelligent band with
instructions. The secretary called the roll, and
the minutes of the P. A. were read by Edna
Farnsworth, a little girl 11 years of age. The
young are improving greatly in qualifications
in Beaver. The sisters are much united in
keeping their covenants and living up to their
duties. Sister Howd presided with great dig-
nity. 			                     RACHEL.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	Mrs. Woodruff said she was truly pleased in
having the privilege of meeting with the sisters
of Utah County. She had listened with interest
to the account given of the faithful labors of the 
sisters of this Stake. We had been organized
for a noble work.  Let us not yield to the powers
of darkness by neglecting  our  prayers,  but  with
all  our  energies assist in  our small  way  to  roll
on  the glorious work of building temples that we
may have the privilege of entering in and doing
a work for our dear friends, who are waiting the
other side of the vail for us to assist them.  Mrs.
Woodruff said through faith and prayer she had
received a testimony of  the truth of  the gospel,
and urged the necessity  of  all  having  the testi-
mony of Jesus within them, that their faith fail
not.  Let us arrange our home affairs to meet as
often as possible, that our spirits may be fed by
the spirit of  God,  then  we  will  rejoice  in  the
trials we are called  to pass through.  The expe-
rience we gain here will be of untold value to us.
May God bless my dear sisters,  and  I  earnestly
ask him to bless  Sister  Smoot.  I  have known
her many years as a tried and faithful friend.
	Mrs. Lucky W. Kimball presented the compli-
ments of  Miss  E.  R. Snow, S. M. Kimball and
E. B. Wells, who had been invited to meet with
us.  Through press of business  they could not
come, but desired  to  extend  their sincere love,
and felt that they would be with the conference
in spirit.  Mrs. Kimball made an earnest appeal
in behalf of the EXPONENT.  Was confident that
all present could testify  that the spirit of God
had been with us during our conference.  Sister
M. T. Smoot also spoke in behalf of our Woman's-
Paper.
	Adjourned until 2  p.m. Singing, benediction by 
Bishop Paxman. 
	Two o'clock p.m. After the opening  exer-
cises, the  president  said  we  will  now  hear
from Brother Woodruff.  "My sisters and moth-
ers in Zion—I am glad to meet with you to-day.
The Relief  Society  was  organized  by  Joseph
Smith by revelation, and  has  for  its  object the
building up of the Kingdom of God.  It does not
all depend  upon  the  Elders  of  Israel  by  any
means.   You  are  like  ministering  angels; you
are aids to the bishops, and a great many worthy
people would suffer were  it  not  for these organ-
izations.  The responsibilities of building up this
Kingdom  rests  alike  upon  the  man  and  the
woman.  While the Elders  are  among the na-
tions preaching the Gosepl, the mothers have the
guidance of the children.  When I contemplate
the positions of you mothers in bearing the souls
of men, and your future destiny, it is far beyond
the  honors  conferred  upon  the  queens  of the
earth, who are looked upon  with honor.  When
they die  there is an end of their glory.  Your
promise is eternal.  You cannot know the result
of your labors until  you pass behind the vail.
You have no thrones here, but when  you have
faithfully performed the work you were ordained
to do on this earth, your exaltation will be eter-
nal, you  will  inherit  kingdoms forever. It is
only a step to the other  side, it  is  like  passing
from one door to another, and what little time
you remain here  do  all the  good  you can, train
your children aright, teach them the principles
of life and salvation, try to  stem the tide of evil
that is gaining a foothold among our young peo-
ple, teach your children to honor the  principles
of marriage as  revealed  through  the  Prophet
Joseph, without this order of marriage we cannot
be exalted; instill these eternal  principles in the
minds of  the  rising  generation, that they may
control their actions through life.  Let me  say
to the sisters of Zion, we cannot do without your
assistance in accomplishing this great work, our
sons and daughters are to bear off this kingdom,
and it devolves upon  the  mothers  to  prepare
them for the "work before them."  The speaker
said he had never been at home but one summer
in his life, of course the training of children  was
entirely out of the question.  One of his children
was over a year old  before  he  saw him.  "Be
faithful my sisters, that when  the  trump shall
sound, we may come forth and inherit eternal
lives."
	Brother Teasdale  made  some  excellent  re-
marks in regard to the vast amount of goed done
by the Relief Societies,  and  the  object of their
mission. Brother John said he had been highly
 edified and he hoped the sisters would give heed
to the advice of Brother Woodruff.
	Conference  adjourned  until  August  27th.
After singing.  Prayer by Brother Teasdale.
	Statistical and Financial Report:  Statistical—
No. of members,  2,031;  No.  of Teachers,  329;
No. of meetings held,  156;  average  attendance
626;  church  papers  taken,  321;  EXPON-
ENTS, 117. 
	Financial:—Total receipts,  $743;  total disburs-

[Column 2]
ments, $653; to poor, $401; to  Temple, $77.55; for
building  purposes,  $113.63;  missionary,  $9.04;
home industries, $28.50;  P.  E.  Fund, $21; book
and stationery, $2.35; cash on hand, $261.26; pro-
perty on hand,  $7,134.20;  wheat  loaned,  1,101
bushels and 32  pounds;  wheat  on  hand,  1,053
bushels and 27 pounds. 
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y
	LUCY W. KIMBALL, Cor. Sec'y
			
	KANAB.
	The Quarterly Conference of  the Relief Soci-
eties of the Kanab Stake was held  at   Glendale,
June 4th, 1880, Counselor Mrs. Harriet  Bunting
presiding.  Present on the stand:  Counselors H.
Bunting and L. A. Johnson;  Sister L. Spencer,
president of the  Orderville  Ward,  and  Sister
Foot, of the Glendale Ward.  Of  the  brethren:
Presidents H. C. Spencer and Jas. L. Bunting,
Bishops  W.  D.  Johnson, Jr.,  Royal Cutler, T.
Smith, and Elder Carpenter.  The brethren and
sisters made  some very  interesting  remarks in
reference to home manufature, the responsibil-
ities of parents in  rearing  their children;  urged
them to give the little ones  good  educations, to
teach  them  politeness,  and  impress  on their
young minds the importance of  prayer and obe-
dience to the priesthood; wished  the  sisters to
do what they could to help gather the poor.  In
fact, the whole meeting was replete  with  good
counsel  and  instruction.  The  conference was
adjourned till September 3d,  to be  held at Ka-
nab. The Societies  in  the  Stake have loaned
their wheat to the needy, as desired by President
Taylor.  The sisters are trying  to  live their reli-
gion and  to do the best they can, in the absence
of President Elizabeth Nuttall, whom  we  hope
will soon be with us again.  Wishing success to
the EXPONENT and peace and prosperity to Zion,
	I remain, your sister in the gospel,
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Secretary.

	The Primary Association of Levan  was  orga-
nized May 29th, 1879, by Sister  Eliza R. Snow
and Sister M. I. Horne.  We held our first an-
niversary May 29th, 1880;  after the usual  open-
ing exercises, Sister Esther Gardner made a few
remarks and read the report  of  our  Association
and exercises of the past year; the  children  re-
cited pieces and sang songs, also recited the  Ar
ticles of Faith; eight of the children repeated the 
ten  commandments,  and  answered  questions
from  them,  and  from  the  Juvenile  Instsuctor.
Bishop Aagard and H. Peterson gave some very
encouraging remarks.  Meetings held, 40; names
enrolled,  78; average  attendance,  33;  financial
report, donations  received,  $5.50, and 50 cts in
calico.  Donated to Manti Temple $3.00; expend-
ed for the Association, $4.90;  remaining  in  the
treasury,  60  cents, and  one quilt  made by  the
Primary Association, for the Temple, price $5.00.
Singing by the children, "Jesus, Mighty King in
Zion." benediction by Bishop Aagrad. Esther
Gardner, President; Eliza  Curtis,  Anna  Peter-
son,  Counselors;  Martha  Gardner,  Secretary;
Amelia  Mangelson,  Assistant;  Irinda  Taylor,
Treasurer.

	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Paradise, Cache County,
organized under the direction of sisters Eliza R.
Snow and Elizabeth  Davis, Aug. 10,  '78,  with
the following officers:
	Carrie M. C. Smith, President; Elizabeth San-
diford, Sarah Ann Obray, Elizabeth Remington,
Henrietta Sinfield, Counselors: Mary J. Oldham,
Secretary; and Harriet  Howells,  Assistant-Sec-
retary.  They still  remain the same  with  the
exception of the secretaries, who have been  ab-
sent from the settlement of some time. Their
places are now filled by Sisters  Fanny  Gibbs as
Secretary and Ellen Bishop Assistant-Secretary,
also adding to our number Charlotte  Ann Loft-
house, as Treasurer.  We have enrolled seventy
members,  with an  average  attendance  of  45.
November last we subscribed for the EXPONENT
which is ever  welcome and  appreciated  by  the
members.  We hold  our  meetings  weekly,   on
Tuesday evening.  Also conjoint meetings  with
the Y. M. M. I. A., monthly.  They are con-
ducted,  on a whole, the same as  proposed  by
Brother Wells and Hardy, which method is en-
tered into heartily and attended with  good  suc-
oess.  We have not  progressed  in  a  temporal
point of  view  so much as could be desired; our
circumstances not being so favorable.  Of one
thing  we  feel confident, that we have  kept the
object of these organizations, viz.:  Improvement
rather than entertainment. We feel also that the
spirit enjoyed  by the  members is mainly  due to
the  inspiring  visit of Sister Snow  and  Davis.
We feel that they have touched a chord  in  the
hearts of the sisters that will never cease to vi-

[Column 3]
brate.  We will close our communication,  desir-
ing to be remembered by the  remainder  of  our
sisters in the cause of truth.
	FANNY GIBBS, Sec'y
			
	The Quarterly Conference  of  the  Y. L. M. I.
Association of the  Weber  Stake  of  Zion  was
held in the Tabernacle, Ogden, June 18th, Presi-
dent Sarah Herrick presiding. Meeting opened
by singing, "Now  let  us  Rejoice."  Prayer by
Bishop Hart.  Singing, "May we who know the
Joyful  Sound."  Minutes  of  last  Conference
read  and  accepted.  Reports  were  then  read
from thirteen associations, all being reported ex-
cept one.  President  Sarah  Herrick  addressed
the meeting.  She was  pleased with the reports
and was satisfied the  young  ladies were awake
and trying to  perform,  to  the  utmost of their
ability, the  duties  assigned  them.  Felt inte-
rested in the great  work  in  which we were en-
gaged,  and  was  desirous  of  doing  more good.
Hoped we would all profit  by  the good instruc-
tion given at the R. S.  Conference  yesterday,
and ever strive to do  the  will  of  our  Father in
heaven.
	Bishop Sanford Bingham  exhorted the young
ladies  to  try  and  fully  appreciate  the  great
blessings they receive and improve every oppor-
tunity to gain  wisdom  and  knowledge,  that in
after years they might  have  nothing  to regret,
President Sarah Richards, Summit Stake, spoke
on the training of children, necessity of prayer,
liberality, and the despicable practice of tattling.
	Bishop Hart,  West  Weber,  gave  much good
instruction in regard to our duties as Saints, and
was sure if we  lived  our  religion  all  would be
well.
	Prest.  Jane  S. Richards  followed,  endorsing
what had been said, and  impressing  upon  the
minds of the young ladies the necessity of hav-
ing great  faith  and  of  being  united.  Advised
mothers to teach their children when young the
principles of the gospel, and  the  importance of
attending to their prayers and other duties faith-
fully.  Spoke on various other subjects and was
listened to throughout  with  marked  attention.
Meeting adjourned  till  2 p.m. Singing, "Do
what is right."  Benediction by  Elder Thomas
Morley.
	2 p.m.  After singing  and  prayer, Mrs. Mar-
tha Critchelow, president R. S. First Ward was
called upon to address the meeting.  She bore a 
faithful testimony to the  truth  of  the  religion
she had embraced, had been  richly  paid for  at-
tending this conference,  and  hoped  all  present
would try and carry out the  good counsel which 
had been given.
	Mrs.  Martha  Bingham,  president  R.  S.  of 
Riverdale, said many  good  things  encouraging
to all who are striving to  do  right, gave much
excellent counsel and asked the Lord to bless all
in their efforts to do good.
	The presidents of  the  Young Ladies Associa-
tions present each spoke, expressing  a feeling of
deep interest in the associations over which they
were placed, and a desire to perform their duties
acceptably, relying upon their  heavenly Father
for  strength,  knowing  they  were  incom-
petent  to  fill  such  responsible  posi-
tions  without  his  spirit  to  guide   them.
Interesting and instructive remarks were made
by counselors,  Mrs.  Emily  S.  Richards, Mrs.
Josephine R. West and Mrs. Letitia Peery, which
were calculated in their  nature, to  inspire the
young ladies to  greater  dilligence and renewed
efforts in the  cause  of  mutual  improvement.
Bishop McQuarrie gave  a very earnest address,
speaking upon many principles of  our holy reli-
gion, pointing out clearly the importance of ob-
serving the Word of Wisdom, and setting an ex-
ample worthy of  imitation.  Prayed  the bless-
ings of heaven to rest upon all  who are interest-
ed in building up the kingdom  of  God  on  the
earth.  President Sarah  Herrick  had  enjoyed
the Conference, and trusted all felt blessed and
 benefitted by the good counsel they had received.
Exhorted the young ladies to  persevere in good
works,  and  perform  faithfully  every  known
duty.  Conference was then adjourned for three
months.
	Statistical  and  financial  report;  statistical:
members, 620; meetings held, 96;  average at-
tendance, 2,863;  conjoint  sessions,  34;  visits of
county officers,  9;  chapters  read  in  Church
Works, 8,442; lectures delivered, 32; testimonies
born, 178.
	Financial: Cash on hand at date of last report,
$64.70;  cash  received, $82.57;  disbursed for chari-
table  purposes, books, etc., $104.53;  amount  of
cash and  property on  hand,  $62.79.  There is
also some wheat which was not reported.
	ROSE CANFIELD, Secretary.


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRINCESS Louise has sent to England a box of
valuable and curious articles of Indian manufac-
ture, as a contribution to the Cheadle Bazaar
opened at Cheadle Rdctory.

	AT an annual meeting of Friends in Philadel-
phia, the renowned veteran lady Lucretia Mott
now in her 88th year lifted her sweet and elo-
qunt voice strongly against light litrature, which
is now doing such extensive injury to the minds
of the young. Would that brave strong words
like these could be sounded like a trumpet in the
ears of those who devote their best days to such
like occupation.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
nious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers, and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe B[-]tters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes: prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

NEW SPRING STOCK!
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 East Temple St., Salt Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings; Five hundred pairs Kid Gloves; Trimmings; Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
☞ Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.
Notions; Boots and Shoes; Gents' and Boys' Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY,
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77 & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1880.		No. 5.


[Column 1]
FAITH AND WORKS.

	"Faith cometh by hearing the Word of God.—Doc-
trine and Covenants.

See! the wilds, so long forsaken, into life and bloom
	awaken—
'Tis the meed of Faith unshaken, the reward of labor
	too.
Faith hath wrought this exultation, for the "outcasts'
	of the nation;
Yea, through Faith "God favors Zion"—Faith and Works
	can wonders do.

Ah, this Faith! Can words express it? Can the jeers of
	foes suppress it?
'Tis superior to language, far above reproach and scorn;
'Tis indeed the blest assurance, that for patient, brief
	endurance,
We shall reap the full fruition of the hopes within us
	born,

'Tis in vain men cry "delusion," souls are thrilled with
	Faith's infusion,
Faith reanimates the spirit, as the life blood cheers the
	heart;
Needful 'tis that we obtain it, needful 'tis that we re-
	tain it—
Though we never can explain it, Fath doth power and
	peace impart.

Fath's the fruit of revelation, Faith's the anchor of
	salvation:
Faith obtains from God a knowledge of the truth that
	cheers the soul;
Faith's the true appreciation of Christ's love and media-
	tion;
Faith's the force of Truth within us, Faith's the power
	that makes us whole.

For this Faith it is no wonder, men have e'en been torn
	asunder,
Men have "cru'lly been tormented," scorning to accept
	reprieve,
Knowing (though by fiends surrounded) that in truth
	their faith was founded—
Scorn'd they to deny for freedom what they could not
	but believe;

By the ladder of affliction—sword, and fire, and cruci-
	fixion—
For their Faith, by deaths most tortuous noblest souls
	have upward soar'd—
Passed these martys up to glory, leaving us their death-
	less story,
While they cry, How long, Thou just One, ere Thy
	vengeance is outpour'd?

Of eternal condemnation there's a fearful reservation
For the murderers of these just ones, of these brave,
	illustrious dead!
Read we from the sacred pages, how that from remotest
	ages,
From the death of "righteous Abel," many for their
	faith have bled.So, within this generation, by a free and favor'd nation,
Prophets have for faith been murder'd, men have sorely
	been opprest;
For their Faith—through much privation—"sought they
	out a habitation,"
Even in a distant desert, in the wild, uncultured west.
Sheltered by majestic mountains, lo! they drank from
	freedom's fountains;
Blest with liberty, they-labor'd, 'reft of much that men
	desire;
Faith, by willing hands assisted, every obstacle resisted.
Faith in God and in the future still these exiles hearts
	inspire.

Faith shall make the Saints victorious, Faith shall make
	them great and glorious;
God Himself will watch keep o'er us, righteous laws
	we'll still obey;
Men may form their own deductions, why we honor God's
	instructions,

[Column 2]
Still we'll pray for Faith to serve Him though opposing
	hosts say nay—
Faith to brave the world's opinion, till the glory and
	dominion
And the greatness of "the Kingdom" shall be given the
	Saints for aye.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, July 24, 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

	This eminent and highly cultured lady is
perhaps more widely known,here and abroad,
than any women in the Church of Latter-day
Saints. She occupies the highest position
among the sisters, and may with all propriety
be designated, "The Elect Lady." Sister Eliza
is a woman of the strongest mental powers; of
sterling and unflinching integrity, and is val-
iant for the cause of truth and liberty. In fact
no better type can be given of historically famous
Pilgrim mothers, than the remarkable woman
whose life and works form the subject of this
sketch. She possesses in a high degree the
same striking energy of character, tenacity of
purpose and perseverance under accumulated
difficulties as the heroic foremothers of New
England, from whom she is descended, Indus-
try and economy have gone hand in hand with
her through life. She may justly be termed a
disciplinarian; is ever punctual to a moment,
has order very largely developed and remark-
able power of concentration, combined with
excellent ability; these with almost perfect self-
control, great decision of character and a reso-
lute will make her pre-eminently a leader. Jus-
tice is one of her strong points and she often
says "Justice before mercy."	In any age or in any country she must have
been a superior woman, but with the peculiar
experiences of Mormonism, she is lifted far
above anything she could possibly have at-
tained in the world. One of the most powerful
attributes of her nature is a sublime reverence
for the Deity and all that pertains to religion
and an exalted life. This combined with her
other qualifications for leadership peculiarly fit
her for the high and holy callings of Priestess
and Mother in Israel in the new and last dis-
pensation. Not only has she been elected by
the people and ordained and set apart to ex-
pound the Scriptures and preside over the
sisters in their various organizations by the
Servant of God, who holds the office of Prophet,
Seer and Revelator, to the Church of Christ
here upon the earth, but she has been baptized
as by fire and sanctified through suffering of
the keenest and severest character. These try-
ing ordeals have lifted her into the atmosphere
of a higher life, and consecrated and endowed
her for her ministerial work in the broadest
fields of labor, the hearts and homes of the
people.
	Think not gentle friends that this exclusive
devotion to the interests of the kingdom of God,
bringing this heroic woman as it does constantly
out before the public,is unaccompanied by daily
sacrifice. Her heart has the same holy aspira-
tions, the same tender womanly sympathies and
appreciations of the enjoyments of home and its
solid attractions, as that of her sister woman;
but these must not, she will not suffer them to
come between her and her life-work. She is
wedded to her sacred and holy mission: to

[Column 2]
minister to humanity in every condition of life
where woman can comfort, bless, sustain and
elevate.
	I have said so much of Sister Eliza not for
those who know her intimately, but who hear
of her as a representative woman and know
little of her real self and her individual life.
	Eliza Roxie Snow was born in Becket, Berk-
shire Co. Mass. Her parents were Oliver Snow
of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Pettibone of
Conn. They were of English descent their
forefathers emigrating to America at a very
early period. In 1806 Mr. Snow moved with
his family to Ohio, and settled in Mantua
Portage Co. Being a man of sound judgment
and good ability as well as education he filled
several offices of emolument and trust in the
gift of the people, his daughter Eliza at quite
an early age officiating as his secretary. Mrs.
Snow like a wise and judicious mother deter-
mined her daughters should be instructed in
everything pertaining to domestic life and its
duties, and consequently Eliza though naturally
a gifted child and inclined to literary pursuits
was early initiated in all the routine and small-
est details of housekeeping, as well as plain and
ornamental needle work of which she still pre-
serves many rare specimens. She also learned
straw-braiding and was awarded two prizes at
the County Fair for the manufacture of the
best leghorn. Through this sort of training
she became practically selfhelpful. While quite
young Miss Snow commenced writing for the
press, and contrary to most young writers, her
poems were well received. She wrote for sev-
eral journals using a fictitious signature desir-
ing to be useful, but modestly shrinking from
public notice. Through writing a patriotic
poem at the time of the struggle between
Greece and Turkey she created quite a sensa-
tion. It was entitled "The Fall of Missilong-
hi;" and after the death of those famous states-
men Adams and Jefferson, which occurred on
the same day, she was requested through the
press to write their requiem. Shortly after she
received for a prize poem, eight volumes of
Godey's Lady's Book. Miss Snow's poems
have ever been of a prophetic and inspirational
character, and after partaking of the spirit of
the true Gospel she became more than before
richly endowed with the gift of poesy, inspira-
tion and prophecy, and her hymns and songs
have been such a feature of beauty in the
Church, that from an early period in its history
she has borne the title of "Poetess of Zion."
	We shall not attempt to give even in brief a
synopsis of the lady's writings—suffice it to say
she has immortalized her name, and crowned
with wreaths of honor, she might justly say
with the immortal Byron in his famous prayer
"I've lived the laurel wreath to gain." Her
poems have given comfort to the weary, encour-
agement to the weak and those whose burdens
were heavy and whose trials were grievous;
they have strengthened the hands and hearts
of pioneer men and women while enduring
severe hardships. They have stimulated the
young to nobler and higher purposes. Histori-
cally they have been of the greatest import-
ance. Through them the names of many of
the actors in the drama of Mormonism, will
be handed down to posterity. There has
scarcely been an event in the history of the
Church which has not been faithfully deline-
ated by her gifted pen. She was to use her
own expression, born a patriot, "she had that
sort of blood in her veins. Her grandfather


had been a revolutionary soldier; and when
quite young, she listened with intense and child-
ish eagerness to his thrilling, adventurous nar-
ratives of the war with the British. She has
written many patriotic and national poems,
Anthems and Choruses.
	In her writings both in prose and poetry, she
manifests a striking versatility of genius and a
happy faculty of adaptation to the various cir-
cumstances and conditions of human life at
times participating in the deepest sentiments of
sorrow and also with sublime ideality feasting
upon the perfection of enjoyment.
	Two volumes of her "Religious, Historical,
Political," poems have been published–the First
in Liverpool, England, in 1856, the Second in
Salt Lake City by the Deseret News Office,
which has just issued her Hymn Book for the
Primary Associations, which contains 20 hymns
from her pen, the others she has carefuly com-
piled from various authors,many from our own
poets—the remainder from foreign publications.
Sterotyped 1st. 7000 Edition.
	Her poems are true to life.—Those in her
published volumes addressed to pioneers and
those written during the drivings and journey-
ings of the Saints from place to place are some
very pathetic;—they come vividly home to the
hearts of the L. D. Saints. Two of this class
in Vol. 1, written after we left Nauvoo in the
bleak winter season, entitled "Camp of Israel"
describe minutely the condition of the Pilgrim
Saints. We should never let our children for-
get them. Poems like these make deeper and
more lasting impressions upon the memory
than whole volumes of history.

To be Continued.


34		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
[Column 1]
had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly 
made for the journey. Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs. G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to 
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake. The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers. However, she was just 
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in 
the tenor of her thoughts. She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore. 
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was 
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been. She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out 
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity. She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in 
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters 
weeping bitterly all the time. Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had 
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey. Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones, 
and going forth alone. She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing. Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a 
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road. Looking out back of 
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly, 
and wiping her eyes with her apron. 
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept, 
for she thought grown women never cried, 
except when some one was dead. Her own 
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is 
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass
ing and the strange faces around her. 
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was; 
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, "O your mother's dead, poor thing! and 
I s'pose your going to your rich relations."
"My mother isn't dead, and I'm going to 
school, and I haven't any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too 
proud to care for us! I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa's house, 
and says he'll have it pulled down; and that's 
the reason I'm sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house."
	"Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,"
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it." "No, I sha'n't" said Hepsie, "he 
was the grandest man you ever saw;" "I never

[Column 2]
saw him," said the lady. "Well, if you ever
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the 'Old Furnace' thought so," "Well, 
I never," said the green spectacled lady again; 
"what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?" Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?"
"Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought 
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her. She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephizbah."
"That's my name," said the child quickly, "but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?" "Well?
well! I never did," the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. "Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been."
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that 
after answering many more of the lady's in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach 
and forgot her great sorrow. 
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in 
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way. The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre 
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the 
little girl out. Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down 
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie's
wardrobe and carried it up the steps. She 
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright, 
besides she had been forewarned that she 
could not "put on airs" with Mrs. Grovesner. 
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired, 
and asked concerning her mother's health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to 
cause her to compare it with grandpa's dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever. 
Everything was bewilderingly strange. After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
for "tea," Hepsie walked out into the garden, 
and there again she was reminded of the farm. 
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air; 
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a 
fairy bower. 
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she 
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather's, and if so, whether Mrs. 
Grovesner would let her rummage them over, 
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past. When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie 
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at 
home the children made merry music with 
their chatter and laughter. The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to "Deborah," for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness. Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful. Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was 

[Column 3]
informed it was time for her to retire. Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber, 
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she 
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind. The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to 
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a 
task. 	
	The little room was still as the grave, 
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and 
said "good night," and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, "I'm sure I can't 
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy. So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;"
and by this time she had burst into tears, 
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to 
older children too, when the heart is full to 
overflowing. Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first 
chapter. She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep. 
		[To be continued.]

THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA. 
	"The Englishman's Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us, 
and although at first they may have been 
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land. So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is 
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to 
the entire satisfaction of their professors. 
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in 
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation. Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say 
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession. Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion. In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource. The fact that much of their success
is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance. 
	
	The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them 
when they are gone.— George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale. 
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


34		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND PARAGRAPHS.

OF SERVICES IN TABERNACLE.

	Elder Orson Pratt delivered the following
speech concerning the Restoration of the Ever-
lasting Gospel and its progress among the na-
tions:

CHRONOLOGICAL STATISTICS.

	"In the Spring of 1820 the Father and Son
appeared in vision to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the
town of Manchester, Ontario County, New
York. Joseph was a youth of the age of four-
teen, and in this vision received a promise that,
if faithful, further light should be revealed to
him.
In fulfillment of this promise, on the morning
of the 22d of September, 1827, an holy angel
permitted this youth to take from tne hill Cu-
morah, in the township alluded to, ancient
records, which, by the command of God, he
translated through the aid of a sacred instru-
ment, anciently called the "Urim and Thum-
mim." In 1829, these metallic plates and sa-
cred things were shown to three witnesses by
an angel from heaven, and confirmed to many
others who saw and handled the plates. Five
thousand copies of this inspired translation
were printed and bound early in the year 1830.
On the 15th of May, 1829, John, the fore-
runner of Christ, appeared in glory to Joseph
Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery, and laying
his hands upon their heads, ordained them to
the Aaronic priesthood, with authority to bap-
tize for the remission of sins.
	And in the same year three of the ancient
Apostles, Peter, James and John, ordained Jo-
seph Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery to the apos-
ship, with power to confirm by the laying on
of the hands, for the reception of the Holy
Ghost.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith being commanded of God, organ-
ized the Church of Christ, consisting of six
members. This infinitely important event took
place in Fayette, Seneca County, State of New
York.

[Column 2]
	Thus the Gospel, and the Church with divine
authority, were restored from heaven to earth.
Angels were the first missionaries. Men, in-
spired from on high, carried the message to our
own nation. The Saints in 1831, by divine
command, began to gather, first to Ohio, and
then to the western boundaries of Missouri.
Persecuted, robbed and murdered, they fled to
Illinois, and built the city of Nauvoo. In
1846 they were driven by armed mobs, and
compelled to flee west of the Rocky Mountains,
and sought refuge in the great American des-
ert, then a Mexican province."

SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL.

	Elder Pratt then gave the data of the intro-
duction of the Gospel among the American
Indians and into the Dominion of Canada, the
Kingdom of Great Britain, including England,
Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and the Isle of Man,
also Orson Hyde's pilgrimage to Jerusalem,
and afterwards followed the countries of Aus-
tralia, the East Indies, South Sea Islands,
France, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Ice-
land, Italy and Switzerland, Jersey Islands,
Sandwich Islands, Germany, Malta, Cape of
Good Hope and Holland. Each of these na-
tions were represented by a man and woman in
the costume of their respective country, with a
shield containing the national colors.
	When Elder Pratt had finished speaking,
the nationalities arose and stepped forward in
a line, facing the congregation, with their ban-
ners displayed, twenty-five in number.
	President Taylor, rising behind them, made
the following remarks:
	"I wish to state to the congregation that the
Lord commanded his servants to go forth to
all the world to preach the Gospel to every
creature. We have not yet been to all the
world, but here are twenty-five nations repre-
sented to-day, and thus far we have fulfilled
our mission; and it is for us to continue our
labors until all the world shall hear us, that all
who are desirous may obey, and we fulfill the
mission given us."
	The nationalities then resumed their seats,
and the choir rendered the grand and beautiful
anthem, "Glory to God in the highest." Col.
David McKenzie then took the stand and read,
in a very effective manner, a poem, composed
for the occasion by O. F. Whitney.

SENTIMENT FROM THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	Brethren and Sisters—Ladies and Gentlemen:
	As representatives of the Latter-day Saint
women of Utah, we feel highly honored.
	The celebration of this day of days, marks
two most important events—the entrance of the
noble and valiant pioneers into these happy val-
leys, and the Latter-day Saints year of Jubilee
	Historically it resurrects the past, propheti-
cally it opens up the future.
	In the various phases of life through which
this people have struggled, up to the present,
which to-day have been figuratively portrayed,
those whom we are proud to represent, were not
spectators: although not the foremost,they were
prominent actors and participators in those
soul-stirring and heart-rending scenes, and not
only by their faith and prayers, their labor and
fortitude, did they assist in sustaining the ser-
vants of God,under most painful circumstances,
but in many instances, actually performed lab-
orious duties assigned to men. For instance,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo,
when 500 able bodied-men were called out of
our journeying camps, to cross the American
desert, to assist by force of arms in adjusting
difficulties with Mexico, by which this very
land was ceded to the United States, women
were under the necessity of driving teams across
the plains, besids watching over their little
ones, and preparing the frugal meals upon
which they subsisted. We have ever been one
with our brethren.

[Column 3]
	What we witness this day, stirs within the
bosoms of those who came here in '47 the
same thrill that vibrated through our very
natures, when we saw the dear old flag, the
pride of our youth, which had been sacredly
preserved throughout our journeyings, hoisted
and waving to the breeze of the Rocky Moun-
tains. It was hailed as an emblem of peace
and liberty for which we had left the lands of
our birth.
	In the past we have emulated the heroic ex-
ample of the noble Pilgrim mothers, who, for
the sake of worshipping God according to the
dictates of conscience in company of the Pil-
grim Fathers, dared the perils of the briny deep,
and in a desolate country assisted in planting a
colony, designated by the Almighty as a pre-
cursor to the founding of a government under
which his kingdom was to be established.
What would the Pilgrim Fathers have done
without the Pilgrim Mothers?
	And now, when through the overruling and
protecting care of God,we are no longer chased
and driven, we, the women, of Utah, in organiz-
ed capacities, as efficient helps to the priest-
hood, are exercising all the talents and influ-
ence with which God has endowed us, to bless,
comfort and sustain the needy, and purify and
elevate society.
	With feelings of gratitude and tenderness,
mingled with holy reverence, we, as mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters, greet you, hail you
with honor, brave-hearted Pioneers—silver-
haired veterans of Zion's camp, and heroic vol-
unteers of the Mormon Battalion! And while
we give honor to the living, our hearts instinc-
tively go out in affectionate and honorable re-
membrance to the absent, whose faces we do
not behold, but whose lives were so closely in-
terwoven with those who are before us. "We
name no names," but offer a silent tribute to
the sacred memory of the honored dead.
For one retrospective moment we are looking
back over the vista of fifty years, "th[-] horologe
of time" has struck with telling force, the
chimes of the first half century since the
Church of Jesus Christ was organized on the
earth in this dispensation. Years full of startl-
ing episodes, of thrilling tragedies—records of
good and evil,misery and happiness,and though
many have peacefully fallen asleep, and thou-
sands have died by the wayside,and though we
have mourned a martyred prophet and partri-
arch, yet we rejoice to-day with the living or-
acles of the Holy Priesthood; and when we look
abroad upon our fair and happy homes, our
verdant, smiling valleys, and realize the peace,
plenty and prosperity that surrounds us in this
our holy year of Jublee, we the women of Is-
rael, desire to consecrate ourselves anew to the
work of the Lord, and mingle our voices with
those assembled here to-day, in one burst of
glorious melody, with loud hosannas, that the
ensign upon the mountains has been lifted to
the nations, and that for fifty years the moth-
ers of Israel, with the sons of God as co-laborers,
have borne the burden and heat of the day,
passed through trying ordeals, proven their
integrity before Heaven, and propose in the
future, as in the past, to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may obtain a fulness of
celestial glory, and be crowned with eternal
lives.


TRIED AS BY FIRE

	In the last issue of our valuable woman's
paper I noticed an article headed "Seek a
Reward." and I thought when I read it I
should like to add my testimony to the truth
therein contained,and to strive to impress upon
the minds of my young sisters the necessity of
perseverance and faithfulness if they would win
the prize.
	In early life I was taught if I recieved a re-
ward I must work for it, and to day when my


hair is silvered with age, I am most grateful for
it. But when my children were in my arms
O, how I wanted to hug them to my heart, and
shield them from the trials of life; but the ex-
perience that I have since gained has proved
to me that all have to be tried in life's furnace
and be purified from all dross by patience and
forbearance and long suffering, and then how
sweet will be the reward when we are through
with the toils and struggles of this life, and
how grateful we will be and how we will ap-
preciate the reward when we feel that we have
earned it by our own exertions.
	I once heard related the dream of a sister
that had passed through much persecution and
poverty, and had been tried to the very center
of her soul. She dreamed that she was travel-
ing and came to a beautiful mansion and
stopped there to rest; she went into the first
apartment, she noticed that many were sitting
around and among them two of her friends, and
as she was in the act of sitting down the guide
who was there told her that she was not to stop
but to follow him, which she did until they
entered a most beautiful room, and she was
motioned to take a seat, and she said that it
seemed so glorious and so full of rest. And
the odor of refreshments that were being pre-
pared were so grateful to her, that she turned
to the Prophet Joseph who was there and said
that she was as near Heaven as she expected
to get. She asked her guide if her two friends
that were in the entrance room could not come
in? His reply was "not until they have been
tried as you have, and are weary as you are."
And she awoke.
							EXPERIENCE.
	Manti City July 11, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		35


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference S. L.
Stake of Zion, held in the Assembly Hall,
June 19, 1880, at 2 o'clock P. M. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Prayer
is the soul's sincere desire." Prayer was offered
by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "Come
all ye Saints who dwell on earth." Minutes of
previous Conference read and accepted. Re-
ports were read from several Associations.
	Mrs. Freeze then called upon the Presidents
to report. Mrs. Sarah Graham, First Ward,
spoke for a few moments, and stated their So-
ciety had forty bushels of wheat stored and
nine dollars in cash in Treasury. During the
quarter they had held one joint meeting with
the Y. M. M. I. A. of the ward, and met once
with the 11th Ward in joint session. Said the
young ladies of the 1st Ward had a library of
Church works.
	Pres. Freeze said she was interested in all
she had heard, realized these Associations were
a great blessing. Young people must have
s omething to interest them in the Gospel, they
must live for a testimony if they would obtain
it. Said it is necessary to have the Spirit of
God in our hearts continually, that we may
stand faithful. One thing especially that she
desired to say was, the spirit of unbelief is
abroad in Zion, and the inclination to argue
that there is no God; therefore it is necessary
that all should seek unto God; if they will do
this, they will overcome. Let us seek the Lord
more faithfully, and God will assist us in our
weakness and diffidence if we pray unto Him
earnestly. My desire is to see the young ladies
progress and not let the children get in advance.
We should each understand and know our duties,
and then do them. There are many sources of
instruction, let us arouse ourselves to the im-
portance of the obligations that rest upon us."
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith said the greatest
obstacle to speaking in public was pride; a
speaker must be absorbed in the subject, we

[Column 2]
must be humble instruments in the hands of
God. After some other remarks, she nomi-
nated Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor to preside over
all the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the Stakes of Zion.
She was unanimously elected. Mrs. Maggie
Y. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne were chosen
and elected her Counselors, Miss Louie Wells,
Secretary, and Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher,
Treasurer.
	Mrs. Louie Felt made a few remarks; said
she wished to obey when called upon. What
Sister Snow had said about pride touched her;
she was proud of the principles of the Gospel.
If we sought improvement through prayer and
effort we would improve; God would bless the
diligent seekers after truth. Many had begun
earnestly, and then slackened their efforts; she
exhorted the young ladies to renewed diligence,
all those connected with these organizations.
	Mrs. C. Y. Conrad said: "We should not
fear the ridicule of men or of women, we should
do the best we can and seek to God for His aid.
We look around us and see some who are
gifted, they compose beautifully, but they could
not do that all at once, they had to attain to it
by degrees; it is so with other things. If you
refuse to act in any capacity, you cannot im-
prove; we have to make a commencement.
Young girls, write for the EXPONENT, all of
you who can; for my part I would not be with-
out it. Yes, write for it, and take it and read
it. Keep good company and do not keep late
hours; then you are safer from temptation. Your
mothers and fathers are the right ones to coun-
sel you; take their advice. We certainly need
spiritual food as well as temporal. I would be
glad to see more young sisters come into our
ranks."
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said in arising to speak
she felt very humble; she desired not only to
speak of good and true principles, but that the
spirit of her office and calling might rest upon
her. "Do I see young ladies here before me?
Only a few. Do they appreciate for what pur-
pose they have been born? I fear mothers are
much to blame in this respect. Have we not
an evidence of the growth of infidelity? Is it
true the spirit of infidelity is in our midst?
Then have we not instructed, have we not
trained our children as we should? We may
have taught our children the best we could; if
we have done our best we cannot reproach
ourselves. Joseph E. Taylor said on one occa-
sion, "If you have done for your children the
best you could, and you still hold them up by
faith, they will come back by and by." Our
young people should also be ladies and gentle-
men, and we should educate them in all the
sciences of the day, that they may not be b[-]
hind in any good thing. Mothers, look after
your daughters, keep them near you, keep their
confidence—that they may be true and faith-
ful, and that our Associations may not languish
and pine in the future as they have in the past,
is my prayer."
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was pleased
to be present on the occasion of the perfecting
of the organizations, and believed it would give
an impetus to them; thought in three months
from that time the young ladies would fill that
Hall. Hoped it would inspire a new interest
in these organizations; said we could not afford
to lose the intermediate link. Prayed that
Mrs. Taylor might have power to fill her posi-
tion; did not know of a more important one.
Said Sister Freeze had been much grieved at
the want of interest. "We have the senior, in-
termediate and primary departments, co-opera-
tive labor and individual labor—this perfec-
tion of organization will bring about the great-
est amount of good."
	Sister Eliza moved that the young ladies
have Sister Taylor visit them in their respec-
tive Associations, and those who did not do
anything resign their position, that some one
be put in the place who would fill it more
creditably.

[Column 3]
	Elder D. Graves made some remarks on
Sericulture, and read a letter from Philadel-
phia on that subject.
	Mrs. Freeze made suitable remarks, and
asked the presidents to invite Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and her counselors to visit them. Spoke of the
lecture to be given in the Theatre the following
Tuesday by Dr. R. B. Pratt, for the benefit of
Mattie H. Paul.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the energy and
ability of Miss Paul; said she had great op-
portunities to talk to ladies of note about our
people and principles, and she was firm in the
faith of the Gospel. She had educated herself
gone out into the world to obtain perfect knowl-
edge of the profession she had chosen, and did
not forget her mountain home. The Confer-
ence was adjourned three months. The con-
gregation rose and sang "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by Elder
Graves.						E. B. W.


JOTTINGS.

	The EXPONENT continues to come to us here
in Upper Kanab, freighted with its usual and
ever-welcome store of interesting news. Hav-
ing read the article entitled "Wildwood Leaves
and flowers," I feel as though I had had a visit
with the dear author—a friend of bygone
years. And "Seek a Reward," enables one to
take up her burthen and trudge along with
renewed diligence.					E. B. C.

	The efforts of the EXPONENT are to lead the
minds of the daughters of Zion in a channel
that will prepare them for positions they are
qualifled to fill, we know by its influence. Our
desires are to live purer and better lives. Our
hearts beat with true pride that we are num-
bered with noble women; yes, handmaids of
the Lord, who are willing to endure all things
for the truth's sake. And who, knowing their
rights and privileges, dare maintain them. We
feel to ask the blessings of the Lord upon all
faithful Saints, and especially the sisters who
are striving to do public and universal good.
We remain your sisters in the Gospel of Peace,

					HARRIET BUNTING,
					MARY J. JOHNSON,

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—Your valuable little
paper comes to hand, and is a very welcome
visitor to us here away out in Colorado. I
think as soon as the sisters here become ac-
quainted with it, you will have many subscrib-
ers from this place. I will show my paper to
as many as I have an opportunity, for I think
no woman should be without it. I think it
will not be long until we will have as good Re-
lief Society meetings here as you have in Utah.
Our town is growing fast; everything bids fair
for a beautiful city in the future. I like the
country here quite as well as Utah, and believe
if we do right the Lord will bless it for His
Saints. We are living close neighbors to the
Mexicans here, who are very kind to us. They
have many customs which are very strange for
a while, but we soon get acquainted with them.
I suppose our ways of living are quite as
strange to them.
	Ever wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sister in the Gospel,
								S. T. B.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.

	A full Statistical and Financial Report of Re-
lief Societies from April 1st, 1875 to 1880. Also
a Semi-Annual Report from April 1st, 1880 to
October 1st, 1880, are specially requested from
each of the Stake Secretaries throughout all the
Stakes of Zion. Forward to the Secretary of the
First Presiding Board.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Salt Lake City,
						P. O. Box, 785.


36		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
YEAR OF JUBILEE.

PIONEER DAY.

	The fiftieth year since the organization of the
Church, and the thirty-third year since the
pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, was celebrat-
ed by a grand procession in the streets and ap-
propriate services in the Tabernacle on the anni-
versary of the ever memorable 24th of July. The
Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and
nearly all the public buildings were decorated
with flags, the stars and stripes, the national
emblems floating gaily in the breeze. Sunday
School children with Superintendents and
Teachers were ranged under the trees in the
route of the procession, and added greatly to
the beauty of the picture, with their flowers and
banners. The streets were thronged on all sides,
yet the Marshals and their aids had no difficulty
in preserving perfect order.

	As announced, the procession began forming
at eight o'clock in the morning, on First South
Street. The head of the column moved at nine
o'clock at the call of Chas. M. Evans,
bugler of the pioneers, from the corner of Second
West and First South Streets, and proceeded
eastward, the entire procession, a grand and
beautiful display of over three miles in length,
countermarching on First South Street, to
Seventh East, thence west to Third East, thence
north to South Temple Street, and thence west
to the Tabernacle. The order of marching was
observed almost strictly as advertised, a few
changes only being necessitated. At the head of
the procession were the surviving Pioneers of
1847, in five wagons, preceded by two horsemen.
In the first wagon, which was drawn by eight
horses, were Wilford Woodruff, Orson Pratt, C.
C. Rich, Erastus Snow, A. Carrington, Joseph
Young, John Brown, Thomas Bullock, H. K.
Whitney, Aaron Farr, Zebedee Coltrin, T. O.
Angell and Thomas Grover. The horsemen
ahead were Jacob Weiler and John Pack, the
former being among the first to enter the valley
in 1847, to break a road for the main body that
followed.
	A portrait of the late President Brigham
Young was exhibited on either side of the first
wagon; with the inscription "Gone Before" on
one side, and "Absent but not Forgotten" on
the other. Above them was the old Pioneer
banner, on which were the names of all the
Pioneers and a picture of Joseph Smith, the
Prophet, in the act of blowing a trumpet. On
the same wagon was the United States flag.
The remainder of the Pioneers were in other
wagons behind.

	They were followed by Capt Beesley's martial
band. Next came in wagons the surviving
members of Zion's Camp. The Mormon Bat-
talion followed, accoutred in their rusty and rag-

[Column 2]
ged regimentals, with their worn out but honor-
ed old flag floating over their heads. After them
came a wagon with ladies, having a banner in-
scribed, "We represent the Women of the Mor-
mon Battalion."
	Following, in a carriage drawn by four black
horses, and another carriage drawn by two
horses, were President John Taylor, Apostles
George Q. Cannon, Brigham Young and Joseph
F. Smith, Counselor D. H. Wells and Secretary
L. J. Nuttall. Behind, in carriages came the
Presidency of the Seventies and Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors.
	The Minute men followed on horseback, led
by Col. H. P. Kimball, with a banner on which
appeared the mottoes, "The Guards" and "Al-
ways Ready."

	Next were the Union Glee Club in a covered
vehicle, and after them marched the Croxall
Brass Band.
	The General Committee rode in a carriage,
and next to them were the Presidency of this
and other Stakes of Zion, followed by the High
Councilors, and the quorums of the High
Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops, Priests and
Deacons,each with appropriate banners, that of the
Lesser Priesthood having inscribed the words of
the angel when ordaining Joseph and Oliver,
viz.: "This Priesthood shall never be taken again
from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer
again an offering unto the Lord in righteous-
ness." Midway among these quorums, which
marched afoot, was the Tenth Ward Brass Band.
	The Relief Societies were in three carriages,
the representatives being Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Elizabeth A. Whitney, Zina D. Young, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. I. Horne, Elizabeth Howard, B.
W. Smith, S. M. Heywood, M. E. Wilcox and
others, with a magnificent white silk banner, at
the top of which was the All-seeing eye. These
words were inscribed in a scroll, "Relief Society
first organized, March 17, 1842;" below was a
delicate wreath of blue and around the wreath
were the words "by Joseph Smith." In the
centre of the wreath is a dove holding an olive
branch in its bill, signifying peace. At each side
is the balm leaf, representing healing, and be-
low is inscribed "Numbers 300 branches, July
24, 1880." Under all is a rising star.
	The design is very artistic and the banner
beautiful.
	Next appeared three cars loaded with repre-
sentatives; a man and woman of the various
countries where the Gospel had been preached,
with banners. On one was, "The Republic has
made us all one nation. The Sunday Schools
had one car decorated with a banner "Zion is
growing, We are 30,000 strong." Following the
S. S. were 24 couple of young ladies and gentle-
men on horseback. The ladies wore cream col-
ored riding habits, white silk caps and white os-
trich plumes. The gentlemen, black cloth suits,
white neckties and gloves. They made a very
charming appearance. In front of them a horse-
man carried a banner with the inscription, "July
24, 1847—1880, God's gifts to the Pioneers."
	Education was represented by a splendidly
decorated car containing five ladies personifying
respectively, Religion, (Miss Priscilla Jennings),
History, (Miss Talula Young), Geography, (Miss
Fanny Little), Science, (Miss Josephine Beatie),
and Art, (Miss Louie Wells). The first occupied
a platform in the middle of the car. She was
dressed in white with a silver star on her fore-
head, her elbow resting on the Bible, and in her
hand was a palm leaf. History was apparaled in
gold, and stationed at one of the corners sur-
rounded by books with a scroll and stylus in her
hand. In another corner dressed in green, with
a globe by her side sat Geography. Science also
occupied a corner, as did Art, the former robed in

[Column 3]
blue, holding a telescope and surrounded by other
scientific instruments, and the latter in pink at-
tire, with palette, easel, sculpture, lyre, etc.,
around her. Near by were four children, two
looking at a picture book and on the other side
two larger children studying natural history and
botany. This car was one of the finest display-
ed. Behind it were carriages containing small
children with books in hand, and the inscrip-
tions "Our Schools" and "The Road to Great-
ness." School trustees and teachers and the
committee on education followed in vehicles
beneath banners with the sentiments, "A Free
People Must Be An Educated People," and "Our
Nation's Prosperity Lies in the Education of
Her Children."
	A carriage came next holding representatives
of the press, C. W. Penrose (Deseret News), Mrs.
E. B. Wells (WOMAN'S EXPONENT), G. C. Lam-
bert (Juvenile Instructor), John C. Graham (En-
quirer) and. Geo. G. Taylor (Junction), with a
banner on which was the figure of a power press
with a halo and inscribed "The Press—The Mag-
net of Intelligence; The Diffuser of Light; The
Champion of Right."
	The Drama, was finely portrayed in a chariot
decorated magnificently and occupied by several
characters representative of the nature, mission
and utility of the stage. The car was drawn by
six horses, the leaders led by court jesters, and
the others by Turks and Arabs, while guards in
armor walked at the corners of the car. The
body of the chariot was a splendid pavilion with
gothic canopy, surmounted by a bust of Shakes-
peare and upheld by marble pillars. The whole
was elegantly painted and draped, and gave a
very good idea of the stage with the curtain
raised. The central figure, seated on a pedestal,
was a lady (Miss Nellie Colebrook) personifying
the stage, with a glass in her hand, "holding the
mirror up to nature," while at the four corners
of a raised platform sat Tragedy, Comedy, His-
tory and Music. The first a lady (Miss Carrie
Cogswell), clothed in black, holding a dagger
and poisoned goblet; the next a lady (Miss Rida
Colebrook), attired in a light blue with a grotesqe
mask in her hand; the next an old man (Mr.
H. Horsley), holding a book, and the last (Mr.
T. Manning) dressed as Apollo; grasping the fa-
bled lyre. Around these figures danced a num-
ber of little fairies, with wings on their shoul-
ders and wands in their hands. This chariot was
the finest display in the procession. It was de-
signed by the committee and Mr. Fred. Lam-
bourne, chiefly by the latter, whose true artistic
taste and ability were manifested in its general
construction. Behind their car came the vota-
ries of the histrionic art—first, members of the
old Deseret Dramatic Association, and next,
those of the Home Dramatic Club, recently or-
ganized. Both had their banners, the latter es-
pecially beautiful.
	The Pilgrim Fathers landing on Plymouth
Rock, in 1620, were represented by tableaux, and
had a car elegantly fitted up for that purpose.
It was profusely decorated with flags and
banners. Purity was artistically represented
by a young lady attired in white. A piece of
the identical rock was framed and hung in the
car. Following this were several carriages of
New England people.
	Next came the Ogden brass band.
	The Y. M. M. I. A. marched in a body 1,100
strong, preceded by a finely mounted horseman
bearing their flag, one of the finest if not really
the finest in the procession. It was of white
silk, trimmed with blue and gold, and inscribed,
"The Glory of God is Intelligence," "Y. M. M.
M. I. A.," "We are 10,000 strong." Following
came the young men who marched by counties,
as follows: Salt Lake, 500; Davis, 150; Weber,
300; Box Elder, 50; Morgan, 40- Tooele, 30; mis-


[Column 1]
cellaneous, 30—total 1,100. Ahead were the
general and stake officers. There were over 60
banners displayed by these societies.
One of them bore the inscription "The Youth
of Israel will Sustain the Faith of their Fa-
thers."
	The Y. L. M. I. A. occupied three carriages,
holding the Territorial and Stake presidents and
other officers. Their banner was a large blue
one whereon was the inscription, "Y. L. M. I.
A.," and the sentiment, "Improvement our
Motto, Perfection our Aim."
	Following these came a carriage with the Ter-
ritorial and Stake officers of the Primary Asso-
ciations. One of the neatest and most pleasing
sights of the whole pageant was the Primary
Associations' car. Forty-two children—21 boys
and the same number of girls, representing the
21 bishops' wards of this city, all dressed in
white, and seated in the sleigh "Julia Dean,"
which was placed on wheels and beautifully de-
corated. It was drawn by six white horses, and
above on a tall mast was a banner of pure white,
with the words, "Primary Associations—Of
Such is the Kingdom of Heaven." Over the
heads of the little ones was a canopy to shade
them from the sun. In front, on each side of
the driver, was a little wood nymph, seated and
holding a silken rein, attached to the mouths of
the swans' heads on the sleigh, and behind were
two little sailors holding the ropes steadying the
awning and the banner. This fine display was
the result of the energy, taste and labors of Sis-
ter Ellen S. Clawson, president of the Stake
Primaries, assisted by her husband, H. B. Claw-
son, Esq.
	After these came the Pony Express in riding
costume with a banner, "1860 and 1861. From
the Missouri to San Francisco in seven days
and seven hours." Next was a car with telegra-
phy, then another Ogden band. Agriculture was
represented by a string of wagons loaded with
products, and with appropriate banners; then a
car of honey bees, then a horticultural car which
could not be excelled in beauty. A log cabin
with a mud chimney came next and seated in-
side was the widow of John P. Green. This was
followed by the most elaborate specimen of
modern architecture. Then the Payson band.
Next quarrymen and stone cutters in several
wagons at their work, the last filled with monu-
ments, graves and children strewing flowers,
and the motto inscribed, "In memory of the
honored dead who fell by the wayside." This
was most affecting "For every heart best know-
eth its own loss," and each would silently recall
its own. Workmen on foot followed.
	Wagon and carriage manufacturers, upholster-
ers. Printers, with press in operation, the names
of the various printing offices and newspapers in
the city. The car was 18 feet long decorated
with an eagle and a pennant with the words
"The Art Preservative." The pioneer press
west of the Missouri river brought here in 1848.
Binders of the principal establishments at work
in the next car, then the type foundry and paper
mill. Shoemakers and tanners next made a
very long and elaborate display. More than 100
men and boys represented this branch of indus-
try and about 30 girls were busy at their work.
A number of handsome banners, with witty
and appropriate mottoes. Saddles and harness,
house and decorative painting, tinners, butchers,
confectioners, wool press, cloth manufacture,
soap makers, mineralogy and mines, machinery.
Ladies industrial department. This car was pro-
fusely decorated with hanging baskets, and all
available specimens of ladies' needle work; this
committee of ladies spared no pains or means in
making attractive these useful and ornamen-
tal employments. In the car were young girls
braiding straw, making pillow lace, knitting,

[Column 2]
crocheting. The most conspicious motto was
"Men build and women beautify." The silk
car was finely decorated with cocoons and raw
material and the banner made entirely of varie-
gated twisted silk thread, was unique and hand-
some. On the platform was a ribbon loom, and
a silk reel, each with a lady at work, another
lady was knitting silk. Some very exquisite ar-
ticles of workmanship of silk material were hung
about the car.
	Merchants and bankers in carriages with a
banner of beautiful gold silk plush with the
simple word "Commerce." Salesmen followed
in four cars; appropriate mottoes with draping
and covering. Brooms artistically arranged,
making a fine appearance; then came chimney-
sweeps and last of all the Yacht Club. A neat
handsome yacht on wheels, crew dressed in cos-
tume, flags and streamers were quite an impres-
sive sight and when they cheered in counter-
marching in sailor fashion it was quite refresh-
ing, and made a pretty variety.

SERVICES IN THE TABERNACLE.

	The assembly was called to order by the bugle,
the same bugle used in crossing the plains in '47.
The Tabernacle choir rendered the glorious an-
them, "O Praise God all ye nations."
	Elder George Q. Cannon offered an inspiring
and eloquent prayer. Apostle Wilford Woodruff
made a short speech, rehearsing a few of the
scenes and incidents connected with Zion's
Camp of 1833, the Mormon Battalion
of 1846, and the Pioneers of 1847. "Those
who know how much the history of either
of these remarkable events combine will
wonder that even an interesting synopsis of
each could be given in 20 minutes. Apostle
Woodruff's remarks were responded to by a
hearty Amen from the congregation. The Union
Glee Club sang a martial song, "Comrades in
Arms."
	Apostle Orson Pratt then gave a speech in re-
gard to the introduction of the Gospel into the
various nations, a brief synopsis of which is
published on another page.
	After the nationalities resumed their seats
came the pealing anthem, "Glory to God in the
Highest," Elder David McKenzie then read, in
an effective manner, a poem written for the occa-
sion by Bishop O. F. Whitney, entitled "The
Jubilee of Zion." The Careless Orchestra then
executed the charming overture, "Poet and
Peasant." Elder B. F. Cummings, Jr., deliver-
ed an address on education, which he had care-
fully prepared for the occasion; and also read a
letter from the "Department of the Interior,
Bureau of Education," addressed to President
John Taylor, commending the manner in which
the educational statistics of Utah had been pre-
pared, and recommending the example to others.
After this, the beautiful duet, "I Heard a Voice,"
was gracefully and melodiously rendered by Mrs.
S. E. Langford and Miss L. Nebeker. This was one
of the very best features of the entire programme.
Sentiments from the women of Utah (published
on another page) were then read in a clear, dis-
tinct voice by Elder L. John Nuttall. The la-
dies of the first presiding board of the Relief So-
ciety appearing upon the platform in front of the
audience: while it was being read. The ladies
received considerable applause, which we be-
lieve they richly merit, and here perhaps it is in
keeping to say that among the pioneers, seated
on the platform, was the one woman, the only
one now living of three who came with the first
pioneers in 1847, Mrs. Clara D. Young, widow of
the late President B. Young. Let it not be for-
gotten that three noble, heroic women, braved
the dangers and hardships of that adventurous
journey. Mrs. Ellen S. Kimball, wife of Heber
C. Kimball, and Mrs. Harriet P. W. Young,

[Column 3]
wife of Elder Lorenzo D. Young, were the other
two. Honor to their memory. May their names
be engraven upon the hearts of Zion's sons and
daughters. The 10th Ward Band then perform-
ed a selection, and President John Taylor deliv-
ered an extempore address, going over much
Church history, and making special reference of
the pilgrims of New England, the Declaration of
Independence and the adoption of the Constitu-
tion. Spoke prophetically of the great future;
said God was at the helm and would preserve Is-
rael, and blest the pioneers, the Battalion,
Zion's Camp, the Relief Societies, the young
people's associations, the Sunday Schools, the
Elders in Israel, the Twelve and all the Holy
Priesthood.
	The Choir and Careless' Orchestra rendered
the Hallelujah Chorus from the Messiah, and
Apostle Erastus Snow pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	This celebration will be remembered in Israel
as one of the grandest commemorative events
which has ever been recorded in the pages of
history. It was a grand and solemn occasion, for
when one remembers the many persecutions,
drivings and wanderings which the Saints have
passed through, the heart must ascend in grati-
tude and prayer to Almighty God that He has
permitted his people to enjoy the peace and pros-
perity which surrounds them in their mountain
home.
	Great credit is due the several members of the
general committee who so energetically labored
beforehand to plan and arrange this mammoth
affair, and particularly to the chairman, Elder
Joseph E. Taylor, who was unceasing in his
efforts to render it successful. Under his direc-
tion the minutest details of the entire programme
were carried out. The sub-committees also are
worthy of great praise; they spared no time or
means to make their respective departments all
that could be desired. The ladies of the decora-
tive committee certainly worked energetically,
and their works praised them; also the ladies who
arranged the home-industrial department.
	The Marshals and their aids deserve special
mention for the very able and quiet manner in
which they performed their part of the pro-
gramme. Everything was in the most complete
and perfect harmony. The music from the choir
and all the several bands was glorious. The day
was lovely, the heavens smiled radiantly and
the azure air seemed impregnated with the
breath of angels, and one might easily imagine
that hosts of glorified beings were ready to burst
upon the view.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		37


CORRECTIONS.

	In the minutes of the Provo Relief Society
Conference, Elder Woodruff is made to say that
he was never at home with his family but one
summer in his life, and one of his children was a
year old before he saw him. Instead of this, he
said that he had not been at home with his fam-
ily but one summer since he was married, until
he came into these valleys of the mountains and
one child, born after he left home, was nearly a
year old before he saw him. These glaring mis-
takes show the importance of persons having the
privilege of correcting what is reported for them
before it is put in print.
							W. WOODRUFF.

	In statistical report of Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tions of Weber Stake, published in EXPONENT
July 15th, the average attendance is 2,863. It
shouild be 283.				R. CANFIELD.


All the printing department of the Woman's
Journal, published weekly in Boston, Mass., is
done and managed by women.


3﻿8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.

	There is a subject of vital importance to the
mothers of Utah—it is the educating of our
children. "Where shall I send my children to
school?" Is a question that vexes many a moth-
er’s brain, and with good reason; for often to
the sorrow of parents it is discovered too late
that the jewels given us from God, whose purity
we have so carefully guarded at home, have
become sullied by the pernicious influences of
bad associates found in the schoolroom.
	Can this be overcome? Yes. By what
means? By having our every action guided by
the Spirit of God. The mother needs it at
home, every day, every hour; her influence and
teachings are the foundation upon which the
teacher must build.
	Next to her influence comes that of the
teacher. If both are guided by divine inspira-
tion, we may expect but one result—the rear-
ing of children who are prepared to labor suc-
cessfully in Christ’s kingdom; being taught cor-
rect principles, they are able to govern them-
selves.
	But a reformation must take place in the
schoolroom, as in many other places among
the Latter-day Saints. It will be met as all
things and all persons are who take upon them
the mantle of Christ. If they follow his ex-
ample they must look for like experiences. On
the earth a constant struggle, in heaven eternal
joy.
	This reformation has commenced, my sisters.
	Where? some may ask. In the noble monu-
ment of love and wisdom left to bless God’s
people—the Brigham Young Academy. This
institution was founded by President Brigham
Young in 1876. He endowed it with a build-
ing for school purposes, and had made provision
for its support from other sources, but, in the
wise providences of the Lord, these endow-
ments were not consummated by him, so that
the school has but the building it can call its
own, and is supported by tuition fees alone;
which is something unparalleled in the history
of such an institution. But all is right, for
God will toke care of that which is established
to carry on his work.
	Let me consider all the readers of this price-
less little paper as one person. Together we
will visit, examine and learn of the real work-
ings of this school. The bell rings a hearty
peal at half past eight; the streets are alive
with scholars, from the little ones six years did
up to young men and maidens in their teens
and twenties.
	How happy, intelligent and orderly they are
(over four hundred pupils have attended this
year). One and all ascend the stairs. All is
subdued and quiet. A few words of general
instruction for the day from our beloved prin-
cipal, and the choir sings a hymn or anthem;
the bell taps, and all rise to their feet, when
one of the young students is called upon to
pray; an earnest and heartfelt appeal to "Him
who rules on high," for guidance through the
day and the scholars are dismissed to their sev-
eral departments for theological exercises, which
consist of three grades, the Primary, Interme-
diate and Advanced. We will follow the Pri-
mary and see how the little ones enjoy the
principles of the holy Gospel. Now all is
quiet. Brother Tanner (a student of the B.
Y. Academy, who is now the teacher of the
Academic Department) tells some incident in
the life of our Savior, or one of the parables,
in simple and effective language, drawing a
map of the Holy Land on the board, to illus-
trate his subject. The little ones are asked to
volunteer to tell the story over in their own
simple way. Ah! what happiness to see how
eager, how delighted they are with all the
beautiful truths taught in such a way that even
the smallest can understand.

To be Continued.


GROWING OLD.

	I have been thinking what a poor prospect
the average women has to look forward to, at
the age of forty, if she be a widow without
property.
	If she has raised a family of small children
soon to be married and leave her, or if she be
childless, the lookout is about the same. Her-
real life-work seems done, when it ought to be
only changed. The active matron cannot fold
her hands, so she looks about for something to
take up her time. What shall it be? Charity?
General meddlesomeness? Shall she become a
burden on step children?
	Happy the woman who has the foresight to
see that through forty years of experience she
has matured the ability to commence a grand,
useful second half of her life! Let her study a
profession or adopt a trade. The physician or
lawyer, with gray hairs, has twice the practice
he did during his probation of maturing exper-
ience and judgment.
	It is the worry over the future that so wrinkles
and ages women, they seem helpless, and, worst
of all, not desired after a certain age. Every
one should live young in ambition and work,
no matter how many years they have seen roll
by; each year should count a garnered store to
make rich the coming one.
The first forty years of a woman's life are
generally laid on the altar of love, and no pay
taken in return. (I am not talking of the
weathy class.) The law gives a wife the poorest
chance of any in life—housework without
pecuniary pay. And when this situation is no
longer open, she looks about, scared, for a place
to earn her living. How many such have I
seen; and I always advise them to acquire a
<f acquire="" a="" trade,="" or="" profession,="" go="" to="" teaching;,="" they="" make="" the="" best="" of="" teachers="" and="" are="" much.="" tq="" be="" preferred="" younger="" tutors.="" i="" would="" not="" advise-="" any="" avoman="" leave="" un-="" finished="" family="" work;="" but="" avhen="" that="" is="" ..com-="" ?="" pleted="" there="" other="" grand="" avork="" for="" her,="" if="" she="" :="" has="" courage="" overcome="" objections="" .="" beth.1="" ‘="" ;="" san="" francisco,="" cal.="" woman’s="" journal.-="" ,="" i<="" div="">trade, or a profession, or go to teaching; they
make the best of teachers and are much to be
preferred to younger tutors.
	I would not advise any woman to leave un-
finished family work; but when that is com-
pleted there is other grand work for her, if she
has the courage to overcome objections.
									BETH.
	San Francisco, Cal. Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The last sketch from my father's history hav-
ing taken me back to the earlier scenes of my
childhood, I cannot resist the inclination of go-
ing still farther back. The names of some of
those mentioned by him are very nearly con-
nected with my earliest and fondest recollec-
tions, not only in Kirtland, Ohio, but in Men-
don, in the State of New York, where I was
born. Brother John Moreton and family were
our nearest neighbors in Mendon; also Ira
Bond's and one or two other families who stop-
ped in Kirtland. They received the Gospel
and moved up there nearly at the same time we
did. They seemed so near to us that my par-
ents grieved over their apostacy.
	Brother Brigham Young, with his wife and
two little girls, lived with us in Mendon; Mrs.
Young died in a few months after they came
there, and my mother took care of his children
from that time until after we moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio. We were like one family for
years, and I had supposed Brigham and Jo-
seph Young to be my uncles until years after.
I loved, them and their sister Fanny, who was
afterwards married to my Grandfather Murray,
more dearly than I did most of my own rela-
tives, for we left them all when we went to Kirt-
land. Aunt Fanny Young was living with
my parents when I was born, and took care of
me, and she was always ready to defend me if
necessary. Uncle Joseph was unmarried, and
always stopped with us when in Mendon. I
was frequently asked the question which I loved

[Column 2]
the best, Pa, Uncle Brigham or Uncle Joseph;
I would never give but one answer, "I love you
all at once." Brothers Brigham and Joseph
have often reminded me of my "first love." If
I had a leaning towards one more than another
it was Uncle Joseph, as he was without any
family, and I was the first to expect and to re-
ceive his sugar plums and kisses.
	The following interesting items are from my
father's history: "The family of John Young,
Sen., consisted of five sons, five daughters, and
two sons-in-law; John P. Green and Joel Sand-
ford moved into Mendon about two or three
years previous to hearing of Mormonism. They
belonged to the Reformed Methodists. They
were in lowly circumstances, and seemed to be
an afflicted people, in consequence of having a
great deal of sickness and sorrow to pass
through, and of course were looked down upon
by the flourishing church where we lived. To
them my heart was united, because a principle
had existed in my heart from my earliest child-
hood to plead the cause of suffering innocence
—to go on the side of the oppressed at all
times. I have many times turned aside from
the company of those who were highly es-
teemed in the world, and sought the society of
the poor and humble, even those who loved the
ways of the Lord bett[--] than the praise of the
world. These families had the same principles
in their breasts which I had in mine, for truth
was what we wanted."	*	*	*
The following paragraph is from my father's
journal:
	"On the night of September 22d, 1827, while
living in the town of Mendon, after I had re-
tired to bed, John P. Green, who was then a
traveling Reformed Methodist preacher, living
within one hundred steps of my house, came
and waked me up, calling upon me to come out
and behold the scenery in the heavens. I woke
up and called my wife and Sister Fanny Young
(sister to Brigham Young), who was living
with us; we went out of doors—it was one of
the most beautiful starlight nights, so clear that
we could see to pick up a pin. We looked to
the eastern horizon and beheld a white smoke
arise towards the heavens; as it ascended it
formed itself into a belt, and made a noise like
the rushing of a mighty wind, and continued
southwest, forming a regular bow dipping in
the western horizon. After the bow had
formed, it began to widen out and grow clear
and transparent of a bluish cast; it grew wide
enough to contain twelve men abreast. In this
bow an army moved, commencing from the east
and marching to the west; they continued
marching until they reached the western hori-
zon. They moved in platoons, and walked so
close the rear ranks trod in the steps of their
file leaders, until the whole bow was literally
crowded with soldiers. We could distinctly
see the muskets, bayonets and knapsacks of the
men, who wore caps and feathers like those
used by the American soldiers in the last war
with Britain; also saw their officers with their
swords and equipage, and heard the clashing
and jingling of their instruments of war, and
could discover the form and features of the
men. The most profound order existed through-
out the entire army; when the foremost man
stepped, every man stepped at the same time; I
could hear the steps. When the front rank
reached the western horizon a battle ensued, as
we could distinctly hear the report of the arms
and the rush. No man could judge of my
feelings when I beheld that army of men, as
plainly as I ever saw armies of men in the
flesh: it seemed as though every hair of my
head was alive. This scenery we gazed upon
for hours, until it began to disappear. After I
became acquainted with Mormonism I learned
that this took place the same evening that Jo-
seph Smith received the records of the Book
of Mormon from the angel Moroni, who had
held those records in his possession. John
Young, Sen., and John P. Greene's wife Rhoda


[Column 1]—
were also witnesses  of  this  scenery.  My wife
being frightened at what she saw, said: ‘Father
Young, what does all this mean?’ He replied
in  a  lively, pleased  manner, ‘Why, its  one of
the signs of  the  coming  of the Son of Man.’
The next night similar scenery was beheld in
the west by the  neighbors, representing armies
of  men  who were engaged in battle.”
	My parents had never professed any religion
until  about  three  weeks  previous  to  hearing
this  Gospel, they  joined  the  Baptist  Church;
but  as  soon  as  they  heard the principles of
Mormonism declared by some Elders who came
from Pennsylvania, they felt  that it  contained
the fulness of the  everlasting Gospel, and that
they had  only received  a  part.  Father says:
“Brigham Young and myself were constrained
by  the  spirit  to  bear  testimony  of the  truth
which we had heard, and when  we did this the
power of God rested upon us.”  *   *   "Upon
one  occasion  Father  John  Young,  Brigham,
Joseph  and  myself  had  gathered  together  to
get some  wood  for  Phineas  H. Young;  while
we were thus engaged we were pondering upon
the things which  had  been  told  to  us by the
Elders, and upon the Saints gathering to Zion;
and the  glory of God  shone  upon  us, and we
saw the  gathering  of the Saints  to Zion  and
the glory that would rest upon them, and many
more things connected with  that  great  event,
such as the  sufferings  and  persecutions  which
would  come upon the  people  of God, and  the
calamities  and  judgments  which  would  come
upon  the  world.  These  things  caused  such
great  joy to  spring up in our  bosoms that  we
were hardly able to  contain  ourselves;  and we
did  shout  aloud, ‘Hosanna to  God  and the
Lamb!’ These things increasing our desires to
hear  more, I took  my  horses  and  sleigh  and
started for  Columbia, Bradford  County, Penn-
sylvania—distance one  hundred  and  twenty-
five miles;  Brigham and Phineas  Young and
their  wives  went  along with me.  We stayed
with the Church there about six days, attended
their  meetings, heard  them  speak in tongues,
interpret  and prophesy, which truly caused us
to rejoice and praise the  Lord.  We returned
home confirmed in the truth, but were not  yet
baptized, and as we were  on  our way we bore
testimony to  the  truth  of those things which
we had seen and heard, and to our friends and
neighbors;  many received  our  testimony and
became  members  of  the  Church.    April  14,
1832,  Brigham  Young went  forward  and was
baptized  by Eleazer  Miller, and  the next day
Alpheus  Gifford  came  into my shop  while I
was forming a vessel upon the wheel,and while
conversing  with  me  upon  the  subject  of  this
work, I said: “Brother Alpheus, I am ready to
go forward and be baptized.”   I arose from
my seat, pulled off my apron, washed my hands
and  started  with  him.  * * * I went the
distance of one mile, where he  baptized me in
a small stream in the woods.  After I was bap-
tized  I kneeled  down, and  he  laid his  hands
upon  my head  and  confirmed me a member of
the Church  of  Jesus Christ, and said, ‘Receive
ye the  Holy Ghost.’ And before I got up off
my knees he wanted  to  ordain  me  an  Elder;
but I plead with him not to do it, as I felt my-
self unworthy  of such  a  calling and such  an
office.  In  about  two weeks  my wife was bap-,
tized by Brother  Joseph  Young, with  several
others, when we numbered about thirty in that
branch. * * * Under the  ordinances of 
baptism and laying on of hands I received the
Holy  Ghost  as  the  Disciples  did  in  ancient
days, which was  like a consuming  fire, and I 
felt as though I was clothed in my right mind
and sat at the feet of  Jesus.   Although  the
people called me crazy, I continued in this way
for  many months, and it seemed as though my
flesh  would  consume  away;  at  the  same time
the Scriptures  were  unfolded  to  my mind  in
such  a  wonderful manner  that it appeared to
me at times as  if  formerly I had been familiar 

[Column 2]
with them.  This alarmed the professing world
around us, and raised the devil to a great rage;
still our minds were calm and filled with peace,
while  the  wrath  of our enemies was  raised to
such a degree that they persecuted us. During 
one week some  of  those  who  had  professed to
be my greatest friends in the  Baptist Church, 
and others, persecuted me to such a degree that
five  or  six  executions were  taken  out against
me, and  I  turned  out  property  to  secure the
same to their great  disappointment;  God  hav-
ing opened my way so that I obtained money to
pay  all  my  debts  and  liberate  myself  from
them, so that none  of  my  property was sold at
auction.  In  the  mean time, during my great-
est trouble not one of them was willing to step
forward to assist me, excepting my brethren in
the  Church  and  my  brother  Solomon.   May
God  bless  my brethren, and  reward those my
enemies according to their works.
	“September 18, Bro. Brigham Young’s wife,
Miriam, having  been  feeble  for  months, died.
In  her  expiring  moments  she  clapped  her
hands  and  praised  the Lord; she continued in
this  happy state, and  when  her voice was too
weak  to  be  heard,  her  lips  and  hands  were
seen  moving until  she  expired.  This was an-
other  testimony  of the powerful  effect  of the
Everlasting Gospel, showing  that  we shall not
die, but  we  shall  sleep. * * * In these
scenes and other afflictions we felt to rejoice in
the Lord. * * * In September, Brothers
Brigham  and  Joseph  Young  and myself went
up to Kirtland,  Ohio, in my wagon, to visit the
Prophet. * * * We saw  Brother  Joseph
Smith  and  had a glorious  time, during which
Brother Brigham  spoke in tongues  before  Jo-
seph, this  being the  first time  that Joseph had
heard  the  gift  of  tongues.  He  rose  up  and
testified that the gift was  from  God, and  then
the gift fell  upon him and he spoke in tongues
himself; he afterwards declared it was the pure
or Adamic language which he spoke. * * *
We had a precious season, and returned  with a
blessing in our souls. I continued rejoicing in
the Lord and bearing testimony that God had
spoken  from  the  heavens, and of the things  I
had  received, until  I sold  my  possessions  and
settled  up  my  affairs.  In  the  fall  of  1833 I
packed up my goods, took my horses and wagon
and started for Kirtland, Ohio;  but to my great
surprise, some  of my  neighbors  issued attach-
ments  against  my  goods, although  I  was  not
indebted to  any one  of them  to  the  value  of
five  cents, for  I had  been  particular  in  such
matters, that  I  was  well  aware  I was  not in-
debted  in  any sum  to  any person, unless  two
cents to one man, in a case where change could
not  be  procured,  although  there  were  some
hundreds of dollars due me, which I was obliged
to leave  uncollected;  I  settled  their  unjust
claims.  Elder  Brigham  Young  and his  two
children went with me;  we arrived in Kirtland
about the last of October or first of November.”
	When we first went there we lived in a house
belonging  to  Mr.  Elijah  Smith,  uncle  to
Mother  Whitney.  In  the  meantime  father
built a small frame house, which was put up by
Uncle  Brigham,  who  was  a  carpenter  and
joiner, and also a painter and glazier.
	“Soon after  our  arrival  in Kirtland,” says 
father “there was a contribution  called  for to
finish the  schoolhouse  and  printing  office; I
contributed the  glass for the  house and I gave
Brother Hyrum Smith two hundred dollars for
the  building  of the  Temple.   The  brethren
were  engaged in building  the  House  of  the
Lord. * * * The Church  was  in  a state
of  poverty  and  distress, in  consequence of
which it  appeared  almost  impossible  that the
commandment  to  build  the  Temple  could be
fulfilled.  At  the  same time our enemies were
raging  and  threatening  destruction  upon  us,
and we had to guard night after night, and for
weeks  were  not permitted  to take, off  our
clothes, and were  obliged to lay with our fire-

[Column 3]
locks in  our arms to preserve Brother Joseph’s
life and  our  own. Joseph was sued  before a
magistrate’s court in Painesville, on a vexatious
suit.  I carried him from Kirtland  to  Paines-
ville, with  four  or  five  others,  in  my wagon,
every morning for five days, and brought them
back in the  evening. We were often waylaid,
but  managed  to  elude  our  enemies  by  rapid
driving  and  taking  different  roads.  Esquire
Bissell defended  the  Prophet  and he  came  off
victorious.   At this time our brethren in Jack-
son County, Missouri, were also suffering great
persecution; about twelve hundred were driven,
plundered  and  robbed,  their  houses  burned,
and  some  of the brethren were killed.  Mobs
were  organized around Kirtland, who were en-
raged against us, ready to destroy us. *  *  *
Joseph gathered together as many of the breth-
ren as he conveniently  could, with what means
they could spare, to go up to Zion to render all
the assistance  that  we  could.  We  gathered
clothing  and  other  necessaries  to  carry up to 
our brethren  and  sisters who had been plun-
dered, and putting  our  horses to  the  wagons
and faking our  firelocks  and  ammunition,  we
started  on  our  journey,  leaving  only  Oliver
Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon and a few aged work-
men who were  engaged at the  Temple; so that
there were very few men  left at Kirtland. Our
wagons were  about full with baggage, &c, con-
sequently we had to travel on foot.   We started
on the 5th of May, and truly this was a solemn
morning to me. I took leave  of  my  wife  and
children  and  friends,  not  knowing whether  I
would see them again in the flesh, as myself and
brethren were  threatened  both in that country
and  in  Missouri  by  enemies, that  they would
destroy us and  exterminate us from the land.”
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


A FOOLS FANCY.

	He had a pretty thorough knowledge of hu-
man nature who wrote, "A person who is not a
fool half the time is a fool all the time." This
remark is equivalent to saying that the people of
the world are constitutionally and continually
fools, for the reason that no one is to be found
who will admit that he is a fool half the time,
and when he is unwilling to make such an ad-
mission the inference is that he is a fool all the
time. It is an apparently extravagant idea, and
yet has much in it. In a feeling of the sublime
charity with which all are periodically effected,
especially when referring in the patronizing
spirit with which the wise ones of the world are
blessed to the shortcomings of an individual, it
is customary to perpetrate the angelic expres-
sion "Ah, well! we all have our faults," while
the air in which the remark is made, the tone of
voice and the whole manner say plainer than
words: "I say this, out of the goodness of my
soul, but candidly and with a full knowledge of
the weight of the expression, I do not believe
I ever had any such shortcomings; and if I
had I am certain I will never have them again."
	A momentary sense of humility having come
over me, I admit I am one of the fools in this world,
of whom there are so few and yet such a great
multitude. Until lately, I had an idea that the
intellect of the world was pretty evenly divided
among the people living in it, but a reverse opin-
ion possesses me now. One never learns of pub-
lic men doing anything of a public or private
nature, but he hears some one discussing its
propriety, and when he gets through, you are or
should be convinced that the public man is an
unmitigated fool for having done any such thing.
If you dare to suggest that the act was proper or
that it had its extenuating features, you are put
in the same intellectual boat as the public man,
and are pronounced a fool. Of course, there is
some satisfaction in the connection, even if it be
so unenviable, but you are unquestionably a fool.
There are persons in this world who carry their
idiocy to such a superlative degree that they
think, as a rule, mankind is working for the good
of mankind, and that the brains of the world
are pretty evenly distributed; but this delusion,
which you admit is very pretty and very de-
sirable, can not withstand the argument
of one of the fortunate wise persons, who
convinces you in a very few seconds that you are
a fool for entertaining such an idea. He wishes


to heaven it were so, but sighs and shakes his
head. This shake of the head, accompanied by
a deep sigh, is very suggestive and carries a
great deal of weight and argument when used
judiciously. A good solemn shake of the head
says: "No one knows how much I would re-
joice were the world wise;" and when the sigh is
added, the expression is completed thus: "And
no one can regret more deeply than I that the
world will not be taught by me and partake of
my wisdom."
	And what makes this more distressing is that
nearly everybody you meet has got the same
grave shake and trying sigh. In view of this
wide-spread idiocy, the great question of life is
how to get over being a fool, and the only suc-
cessful solution to the problem at present ap-
parently is to get over living with all possible
expedition. One-half the time of one-half the
world is spent in showing what fools the other
half is; and the other half occupies the remain-
der of the time in proving the same sad condi-
tion for the first half, forgetting always that the
best evidence of idiocy is in the attempt to
prove some one else an idiot. Josh Billings
once remarked that he loved his faults because
they made him feel he was a brother to the rest
of mankind; and for the same reason I love my
share of the idiocy of the world. He is least a
fool who does not think the world all fools.
"What fools these mortals be."
							ONE OF THEM.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE.

<ul i="" '="" 41="" -j="" jl="" .="" 1="" t'="" ,="" ii$plytlons="" &k="" condolence.="" iiro="" ff="" jipgabejpf.="" johnf.="" tobnebt'i.,="" wiusiifcxsl="" alivvwtr6vidence="" has="" seen="" fit="" to;="" hlloxwessssassfh="" w'taketlivs="" life="" of-john="" f.="" baturneiyoldest="" sonbf="" john="" w-="" and="" sarah="" i;="" tur-i="" vihejvabd..'="" .i'="" i.="" i’)iyolkaeritirebijonghj%hi9death.="" the.church:="" ;lias="" jr="" "”"="" lost="" a'ppjnjng.merqber,="" fho="" family="" an="" ex-<="" celfeat="" son="" aianrother.="" whereas,="" the="" said="" s.="" w.="" turner="" ever="" been="" ready="" by="" his="" means-and="" infllittlee="" to="" aid="" our="" so-="" ciety,="" sarah,li="" turner,has="" active="" member="" of="" society-over="" since="" its="" organiza-="" -u.tiqn,="" andjhasalways,shown="" a="" .willingness="" her="" jhelp;="" handiiheartandsympathy.toaid="" tbe.objects="" w.of="" our-societyi,="" as="" ..also.="" afflicted:="" therefore,="" -="" -inth&rbereaverrient;="" -hpreauupoji-="" minuies;="" copy'="" sens-="" wine="" wafs="" herald="" deseret="" -news="" '&eriwrerf:i="" )'="" "="" vnnamnjttj="" or.?="" i..="" a;jthrppgh;te,decp="" ;watos,i="" call="" jtheo="" go.="" oils="" ii="" w'f5m="" wftyvr="" shall="" not,="" files="" .oyerflc,="" t6r7xbl,tc‘wh'tl(e<i="" fiiytronlles="" tbbless,="" iahdjsanctify="" ihecr="" thy="" deepest="" diblress.”="" ’'1="" n="" ’="" juia.="" .aolden,.prudent="" be;..="" wf="" j-="" counselors;="" becreary.'ai<="" div="">TO THE PARENTS OF JOHN F. TURNER.

	WHEREAS, Allwise Providence has seen fit to
allow the assassin to take the life of John F.
Turner, oldest son of John W. and Sarah L. Tur-
ner and
	Whereas, Through his death the church has
lost a promising member, and the family an ex-
cellent son and brother.
	Whereas, The said J. W. Turner has ever been
ready by his means and influence to aid our So-
ciety, and Sarah L. Turner has been an active
member of our Society ever since its organiza-
tion, and has always shown a willingness by her
help, hand, heart and sympathy to aid the objects
of our Society, as also the afflicted, therefore,
be it
	Resolved by the Relief Society of the Fourth
Ward of Provo City, that we deeply sympathize
with our Brother and Sister Turner and family
in their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon our minutes, a copy sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Herald, Deseret News
and Enquirer.

"When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
The rivers of sorrow shall not thee overflow.
For I will be with thee thy troubles to bless,
And sanctity to thee thy deepest distress."
			RUIA A. HOLDEN, President.
			L. SNYDER,	} Counselors.
			C. DANIELS,	}
			C. DANIELS, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	At the residence of her son-in-law, Isaac Price,
Round Valley, Bear Lake County, June 26th,
1880, of heart disease and dropsy, Elizabeth
Sophia Bailey, wife of the late Luther Reed, of
Bloomington, Bear Lake County, Idaho. De-
ceased was born July 22nd, 1823, in Nova Scotia,
North America, embraced the Gospel at Bath,
England, 1846, and emigrated to Utah in 1853.
Sister Reed was known and spoken of as a good
woman, unassuming, naturally self-sustaining
and independent to the utmost of her ability.
Having suffered a long time previous to her
death, she longed to lay her body down and go
to rest. Her end was peace.	H. LLOYD.
	Deseret News please copy.

	DIED at her residence in Moroni, May 18th, of
bronchitis and old age, Sister Kristen Jensen.
Deceased was born in Farra, in the Province of
Jutland, Denmark, October 26th, 1809; was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1861, emigrated to Utah in com-
pany with her husband and children, and set-
tled in Moroni in 1862. Her husband died in
1872. She was the mother of seven children, of
which six still live, and 37 grandchildren, of
which 35 are yet living. She was a consistent
Latter-day Saint, a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and died in the full hopes of meet-


ing her husband behind the vail, and with him
receive a glorious resurrection.
	Skandenaveens Stjerne please copy.

	Died at St. John's, Malad Valley, Idaho, June
the 18th, 1880, after a severe illness of ten days,
Rachel E. daughter of Richard Davis and Phe-
be Jones, aged 14 years, 7 months and 7 days.
Deceased was a kind and affectionate girl, belov-
ed by all who knew her, and her loss is mourned
by all.

Oh weep not gentle mother, and brothers, sisters dear,
Your loved one's safe from danger and sorrow; never
	fear.
And if like her we're faithful and strive to do our best,
We'll meet her in the heavens with the noble and the
	blest.
Deseret News please copy.				—COM.

	Died at her residence, Moroni, Sanpete Coun-
ty, after a short illness, Caroline Marie Soronson,
wife of Sorin Sorenson. Born on the 4th day of
April, 1855, in Denmark, and died on the 18th of
June, 1880, leaving a husband and numerous re-
latives to mourn her loss. She was a teacher
of the Relief Society and a worthy member of
the Church of Jesus Christ, and a faithful wife.
She was above reproach, and respected by all
who knew her. Almost the entire settlement
followed her remains to their last resting place.
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,"
for they will come forth out of their dusty
graves in the morning of the first resurrection.


AN EDUCATIONAL ENDORSEMENT:—The Rev.
C. A. Harvey. D. D., of the Howard University,
of Washington, has adressed the following letter
to Messrs. Warner & Co., of Rochester N. Y.
	GENTLEMEN: I take pleasure in stating that I
have for two years past been acquainted with
the remedy known as Warner's Safe Kidney and
Liver Cure, and with its remarkable curative
efficiency in obstinate and so called incurable
cases of Bright's Disease in this city. In some
of these cases, which seemed to be in the last
stages, and which had been given up by pract-
citioners of both schools, the speedy change
wrought by this remedy seemed but little less
than miraculous. I am convinced that for
Bright's Disease, in all its stages, no remedy
heretofore discovered can be held for one mo-
ment in comparison with this.
	Respectfully Yours.		C. A. HARVEY.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O.H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulons and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes: prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlets
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St. over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES.
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and strings. Country Doaters, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

NEW SPRING STOCK!
F. AUERBACH & BROTHERS
55 East Temple St., Salt Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings; Five hundred pairs Kid Gloves; Trimmings; Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
☞ Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.
Notions: Boots and Shoes; Gents' and Boys' Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

☞ Z. C. M. I ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Speical Deparments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST,
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1880.		No. 6.﻿


For the EXPONENT:
ADDRESSED TO G. K.

ON OUR FIRST BAPTISMAL ANNIVERSARY.

Hail! my Sister!—ever dear,
Hail! my Sister of a year!—
Through God's Spirit Sister mine,
By my spirit Sister thine!

God of love! and God of us
Father of the universe!
Look upon the compact--we
Sealed by covenant with thee!
Let thy blessing on it rest,
For its sake may we be blest!
We desire to do thy wil!,
Thro' good report and more—thro' ill;
Help us ever to obey
Thy righteous laws from day to day.

Came we not from worlds afar
Where thou wert our guiding star?
Came we not with willing mind,
Forgetting all we left behind?
Came we not to do a work
Which none but coward hearts will shirk?
Came we not to build, and plant
Land bestowed by God's own "grant."
Came we not to plant the vine
For the Sacramental wine?—
Came we not the seed to spread
For the Sacramental bread?—
Came we not with joy to gain
A new and everlasting name?
Came we not to win our dead
Through the blood of Christ our head?
Came we not to gain a crown
By a cross—by thee laid down?
Came we not to rule and reign
O'er the subjects we might gain?
Came we not with willing hands
To obey all thy commands?
Came we not all this to do
And a thousand others too?
Father! we are ever thine
Through the changing scenes of time!
Keep us faithful unto thee,
Such our souls desire to be!
Bless us every step we take,
Love us for thy mercy's sake;
Keep us faithful to the end,
Father! God! Redeemer, Friend!
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

AN ADDRESS

DELIVERED BY MRS. A. M. ROMNEY.

		ST. GEORGE,  July 24th, 1880.
	Brethren and Sisters: It is with pride that
I rise to speak in behalf of my young sisters of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of St., George. Not because
I feel able to properly and interestingly repre-
sent them but because I love their Society; ad-
mire their interested labors in regard to the
onward progress of these latter times, their
virtues, and their Love of Truth.
	It is now some four years since our first As-
sociation was organized with Miss E. A. Snow,as
President, and Elida Snow, Hannah Fawcette,
A. M. Woodbury, Elizebeth Starr, Juie Ivins,
Margret Jarvis and Amelia Crosby, as Counse-
lors; and Sister Artimissa Snow, Superinten-
dent. 
	This continued for about one year; and was
attended with considerable sucess. We edited
a paper called "The Young Lady's Diadem,"

[Column 2]

which was a source of imformation; and tended
towards general improvement.
	This paper contains some of the first efforts
in composition of many of our Young Sisters;
some of whom are now honorable wives and
happy mothers; who look back with pleasure to
their associations with the first Improve-
ment Association organized in St. George for
Young Ladies.
	When we allow our thoughts to wander back
to those days, how well we remember the nerv-
ous trepidation, the heart beating, the nervous-
ness, the burning cheek, the fearfulness of each
other we displayed, in making our first efforts
in speech making, or listening to the editress
read our first essays: and, Oh dear! how we did
feel when we ourselves had to rise on our feet,
and read the paper, we had had the honor to
superintend! how our limbs did tremble! how
the perspiration did ooze from our heated
temples! how something would rise up in our
throats, that seemed determined to choke or
make us dumb? and, when we did find utter-
ance, how strange our voices sounded in our
ears, and how thankful, yes, how very thankful,
we were, when, "Our heavy task was o'er."
No doubt my hearers have all, to a greater or
less extent, experienced these very feelings
sometime in their early youth, and first appear-
ance before the public.
	Soon after our Stake was organized, our As-
sociation was divided into four branches. One
in each ward. And still later a stake organ-
ization was effected with our worthy sister, E.
Snow Ivins, as President; Mary G. Whitehead
and A. S. Segmiller, as Counselors. The good
that these associations have accomplished, will
be felt in society in years that are yet far in the 
future; when the young sisters shall have become
mothers of worthy sons and daughters; whose
influence will be felt in every land where the
Gospel can be preached. And the youth, who
go abroad to preach the Gospel, while referring
with pride to their dear mothers at home, will
be able to say, my mother always attended the
Y. L. M. I. A., where she was taught to honor
God, and attained a high state of moral cul-
ture. 
	My Young Sisters, much has already been
accomplished, but there is a wide field for im-
provement before us. Improvement of our-
selves; and O! how useful we may be in sus-
taining, aiding and encouraging others to im-
prove. We should prize, virtue, as the grand
acme of our lives. Our honor should be more
precious to us than fine jewels, or the wealth
of the Indies. We should always be the ex-
ponents of truth: both in precept and by our
example. We should never be the slaves of
fashion, especially slaves to the foolish fashions
that come from "Old Babylon." No sisters,
our faith, the faith for which our honored sis-
ters and beloved mothers have suffered so much,
proclaims against this evil of the age. Slaves to
fashion! Let it be the object of our lives, to rise
above the evils that are leading the children of
men to perdition. That the young ladies of
the M. I. A., may rise above these things, and
become examples in Israel,and shining lights to
the world, standing side by side, with their
fathers, brothers, husbands and sons, as expon-
ents of the glorious effects of the true Gospel
upon a fallen generation: being as determined
to maintain all that is virtuous, honorable and
Godlike in its nature, as was Leonidas and his
band in defending their nation. And although
our place is not the battle field nor the pulpit,

[Column 3]

our influence may be used gently, and for great
good around the fireside. There we can instil
true priuciples into the mind of the prattling
child, and use an influence in forming the char-
acter of Zion's future greatness.
	In conclusion, we feel to congratulate all up-
on the return of this, another anniversary of
our entrance into these peaceful vales;  where
peace prevails! Where the nucleus of a great
people exists. And may our goodness increase,
as our land becomes more thickly inhabited.
That joy, peace and good will from man and
woman may flow from heart to heart, until a
bond of brotherhood and sisterly feeling exists
throughout this land which "Is choice above
all other lands:" and woman enjoys her proper
sphere, as the helpmeet of man. And men's
good judgment will cause them to seek a wife,
from the growing ranks of the, Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL Grant will visit Boston the last of
September. He is to be the guest of the Mid-
dlesex Club. At the reception and banquet
to be given in his honor, it is expected all the
New England governors and other men of
rank and influence will be assembled.

	GEORGE Bancroft will shortly complete his
history of the United States. He has been en-
gaged upon it fifty-five years. October 3d he
will have lived full four score years, and it is
said is "hale and handsome, fond of society,
and a familiar figure in it at Newport.

	THE movement for the higher education of
women at Oxford University has been so suc-
cessful that it is necessary to enlarge Somer-
ville Hall. A meeting conducted by Lord
Aberdare has just been held in London, for
the purpose of providing for the enlargement.
—Ex.

	A LETTER mailed fifty years ago was found,
while some repairs were being made in the
Paris Post Office, in one of the panels of the
wood-work, where it had stuck instead of slip-
ping into the box. Upon investigating it was
ascertained the writer had long since died, but
the person to whom it was addressed was still
alive, and the letter was forwarded to its desti-
nation.—Ex.

	THE ancients had queer ideas about mourn-
ing for the dead. The Egyptian women ran
through the streets crying, with their bosoms
exposed and their hair disordered. The Ly-
cians regarded mourning as unmanly, and they
compelled men who went into mourning to put
on female garments. In Greece, when a popu-
lar general died, the whole army cut off their
hair and the manes of their horses. At the
present day the Arabian women stain their
hands and feet with indigo, which they suffer
to remain eight days. They also carefully ab-
stain from milk during this time, on the ground
that its white color does not accord with the
gloom of their minds. In China, the mourn-
ing color is white. Mourning for a parent or
husband is required there by a law, under a
penalty of sixty blows and a year's banishment.
When the Emperor dies, all his subjects let
their hair grow for a hundred days. In the
Fiji Islands, on the tenth day of mourning,
the women scourge all the men except the
highest.—Ex.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	After being gone from home about three
months, my father and brethren returned to
Kirtland, finding us well and enjoying the
comforts of life. He says: "I felt to rejoice in
the Lord that he had preserved my life through
many dangers seen and unseen, and brought
me to behold my family in peace and prosper-
ity. After being at home two weeks resting
myself, I concluded I had finished my mission
to which the Lord had called me, and I estab-
lished my Pottery, according to Joseph's coun-
sel, and continued about three months, until
cold weather came on. * * Calculating on
the opening of spring to commence on a larger
scale, thinking, as did Peter of old "I go a fish-
ing." I had got an idea similar to that which
the ancient Apostles had when the Savior was
taken from them, and they went a fishing, so I
went to the mechanic's shop."
	While my father was absent with Zion's
Camp, my mother and most of the sisters in
Kirtland were engaged in knitting and spin-
ning and making garments for those who were
laboring on the Temple. My mother toiled all
summer. She took a hundred pounds of wool
to spin on shares, which, with the assistance of
a girl, she spun in order to furnish clothing for
the brethren; and although she had the privi-
lege of keeping half the quantity of wool for
herself, as a recompense for her labor, she did
not reserve any, but gave it to those who were
engaged in building the Temple. When the
cloth was woven she got it dressed and cut and
made up into garments, and gave them for the
same purpose. She was a self-sacrificing wo-
man, always studying the comfort of others;
her happiness was never complete only when
adding to that of her friends, or relieving some
poor soul. Her kind acts caused many a heart
to rejoice, and to bless the hands which had
administered to their wants. I remember the
delicious crackers she used to make and send to
the sick in Kirtland. In making them she
was thought to excel, and people who had
heard about them would come from a distance
to hire her to make them for the sick in their
families. One reason for my remembering this
so well is that my brother and I had to pound
the dough, which was one of the main causes
for their being so tender and good, and not
being overly fond of work it became very irk-
some.
	She enjoyed the love and respect of every
one, and she never wanted for anything if her
circumstances were made known. She truly
enjoyed her religion. I was her youngest child
living; was hardly seven years old when my
father went East on his first mission, but I re-
member how happy she used to seem. Often
in the morning I would awaken and hear her
praying, and then she would go about her daily
duties singing so sweetly, it seemed to me as
though heaven and the angels were not very
far off. I used to think it impossible for me
to ever become a Saint. I looked upon my
parents as such, but thought that nothing short
of perfection could take us to heaven, which I
could never attain to, as I was so fond of fun
and amusement that I could not possibly give
them up, though I often had very serious re-
flections upon the subject, and used to think if
I could only know just a little time before I
was to die, I might be able to sober down and
prepare myself, In that early day we were
full of sectarian notions, and our ideas were
rather contracted. We had many traditions
which took time to overcome. The following
incident will show the effect of early teachings,
if they are not corrected:
	A day or two after our arrival in Kirtland,
my brother and I were sent to school with Mr.
Elijah Smith's two children, Mariette and Guy.
The girl was two or three years the eldest, and

[Column 2]

I was placed in her charge. Their parents were
Presbyterians. While returning from school
the first day, she told me every body who did
not join the Presbyterians would have to go to
H—ll, where they would burn forever in fire
and brimstone; this so frightened me that I
hastened home to tell my mother, who soon
quieted my fears. My Grandfather and Aunt
Fanny (as we always called her) had moved
up to Kirtland sometime previous to our going,
and,had made the acquaintance of Mr. Smith
and his maiden sister who were relatives of
mother Whitney, and had engaged her house
for us, Aunt Sarah Smith was bitterly opposed
to Mormonism, but she thought so much of
grandpa Murray and his wife that she con-
sented to our living in her house until Spring;
but during the winter they became just as
much attached to my parents, and I always
felt as welcome there as I did in my own
father's house. Mr. Smith's wife had been sick
some time previous to our coming there and
she died in a few days after, but just before her
departure she sent for my father to administer
to her. Aunt Sarah was very kind and indulg-
ent to children and I often stayed with them
nights, but we were not allowed to play out of 
doors after sundown Saturdays,as their Sabbath
commenced at that hour. My Grandfather
Murray was not a member of any church; he
believed the principles of Mormonism, and was
often upon the point of being baptized, when
he would see things in individuals who professed
to be Saints which would so try him he thought
he stood as good a chance to be saved as any
one. A more noble kind-hearted man never
lived, he was generous to a fault,and some were
unprincipled enough to take advantage of it.
He was very ingenious and could make anything
from a child's run-a-round to a Rocking horse
and carriage. He was never known to refuse
a favor, and he would often rise from his bed
when he was sick to go and do a job of work to
accommodate a neighbor. He was a man of but
few words and some called him an Infidel but
while visiting his children in the East, he was
taken sick, and before he died he expressed his
regret for not having obeyed the Gospel.
	Aunt Fanny was a true Saint, and was be-
loved by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance; her sympathies were always exer-
cised for the poor and distressed. She was
agreeable society for old or young and many
an evening her young acquaintances would
gather at her house to hear her sing or relate
the "Scottish Chiefs,""Children of the Abbey,"
and other like tales, which she could do as I
never heard any one else. She had been a
great reader; and I was named by her after
the Scottish Lady, Helen Mar.
	The Youngs were all gifted singers and when
they sang together they made a grand choir.
Aunt Fanny sang many beautiful songs, but
the one I loved best was "Oft in the stilly
night." She had a clear melodious voice, and
sang with such pathos, that all present would
be affected to tears. The words are so touch-
ing and so expressive that I often repeat them
as applicable to my own feelings.
	How fondly we cherish the memories of the
good old times, old friends. and old scenes,
which are endeared to us by recollections of
joys, griefs and pain. I dearly love to read old
letters and look over the old relics which so
remind me of other days, and I love to hear
the old songs we used to sing.
	I was about five years old when we moved
to Kirtland. I remember my native town, and
many things which happened while living
there are as fresh in my mind as are the scenes
in Missouri; but none are so dearly cherished
as are the sweet memories in and around dear
old Kirtland. It is true they were short, but I
look back to it as the spot where the happiest
days of my childhood were spent. When we
started for Missouri I was delighted, as children

[Column 3]

commonly are, at the prospect of a change, go-
ing to a new country, although some of my
little mates tried to frighten me with awful
tales about being eaten alive by the Missouri-
ans, who were cannibals with horns; but I was
not to be convinced, though I have heard that
there are people silly enough to believe similar
tales about the "Mormons;" our living there in
Missouri may have given us the name, but the
nearest that I ever saw were those called "Mor-
mon eaters." For years after we left Kirtland
I used to look back and pine for the old scenes
and school companions; those happy days were
lived over again and again in bright dreams,
and when I would awaken, the thought that I
should never again see the dear old hills and
wander over them and through the woods to
gather nuts and berries, and pick the wild
flowers and wintergreen which grew thickly
under our feet; nor the orchards, where in
early spring I used to go with hymn or story
book and sit alone and sing, or listen to the
little birds chirping and warbling as it seemed
their sweet songs of praise for the beautiful
spring, and I would feel perfectly happy; and
also the red schoolhouse, and the little brook
behind it, and the larger stream which ran near
our home, where the black walnut and maple
trees grew, and where in the spring we made
the luscious maple sugar, and in the fall we
gathered the nuts and apples for the winter—I
would think of all these things; and among
other pleasing recollections were our Sunday
Schools, where I used to love to go and recite
verses and whole chapters from the New Testa-
ment, and we received rewards in primers, etc.,
which I think were more highly appreciated in
those days than they are at the present time.
At ten o'clock we would form in line and march
with our teachers up to the Temple. The
thought that I could never see or enjoy them
again would make me sad, and sometimes I
would cry bitterly.
	I feel unwilling to close without tak-
ing a peep into my fathers Potter Shop
where we would stand and watch and
wonder how he ever learned to manage
the clay so skilfully as to turn out the numer-
ous and curiouly shaped jars and dishes of all
sorts and sizes. Occasionlly it was found nec-
essary to throw the lump back into the mill
where it had to be ground over as it had refus-
ed to be molded into a vessel of honor. It was
no wonder he so often made use of this parable.
I remember the cunning little dishes and toys he
would make for me which I generously divided
with my mates who were less fortunate. We
never wanted for any comfort as long as he
worked at his trade which was a very profitable
one, and previous to hearing "Mormonism" he
was carrying on a flourishing business in that
part of the country where he lived and was
in comfortable circumstances and highly res-
pected by the community, but when this Gospel
saluted the ears of my parents they gladly em-
braced it and sacrificed their good name and
all they had for the sake of everlasting riches.
Some wept over them and others treated them
with scorn. My mother's eldest brother, who
wasliving in Rochester,N.Y.,came to visit us in
Kirtland. He pleaded with them to turn from
their delusion, and when he found he could
not move them, he appeared heart-broken.
He had watched over my mother from an in-
fant and always called her his pet sister, and to
see her there in such lowly circumstances with-
out hope of earthly comforts made the separation
doubly hard to bear, and added to this was a
feeling of mortification to see them living and
associating with a people so despised as the
"Mormons." He was a noble and kind-hearted
man but too proud to humble himself so far as
to accept of the true Gospel of Christ, after
being driven by different winds of doctrine he
at last died a spiritualist.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


A GOOD WIFE.
You speak of your "good wife" my brother,
You praise her, and well you may,
For a better one never lived, man,
Than blesses your heart to-day.
At home in the working kitchen,
At home in the parlor fine:
And a mother, that is a mother,
To all the dear children of thine.
Her home is her precious castle,
Her law is her husband's love,
And she owns no other, allegiance,
Except to her God above.
And I thought when I heard her singing
Her lullaby songs this morn,
That no sweeter purer music,
Could e'er on the winds be borne.
This Jewel (a wife's devotion)
This gem in its setting bright,
Is to home, with its sweet surroundings
A steady unfading light.
No trials will dim its beauty,
No poverty quench its ray,
I tell you, nothing but cold neglect
Will cause it to pass away.
Then think of it, wives and husbands!
Oh! think of it oft! with care
For, God has joined you together
Not to live in doubt and fear--
You have married and asked God's blessing
You have chosen for weal or woe,
And it is within your compass
To make your home Heaven below.
			SISTER PLUNKET.
Van Hornesville, N. Y., June 3rd, 1880.


[Column 1]
NOTES ON EARLY ENGLISH LITERA-
TURE.

	A nation lives twenty, thirty centuries and
longer and a man lives but sixty or seventy
years, and yet there are many instances in
which a nation resembles man, for in a career
so long and almost interminable, a nation has a
mental and moral character which develops
itself from epoch to epoch, preserving the
same fundamental qualities from its origin to
its decline.
	In the literature of a nation we have its por-
traits. The Canterbury Tales, dramatic works,
of the Renaissance and the Reformation, the
various lines of authors in prose and verses
who have followed each other from Shakes-
peare and Bacon, down to Dickens, Tennyson
and Carlyle, place before us all literary forms
and poetic images, the variations of thought,
sentiment and expression in which the soul of
the English nation has found delight Among
all people the earliest form of literature is the
Ballad. The oldest of all British poems, or
indeed of all modern European writings are
some Irish ballads, found in the Annalists and
ascribed to the first century. Yet our litera-
ture does not begin with the Irish,but the Sax-
sons a gluttonous, barbaric people. What do
we expect of their literature? We find it as we
thought filled with carnage, torture, and all
kinds of horrible deeds and butcherly in-
stincts; for instance, "The daughter of the Da-
nish Jarl, seeing Egil taking his seat near her,
regards him with scorn, reproaching him with
seldom having provided the wolves with hot
meat, with never having seen for a whole
Autumn,the raven croaking after the carnage."
"But Egil seized her and pacified her by singing,
I have marched with my bloody sword, and
the raven has followed me. Furiously we
fought, the fire passed over the dwellings of
men; we slept in the blood of those who kept
the gates." From such talk and such maiden
fancies you may judge of the rest.
	Under this native barbarism there were noble
dispositions such as Magnurson, Morris and
Thorpe whose poems are legends of Gods and

[Column 2]
Goddesses, unknown worlds, monsters, serpents
&c. Their legends are sad and grand and
bear witness of heroes and warriors. One
poem and two or three fragments are all that
remain of this poetry of England. The rest of
the Pagan current was overwhelmed, first by
the influx of Christian religion,then by the con-
quest of the Norman French. But the rem-
nant suffices to show the strange poetic genius
of the race.
	Christianity took root owing to natnral affin-
ities but it did not change the native genius.
There was a conquest which brought new ideas,
different men. In the course of six centuries
the Saxons had multiplied enormously; they
were now about two millions and the Norman
army numbered sixty thousand. Although
history tells us the Normans conquered the
Saxons we may well reverse it. For in vain
did the Normans import their manners, poesy
and language, in three years the conquerors
themselves were conquered. Their language
was English, and owing to frequent intermarri-
ages the English blood ended by gaining the
predominance over the Norman blood in their
veins.
	The literature of the Normans consisted of
barbarous and childish sentiments unable to
develop a continuous idea, confused and in-
conplete phrases after the fashion of the ancient
Saxon. Among these writers were Robert of
Brunne, and Robert of Gloucester, who had
the faculty of easy narration without deep em-
otion. They garnished with rhymes their his-
tories and dissertations, and called them poems.
They wrote a "Prick of the Conscience" and
such pieces of which the titles alone make one
shudder, what of the text? I will give you an
illustration,

"Mankynde mad ys to do Godduss wylle
And alle hys biddyngs to fulfylle,
For of alle Hys makyng more or less
Man most principal creature es
Al that He made, for man hit was done
As H[--]shal here after sonne."

	Ther[-] is a poem which if properly named
we could call a sermon. Here and there we
find divergences, more or less awkward, into
the domain of genius. No one has ever spoken
so well to the ladies as the French and they
do not forget this, when they are settled in
England.
	There are some very pretty verses of English
rhymsters praising their earthly mistresses.
They compare their ladies to all kinds of pre-
cious stones and flowers. They bring into this
northern clime the lively and warm imagina-
tion of the south. Like the troubadours they
spoke of lovely Springtime with its birds and
flowers &.
	They have glowing pictures such as the Ital-
ians wrote but perhaps richer and livelier be-
cause the poet found here for inspiration that
love of country life, which in England is deep
and national. As we read the literature of this
day, knights and ladies, dwarfs, giants, fairies,
dragons, earthquakes and magicians, pass be-
fore us in a highly colored, much distorted
panorama.
	The Romances relating to King Arthur are
ve[-]y interesting and many of our modern poets
have founded their legends on these old tales.
The names of the false knight Lancelot, Merlin
the enchanter, and many others familiar to
those who have read the Idylls of the King
constantly occur in the Romances of Arthur.
	The best known of the Norman French poets
is Wace. His best poems are "Brut d'Agrgle-
terre" and "Roman de Rose." The former is a
translation of Geoffrey of Monmouth's History
of Britain. The latter, The Romance of Rollo,
which narrates the history of the Dukes of
Normandy from Rollo to the sixteenth year of
Henry the second. The principal feature of
this poem is the minute account of the Battle

[Column 3]
of Hastings. There are two other Anglo
Norman romancers,which should be named,not
so much for the excellence of their verse as for
their prominence in English History. Cardin-
al Stephen Langton aud Richard Coenr de
Lion. The first composed some very pretty
French songs, the latter several military poems.
During the middle ages the literature of Eng-
land, indeed of all Europe, lay in the hands of
the monks and minstrels. The monks sat in
their cells and wrote long manuscripts on The-
ology. The minstrels wandered around singing
ballads of love. All these were barren endeav-
ors, the Norman literature was content to copy,
the Saxon bore no fruit. A definite language
was nevertheless attained and there was room
for a great writer, Geoffrey Chaucer appeared.
He was inventive and original though a transla-
tor. He had life, energy, education, genius
and above all was enabled to satisfy the chival-
ric world the splendid courts in which he lived.
Though learned and versed in all the branches
of scholastic knowledge he was a man of the
world and a man of action. Now in the four-
teenth century we have a man, so great that
we call him Father of English poetry, and well
does he wear that name. Consider his subjects.
How does he select them. He goes far and
wide to Italy, France, the popular legends and
the ancient classics. He makes it a business
to provide fine tastes. Ask him his subject
and he answers Love. It is the most pleasing
subject fitted to make the evening hours flow
sweetly. First he translated the Roman de la
Rose in which the course of true love is very
finely depicted. The piece is filled with beauti-
ful descriptions of May Months, flowery earth,
green hedgerows, portraits of smiling ladies and
gallant knights relieved by true sad characters
minutely described,
	There are castles, landscapes, dances, all in
lively sparkling colors contrasted and displayed
ever renewed and varied so as to entertain the
sight. Chaucer's fame as a writer rests chiefly
upon his Canterbury tales. The idea of which
is perhaps borrowed from the Decameron of
Boccoccio, in which a hundred tales are sup-
posed to be told after dinner, by the persons
spending ten days in a country house near
Florence during a time of plague. His plan is
this; some twenty-nine or thirty pilgrims collect
at the Tabbard Inn, in Southwark bound for
the shrine of St. Thomas A. Becket at Canter-
bury.
	The gathering contains specimens of nearly
every character then common in the streets and
homes of England. After the prologue has
described the company, a brav[-] knight
bronzed by the Syrian sun, tells the first tale
then follows the miller, dronken of ale, and so
the tale goes round often merry but sometimes
sad. Each pilgrim ought to tell two or more
stories,one going to Canterbury, and two more
on the homeward way and the whole proceed-
ings to be wound up with a supper at the Tab-
bard Inn where the teller of the best tales was
to be entertained by the rest of the band. The
poet did not live to complete his design, only
twenty-four tales are given. The arrival at
Canterbury, the scenes at the shrine,the tales of
the return, the wind-up supper, all are untold.
	Nothing could surpass the Canterbury tales
as a series of pictures of the middle class Eng-
lish life during the fourteenth century.
	Most of Chaucer's minor and earlier works are
translated from French, Latin or Italian.
	"The Court of Love" and "Troillus" and "Cres-
sida" are poems attributed to his college days.
	"The House of Fame," The legend of Good
Women in which some passages from the lives
of Cleopatra, Dido,Ariadne and others of classic
renown are given together with a beautiful
little allegory entitled the flower and the leaf
are poems of special beauty and worthy of
high praise. [handwritten] Annie [-]. Lew.[---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   -   -   Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher Woman's Exponent
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1880.


VISIT  TO SANPETE—NOTES BY THE
			   WAY.
			     ------
	In company with Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith
and  Zina  D. Young, we  left  this  city  by  the
Utah  Southern  train  Tuesday morning, Aug. 3,
intending  to  make a tour through Sanpete and
Juab  counties.  Arrived at  Nephi  just  before
noon, and  found Sister  Goldsbrough in waiting
with  a  carriage,  in which  we were  very  soon
seated  and  drove direct  to  her house,  where
dinner  had been  prepared for our party.  After
resting a short time we all started with Brother
House in his conveyance on our wsy to  Sanpete
through Salt Creek Canon.  The scenery is pic-
turesque, and one may gaze with the most pro-
found admiration on the stupendous mountain
heights,some of them crowned with snow-white
caps.  Mount Nebo  is  famed as being the high-
est  point  in  the  Wasatch  range, and is indeed
grandly  magnificent.  A narrow gauge railroad
is in process of construction through this wind-
ing canon  and  will  soon  be  completed.  This
will be a very great advantage to travelers.
	We reached Fountain  Green, the first settle-
ment in Sanpete valley, jnst before nightfall, and
found  Sister  M. A. Hyde was  there  before us.
She  had  come  to  take  us in her carriage on to
the other settlements.  After supper attended a
general meeting  of the Relief Society the same
evening.  The  next  morning we  had  just  fin-
ished  an  early  breakfast when a telegram was
received for Mrs. Zina D. Young, saying her son
had met with an accident on the Utah Western
Railroad, and it would be  necessary for  her  to
return.  We were very sorry to part with her so
soon, but  we  felt  most  deeply  how  her  heart
must be drawn out for one so near and dear; and
we knew her first duty was  to  him.  We at-
tended a meeting of the Primary Association at
nine o’clock A. M., and  then  proceeded on our
journey to Wales, where we arrived in time for
dinner, and  held a meeting with  the  brethren
and  sisters,  and  went  on  our  way.  At four
o’clock arrived in Moroni, where we attended a
meeting of the P. A. of that place.  The school-
house had been decorated in honor of the sisters,
visit, and the children were all in their “Sunday
clothes,” smiling  and  happy.  There  were  a
number  of exercises  by  the  little  folks, all  of
which  were  well rendered;  among  the number
was  an  essay by May Kimball, which was very
good; it was on the subject of cleanliness.  her
sister, a very little  girl, recited “Flowers in the
Wildwood” very  creditably.  Everywhere we
found the children making rapid progress.  Eight
little  girls  dressed  in white came forward and
sang “A Welcome,” composed  for  this  special
occasion.  Peter Swinson, a young lad, perhaps
eleven  years  old,  offered  the  opening  prayer.
The children all seemed very intelligent and
kept excellent order.
	We remained over  night, and attended a fast
meeting  in  the  morning;  after the business  of
the meeting—receiving fast  offerings and bless-
ing children—was concluded, the brethren put
the meeting into the bands of the sisters, Mrs.
Jane  Bailey,  President  of  the  Relief Society,
presiding.
	The next place we visited was Mt. Pleasant,
where we were joined by other sisters from Spring
City,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Allred  and  Mrs.  Annie
Larson, Counselors to Sister  M. A. Hyde in the
Relief Society  Stake organization, and  other la-
dies.  In  Mt.  Pleasant  two  Primary  Associa-
tions were  organized, one in the North and one
in the South Ward;  289 members enrolled. The
meeting house was well filled at both the Relief
Society  and  Primary  Association  meetings.
From Mt. Pleasant we went to Fairview, where
three meetings were held, and on Sunday morn-
ing quite a company of brethren and sisters from
Spring  City, Mt. Pleasant  and  Fairview  went
over  to  Thistle  Valley to hold meeting.  The
log  meetinghouse was  much  too  small, so the
meeting convened,  forenoon  and  afternoon, in
the  bowery  outside.  There  was a considerable
number  of Lamanites, all  nicely  dressed, look-
ing as happy as possible.  After the singing and
prayer, Bro.  Spencer,  who  presides  over  the
Saints in that locality, spoke to  the Indians in
their own language, explaining who the sisters
were, who had  come to visit  them, and  the na-
ture of their mission among the organizations of
women and children.  After Bro.  Spencer had
spoken  he  introduced “Sister Eliza,” and  told
the  congregation  she  was  the  widow  of  the
Prophet Joseph  Smith, the  man to  whom the
Gospel  had  first been  revealed from  heaven in
this dispensation.  This awakened  in them the
most intense interest.  Sister  Eliza was deeply
affected when she first commenced speaking, in
recalling to mind the prophecies which had been
uttered  concerning  the  Lamanites,  and the
many remarks she had heard from the Prophet
himself.  She spoke about an hour, when Sisters
Hyde  and  Wells  also  addressed  them.  Bro.
Spencer, the  President,  and  Nephi, one  of the
Indians,  interpreted.  In the afternoon  there
was  a  re-organization  of  the  Relief Society of
that  place, the  former society having been dis-
organized  on  account  of  the  president moving
away.  Sister  Eliza assisted  Pres. Spencer and
Bishops Seeley and Tucker in the organization.
Mrs. L. Spencer was elected President, and the
Indians voted for her with apparent pleasure and
satisfaction. Mrs. Rebecca Tanner was elected
first counselor, and  Sister  Susan, a native wo-
man, Nephi’s wife, was elected second counselor.
She is probably the first Indian woman ordained
to  office  in  the  Relief Society.  Mary  Amelia
Seeley was chosen Secretary, and Rosanna Cox
Treasurer.  Pres. Spencer and  the  Bishops or-
dained the president and her Counselors and set
the Secretary apart.  The Lamanite sisters have
already  done  some  benevolent  work,  and  are
very persevering in piecing quilts and other simi-
lar labors.  Joseph, James, Nephi and one or two
others expressed themselves as delighted to see
the  sisters  and  hear  them  talk.  They  have
some  good,  substantial  log  houses,  with  furni-
ture, stoves, etc.;  they  have a very good crop of
grain, which they are now employed in harvest-
ing.  They have purchased some machinery for
farming  purposes, like  that  used  by  the  white
brethren.  The Lamanite sisters have learned to
cook  and wash  and  sew  and  make quite a neat
and  tidy appearance, and  it  is  easy to see will
improve  rapidly.  We returned  to  Fairview at
evening,  quite  pleased  with  our  first  mission
among the Indians.  On our way back we drove
over  to  Bro. Tanner’s farm, where they manu-
facture  large  quantities  of cheese; it is quite a
romantic  place,  almost  up  to  the mountain’s
edge. We  also  passed  some  curious  warm
springs, that are said  to  be very, healthful  and
invigorating to bathe in.
	Early on  Monday morning we  bade  farewell
to  Fairview  and  wended  our  course towards
Spring  City, passing through  and calling at Mt.
Pleasant on our way.  At Spring City we were
joined  by a carriage  load of sisters  from Manti.
Two meetings were held there, one with the chil-
dren, as we did in all the settlements we visited
while away except  two.  We all  enjoyed  our-
selves  very  much,  and  everybody  used their
best endeavors to  entertain  us hospitably and to
make us feel at home.
	From Spring City we went to Ephraim, where
we found  they had  arranged a public dinner, or
festival, in the Relief Society Hall.  Pres. Mai-
ben and wife and Bro. William Fulsom were at
Pres. Petersen’s when we arrived, and also Sister
M. F. C. Morrison, from Mt. Pleasant, and Sis-
ter  Goldsbrough, from  Nephi,  Sister  Irons,  of
Moroni, and  several sisters from  Spring  City,
were  also  of  the  party.  We have not time,
space, or language, to express in full our appre-
ciation  of the  good sisters’ entertainment; we
have  given  a  brief  description  of  the  affair,
which we sent from Ephraim the next day for
publication.  The  meetings  at  Ephraim  were
were well attended, notwithstanding  the  breth-
ren were harvesting  their hay and  grain  and
fighting grasshoppers.  The people have killed
these  troublesome  creatures  by  the  million;
ditches have been dug many miles in extent,
into which  they have driven the grasshoppers,
and these little pests lie several  feet in depth.
The oats and barley are all gone, but they will
probably  save a good proportion  of  the  wheat
crop.  Our  party remained  over  night in Eph-
raim, and  in  the  morning  rode  over  to Manti.
Pres. Petersen  and  his  wife  accompanied  the
party,  which  consisted  of sisters from several
settlements besides those from Salt Lake.
	We all reached Manti about eleven o’clock and
drove directly up to the Temple grounds,Brother
Fulsom  was  anticipating  the  arrival  and  was
ready  to  show  the  party  over the  place.  The
work has progressed  greatly since  our  visit  to
Sanpete just one  year ago.  It is  impossible to
define in language the feeling of solemnity which
impresses one, when standing in the presence of
a Temple of God, although  uncompleted,  upon
holy consecrated ground.  Only  those who have
true appreciation of the  great and mighty  work
to be performed for the  living and for the dead,
can understand  in  any  degree  the  awe  and
majesty  which  pervades one’s whole being in
these sacred places.  It is  as if the presence  of
those  departed,  with  whom  we  have been  as-
sociated in  the past  were  round  about,  urging
the living to faithfulness and the performance of
duty. The Temple grounds at Manti do in very
deed seem a hallowed  spot.  The  terraces  are
imposing in appearance and  add  much  to  the
magnificence of the structure.  The walls are up
some highth above the first row of windows, and
the terraces  are  63  feet  from  the street  with 3
rows of  stairs leading straight from terrace  to
terrace, and then dividing  to the right and left.
When these walls, which form the  terrace  work
are pointed and polished  with  hard  finish,  they
will be quite dazzling in beauty and can be seen
at a great distance.  The temple walls are three
and  a  half feet and  the  buttresses seven and a
half feet in thickness.  The foundation is built
of iron rock, so solid in its formation that it rings
like  iron itself.  The building rock is softer and
a creamy color.  The mortar is made of crushed
rock instead  of  sand;  a  machine  is  used for
crushing,  which  is  run  by  an engine.  It is
quite interesting to see it in operation.  We all
drove  over  to  the quarry in  the mountains,


short  distance  away;  and  it is really wonderful
that right there are all the materials most needed
in  the  erection  of  temples,  just  as  if  all had 
been arranged beforehand by the great Master-
Builder.  A great  deal of labor has been done, 
and much more remains to be accomplished, to 
finish the  temple;  but  the people deserve great
credit for their liberality  and  perseverance in
good works.  At Manti the sisters had decorated
the  meetinghouse  very tastefully  with  flowers
and evergreens.  Around the pillars which sup-
port the building  flowers and vines were grace-
fully  twined, and above the stand was the one 
word "Welcome," in large  letters  composed of 
flowers and green vines.  From Manti the route
was to Mayfield, passing  Pettyville on the way.
At  Mayfield Sister  Eliza  organized  the children
in  a  Primary  Association,  and  seventy-nine
members  were  enrolled.  Two  meetings  were
held there, and leaving  Mayfield  Sister  Hyde
was obliged to return to Mt. Pleasant to attend
the Quarterly Conference.  This was a source of
regret, but  the best  of  friends,  you know, must
sometimes part.  Gunnison was  the next  point
to make,  and we arrived just about sundown at
Bishop  Madsen's.  There  two  meetings  were
also held,  one of them with the children.  The
sisters have so far completed  the Relief Society
building that one large room  has  been  used for
meetings for the settlement  during  the  past
winter.  The  benches are  very  good  ones, and
cost the sisters quite a little sum.  The Relief
Society there  have  a  store which  brings  some
means into the Society treasury, but it is not as
well patronized as it should be.  They certainly
have been exceedingly industrious and energetic
to do what  they  have, and  the  brethren  have
been very liberal  in  donating  both  means and
labor.
From  Gunnison  the  route was  to  Fayette, a
small  town  which lies  towards Juab, a little out
of the line of travel, and consequently is seldom
visited  by people  from  the  city.  Here on the 
13th, one  meeting was held.  The good folks of
Fayette seemed greatly pleased to see the sisters,
and provided teams to go to Levan, a distance
of  twenty-six  miles  over  a  very  rough, dusty 
road. The other chapter  of  travel may be told
in the next number of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		45


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE must apologize to the patrons and readers
of our little paper for not continuing the "Pen
Sketch of an Illustrious Woman," in this num-
ber. Having been away from the city and con-
stantly occupied it was not convenient to pre-
pare the manuscript.
	STAKE REPORTS WANTED.—A full Statistical
and Financial Report of Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations from their first or-
ganization up to Oct. 1, 1880, is specially request-
ed from each of the Stake Secretaries through-
out all the Stakes of Zion, by the President of
the central organization of Y. L. M. I. A. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor. Direct the reports to the
Secretary, Louie Wells, care of WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	WE have here Eliza R. Snow's Second Volume
of Poems, for sale, and the Correspondence of
the Palestine Tourists, each of them in cloth
and leather bindings. Price, in cloth, of volume
II of the poems, $1.25; in leather, $1.50. "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists," in cloth,
$2.00; in leather, $2.50. These books should be
in all the libraries of the Y. L. M. I. A. They
contain much valuable historical information
which should be in the possession of the young
people, children of the Latter-day Saints.
	WE also keep for sale at this office "Songs of
the Heart" by Hannah T. King, a poetical

[Column 2]
writer now very generally known to the people
of this Territory. These little books contain
many precious truths, and speak feelingly to the
human heart. Price 50 cents. We have also
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer's poems at the same
price, and although she is not so well known to
the public as Mrs. King, yet her name has ap-
peared quite often as a contributor in the col-
umns of the Exponent.
THE children of the Primary Association of
South Cottonwood have made a very neat pret-
ty air-castle of straw gathered from the fields,
and a few bright bits of woolen pieces, and have
sent it to this office as a token of their esteem
for the EXPONENT. We thank them most sin-
cerely for this specimen of their industry and
trust their ingenuity and ability may always be
properly directed, and that the time may come
when they may make such beautiful things,that
they will be sought after by the nations of the
earth, according to the prophecies of the ancients
concerning Zion and her people.
WE have on hand and for sale some hundreds
of copies of the two poems by O. F. Whitney,
entitled, "The Women of the Everlasting Cove-
nant" and "The Land of Shinehah." Every
sister at least should have a copy of them, as
the first is especially dedicated to them, and the 
second one, "The Land of Shinehah," is the
history of the rise and fall of Kirtland, the first
gathering place of the Saints in this dispensa-
tion. Price, 15 cents per copy. They will be
sent by mail to any part of the country if re-
quired.
	OUR readers have noticed no doubt the pub-
lication of a Primary Hymn Book for the child-
ren; this book is now ready for distribution. They 
are for sale at this office and at the Deseret
News office. Two copies for 25 cents, four for
50 cents. eight for $1, and a copy should be
placed in the hands of each child that they may
have a hymn book of their own. Sister Eliza
has done all her work for nothing, and she has
been careful in selecting and arranging the
hymns. Having given her time and labor,
there is barely the paper, the printing and the
binding to pay for, and no one is enriched by the
profits except the purchaser. Seven thousand
copies are ready and the work sterotyped so that
more can be furnished when ever they are
needed.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	With feelings  of  sorrow which  no  words can
express, we are  called  upon  to  mourn  the loss
here on earth of a beloved  friend  and  relative,
the daughter of our eldest sister, a very  beauti-
ful and interesting young woman. 
	Mrs. Carrie Granger Snyder, died in Atchison,
Kansas, of diphtheria, Sunday evening, July 25,
1880, aged 27 years, 4 months and 3  days.  Her
sufferings  were  most  intense  for about two
weeks, and she lay for days at the very threshold
of death  before  passing  away.  Her patience,
fortitude and resignation were most remarkable,
still she was anxious to live, and  she had every-
thing to bind her to life.  A  loving  and tender
husband to  whom she was most  fondly attach-
ed, two precious little boys, one a mere babe, and
she  was  a  most  devoted  mother;  a  widowed
mother who had seen almost all her family "pass
over  beyond to the other shore," all these were
powerful incentives for one so young and affec-
tionate, but notwithstanding her anxiety to live
for usefulness and those she loved,  God willed it
otherwise, and He knows best. 
	" 'Tis sad to part with those we dearly love,
    But parting comes to all," 
	Yes, parting comes to all, and those who have
felt its woe know how to pity others and truly


sympathize;  but time is  the only great healer of
wounds, save  One to whom all may go and lay
their burdens  down,  and  He  will  give  them
sweet aud holy consolation.
	Carrie Granger,  the  subject  of  this  memoir,
was born in Hardwick, Mass., March 22nd, 1853.
Her parents were Henry H. and Lucy M. Gran-
ger.  Her  father  was  a  captain  in  the  Union
army, and was killed  in  battle  in the late war.
She was carefully educated with a view to teach.
Miss Granger came  to  Salt  Lake City  in  1873,
and was  employed  as  a  teacher  here  in Miss
Cook’s School in the Social Hall  for a time, and
afterwards six  months in the district  school  in
the Ninth  Ward  of  this city.  She  was greatly
beloved  by  her  pupils,  in  whom she took the
deepest interest.
		“Other positions of
		Responsibility, as well as those
		Of wife and mother, she has nobly filled.”
	She had an active and vigorous mind and was
most  desirous of being useful  in assisting  to pro-
mote all good works.  She was ever ready to ad-
minister to the poor and needy around her, and
many secret acts  of  kindness  and  charity were
performed by her unostentatiously while she so-
journed among the Saints.
	She will be sincerely mourned by a large circle
of friends and relatives, both here and in Massa-
chusetts, as well as where she had resided for the
past three years previous to her death, Atchison,
Kansas.
	Farewell, dear one, till  we  meet again in that
better land, “where there  is  no more sorrow or
parting for evermore.”			E. B. W.


OBITUARY.
Departed  this  life, at  11 P.  M. July 17, 1880.
Sabina A.  Dollinger  Olaphant,  beloved wife of
Charles H. Oliphant.  Sister Oliphant was born
in the City of New York, Oct. 7, 1839.  She em-
braced the Gospel in 1861. She left all her rela-
tions and a good  home, and  gathered  with  the
Saints in 1862.  With the exception of her cous-
in,  Mrs. A. C. Pyper, she is the only  one of her
family in the Church.  In  1862 she became  the
wife of Brother C. H. Oliphant, was the mother
of one  child  who died in infancy.  For  some
years she was a member of the Tabernacle Choir.
and also of the Theatre Choir in Salt Lake City.
The last ten  years  she  has  been  a  resident  of
Kanab in which place she has made herself very
useful.  She  was  Secretary  to  the  Stake  Sun-
day  School,  assistant  secretary,  to  the  Stake
Relief Societies.  She was also a Sunday  School
Teacher, a member  of  the Ward Choir and  the
Dramatic  Association.  Her great love for, and
knowledge of music,made her a competent teach-
er, and the people  of Kanab  are much indebted
to  her  for  their  present  advancement  in  the
knowledge of music.
Many years previous to her death, she suffered
from  a  very  severe  form  of  neuralgia,  but  her
ambition was so great that  she led a very active
life.  For  two  months  before  her  death  her
disease took the form of dropsy of the heart.
Although  apparently dying  for five days, her
last hours were very peaceful.  Our sister is very
much missed in Kanab.  Her  brilliant  wit and
sparkling manner made her a very  pleasant as-
sociate.
M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.—A full Statisti-
cal and Financial Report of Relief Societies from
April 1st, 1876 to 1880. Also a Semi-Annual
Report from April 1st, 1880, to October 1st, 1880,
are specially requested from each of the Stake
Secretaries throughout all the Stakes of Zion.
Forward to the Secretary of the First Presiding
Board.	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Salt Lake City.


46		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM MASSACHUSETTS.

				THORNDIKE, Aug. 1, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	My Dear Mother—I have waited long and pa-
tiently for you to answer my last letter, and al-
though I well remember my promise to write
you something, I had made up my mind not to;
but my visit to Orange changed my mind, and
for fear I might forget some of the scenes I visit-
ed in New Salem, I will give them to you now.
All those places that are dear to your heart as
the home of your childhood, possessed too, a
strong interest for me. I have visited as many
of them as my time allowed.
	The little schoolhouse on Chestnut Hill, where
first you trained the youthful mind, is torn down,
and another and smarter one built across the
road, to accommodate the growing wants of the
village, but the foundation stones and some of
the boards are still to be seen, and the brook
close by still rushes on and on. As we rode
along the beautiful woodland drive, many farm-
houses and different places were pointed out to
me, that were, and still are, dear to your remem-
brance. Among them the house where you
boarded when you taught in the little red school-
house. The yard is full of old-fashioned flowers,
and an old grindstone and bench stand in the
front yard, that I think must be the same ones
that graced it when you were familiar with the
place; I am sure the same old well, with its long
sweep and wooden bucket, is still in use. I
wanted to go in and see if the floors were sanded
as I have heard you say they were of old, but
three little tow-heads at the window reminded
me that the old folks who lived there thirty-five
years ago, when you boarded with them, were
not the same who now occupied the premises,
so I restrained my curiosity and drove on past
Grandma Haskell's home, which is nicely kept
up I think, considering its age. Poor old lady!
to think what a home she left here, and of her
life and death in the Far West, seems very sad
to me, and must have been a great change to
her. Next was Dr. Andrews—your old family
doctor. His son, or rather one of them, resides
there now, and the place looks neat and thriving.
Then we came to the Whittaker Place, which is
still very beautiful; I couldn't help but wonder
whether the present occupant of the premises
ever allowed visitors more than a look in her
parlors, unless they came from Boston. I gazed
up at the garret windows, and almost expected
to see some little rosy-cheeked girl with a rag
baby in her arms gazing out at us. I remember
so well what you have so often told us, how you
played there with one of the Whittaker girls, in
that very garret, with broken dishes and dolls.
	I think the country round about here must be
much as it was when you left it, except that
places have some of them run down that were
well kept in those days. The church you used
to attend is still standing, and in a good state of
preservation, but not in use at the present time;
and across the road from it is the schoolhouse
where you used to go to school, still standing,
and is still used for the same purpose, with all
the original furniture. Here I got out and looked
in; I wanted to see the very seat you occupied
when you formed those ambitious projects to be-
come a literary lady, for 1 certainly suppose it
was there, in early girlhood, such ideas were
formed. The master's desk remains intact. Do
you remember it? And the queer little wood
stove in the center of the room, with quaint,
old-fashioned desks and seats on all sides of it;
they (the desks) are notched thick with names;
I wondered if any of them would be recogniza-
ble by you. I think so. It seemed to me a
sacred spot.&nbsp;I stood&nbsp;on the old play-ground,
where you had often played, perhaps even
romped in girlish glee, and tears started to my
eyes in spite of me. A little further on stands
the house where Uncle H. was born, and your
first home in&nbsp;Salem. It is old, and gray, and
vacant, at present, but the sweet fragrance of
pinks and sweet williams and all sorts of old
time flowers, filled the air as we rode by. The
Juniper tree is grown large and beautiful, that
stands at the front of the house; Aunt said it
was only a little one when you went away.
	And next we come to your girlhood home, or
rather the site of it, for the house which I have
heard you say was a century old when you lived
there, has fallen down and gone to decay; but I
sat on the front doorstep, under the shade of
the apple tree, that your dear mother planted,
which is now large and thrifty, and gazed on
the same beautiful hills, covered&nbsp;with verdure
of every shade of green, and lovely in every re-

[Column 2]
spect, as you have done many times in years
gone by. The brook where you used to go and
bathe your face, and listen to its ripple, and talk
to&nbsp;yourself, and where my uncles fished for
trout when little boys, still dances along in the
sunlight, as bright and happy, to all appearances,
as though there were no changes or sorrows in
this world; its banks are lined with the softest,
greenest moss, and ferns grow there in wild pro-
sion. I plucked a few for you, little mother. The
hemlock grove just beyond is as romantic as
when you sat under the graceful, sweeping
boughs of those old trees, and the perfume is
just as fresh.
	The old well next called my attention, and I
had, of course, to draw a bucket of water and
drink from it. The neighbors still use it, and
Aunt Pallas and Delia both said it was wonder-
fully sweet and cool; it tasted better to me than
any nectar.
	Dear Ma, I'll try and remember to tell you all
you want to know.	*	*	*	Start home to-
morrow. Love and kisses to all. I wrote Aunt
Lucy by this mail; have heard the sad intelli-
gence of cousin Carrie's death.
			Lovingly,
								MELL.


SERICULTURE.

	Quite an interest has been manifested in the
Third Ward in Ogden City in the silk-raising,
especially in raising cocoons. We have raised
from eight to ten pounds of cocoons this summer
and have sold worms to different wards in the
country, and we have thousands of eggs on hand
for next Spring. We have the books treating on
silk culture. We have only commenced this
summer in a small way, but we have with the
blessing of God made it a success. I am deeply
interested in this enterprise and always feel it
my duty to respond to every call that is made
upon me in the Church and kingdom of God.
We would be glad to receive any information
from the sisters,which they may be in posession
of in regard to this useful and profitable home
industry.
	MARY C. GILL.


SURPRISE PARTY.
August 3rd a large number  of the Relief Soci-
ety of South Jordan  Ward  and  friends  of our
worthy  President  Ann  Holt assembled  at  her
home to offer her congratulations upon her birth-
day in the form of a surprise party.  The mem-
bers of the Relief Society brought her a few nice
presents,  she is a woman  that  we all  love  and
respect.  She  will  leave  her  bed  in  the  dark
hours of the night to go and comfort the sick, she
is a very useful woman, and I pray that she may
live as long  as she  desires, and  the Lord  bless
her in  her  labors  here  upon  the  earth,  is  the
prayer of her  numerous  friends.  Ever praying
for the welfare of Zion.
						E. E. STOCKING.


WOMAN,S VOICE.
MT. CARMEL, Kane  Co., Utah,
May 31, 1880
	Is it a burthen or a blessing to  keep the Word
of Wisdom, and pay  tithing?  I can  truthfully
answer for one, there is  nothing that I know of
that gives a greater comfort and  consolation to
our consciences at all times than  to observe the
Word of Wisdom, and to pay  tithing, is most as-
suredly the  very  road to  prosperity.  In  fact
there is not one commandment  given  us from
our Heavenly Father through  the great Latter-
day Prophet Joseph Smith, but gives satisfaction
to our conscience if we, with  a  willing  heart
and determined  will  embrace  and  practice it.
Why, then are we so  slow  to obey command-
ments  that  most  certainly  will  prove  great
blessings for us, not only here, but also hereafter,
yea, through all eternity.  And this life with its
little comforts, O, how short and  uncertain it is.
Well then, let us stop for a moment  and  reflect
and ask ourselves how we  would  feel  to-day or
any other day if some one would come and say to
us as I was once told  in a dream:  "Make haste!
Put on your white  garments  and  go  out  and
meet Him, the Savior  is  coming." Let  us  ask
ourselves how would  we feel?  If  we  had  not
even made  an  attempt  to  obey  all  his com-
mandments, would not our consciences smite us?
Would we not with a  blushing  face say to our-
selves:  "How  dare I put pure white  garments
on, and try thereby  to  deceive  Him, when we
know that He can see our most secret thoughts
and know that we have neglected to try to keep
his commands, can we?  Can  we  put  palms of
victory, not even in the smallest thing?"  O, what
a terrible feeling this would be.  How would  we
not fear being  cast  out?  But  if we  had  tried
our best to keep all his commandments, would
not our hearts abound with joy and praise to God
for determined will  to do our duties, when they
were plain, and our consciences were as pure as
our garments.  Some may say, "What is the use?
We cannot be perfected  in  this  life, any way."
The  careless  always  have an excuse for every-
thing;  but  when  we stand at the gates of death,
we will see it in another light, instinctively; we
will then wish with  all  our  hearts that we had
done better in everything,  for  according to our
works we will be judged.
	Well, then,  my dear,  beloved  sisters, let us,
each and every one, through  this  our  "year of
energy and diligence,  of  every  commandment,
and try our best to please  our Heavenly Father
in everything, Yes! even  in  all  our thoughts,
words and deeds, that we may set an example
worthy of imitation  for  the  young  and  rising
generation;  that we  may not  see  them  rise up
against us in a  day to come and  say,  "Had not
your bad example been  before me I might have
been saved to day,  or  at  least  been  higher  in
glory than I am."  Oh! how much depends upon
our determination of  will  to  keep  the  com-
mandments of God, and  all  that can be said  in
two words, Obey God, and  do  to  others  as you
wish to be done unto. Let us do this  and  truly
prepare ourselves  through this the "year of jubi-
lee," for better and  greater  things,  and hence-
forht, that we may  be worthy of  the  thousand
years of jubilee in the presence of the Lord is the
humble prayer and  desire of  your  sister  in the
gospel, J.S.V. WENNERHOLM.
	ST. DAVID,  San  Pedro River,  Pima Co.,
		Arizona, July 11th, 1880.
Dear Sister Wells:
	We thought some  of  the many readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how  we are get-
ting along in this far off country, so we will try
and send you a short account of  our Relief Soci-
ety.  We are trying to do something to assist in
the great work we are all engaged in.  We held
our Second Annual Meeting  April  22nd,  1880.
Our reports were all read, showing that we have
accumulated during  the  year  $63.75;  disbursed
during  the  year  $34;  donated  to  the Temple
$11.50;  balance in the  treasury  of  $18.25.  Our
Society members  number  13;  teachers  three.
The EXPONENT comes  to  us  very  regular, and
is read with pleasure both by the old and  young,
for it is a great help to us as well  as  a  comfort,
isolated as we are  from  the  main  body of  the
Church.  Our meetings are very well attended;
we hold our  General  Meetings  once  a  month,
and sewing meetings  once  in two  weeks.  Our
Society has started  a  store on a small scale, but
we  hope  to  increase  Brothers McDonald and
David Kimball  here from  Salt River a few
weeks ago.  We  had  a  time  of  rejoicing, they
gave us much  good  instruction, among  the rest
President McDonald advised the  Relief  Society
to get what means they could, with the  help  of
the brethren, and start a Store, so that we could
get things cheaper than we can  by all  running
to different stores.  The health of  our company
is good  except  colds  among  the  children,  our
President's daughter  is  very sick;  she has been
afflicted for years, she is so anxious to regain her
health that I  wish  it  were  possible for  her to
have sufficient faith, but she is  in  the hands of
the Lord, as we all are.  We feel like improving
in all things pertaining to the building up of the
Kingdom of God on the earth.  Praying for the
welfare of  all  the  organizations,  which  are
helps in Zion.  We remain your sisters,
C. MERRILL,
MARIA MCRAE.


Anne C. Brackett has been elected a member
of the executive commitsee of the national
Council of education.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		47


PUBLIC DINNER AT EPHRAIM.

	The Teachers of the Relief Society of Eph-
raim under the supervision of President Sarah
Peterson and her Counselors,Ellen Madsen, and
Ellen Dorius; gave a public dinner in the Soci-
ety Hall in that place Tuesday August 10,1880.
The dinner was given in honor of the visit of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, and E. B. Wells,
Mary A. Hyde President R. S. Sanpete Stake
and her Counselors. The Presidents and Coun-
selors of all the branches in the Stake were in-
vited to be present. The room was beautifully
decorated with flowers and vines garlanded and
festooned. The word welcome, in large letters
painted in imitation of green leaves was put
up at each end of the room, and on the wall on
each side a handsome garland of flowers and
vines wound gracefully together was hung
in a festoon in the center of which was the
letters E. R. S.. for Eliza R. Snow on one side
and E. B. W., for E. B. Wells on the other.
The whole presented a charming appearance;
bouquets of flowers were scattered about here
and there, but the smiling faces and the cordial
greeting of kind friends, warm-hearted brethren
and sisters was the most interesting of all.
Three tables were set the whole length of the
hall, at the head of the table in the center of
the room was seated President C. Peterson and
Brother Wm. Fulsom. Pres. John Maiben and
many local brethren were on one side of the
table and opposite were Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, M. A. Hyde, Amelia
Goldsbrough, Deborah Irons, M. F. C. Morri-
son, Phebe Maiben and others. The other two
tables were filled, nearly 200 persons were
seated. To enumerate the variety of dishes
with which the tables were supplied would be
impossible, but suffice to say it was a feast of
good things. All the widows in the two wards
were invited to partake of the bountiful repast.
Brother Fulsom asked the blessing and the din-
ner passed off pleasently. We thank the good
sisters of Ephraim for the honor conferred and
the courtesy extended to the sisters visiting
them, and shall ever remember with feelings of
pleasure and gratitude their kind attention
their happy faces and the good spirit we felt
in their midst.
	AUNT EM.


WHOSE FAULT WAS IT?
Wait  a  minute, mother!  Do  not  call  that
little bundle of innocent simplicity a "naughty,
bad child!"  until  you have considered  the case.
He comes in hot and thirsty, tired, hungry and
dirty from  his play.  He  does  not  know that
you  have  just  got  "things  straightened up" in
the  kitchen;  that  you  have  been  working fast
and are  yourself  tired  and  nervous;  that  baby
has  only  now  fallen  asleep  for  the  first  time
since  breakfast;  and  that  papa  will  be  in  for
dinner directly and  you  are in such a hurry to
get  everything  ready  for  the  time  he  comes.
You should not expect a child of  three or four
years  old, even  as  bright and sensible  as  your
own, to  think  of  all  these  things.  When  he
calls  out  lustily for  a  piece  of  cake  or bread
and  butter,  don't  make  more  noise  than  he
does  in  trying  to  correct  the  mistake  he has
made.  Perhaps the rattling of the sewing ma-
chine  in  the next room, and the noise made by
mashing the potatoes in the kettle on the stove-
hearth  cause  him  to  think  he  will  have  to
scream to be heard.  If he  startles  the  baby
out  of  its  sleep  the  best  and  cheapest course
for you  to  pursue is to take him gently by the
hand and quietly hush him, while you lnll baby
off  to sleep again;  and  then  see to  your  three-
year  old  darling's  wants  the  first  thing.  It
won't  take more than three  or four minutes to
wipe  the  dust  from  his  face  and  eyes with a
wet cloth, give him a drink of milk and some-


thing to eat. He will likely fall asleep where
you leave him, so you would better put him in
some safe corner on a comfortable cot, and take
off his shoes. You will then have no more
trouble with him for some hours perhaps, and
can have your dinner in quiet.
	If you are only five minutes behind hand
with your dinner, and papa comes in at the
exact moment when it should be ready, he will
be glad of that five minutes to rest in before
eating. For of course your children's papa is a
sensible man, such a husband as a woman like
yourself deserves. And he does not think five
minutes rest such a loss of time on his part,
that he must rush out and begin some little job
that will take him a quarter of an hour to do,
and keep dinner waiting on him for ten min-
utes because he would have had to wait for it
five. He considers other people's time as good
as his own; he knows his wife is one of the
best and most patient women in the world, and
does not wish to try her patience unnecessarily.
He can and will try as hard as she does to
have everything go on in his home in the most
orderly and harmonious style. And how won-
derfully successful they are!
	What was asked about somebody being at
fault? Nothing has gone wrong. No one has
been to blame.
							MABEL.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S POSITION.

	The duty of mothers is one of great impor-
tance, when we investigate it in its proper light.
Woman's mission on the earth&nbsp;is a great one,
none can deny it. To bear the souls of men
and women is indeed something noble and holy,
although so little realized by young mothers.
Then for this divine mission, woman should re-
ceive the highest qualifications, have the
grandest opportunities of education, and pos-
sessing pure and intelligent minds, what should
be the training of our daughters, who are to
be mothers? Can too much be done to en-
lighten their minds? They should be taught
from their earliest years to qualify themselves
to become worthy mothers, and capable of
choosing wisely a companion who is to be the
father of the immortal souls of their offspring.
Who but woman forms the infant mind? Then
let woman strive for knowledge, that she may
bring forth children of intelligence, fit to be-
come heads of families, statesmen; or rulers.
Woman, study to know thyself. Study to
know good from evil.
	Women are accountable, rational beings,
Without woman's influence chaos would reign
triumphant in the earth. Eve became the
mother of all living. Man actually became
dependent upon the creation of woman. She
was constituted for the companion of man, to
be one with him in all things; there can be no
elevated women without noble men. Knowl-
edge, when rightly used, hurts no one. No
wonder society in the world is in such a condi-
tion, when mothers, the teachers and molders
of the infant mind, are only to know those
things that men think proper. Woman's du-
ties in this life are trying and arduous. She
should have the wisdom of a sage and be gen-
tle as a dove. Her labors and sacrifices for
the exaltation of others as well as herself are
worthy of consideration. Woman stands not
alone; through whatever privilege is given her
man is benefitted; those women who have
opinions of their own are able to counsel with
their husbands in all family matters, and in-
deed other matters. Should not the mother
have a voice in choosing men for office who
are to govern and regulate society into which
her sons and daughters are to be ushered? God
is an impartial being, and created woman for a
noble purpose, as well as man. For genera-
tions past women have been looked upon by

[Column 2]
the majority of men just the same as any other
surplus article, and frequently the newspapers
publish items under the head of "Surplus Wo-
men." It is this spirit which keeps up the no-
tion of inferiority, and shuts her out from
many of the privileges of citizenship. It is
this that makes men smile as at a joke, when
women express themselves as entitled to rights.
It is this same spirit that prompts the opposi-
tion to woman's suffrage. Man should remem-
ber that when our Heavenly Father gave him
power to rule, it was to rule in righteousness.
What safety is there for mothers, or daughters,
or sons, in a nation ruled by a corrupt govern-
ment? None. Men should be protectors of
virtue. How many fair daughters of America
have been driven to lives of shame, by want
and starvation, after having been grossly and
cruelly deceived by some man. How many in-
nocent but thoughtless girls have been led
from virtue's path by wolves in sheep's cloth-
ing. Where can they resort for redress?
Where is the cover for their shame, but in the
hope of an early grave?
	Man has been constituted by unerring wis-
dom the head; let him not boast, but rather
ponder upon the responsibility of such a posi-
tion, have his lamp trimmed and burning, so
that those who are called the weaker vessels
may walk in the light thereof. How is it with
the civilization of the world? Dens of infamy
and debauchery flourish under the protection
of the law, and the vile seducers of innocence
walk abroad, while their victims hide their
heads and sit apart from the rest of the world.
	May the day soon come when woman will
arise in the strength of purity and say to the
vain seekers of the pleasure of an hour, be-
gone! Then would the profligate, the hypo-
crite, seek in vain for a victim. Think of
more than two thousand betrayed and aban-
doned women in the city of New York, and a
corresponding number in other large cities.
Who looks after their forlorn situation? Who
devises means for their protection, that they
may return to the path of virtue? Who but
the leaders of Woman Suffrage, which, in our
humble opinion, were it granted by the gov-
ernment, would promote the best interests of
society, temperance, peace and justice. Let
woman have a practical education in all the
departments of her life, and rise with a fixed
determination to break the shackles that have
so long bound her sex, and become free, as
God made her to be, man's helpmeet and not
his slave. Mothers should early impress these
true facts upon the minds of their children,
and instead of encouraging their boys in false
notions, show them the inconsistency of one
sex being held so superior to the other, where
both are born of the same parents. We trust
there is a new era opened up for women. No-
ble is her work and great her responsibility.
					MARY JANE CROSBY.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Sisters meeting in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms August 14,1880 Mrs M. I. Horne
presiding, was a very interesting one. Minutes
were read by the Young Ladies of the branch
associations of Y. L. M. I. A., and also by the
Secretaries of the Primary Associations. The
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Hannah G.
Perkins of St. George Mrs Aurelia S Rogers
of Farmington, also by President M. I. Horne'
Counselors Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball
and Bathsheba W. Smith. Other sisters made
remarks and Mrs. Jane Connsill read an orig-
inal poem, entitled "The Past Present and
Future.

	The Relief Society of Freemont Valley,
Piute Co., was organized March 25, 1880, by our


worthy Bishop, E. H. Blackburn, the following
officers were elected: Martha Allred, President;
Leah  Blackburn  and Mary  Ellett, Counselors;
Matilda  E.  Okerlund,  Secretary;  Anna  M.
Young,  Treasurer.
Our  Relief  Society  numbers  thirty-eight
members;  we  hold our meetings once a month,
and  considering  our  scattered  condition the
meetings are  well  attended, and we  enjoy the
Spirit  of  God.  We  can  truly say  our  Presi-
dent  is a  good woman  and  very  punctual  in
attending  to  her  duty.  We  wish  to  be  one
with our sisters, and we hope and trust that we
may ever  be alive to the  duties  and  responsi-
bilities that rest upon us, and are thankful that
we  have  a great  and  glorious  work.  Your  sister
in the Gospel,
			M. E. OKERLUND, Sec'y.
Relief Society report  of  Brigham  City, Ari-
zona, for the  year ending May 20, 1880: Mem-
bers enrolled, 31;  an examination of  our finan-
ces shows  an  amount  in  our  treasury of  nine
dollars in  cash  and four dollars and fifty cents
in  sundries;  we  have  donated  to  the  Manti
Temple fifteen dollars, and a quilt to the Logan
Temple, price  three dollars;  disbursements  in
cash, twelve dollars.
We are still trying to live according to the 
precepts of our most holy religion.  The  EX-
PONENT is still one of our most  welcome  visit-
tors, for which  we  are  truly thankful, and we
ever wish to  be  numbered with our sisters in
every good word and work.
		MARTHA CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.
The Primary Association  of Hyrum  held a
Quarterly meeting  July  9,  in  the meeting
house, President Lucy Wilson presiding.  Pres-
ent on the stand were I. C. Thorsen, C. M. Ol-
sen, C. Liljenquist, President of the Relief So-
ciety, and  others.  After  the  usual  opening
exercises  the  meeting  was  occupied  by  the
children  in  recitations,  select  readings and
songs.
 The house  was  crowded, every  one  seemed
to be filled with  joy and gratitude towards the
children, to hear  them sing and recite so beau-
tifully.  I thought if there were  no  children
in heaven I should not want to be there.
Elder  I.  C. Thorsen  gave  some  good teach--
ings on  the  Ten  Commandments, followed by
C. F. Olsen  and  C. Liljenquist.  Rewards  of
merit  were  then  distributed  to  the  children,
after which a picnic  and party were given, un-
der the able  management of Lucy Wilson, the
President. All enjoyed themselves exceedingly
well, and  it  will  be a day long  to  be  remem-
bered by the children.
		ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE Empress Eugenie will spend the Autumn
at her beautiful home on Lake Constance.

	THE noble and beloved Princess Louise is
compelled to return to England to recruit her
failing health, and it is generally believed that
her husband the Marquis of Lorne governor
general of Canada, will resign his position in
order to remain with his wife.

	A&nbsp;STENOGRAPHER sat at a telephone sev-
enty-eight miles from Elmira, a recent Sunday,
and took down the sermon of Thomas K.
Beecher, who was preaching in his own pulpit
at Elmira.

	A young girl fourteen years of age the
daughter of an officer at the capital "Our
Arctic Domain" is said to be the youngest
official in the Post Office Department. She
is post-mistress at Sit-ka, Alaska.


PLYMOUTH, forty  miles  from Boston, Mass.,
famous for the  landing of the Pilgrims  in  the
bleak  month  of  December,  1620,  is  at  the
present  time  a  thriving  town  of  seven  thou-
sand inhabitants, three or four miles in length,
but  very  narrow,  comparatively,  in  width.
There  are  many very  elegant residences  over-
looking  the harbor. “Under a granite canopy
is the identical rock where landed in the bleak
winter, two  hundred  and  sixty  years  ago, a
band of exiles, who  had  moored their bark on
the  wild New England shore.” A building is
now in process  of  re-construction on the  main
street, which  is  to  be  devoted  to  the  sacred
relics of the first  settlers. “An elliptical  en-
closure is near, containing a large boulder broken
off  from  Plymouth Pock, on  which is chiselled
out  the  never-to-be-forgotteu date,  1620,  while
in the festoons  of  the iron railing surrounding
it  are  engraven  the  immortal  names  of the
forefathers.” The national monument, the me-
morial  of  the “toils, sacrifices  and sufferings”
of these  renowned  Pilgrims,  is  situated on an
elevated site  which  overlooks  the  harbor, and
when  completed will  be “a model  of beauty,”
as well  as  of  honor,  to  those  brave,  heroic,
self-denying  men  and  women  who  left  home,
friends  and  country to  obtain “civil and reli-
gious liberty” for  themselves  and  their  pos-
terity, and  all  who  should  come  to  them for
protection from tyranny and oppression.


THE SUMMER  SOLSTICE.--One great reason
why hot weather  is  so debilitating lies  in  the
fact  that  the  body is exhausted  by the labors
of the  year.  Indeed,  it  is  natural  that this
should be so.  In order, therefore, to resist this
tendency to exhaustion it  only  becomes neces-
sary  to  re-invigorate  the  body,  which  can
readily  be done by one or two bottles of War-
ner's Safe Tonic.  This remedy is being  exten-
sively used  by  physicians for  this  purpose, and
is for sale by druggists in all parts of the world.

&nbsp;		HAVE YOU  SEEN  THE
NEW  VICTOR  SEWING MACHINE?
	If not  you  should  do  so  at  once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The  New Machine
is elegant in appearance  and  admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise  and  confusion, although
the  rate  of  speed  is  very high.  Its  self-setting  and  self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple  and  durable.  Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING  MACHINE  CO.,  CHICAGO, ILL.
		O. H.  RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation,  Dizziness,  General  Debility,  etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever  used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes: prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE KIDNEY & LIVER CURE
SAFE DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H.H. WARNER & CO.
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.
[column break]
ROMANIA B.  PRATT,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE--Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six  Blocks  East  of Post  Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and  DISEASES  of  the  EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between  9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and  Diseases  of  the  THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.

		DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF  FASHION,  No. 17  EAST  TEMPLE ST.
			MRS. C.  E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call.  Ladies'
Hair  Work in all its branches.  Good  Work Guaranteed!

	NEW SPRING  STOCK!
F. AUERBACH  & BROTHER,
	55 East Temple St., Salt  Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings;  Five  hundred  pairs Kid Gloves;  Trimmings;  Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery  Stock  in  the  West.
Notions;  Boots  and  Shoes;  Gents'  and  Boys'  Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

&nbsp;		Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

		AT TEASDEL'S
		SALE LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for  Gent's Clothing and
Carpets,  Ladies'  and  Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and  Domestics,  Groceries,  Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
		S. P. TEASDEL.

&nbsp;		A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN  C.
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

			H. DIN WOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
				FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER
			--AND--
		BABY CARRIAGES,
	75, 77,  & 79,  First  South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

	DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
		DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTITON PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH  inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:--MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
			P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1880.	NO.7.


[Column 1]
THE JUBILEE OF ZION,

Written in commemoration of the Fiftieth Anni-
versary of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Bishop O. F. Whitney

Hail to the Year of Jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And burst of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music's pow'r,
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Zion sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear!

An hour when, thro' the ling'ring night,
	In beauty broke the morn,
When Faith, exultant, hailed the Light
	That told her Truth was born.
The fulness of an omened birth—
	In verse prophetic given—
When Truth, new springing from the earth,
	Saw Mercy smile in Heaven.

It is a day for Israel
	His highest hopes to raise,
While voice and harp, uniting, swell
	The sounding notes of praise.
For Truth and Virtue, breathing love,
	Have made the world more fair,
Since Righteousness, from realms above,
	Unfurl'd her standard there.

Can friendly eye this radiant scene behold;
Nor feel what fairest words could not unfold?
Or stranger gaze upon its glory rest,
Nor deem, of all, this day divinely blest?
Could Time retrace the wilderness of years—
The stubblefield of human hopes and fears—
Recall from silent regions of decay
The buried greatness of a former day,
Would not the righteous dead their voices raise,
To swell the volume of a people's praise,
And, bursting from the thralldom of the sod,
Declare the wondrous workmanship of God?
But Time, alas! no retrogression knows,
Its ever hurrying stream still onward flows;
The moments coming crowd the moments past,
And each day sings the requiem of the last.
Fair Memory! Thine the task this boon to give;
Bid thou the past within the present live!
On thy bright altar let the embers glow,
To lift the shadows of the Long Ago!

Far down the mystic river of the Mind,
A fleet of recollections slowly wind—
A chain of gems on Fancy's pinions brought,
Historic views on Memory's canvas wrought.
The foremost is a scene where forests grow,
Where flowers bloom and springtime breezes blow,
Where sweet-toned birds send up their matin lay,
And lave in th' golden fountain of the day.
Deep in the bosom of a woodland shade,
Where Solitude her secret home hath made,
A simple lad, his sunburned temples bare,
Pours forth a guileless soul to God in prayer.
A sudden cloud, of midnight depth profound,
Now hurls him breathless to the trembling ground;
Speechless he's stricken, but with voice of will
Calls on his God, and supplicates Him still.
His prayers are heard. [--]o! shining o'er his head
A dazzling light! Where hath the darkness fled?
A pillar brighter than the noonday sun,
When on the purest sky his race is run,
Falls, gently as the earth-reviving dew,
And opens to his gaze a heavenly view;
Two Beings, of a glory to defy
The pow'r of words, stand 'twixt him and the sky,
And is't a voice, or music low and clear,
Whose hallowed sweetness charms the list'ner's ear
Like murmuring waters from a mossy rim:
'Joseph! 'Tis my beloved Son, Hear Him!"

[Column 2]
The scenes roll on. Within a rustic co—
An honest farmer's home of humble lot—
The boy that was, in pride of strength appears,
Erect-'neath manhood's crown of ripening years,
Nor now, as when, in trusting childhood's care,
Alone he sought and found the God of prayer,
Nor when, as singly, stemmed the tide of hate,
Which spurned the truth he dared to innovate;
Friends are his followers. Tho' numb'ring few,
Disciples dauntless, of a doctrine new,
Convened to verify the written word
Of him who bore the burden of the Lord,
When learned proud Babel's king thro' wisdom's ways,
What God had destined in the latter days.
The hour is nigh when monarchs' necks shall bow,
The Stone yet lingers on the Mountain's brow,
But soon with force resistless shall it fall,
And onward roll, victorious over all.
'Tis done—the deed Creation's morn devised—
The Church of Jesus Christ is organized.

The scenes roll on. Now chains the wand'ring sight,
A land of meadows broad and streamlets bright,
Where flowery billows, in the far extent,
Kiss, with soft lips, the bending firmament,
And royal rivers, from their northern throne,
Pour their dark waters toward the burning zone.
A city stands, in purity and pride,
On th' verge of Mississippi's rolling tide;
Erewhile the home of Happiness and Worth,
The sacred source of melody and mirth,
A refuge for the righteous of the earth.
The shrine of Hope, the paradise of Peace,
Where Faith was found in Charity's increase,
The ark where roving Weariness might rest—
A gleam of light upon the earth's dark crest.
But there are sounds of sorrow in the air,
Where Gladness reigned o'er beauty bright and rare,
Dark clouds of grief are gath-ring round thy head,
Whence show'rs of tears shall o'er thy bosom spread,
And Sadness shall the leaves of lichen strew
On thy pale brow, O fated, fair Nauvoo!

A prison cell. The slow descending day
Thro' the rude window sends a farewell ray,
Where Freedom's sons, her worship to atone,
In dreary durance tread the dungeon stone.
Four forms revealed, and one familiar face—
The boy—the man, of other tim[-] and place—
Still young, yet on his brow the crown of care,
That Age and early Woe are known to wear.
What deed of his hath won the felon's doom?
Ask the bright sun, that bids the envious gloom
Give way when Morning lifts the veil of Night,
Why bringeth he again the vanished light?
His deed the same—for bidding darkness flee,
Shares he a dungeon with his comrades three.
Nor filled his cup of fate. Hark! From below,
A rumble as of angry waters flow;
Fast gathering, as clouds foretelling storm,
A horde of demons, housed in human form,
Besiege the portals, and, with surging sway,
The threshold throng—the treacherous guards give way.
A roaring volley rends th' affrighted air,
As rush the mad mob up the trembling stair,
Eager, as wolves, the helpless prey to rend,
Daring, as cowards, strike were none defend.
Now bristling weapons gleam about the door,
Into the cell their murderous showers pour,
While, through the windows, to the fatal room,
Swift rain the metal messengers of doom.
Vainly the captives stem that fiery flood,
Thirsting to mingle with a martyr's blood,
E'en now life's ruddy river's ebbing fast;
Two noble souls on earth have sigh[-]d their last.
Sweet Mercy! Close the bloody book of Fate!
Seared is the sight such scenes can contemplate.
To shield thy chosen, smite their ruthless foes,
O God! Could not thy lightnings interpose?

Weep, Zion, weep! But every drop that's shed
Shall roll an ocean o'er the murderer's head.
Thy tears, tho' vain his victims to recall,

[Column 3]
On Crime's dark soul like molten lead shall fall.
Mourn, Israel! Mourn thy prophet chieftains slain,
Yet know their souls ar[-]. 'neath the altar lain,
To rise in witness at that solemn day,
When Judgment shall the world in balance weigh,
And cowering Sin, from vengeance long concealed,
In Retribution's presence stands revealed.

Where, next, shall Fancy's roving pinion rest?
Mid barren regions of the boundless West,
Where silv'ry steams through silent valleys flow
From mountains laureled with eternal snow.
Where reigns no creed its rival creed to bind,
Where exiled Faith a resting place shall find,
Where th' eagle builds his home upon the height,
And dreams of Freedom that hath wing'd her flight.
'Tis morning. On the mountain, vale and stream
The generous sun bestows a golden beam,
Crowning with glory snow-bespangled hills,
and darting life through all their thousand rills.
No sound disturbs the stillness of that scene—
So bare, so bright, so savage yet serene—
Save where the torrent's distant voice is heard,
Mingling with music of the mountain bird,
Or minstrel cricket, 'neath his drooping blade,
Chrips, ceaselessly, his summer serenade.
But list! Breaks on the ear a stranger sound—
How the high hills those jarring notes rebound,
As sentinels, that wa[-]n what would intrude,
To mar the sway of kingly Solitude!
Now nearer borne upon the canon breeze,
The roll of rocks and crash of falling trees
Blend harsh, at intervals, with human shout,
And clattering wheels that throng the rugged route.
Lo! Issuing from the mountain's rough defile,
Where frowns, on either side, a lofty pile,
A little band of ragged mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears,
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each sunbrowned hero's face;
Nor yet, if down his cheek, in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.
Tears, not of weakness, nor of Sorrow's mood,
As when, o'er banished joys, will Memory brood,
Far richer fount each fearless eye bedewed—
They wept the golden drops of gratitude.
Wherefore? Ask of the bleak and biting wind,
The rivers, rocks and deserts left behind;
The rolling prairie's waste of moveless waves,
Besprinkled with a sea of nameless graves;
The city fair, where widowed Loneliness
Weeps for her children in the wilderness;
The river broad, along whose icy bridge,
Their bleeding feet red-hued each frozen ridge;
The Christian world, that drove them forth to die
On barren wilds, beneath a wintry sky!
Would e'en the coldest heart forbear to say,
Good cause had Gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure, for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—the Mormon Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden Page,
The gift of Glory to the coming age;
The van of Civilization's westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap.
As some fair ship that waves its pennant high,
Bright with the splendors of the evening sky,
Their memory sails along the mystic sight.
Haloed with blessings, as a crown of light,
Floating down Fame's eternal river,
A thing of beauty and a joy forever.
And fifty years, like billows on the sand.
Have left their marks on Life's enruffled strand,
Since dawned the morning of that chosen day
When Israel's fold refound the Narrow Way,
And planted firm the Gospel's glorious tree,
On Joseph's land, the land of Liberty.
Tho' rudely torn from out the parent soil—
Its budding glories fierce Oppression's spoil—
And flung far out upon the burning plain,
To meet the doom its murd'rous foes ordain;


Like Aaron's rod, the Bough of Joseph blooms,
Brings forth, in gladness, 'mid the desert glooms,
With fragrance rare the sterile valley fills,
And blossoms on the Everlasting Hills.
Deep rooted in the chambers of the rock,
Unheeding war, and storm, and earthquake shock,
It stands where Hatred's fiery shafts are hurled,
Waving a welcome to the wond'ring world.
Afar, its shadows o'er the nations fall,
Again its branches climb the ocean wall,
And seeds of Life, sown with Almighty hand,
Are springing from the soils of every land.
And these shall bear, upon the world's broad face,
The fruits of Freedom for the human race,
Freedom for all, of every creed and hue,
Pagan or Christian, Moslem, Greek or Jew,
O'er all alike, the Olive blooms again,
Proclaiming peace on earth, good will to men.
There let it flourish, till from shore to shore—
When tide shall rest and time shall be no more,
And heaven's veil hath withered to a scroll—
The waves of righteousness o'er earth shall roll,
And Zion, the redeemed, the pure, the free,
Shall celebrate the WORLD'S GEEAT JUBILEE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
(Continued.)
	Miss Snow received a careful education in
the best schools of the day, and this added to
the most excellent home training, laid the best
foundation for a useful and honorable life.
Nurtured and cherished under the influence of
strong parental love, with a true sense of duty
and strict obedience to the teachings of the
Savior, she developed all those womanly graces
which rendered her society attractive to those
with whom she was associated. As she merged
into beautiful womanhood, the precious endow-
ments of many noble gifts and qualities of
head and heart caused her to be much admired
and sought after by the sterner sex. She was
not a prude, but a modest, thoughtful, studious
and intelligent young lady, with exalted ideas
of life and its responsibilities. She remained
single, notwithstanding the many inducements
offered her to enter into the marriage relation,
until the order of plural marriage was revealed
through Joseph Smith, the prophet.
	And here, let me say, although it may be
looked upon as a superstition, that I believe
the Lord held in reserve certain women to
practically lay the foundation of this holy
order of patriarchal marriage, and in my mind
there is no doubt but "Sister Eliza" was one of
the chosen few. Many of her friends were ex-
tremely anxious to see her well settled in life,
but she was happy in herself and would not
submit to any interference in this matter.
	In her girlhood Miss Snow formed the ac-
quaintance of the famous preacher and scholar,
Alexander Campbell, also Walter Scott and
Sidney Rigdon, able ministers of the Campbell-
ite Church, and men of erudition. They as-
sisted her greatly in the study of the Scrip-
tures, and especially the ancient prophecies, in
which, though young, she was greatly inter-
terested, and which no doubt helped to prepare
her mind to receive the mission of Joseph
Smith, though she became a convert to the
Campbellite faith.
	Sister Eliza tells us that early in 1835 her
elder sister went to Kirtland on a visit to the
Saints, and on her return home bore a strong
testimony of the prophet and the latter-day
work, which impressed her as genuine, true re-
ligion, and yet she feared it was "too good to
be true." However, she trusted, and her faith
increased, and she was baptized on the 5th of
April, 1835, and has from that time ever been
a faithful and steadfast advocate of the princi-
ples of the Everlasting Gospel. In December,
1835, Sister Eliza went to Kirtland and board-
ed in the family of the prophet. While there

[Column 2]

she taught a select school for young ladies,
forming many pleasant acquaintances She
became very intelligent in regard to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, from frequent conversa-
tions with the prophet, whose knowledge of
God and the plan of salvation seemed to un-
lock the past and future eternities. This was
the commencement of the friendship between
Joseph and Eliza, which was destined, unknown
to them at that time, ultimately to ripen into
the purest earthly affection, and be crowned
with their union in the holy bonds of matri-
mony, in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Miss Snow returned again to the home of
her parents for a short time, but she was so
imbued with the spirit of gathering, that on
the 1st of January, 1837, she bade farewell to
the paternal home, to which she was most
fondly attached: and determined that hence-
forth she would follow the fortunes and share
the joys or afflictions of the Latter-day Saints.
	It was probably at this time she wrote her
poem, entitled, "What it is to be a Saint."

	"My heart is fixed, I know in whom I trust.
	'Twas not for wealth—'twas not to gather heaps
	Of perishable things—'twas not to twine
	Around my brow a transitory wreath,
	A garland decked wi.h gems of mortal praise,
	That I forsook the home of childhood, that
	I left the lap of ease—the halo-rife	
	With friendship's richest, soft and mellow tones;
	Affection's fond caresses, and the cup
	O'erflowing with the sweets of social life,
	With high refinement's golden pearls enriched.

	The whole poem is eloquent with tenderness.
It is published in Volume l, page 3. At that
time there is no doubt but Miss Snow gave up
her earthly ambitions believing that her relig-
ion was worth the sacrifice, yet keenly feeling
the separation from those in whose hearts she
held so dear a place.
	Reaching Kirtland she up took her abode in
the family of the prophet,aud became governess
to his children and was companion for Emma
during a number of years. She assisted in
many spiritual labors, and gave freely all
her means which she had brought with her
from her home to aid in building the Kirtland
Temple. She had no desire to receive any of
it back again, although afterwards she received
for part of it a homestead which she accepted
for her family.
	The persecution raged in Kirtland after the
Temple had been finished and dedicated, so
that many had to flee for their lives, and in
company with her own immediate family, who
had previously gathered to Kirtland Sister Eliza
started for the West, arriving in Far West,
Caldwell Co., Mo., on the 16th of July; she
remained there with her brother Lorenzo; who
was very sick at the house of Sidney Rigdon
and the family proceeded to Adam-ondi-Ahman
in Davies Co. There her father purchased
land from the "old settlers," paying them in
full. While there terrible events occurred, too
dreadful to record here,the picture is too horri-
ble. None but those who suffered in those
perilous times can ever realize the inhuman
persecutions of the Saints in Missouri.
	  To be Continued.


LETTER FROM A STRANGER.
	Reading an "Exposure of Mormonism," pur-
porting  to  be  written  by one "Mary Ettie V.
Smith," has  turned  my thoughts to Utah, and
I  am very anxious to know the character  and
record of that malignant lady, if she has either,
or if she really exists.  It is quite possible that
you  know nothing  of the book, but it is char-
acterized  by the  greatest  absurdities  and  the
most  glaring  inconsistencies,  together  with  a
degree of jealous spitefulness.  * * *
	Since reading  this  remarkable "Exposure"'


my  curiosity has  greatly increased  to  see and
know  more  of  that  wonderful  people,  that
wrested a home from the rocks and sands of the
western deserts, when  assailed  and  driven out
beyond  the  limits  of  civilization  by  modern
Christianity,  and  who  have  built  up their
Church so  rapidly, and  unite  in their charac-
teristics  such unity of purpose with such terri-
ble energy  that  the  "churches" stand  aghast,
and  the  politicians  wrestle  in  agony of spirit
with the “dreadful Mormon Problem.” I try
to be neutral  in  this  matter, for I am not, as
yet, a believer in  any form of  religion,  but my
sympathies  are with  the  Mormons, as it seems
to  me should be the  case  with any candid  and
fair-minded student  of the history of that peo-
ple.  By the way, I think  if  that  Autobiogra-
phy  of “Mary Ettie’s” was  circulated  every-
where,  it  would  make  converts  rather  than
enemies  to the Mormon  Church.  *  * *


FAITH WHAT IS IT.
	"Now faith is the  substance of things hoped
for, the evidence of things not seen," "Through
faith  we  understand  that  the  worlds  were
framed, by the  word  of God"  and  as  faith is
the moving cause of all action, in temporal con-
cerns, so it is in spiritual.  For the Savior has
said, and  that  truly  "That  he  that  beleiveth
and is baptized shall be saved," Mark 16  chap-
ter, 16 verse; as  we  receive  by  faith  temporal
blessings  all that we do receive, so  we  in  like
manner receive all spiritual blessings that we do
receive.  But faith is not only the  principle of
action,  but  power  also  in  intelligent  beings,
whether in  heaven. or  on  earth.  The Savior
says in explaining the reason why the disciples
could not cast out the  devil, it was because  of
their unbelief "for verily I  say  unto you, said
he, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed,
ye shall say unto this  mountain  romove hence
to  yonder place, and it shall remove, and not-
thing  will  be  impossible  unto  you."  Also
Joshua  in the sight  of all  Israel bade  the sun
 and moon to stand still and it was done, Joshua
10 chapter and  12;  verse and many more pass-
ages of Scripture  I could  quote  to  show  how
great was the faith of the ancient Apostles and
Prophets. Faith then is the first great govern-
ing principle which  has  power, dominion  and
authority over all things;  without it there is no
power and  without  power  there  could  be no
creation nor existence.
	Therefor my sisters let  us be strong in  our 
faith in our Heavely Father,  and in all good
things and good works.  I remain,
		Your Sister  in  the Gospel.
				Frances B. Hart.


BIRTH-DAY SURPRISE PARTY.
	Friday Aug. 11th 1880 being  the  84th  an-
niversary of the birth of our beloved sister and
friend "Aunt  Dicy  Perkins." a number of her
friends gave her a surprise party.
	President John  D.  T.  McAllister, Samuel
Adams, Bro.  Winsor  and  wife,  Mother
Bird, Aunt  Kate Church, Mother  Clark, and
Sisters Jeffreys, Worthen, Higgins, Alger, Em-
pey  and other; they brought  with  them  both
picnic  and presents, and had  very enjoyable
time.
	During the  evening  they  sang  songs  made
speeches and gave toasts,  and  wished dear  old
"aunt  Dicy"  all  the  hapiness  allotted  to  the
faithful.
The party was gotten  up by  Sisters  Winsor
and  Jeffreys,and was indeed what they intended
it should be a real surprise.
		A. M. W., and L. D. P.
St. George Aug. 17, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PEOPLE’S TERRITORIAL CONVEN
			TION.

HEADQUARTERS PEOPLE'S TERRITORIAL
		CENTRAL COMMITTEE.
		SALT LAKE CITY  July 28, 1880.
	A People’s Territorial Convention, composed
of  delegates from the several counties ,is here-
by called to  convene  at  the City  Hall,  Salt
Lake  City, on Thursday, October 7th, 1880, a
6 P. M., to nominate a candidate for Delegate
to the Forty-seventh Congress,  and  to  transact
such other business as  may properly  come be-
fore the convention.
	The convention  will consist of seventy-three
delegates, apportioned  as  follows, based  upon
the population as  determined  by  the census of
1880:
COUNTY.                      NO.  COUNTY. 			 NO.
Beaver.....................................2	Box Elder.........................3
Cache......................................6	Davis................................3
Emery......................................1	Iron...................................2
Juab.........................................2	Kane.................................2
Millard....................................2	Morgan.............................1
Piute........................................1	Rich..................................1
Salt Lake................................16	San Juan...........................1
Sanpete...................................5	Sevier...............................2
Summit...................................2	Tooele..............................2
Uintah.....................................1	Utah.................................9
Wasatch...................................1	Washington......................2
			Weber.............................6
	Total................................................................................73
	The central  committees  of  the  respective
counties  and  citizens  generally  who  support
the People’s Ticket, are  requested to  take  the
initiative  in their  several  counties  in  calling
the necessary preliminary meetings for carrying
into effect the  object  of  this  call;  that  a full
and proper representation of the people may be
secured in the  convention;  also to  see  that all
persons who sustain the People’s ticket are pro-
perly  registered,  as  under  the  law  no  person
not  registered  can  vote;  and use all  legitimate
means to secure to the candidate chosen by the
convention as  delegate  the  entire  support  of
the voters of the People’s Ticket.
		By order of the committee.
						JOHN SHARP
							Chairman.
THEODORE McKEAN, Sec'y.


NOTES AND  NEWS.
 ADELAIDE  Neilson  is  dead.  How  many
strangers  to  her  personally,  but  witnesses  of
her  magnetic power  upon the stage, will "drop
for  her  the  silent  tear."  A  grand,  lovely,
beautiful  woman,  of  commanding  presence
and  exquisite  grace.  Her  interpretation  of
the muse of Shakespeare, i her life-like  and
vivid  impersonations  of  Juliet,  Imogene  and
Rosalind,  were  indeed  the  fulness  and  com-
pleteness of representation.  Miss Neilson was
endowed with gifts beyond her contemporaries
-we were  going to  say  beyond  herself.  She
held the  audience entranced whenever she ap-
peared.  She  was  a  queen  of  queens  in  her
profession, and right royally she reigned in the
hearts of the admirers  of  the  histrionic  art;
her  audience  never lost a tone  of her melodi-
ous voice, but watched for the words which fell
from her beautiful lips with as much  eagerness
as  if  they  had  been  strings  of  pearls.  She
took  one  back  in  fancy to  the  realms which
Shakespeare  so  exquisitely portrayed with his
immortal  pen.  We  see  his  characters as liv-
ing,  breathing  forms,  and  the  old  churches,
castles,  forests, bowers, and  all  the  vivid  pic-
tures rise before us in their majesty and fitness.
	EDMUND Kirke, in his life  Gen. Garfield,
says  his  driving  Humphrey Marshall  out of
Kentuchy was the most remarkable  campaign
that  occurred during the war  of  the rebellion.
Pres. Lincoln's opinion about it emphasizes the
lesson  of  the  General's life.  "Why," said he
to a distinguished  army officer who chanced to


be  with  him, "why did  Garfield in two weeks
do what would have taken one of  your regular
folks  two  months  to  accomplish?"  "Because
he  was  not  educated  at  West  Point," laugh-
ingly answered the West Pointer.  "No,"  said
Mr. Lincoln, "that  isn't  the  reason.  It is be-
cause when he was a boy he had to work for a
living.--Ex.

	INTO the  Royal  Academy reeeption  walked
a tallish  lady, slender, with delightfully fuzzy,
ruddy  hair,  great  and  gray,  solemn-looking
eyes sending forth serious  glances  from  under
the ruddy hair, tangled very far over the fore-
head.  She was what Mr.  Whistler would  call
a "symphony in yellow."  Her satin gown with
its long  train  was  of  lemon  color;  the  front
thereof was as of lemons candied  into a spark-
ling  condition, and the  sleeves  were of woven
hair, attached  here  and  there  with  sashes, or
belts, or  girdles  stolen from the morning mist.
Necklacewise  hung  jonquils,  and  diamonds
glittered here  and  there.  It  was  Mlle. Bern-
hardt, who seemed not at all interested in the
brilliant company, but  very much  in  the  pic-
tures,  especially  in  Mr.  Millais's  portrait of
Mr. Bright.--The Watchman.


LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—I sit down, as it were mechani-
cally, to write an  article for our dear  little pa-
per,  but you know how  prostrated I have  been
of late, and  still  feel  the  effects, so I at  once
succumbed  to  the  feeling  of  inertia  and  ina-
bility!  I decided to  simmer down  my writing
proclivities into a letteret to yourself, that you
might know my heart is on  the right side with
regard to you and the paper.  I will  give  you
a  synopsis  of  how  time  passed with  me while
sitting  day  after  day  alone.  Alone,  but  not
forgotten;  my  friends  were  hovering  around
me  all  the  time, bringing  me  anything they
thought would do me good, mentally and phy-
sically, and  help  restore  me;  and  I pondered
how  much  of  the  beautiful and angelic is un-
known till we stand in need!  then we are made
to know our friends, made to love them with a
deeper love, made to know and appreciate them
more than  ever.  Verily, “there is a silver lin-
ing  to  every cloud,” which  sickness and afflic-
tion develop and demonstrate.  I have so often
repeated my own lines—Angels still are on the
Earth! Yes, that  is  beautiful  truth!  and  I
have  again  experienced  it  within the last few
weeks.  One  thing  my illness  caused which I
shall  ever regret—I was not able to walk and
see the great Twenty-Fourth  Jubilee!  I could
not  have  walked  a  block;  I was  almost  the
only one left in our street.  I locked up all the
lower doors, and took my position at my upper
room window, heard the murmur of the mighty
cavalcade and the martial strains of the band,
and  my mind ran  into  strains  of  its  own, en-
gendered  by  the  day and  the event. "A calm
stole  over me—I was  alone with God and the
angels, for  I  felt  their  sweet infllittlee in the
very air I inhaled from my open window.  All
was  sweet peace  around me—the past and the
present  were  vividly before  me, and so, while
thousands  were  gazing  on  that  thrilling pro-
cession, that  lone woman was ranging the field
of thought, enjoying and rejoicing without one
regret  on  that  never-to-be-forgotten  morning,
July 24,1880—a day ever to be  remembered,
the  first  Jubilee of our Church  of  Latter-day
Saints  upon the  earth!  How  little  the world
know  of  this  wonderful  people!  How  little
the  people who have  come here determined to
live with  us, know or realize  who  or what we
are,  or  why we are here!  Alas!  how little com-
paratively we know of ourselves.  How  true is
that ancient scripture that says, “The Kingdom
of God  cometh  not with observation;” but al


is right to those who do right according to the
best light they have.
	Hold me in your heart, still reserve me a
spot whereon I can speak in the EXPONENT—
if only "Poets' corner"—and accept every good
wish for your prosperity in "Church and State,"
		From your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 24, 1880.


THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY.
		CONTINUED.
As  an  illustration, the  parable  of  "the  five
wise  and  five foolish virgins" is  related.  The
teacher  asks, "Who  will  volunteer  to  repeat
this  parable?"  Immediately  the  little  hands
of  perhaps  a  dozen  children  are  raised, with
eager  delight  at  the  distinction  shown them.
The one selected (invariably the first to  volun-
teer)  will  repeat, with perhaps faultless  preci-
sion, the words  of  this beautiful  story.  Noth-
ing is  arbitrary, all are left to act according to
their  conception of right and wrong;  and  with
pleasure  the  teacher can  see  the  gradual  de-
velopment of  the moral and intellectual capaci-
ties  of  the  human  mind as  comprehended in
the child-student.
	A half hour  of such  instruction,  together
with  the  customary rontine of reading, dicta-
tion,  arithmetic  and  writing,  (the  two  last
named  branches  being  taught upon improved
methods,  that  never  fail  to  give  satisfaction,
and  are  made specialties of) is given twice a
week.  Tuition in drawing, singing and  object-
lessons is given once a week, as also in hygiene,
thus  giving the little  ones an  idea  of  the  im-
portance  of  preserving  their  health,  and  by
what means it can best be accomplished.  Thus
the  monotonous  routine  of  school life is done
away  with  at  our Academy, and  instead  of a
feeling  of  repugnance, the  little  darlings  are
possessed with so keen a relish for learning that
nothing  less than  some  extraordinary tempta-
tion  could  induce them to  absent  themselves
from the school room.
	We will  leave  the Primary department and
proceed to the Intermediate.  This is a step in
advance, for  here the  scholars have their note
books  before  them, in  which  they write  a few
words  now and  then, listening with  attentive
ears  and  eager  looks  to  their teacher, whose
every expression  is  noted and  ideas treasured
by the  little  ones.  We will  begin  with  this
department, as  we  did  with  the  last, by refer-
ring  to  its  theological  class.  Here,  also, the
Book of Mormon and Bible are the  principal
exercises--the  former on Mondays  and  Thurs-
and the  latter on Tuesdays  and Fridays; from
these  books  the lecture  or  lesson being given,
which  is  simplified  according  to  the  under-
standing  of  the  pupils.  The  principles  and
incidents  are dwelt upon in a manner that will
reach the  comprehension of  all, each child be-
ing  given  the privilege  of  asking questions in
relation to the subject before them.  A glance
at their note books  will quickly tell how much
has  been learned.  For instance, we shall see a
map showing the course taken by Lehi and his
family while  journeying  from  Palestine, their
landing in South America, etc., etc.;  the prin-
cipal  settlements  formed by the  Nephites and
the strongholds of the Lamanites;  all of which
show that  these little boys  and  girls are  gain-
ing  understanding  and  knowledge in relation
to  Church  doctrine  and history, and otherwise
receiving  information  of a  highly moral  and
religious character--an amount of information
too  that  is far in advance  of  the limited stock
possessed by the majority of Latter-day Saints.
			To be Continued.


EACH Primary Association in S. L. Co.,  is re-
quested to send a statistical and&nbsp;financial report
to  Mrs.  Ellen C. S. Clawson,  in  time  for  the
Sisters' Conference, Sept. 21, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell space, one
time, $2.50:  per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day  except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1880.


[Column 1]

AN APPEAL TO WOMEN VOTERS.

"ETERNAL VIGILANCE IS THE PRICE OF
LIBERTY."

	THIS is a true and wise saying. It is one too
that the Latter-day Saints, men and women,
should ponder well in their hearts and diligently
act upon in their every day lives. There are
many duties which demand attention, and which
if neglected, bring people into some sort of bon-
dage, for instance if prayer is neglected, Satan
has power over that individual to lead him
astray, and bring him in bondage to Satan. It
is very customary in this day to talk of freedom
and liberty, this is spoken of as a free country.
Everybody has certain inalienable rights, which it
is an imperative duty to maintain and exercise for
themselves. One of these rights is the ballot.
In Utah this privilege is secured to woman.
Then it is just as important she should exercise
it as it is that man should. The influence of
woman characterizes society, and when woman
has the opportunity of using her influence as a
member of the Commonwealth, it is her impera-
tive duty to assist all that lies in her power, in
the advance, in the maintaining of good order,
and in the protecting or defending of the govern-
ment of which she forms a part. A woman's
vote counts just the same as a man's, and the
women of Utah, who possess this blessed right
should not hold it lightly, nor esteem it a little
thing. Every woman who is old enough to cast
a vote and is a citizen born, or naturalized,
should go to the polls with the same sacred sense
of duty with which she kneels down to pray.
What wisdom would there be in praying to God
to give us liberty, if we do not appreciate it
enough to do our share towards maintaining it?
None. If there is any woman who has not
registered her name according to the law of the
Territory, so that she can vote legally, she
should do so. The books will be open for those
who have failed to register heretofore, on the
13th of September, which will be the second
Monday in this month, at the office of the
Assessor and Collector in each county. Sisters
go and be sure, if you are not already positive.
The opportunity for registering will last one
week only, and whoever desires to register must
do so within that time. At the recent election
held on the 2nd of August, for electing county
officers, many persons went expecting to cast
their vote, and were disappointed, because their
names were not found on the county register.
The registration for the city, or for municipal
elections, will not answer for the county. Do
not fail, sisters, to put yourselves right in this
matter, so that you may be prepared to cast
your vote, which will be quite an important
factor at the November election. What will ap-
ply to the sisters in this county will also hold
good for the women of every other county in

[Column 2]

the Territory of Utah, Sisters, let us be wise
and act well our part, that there may be no
blame attached to us in this matter, which is of
vital interest. In this grand department of
public weal, in this juncture of affairs, which
calls for united effort, woman bears the same
relation to the subject at issue as man, and
wherever there are serious entanglements or
difficulties, woman is as great a sufferer
as man, and many times more so
The burden of oppression, the horror of
war often falls heaviest on defenceless women
and children. God has given us freedom, let us
be grateful. He has given us the ballot; let us
use it wisely for the protection of those we love
and the maintenance of peace and good order.
Let us act wisely and in concert with our breth-
ren in this matter, for what benefits one
blesses the other correspondingly, and there
must be union of effort with men and women, if
any really great good is to be accomplished.


FROM SANPETE TO JUAB COUNTY.
		NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Early on Saturday morning, August 14th, our
party  left Fayette for  Levan.  The distance is
26 miles, and the  roads  were dreadfully  cut up
and very dusty.  Sister Eliza R. in a light buggy,
drove the whole distance.  She is a good chariot-
eer, having driven  a  team most of the way out
of  Nauvoo.  Arrived  in  Levan in time for din-
ner, went directly to Bishop  Aaggaard's, where
Sister  Goldsbrough  was  in  waiting expecting
our arrival.  Bro. Knight had  brought her over
to meet the sisters  there  and  take  them on to
Nephi.  There was  a primary meeting of the
children in the afternoon and a special meeting
of the Relief Society in the evening, to which
the brethren and young people were cordially
invited. There was a good attendance  and all
seemed to enjoy hearing the sisters talk.
	The next  place defined in the programme was
Nephi, whither, on the following morning, Bro.
Knight, with a carriage load  of  sisters, wended
his way. Arrived  at Sister Goldsbrough's  before
noon.  In Nephi  we attended  three  meetings.
The  Primary  Associations  met  together  and
their singing and exercises were excellent.  The
children seem to appreciate having  meetings of
their own.  In  fact  everywhere  the  children
seemed to enjoy the spirit of the Lord  in  these
precious little meetings.  In  the evening  a spe-
cial meeting of the Relief Society  convened and
there was a large audience.  Many young people
were present and great interest was  manifested
in  what  was  spoken.  Sister  Eliza  talked
over  an  hour  without  pausing,  and
her  wise  counsel  and  excellent  instruc-
tions  flowed  forth  as  it  were  fresh  from
the fountain of her soul.  We stopped  with  the
Sisters Pitchforth.  In the morning before leav-
ing for Mona, the next  place  to  be  visited,  we
were shown the job printing press of Miss Leonora
Pitchforth, it is rather odd to  find a young lady
with a printing press, performing  all  the  work
herself.  She does the necessary printing  of  re-
cords,  etc.,  for  the  county,  and  many  little
things  that  would otherwise have to be sent for
some  distance  from  Nephi,  the  nearest  press
being in Provo.  We saw some specimens of her
work which  were  very  neatly  executed.  We
say success  to  the  young  lady's  enterprise  in
printing, we think it shows a good degree of  en-
ergy and she certainly  deserves patronage.
	On the morning of  the  16th, Brother Knight
and  wife  and  Sister  Goldsbrough  took  us  to
Mona, at which place we were to take  the train
for  home.  Two meetings were  held  there, one
with  the  Primary  Association  and  the  other
with  the  Relief  Society.  These  were the last
[column break]
meetings we  attended,  making  thirty  in  all
since  leaving  home.  Everywhere  the  people
seemed prosperous  and  happy.  The sisters  are
making improvement in everything that is prac-
ticable  for the Relief  Society to undertake that
will tend to the general  good, and a good degree
of  enterprise  is  almost  everywhere  apparent.
Spiritually there is  a  great  change  noticeable
since  the  organizations  of  women  have  been
formed.  Many of the sisters who could not offer
up a  simple prayer in public when  called upon,
are now able to speak  intelligently  on the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to preside with  dignity
in the sisters'  meetings  over  large  assemblies
even when many brethren are present.
	It is  only a little over a year  since  the  first
Primary  Associations  were  organized  in  San-
pete  County, and  others  were  organized in Au-
gust  just  one  year  ago;  and  the  improvement
which has been  made  by  the  children is  very
great indeed.  Little  boys  and  girls  will  open
and  close  their  meetings  with  prayer;  they
will  rise up and speak  of  the goodness of God,
and the joy  there is in doing good.  In singing,
reciting  and  writing  essays,  they  are rapidly
progressing,  and  it  is  a  source  of  pleasure
to  travel  from  place  to  place  and  see  the
unity of feeling  that  exists,  and  the beautiful
and  teachable  spirit which the  children  have
when  they  come  together  in  their  meetings.
This spirit and  blessing  will  go  with  them to
their homes and  their  playgrounds, and  will be
a potent influence in directing the  little ones in
the path of duty and obedience.
	We thank  the  good  people  of  Sanpete  and
Juab for their pleasing attentions,  and shall not
soon forget the many hearty  welcomes, nor the
fervent "God  bless you," from  the  bishops,
brethren and sisters, wherever we tarried on our
way. It is very gratifying to visit the people in
the different  settlements  and  learn  how they
have  toiled and  persevered  under  various dif-
ficulties to build up the country  and extend the
borders  of Zion; and to find them engaged heart
and soul in furthering the purposes of our Father,
to establish  his  kingdom,  preach  the  gospel,
build  temples, and  redeem  Israel. It is  a re-
markable feature of this latter-day work  that go
where  you will among  the  Saints,  there is the
same genuine  spirit and  influence  which is in-
tensely  Mormon, and  is  always perceptible to
the initiated.  It  is  this  strong  cord  of union
which strengthens and  binds  together the peo-
ple of God.  The  more they  become acquainted
with each others' hearts, the  more  closely will
they be knit together in the bonds of that beau-
tiful love which will eventually bring peace and
good will to all.


HOME  AFFAIRS.
THE  Relief  Societies of Utah County held
their Quarterly Conference  on  Friday  Aug. 27.
We acknowledge  the  courtesy  of an  invitation
and sincerely regret not being able to attend.
	The Primary Association  of  the  14th  Ward
held their annual conference on Friday Aug. 27.
Several visitors were  present,  and the  meeting
was  one  of  special  interest.  Sisters  Horne,
Woodruff,  Clawson  and  others  addressed the
children.
	We publish in this issue the poem  by  Bishop
O. F. Whitney, written for the Jubilee, a part of
which was read in the Tabernacle by Col. David
McKenzie at the celebration of the last 24th of
July, and afterwards  published  in  the  Deseret
News aud Contributor.  It now appears  for  the
first time in its complete form.
	The part left out before is a touching pen picture
of Nauvoo and  the Martyrdom  of  the  Prophet
and Patriarch and a glorious tribute to the Pio-


neers of '47.  The young author is not  yet  very
generally known to the public as a poet, but all
who read this grandly eloquent  poem,  may  see
he has the true inspiration of poetry.
	THE general meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment associations was held in the 14th
Ward  Assembly  Rooms,  Saturday  August 28,
Counselor  Phebe  Woodruff  presiding.  Sung
"Come let us anew,"  prayer by Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood, sang "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day of
salvation." Minutes of last  meeting  read  and
accepted, also minutes of Y.L.M.I.A. 10th Ward
were read.  Mrs.  Woodruff made a few  good re-
marks.  Mrs.  E. B.  Wells, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs. S.  M.  Kimball,  Mrs.  Hannah  T. King,
Mrs.  Julia  Howe,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Barney,  a
Norwegian Sister,  Mrs.  Clara C.  Cannon,  Mrs.
Prescindia  Kimball  and  Mrs.  S. M.  Heywood
each addressed the meeting.  The  principal  ob-
ject was the suffrage  and many good ideas were
advanced.  The  principles  of  the  gospel were
also freely spoken upon and the meeting was de-
cidedly an interesting  one.  Closed  by  singing
"O my Father thou that  dwellest."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Amy A. Thomas.
	THERE will be an opportunity given to register
for voting at  the County Court  House in each
County,  for  those whose  names are not already
upon  the county register.  Go to the office of the
assessor and  collector  on Monday the  13th, day
of September or the day  or so following  during
that week, and  make  yourself  sure  if you  are
not already positive, so that you will not lose the
opportunity of voting for the  delegate  to  Con-
gress  for the  Territory  of  Utah.  Because you
voted at the election  of city  officers it does  not
entitle you to cast your vote for County or Terri-
torial officers.  Don't forget to register.  Previous
to the Territorial Convention which will be held
in this city on  Thursday  the  7th,  of  October,
delegates will be chosen from each of the differ-
ent  counties to represent the people and make
the nomination  of a candidate to be voted for as
delegate  from  Utah  to  the  coming Congress.
The sisters should  be  on hand to  perform their
part in  this  matter, and  attend  such  meetings
as may  be called  in  the  locality  where they re-
side, manifesting their interest  as  citizens  and
their desire  to attend to  every duty,  and  fulfill
to the  best of  their ability  every  responsibility
resting upon  them as interested members of the
body politic.
	BIRTHDAY PARTY.--A  pleasant  party  of
friends assembled, by invitation, at the residence
of  Apostle  Orson  Pratt,  Monday,  Aug.  23,  to
celebrate the fiftieth birthday of Mrs. Marian R.
Pratt.  There  were  present Pres.  John Taylor,
Apostle Joseph F. Smith and Gen. D. H. Wells,
Elders  C.  W.  Penrose,  J.  Bull,  Father  John
Lyon, and several other gentlemen and quite a
number  of  ladies.  The  afternoon  passed  off
agreeably in  conversation and croquet, in which
last President Taylor joined with much apparent
interest.  Dinner was served about eight o'clock,
and  after it was over the  music began.  A sere-
nade on the outside was the first intimation, and
Mrs. Pratt invited the musicians into  the  house
to  partake  of  refreshments.  The  string  band
consisted  of  Prof.  Thomas,  W.  Weihe,  and
others, who played  a  few favorite  airs, making
sweet melody.  Some beautiful songs were sung
in  an  effective  manner  by  Misses  Colebrook
Pratt and Wells, and  Misses  Slade  and Mantle
read quaint selections of  poetry in a happy style.
Father  Lyon, in  good old Scotch, read an  origi-
nal  poem, written  by himself and  dedicated to
Mrs. Pratt, recalling  the  time when she was  a
fair and goodly young woman, and drew a pretty
picture of her life, wishing her many  happy re-
turns  of  the  day and an  increase  of  prosperity
nd every blessing.  The lady's brother also read
[column break]
a history of her life in verse written by himself.
The whole affair was a complete success.  Some
elegant and  choice  gifts  were  presented to her
by  relatives  and  friends,  together  with their
universal good wishes, and blessings upon bless-
ings.  In a few days fifty years will have elapsed
since Elder  Orson  Pratt was  first baptized into
the Church.  He is, we understand, older in the
Church than any member now living.
	PLEASANT FAMILY  GATHERING.--On  Wed-
nesday, the 25th  ult., upwards of forty children
and grandchildren  of  Brother Joseph and Sister
M. Isabella  Horne assembled, with  other rela-
tives and a few friends, in  their  dear  old  home
in  this  city, previous  to  the  departure of the
eldest son  and brother, with  his family, for Ari-
zona.  The company numbered  about sixty  in
all,  the  invited  guests  being  President  John
Taylor  and  wife  and  Hon. George  Q. Cannon
and  sister, who were  acquainted  with  Brother
and Sister Horne when they were first  married,
and  had  been  intimately associated with them
ever  since.  During  the  evening  both  of  the
gentlemen  expressed  their respect and  esteem
for the family, spoke of the many  pleasant asso-
ciations  they  had  had  with  the  family,  and
blessed  them  one  and  all  in  the  name  of the
Lord.  The afternoon was mostly occupied with
the  family  dinner, which  was  sumptuous  and
befitting the occasion.  The evening was  spent
in  music, songs,  addresses, from  both  parents
and children--Brother and Sister Horne singing
one of  the old songs they used to sing when their
eldest children  were  playing  about  their  knee.
They both  gave  some excellent counsel to their
children, besides  telling them many interesting
incidents  in  their  early  lives.  During the eve-
ning a beautiful  silver  fruit  stand, filled  with
luscious  fruit,  was  presented  to  Brother  and
Sister  Horne by  their  children.  All was love,
joy, peace and harmony,  there  being only one
thing  to mar the pleasure of the  company--the
absence  of one daughter, with her  husband and
children, from  the  family circle, they  not being
able  to  make  it  convenient to be present.  The
family have been scattered from  one  end of the
Territory to the  other, and  it  has  been  many
years since  they  all  assembled  together in the
old home.  One praiseworthy feature of this large
family is, not one  of  the  children or grandchil-
dren  is accustomed  to  the  use of  either tobacco
or  liquor, and  most  of  them  keep  the  Word of
Wisdom in other respects.--COM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		55


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of general meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, July 17, 1880. President
M. Isabella Horne presiding. Choir sang: "Ill
praise my maker while I've breath." Prayer by
Zina D. Young. Singing "O my Father." Min-
utes of Young Ladies Mutual Improvment Asso-
ciation of the third Ward were read. Also of the
Primary Associations of the 18th and 11th,
Wards. Pres. Horne said, I am pleased to
meet with you and wish to explain that when
Conference interferes with our regular semi-
monthly meetings they stand adjourned until
the next regular meeting day. Pres. Taylor is
expected here this afternoon.
	E. R. Snow said, this is our last meeting be-
fore the 24th of July, and we have some busi-
ness to present relating to the celebration. Yes-
terday Sister Zina and I went to Bountiful, and
held sweet communion with the Relief Society
there. In the afternoon the children assembled
and their deportment and attention made an
impressive appearance. About three hundred
were present their Conference was called unex-
pectedly. We were surprised with their ready
replies to questions. Sister Rogers told us that
of those who attended the association not one

[Column 2]
had died with diphtheria or measles which had
prevailed there. The deaths had all been among
those who did not attend the Primary Associa-
tion.
	If any of the different Ward Relief Societies
have made arrangements to ride in the procession
on the approaching 24th they are requested to
report to this meeting. Arrangements have been
made for carriages for the primary and stake
Representatives. At our meeting in the Council
House I reported 290 Relief Society branches in
the Territory. There are more than ten branches
outside the Ter. 300 Belief Society Branches is
as definite an estimate as we are now able to
make, this number will be inscribed on our
banner.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze Pres. Young Ladies M. I.
stake organization, said we will be represented
in the procession by central and stake committees,
we wish to honor the occasion as it is one of
importance and not likely to occur again in less
than fifty years.
	Sister Zina D. Young, refered to the Home In-
dustries being represented in the procession.
Said three carriages would be devoted to the silk
department.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith said, one carriage is to
be adorned with ladies ornamental needle work
and I hope the sisters will contribute of their
handiwork to make it creditable.
	President Taylor having arrived, and being in-
vited to address the sisters,said, I was not aware
till last evening of this meeting, at least I had
forgotton it, and had arranged to leave this City
this afternoon,going North to attend meetings at
Ogden, during the Weber Stake Conference. I
understand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Relief
Society who were elected at your Conference
held on Saturday June 19, 1880, at the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
	On the occasion of the organization of the Re-
lief Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith
at Nauvoo, I was present Sister Emma Smith
was elected president and Sisters Elizabeth Ann
Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland her Counsel-
ors. The Prophet Joseph then said that Sister
Emma was named in the revelation recorded in
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants concerning
the Elect Lady, and furthermore that she had
been ordained to expound the Scriptures. By my
request my Secretary Elder L. John Nuttall read
to you relative to this meeting from the "Book
of the Law of the Lord," at your Conference
held June 19th, ult., which explained what was
then done.
	The ordination then given did not mean the
conferring of the Priesthood upon those sisters
yet the sisters hold a portion of the Priesthood
in coneciton with their husbands. (Sisters
Eliza R. Snowand Bathsheba W. Smith,stated
that they so understood it in Nauvoo and have
looked upon italways in that light.)
	As I stated, at that meeting, that I was called
upon by the Prophet Joseph and I did then or-
dain Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, and blessed
Sister Emma and set her apart. I could not
ordain these sisters to anything more or to great-
er powers than had been conferred upon Sister
Emma who had previously been ordained to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and that Joseph said at
that time, that being an elect lady had its signi-
ficance,and that the revelation was then fulfilled
in Sister Emma being thus elected to preside
over the Relief Society.
	However after this organization at Nauvoo,
much disturbance arose among the sisters. I do
not wish to be personal especially as Sister Em-
ma is now dead, but think that some of those
circumstances should be known. Sister Emma
got severely tried in her mind about the doctrine
of Plural Marriage and she made use of the posi-


ition she held to try to pervert the minds of  the
sisters in relation to that  doctrine.  She tried to
influence my first wife and to make  her believe
that the revelation was not correct.  Sister Tay-
lor was very much  troubled  thereat and  asked
me what it meant.  Soon after, the Prophet Jos-
eph was in my house and I spoke to him in my
wife’s presence, in relation to what sister Emma
had said,  and  Joseph  replied, “Sister Emma
would dethrone Jehovah to accomplish her pur-
pose if she sould.” Some  of you  sisters  are ac-
quainted with what I refer to  and  of the  preju-
dice that then existed.
	After the death of the Prophet Joseph, in con-
sequence  of  the  confusion  then  introduced
PresidentB.  Young thought it best to defer  the
the operations of this organization—and the  la-
bors of  the  Society  ceased,  until  he  organized
the sisters again  here in this City.
	Those influences  then  introduced and  then
operating were not right, for  the sisters  in  the
various  organization  since  have  accomplished
much good and should not be deprived  of their
rights and privileges  because  others  have done
wrong.
	Pres. Taylor then set apart the Relief Society
Officers as follows.
	Eliza Roxie  Snow Smith,  I  lay  my  hands
upon thy  head in the  name  of  Jesus  and  by
authority of the holy priesthood  I set thee apart
to preside over the Relief Societies in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I confer
on thee this power and authority and ordain thee
to this office, that thou mayst  have power to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and  to  bless, elevate  and
strengthen thy sisters.  The Lord is well pleased
with thee, with  thy  diligence, fidelity  and zeal
in the interest  of  thy  sisters. he has  blessed
thee  exceedingly,  and  will  continue  to  bless
thee forever and ever;  and I bless  thee  with all
thine heart can  desire in righteousness, and seal
upon thee all  former  blessings  conferred  upon
thee by the Holy  Priesthood,  in  the  name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Zina Diantha Young  Smith, I  lay my  hands
upon thee in the name of Jesus and by authority
of the holy priesthood, and ordain thee to be First
Counselor to Eliza R. Snow.  Honor thy calling
which is an honorable one; sustain and assist thy
President and thou shalt have joy in thy labors;
thou shalt be a wise counselor;  the  Lord is well
pleased with  thee  and  will sustain  thee, and no
man shall deprive  thee  of  thy  blessings;  thou
shalt have the gift  to heal  the  sick,  and  thou
shalt be blessed in time and in  eternity; In the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	Elizabeth Ann Smith  Whitney, In the name
of the Lord Jesns Christ  and  by  virtue  of  my
office and calling in  the  holy priesthood, I bless
thee and set thee apart to  be Second  Counselor
to Eliza R.Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee, and thou
shalt be blessed in thine  old age;  and thy name
shall be honored  through  all generations.  Thy
heart shall be filled with peace and joy,and thou
shalt be a wise counselor in thine old age.  Thou
shalt continue to  be  esteemed  as  a Mother in
Isreal, and  thou shalt  continue to be blessed as
thou hast been;  and when thou  shalt  have fin-
ished thy labors, thou shalt have a place  in  the
Celestial Kingdom of God  with  thine husband.
Thou shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this  office and  calling,in
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen.
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball.  In the name
of the  Lord  Jesus  Christ and  by  virtue  of  the
holy priesthood I set  thee apart  to the office  of
Secretary of the Relief Societies  in Zion;  to  re-
cord important events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready writer.
Seek more earnestly for the  Spirit of  the Lord,
and thou shalt be blessed more  than  thou  hast
ever had power to  conceive  of.  As  thou  hast
been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to be
preserved.  I seal upon thee, thy  former  bless-
ings, and thou shalt  be honored  in time and in
eternity  and have a seat in  the Celestial King-
dom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Taylor  then  said,  God  bless  the
Treasurer Sister Horne,and bless her with every
blessing that her heart desires in  righteousness,
and Sister Bathsheba Smith, and  God  bless  all
the faithful,  who  love  Israel  and  keep God’s
commandments, do this and every promise here.
tofore made you shall be fulfilled  and more than
now has entered into your  hearts to conceive of.
	The President then took his leave to go by the
afternoon train  to Ogden.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith referred to the Proph-
et  Joseph  instructing  the  sisters  to  conduct
their meetings in accordance with parliamentary
usages.
	Sister Whitney  than sang  one  of  her  sweet
songs of Zion in the language which was spoken
and sung (the Prophet  Joseph  said) by our first
parents in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Sister  Snow
explained that Joseph Smith told Mother Whit-
ney “If she would use the  gift  with  wisdom  it
should remain with  her as  long  as  she  lived.'
Sister  Zina  then gave the interpreation.  The
theme of which was rejoicing and praise to  the
Great Author and  Giver of good.
	Sister Phebe Woodruff being called on to speak,
said I am greatly pleased to see  my sisters mov-
ing in such  order.  My  heart  rejoices in  what
my eyes have witnessed, and my ears heard this
day.  May we ever be humble and faithful.
	Sister Snow  called attention  to the political
Primary meeting to be held the following Wednes-
day  E.  B.  Wells read  the  call  from  central
committee, political, and urged the sisters to  at-
tend the Primary meeting that  they  would feel
interested enough in the election to vote.  Stake
Pres. M. I. Horne followed  on the same subject.
	Sister Louie Felt  gave  some  instructions to
the Young Ladies relating to the celebrrtion.
	Pres. A. M.  Cannon having  come  in was in-
vited to speak.  Said he  was  pleased and inter-
ested in what he had heard, particularly  what
was said  in  relation  to  voting.  He  hoped the
sisters would remember that “Eternal vigilence,
was  the  price  of liberty.” The  sisters  ought
not to be unmindful of their  political duties and
privileges even though all seemed  calm.  If  all
would vote for  those  who  fear  God  we  would
continue to be a free people.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Choir sang,
Doxology.  Benediction  by  President  A.  M.
Cannon.


54		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Primary Association of Woodruff, held
their first anniversary June 19, 1880. Present
were several of the brethren, President of the
Relief Society and her Counselors, and many of
the parents of the children. After the opening
exercises Brothers Putman and Cornia, ad-
dressed the children encouraging them to be
punctual in attending meeting after which
there were songs and recitations by the children.
Dancing was then engaged in for a short time.
Picnic was passed around when they were dis-
missed, all feeling they had enjoyed themselves
very much.
	We have a small settlement and very much
scattered, that very many of the children are
not able to attend, but all are trying to do the
best they can.
	During the year cards of merit have been
distributed, and the children take great intrest
in the meetings. They have pieced a very nice
quilt for the temple, and have nearly pieces
enough for another.
	The following are the officers. Ruth Cornia,

[Column 2]
President, Clarissa Putman and Adeline Harri-
son, Counselors; Elizabeth Lee, Treasurer.
				TRYPHENA BRYSON Sec'y.

	The Conference of the Manti Primary Asso-
ciation—North and South Wards—was held
in the Bowery on Sunday, Aug. 22, at three
P. M. There was a good attendance of the
members of the Association, and also of the
parents of the children. The meeting was
called to order by Sister Casto, president of
the South Ward. Choir sang. Prayer by
George Braithwaite. Choir sang. Minutes of
conjoint meeting held August 11 were read,
also financial statement of each ward. Both
wards had donated to the Temple and new
Meeting House, and helped Elders going on
missions.
	The programme was then presented to the
audience, which consisted of a varied selection
of essays, songs, recitations and other exercises,
the first in order being music by the Brass
Band; Exercise, "Dispensation of the fulness of
times," class conducted by Sister Lucia Cox;
Song, "The shells we gathered long ago," Mary
C. and Annie, accompanied on the organ by
Mary Westensko; Class Exercise, "Story of
David and Goliath," conducted by Elizabeth
Luke; Class Exercise, "Relation of God to
man," conducted by Eva Cox; Essay on "Obe-
dience," Emmeline Hansen; Class Exercise,
"Revelation of God to man, eonducted by Ma-
tilda Alder; Dialogue, "Between a Gentile and
Mormon Boy," Wm. Peacock, and Wm. Cox;
Recitation, "The Mother's Prayer," Elizabeth
Luke; Song, "Lulu," Edna and Verney Snow;
Class Exercise, on "Faith and Repentance,"
conducted by Hannah Westensko; Music,
Brass Band; Recitation, "I can and I can't,"
Geo. Braithwaite; Essay on "Confidence,"
Elizabeth Hanson; Song, "Li[-]tle Footsteps,"
Diantha and Eunice Billings; Questions and
Answers, Hannah Munk and Annette Alder;
Reading, "Housework," Rose Brown; Recita-
tion, "Table Rules;" Annie Ludwigson; Song,
'-The Boy and Cuckoo," Matilda Alder and
Mary Keller, with organ accompaniment.
	At the close of the programme, Bishop Jen-
sen said he was happy to see the progress made
by the children of the Association, and hoped
the parents would see it their place to attend
the meetings often and countenance the presi-
dents and their assistants, and encourage them
by their presence.
	Bishop Reid said he was deeply concerned
in the welfare of the children, and we could
not allow our children to grow up without be-
ing educated in the knowledge of God. The
pure in heart were to be led and guided into
all truth. Our children were pure, and this
was the time when they should be taught in
purity and truth. This was their seed time;
and as the seed is sown in the ground, so should
truth be sown in the hearts of the children,
and the rain and dew of heaven would water
and nourish the same, by the Spirit and grace
of God.
	President Maiben, after reading a portion of
the Book of Mormon, remarked, the Lord said
"Snffer little children to come unto me;" and
great would be the reward of those who under-
took to do anything to train the youth of Zion;
and thanked Sieter Casto and Sister Tennant
and their assistants for their care and atten-
tion in training the members of the Manti
Primary Association.
	The choir then sang, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Benediction by Brother James Craw-
ford.
	WILLIE REID and ELIZABETH LUKE,
							Secretaries.

	We have had some good times here in Lake
Town lately, having received a visit from the
President ef the Stake, Sister Julia Lindsay,
and her Counselors. There was a large at


tendance  of  members,  who,  as  usual, highly
appreciated the  good instructions  given  us by
these  sisters.  Bro. Lindsay and  our  Bishop's
first  counselor,  Bro.  Ephraim  Watson, being
present, were  called  upon to set  apart some of 
the  sisters  to  fill  offices.  Our  Primary Asso-
ciation being destitute  of a President for some
time, Sister Mary  Ellen Findlay was appointed
and  set apart to fill that office.
	We have had a long, cold winter and spring,
and our meetings have  not  been  so  very  well
attended, but  since the weather  has  been  fine
the  sisters  are  getting more alive to their du-
ties.  We celebrated the 4th  of  July on Mon-
day; the  brethren  took their  teams and we all
wended our way to the Lake shore, where there
was  a  bowery  erected,  at  the  top  of  which
floated the glorious stars and stripes, to remind
us of our freedom.  The  Declaration  of  Inde-
pendence was  read by Sister Sarah Ann Nebe-
ber.  Bro.  Robert S. Spence, being  appointed
Orator  of  the  day,  delivered  an  interesting
oration, listened  to by an  attentive and apprec-
ciative audience.  Bro. Joseph Irwin delivered
a stump speech, which was very interesting
amusing. There  were  some select pieces sung
by the  Lake  Town  choir, after  which  we  re-
tired under the beautiful foliage of the trees to
partake of a sumptuous picnic.  In  the  after-
noon  there were  recreations  of  all kinds, such
as are generally indulged in on  such occasions;
all  seemed  to  enjoy themselves, both  old and
young. In the evening we had a very enjoya-
ble time "tripping the light fantastice toe" at a
party, at  which  our  President  of the Relief 
Society made her  appearance with  two quilts,
the proceeds  of  which were  to  be  divided for
the Emigration Fund and the building of  Lo-
gan Temple.  Thus you see that Lake Town is
yet alive, if not often  heard from, and striving
with the others to do her part in the good work
that  we  are  all  engaged  in.  Yours truly in
the Gosepl of Peace.
				MARY NEBEKER, Pres't,
				HARRIET LLOYED, Sec'y.
			------------------
	The Relief Society  of  Fairview  held their
Eleventh Annual meeting at the meeting house
on  the  14th  of  June,  1880.  Our  respected
Bishop, A.  Tucker, and quite a number of the
brethren met  with  us.  The  choir and string
band  were  also  in  attendance  by invitation.
After the opening exercises, reading of minutes
and reports, Bishop  Tucker said he felt thank-
ful  for  the  blessings  we  this  day  enjoyed.
Thanked the sisters for the good they had done,
and are doing for the building up of Zion  and
looking after the sick and needy. spoke very
encouragingly  of  their  labors, and  gave  good
and  timely counsel.
	Father Brady related  some  of his early ex-
perience in the Church, and  congratulated the
sisters on the progress they had made.
	"The Women  of  Utah" was sung by Sisters
T. A. Stevens and Kesiah Brady.
	Pres. M.  A.  Pritchett  felt  to  thank the
brethren for  their  attendance, also the  choir
and all those who had  contributed to the en-
joyment on the  occasion.  Thanked the sisters
for  the  union  and  generosity they had  mani-
fested, and  felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  every
good  gift we receive at his hand.  Urged  the
sisters to take and to read the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.  The  time  was  spent  in  music, recita-
tions,  etc.,  until  two  o'clock  P. M., when the
Relief Society sisters, with  their husbands and
invited  guests  sat down to a bounteous repast,
superinteded by Sister  Margaret Chency and
committee. The  sick  and  poor  were  not for-
gotten, and  our  jubilee anniversary  was one
long to be  remembered.  There was a party in
the  evening,  at  which  all  seemed  to enjoy
themselves to the utmost.
	We send herewith  our financial report: Our
total income  since  the organization of the So-
ciety  in  June,  1868,  is  $1,971.76.  Disburse-
ments:  for chartiable purposes, $930.67; Tem-
ples, $347;  for  missionaries  and emigration,
$153; for  books,  $28.80;  building,  $166.45;
home industries, $24;  for  fencing, $70.  Total
amount  disbursed,  $1,719.92.  On  hand: in 
Co-op, $200; cash, $31.84;  property, $20.  To-
tal  on  hand  $251.84.  Wheat,  484 bushels,
loaned to the brethren according to counsel.
				LOIS A.  WILSON, Cor. Sec'y.
			---------------
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of Mayfield, Sanpete Co.,
was organized under the direction of Bishop O.
C. Olsen, and his Counselors, March 11th, 1879,
with the  following  officers. Matlida Olsen,
President; Matilda  Jenson, Carolinen Olsen,
Mary Victor,  Margret  Whitlock,  Cynthia
Williams Counselors;  Amelia  Williams, Secre-
tary;  Harriet  Milles Assitant Secretary;
Martha Stevens, Treasurer.  They still remain
the same, and all are alive to their duties.
	We have thirty-one  members  enrolled, and
all are punctual to  attend  meeting;  which we
hold semi-monthly.  Our meetinga are  con-
ducted  as  proposed  by  Brothers,  Wells, and
Hardy. We  edit  a  manuscript paper  semi-
monthly  called the "Encourager," we have also
subscribed for  the  Contributor,  which  is read
with great interest by the members.  The Bish-
op and his Counselors frequently meet with us, 
giving good and fatherly instructions.
	We have made four quilts,  two of  which we
have donated to  the Manti  Temple; one to the 
poor, and the other we sold for wheat;  we have
stored twelve  bushels  of  wheat.  One of our
members' had made twenty  straw hats, as  we
wish to be one with our  sisters  in encouraging
home manufaeture.  The  Y. L. M. I. A., has
been, and is a great  benefit  to this little place,
in leading the  young  in  the way they should
walk, to become  true  daughters of Zion.  We
also had a splendid  time  on  the twenty-fourth
of  July, the  performance  of the day, and the
party in  the evening, was a  real  pleasure and
enjoyment to all.
	We will close by  wishing to be one with the 
sisters  in the cause of truth. 
					MATILDA OLSEN President.
					AMELIA WILLIAMS, Secretary.
				------------------


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		55


[Column 1]
FOURTH OF JULY, 1880.

IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	I promised you full particulars about the
Fourth. We had an unusual demonstration,
therefore I will delineate. The 5th dawned,
and a more, cold, gloomy, forbidding day could
not have been selected. The mist fell like rain,
and overcoats were the order of the day. But
long before the hour set for the procession to
form, thousands of people were to be seen on
the streets—I have never seen so many persons
on the street before. At the junction of Mar-
ket, Kearney, and 3d streets there was an im-
mense arched bridge, painted to represent stone;
and on the bridge there was a miniature fort,
and a dozen tents, and a company of regular
soldiers, who kept guard; and there were can-
nons fired from this fort all during the pro-
cession. The bridge, or arch, was claborately
decorated with bunting, flowers and evergreens.
The procession itself was a new feature. There
was an entire absence of all the Hiberinan
total abstinence societies. There were all the
various military companies, numbering between
twenty and thirty thousand men, with their
attractive, brilliant uniforms, each company in
a different one. It always causes sad reflec-
tions to see them, for to me they appear as tar-
gets.
	There were many interesting tableaux. There
was the chariot with the Goddess of Liberty,
and little girls dressed in white to represent
the different States. Then a large red wood
bark house, with plenty of evergreen trees, a

[Column 2]
clothes-line with men's drawers, shirt and socks,
one man smoking and playing solitare, whilst
his pard was getting the meal, or grub as it
was called. Then there was an old-fashioned
emigrant train, and on one of the wagon covers
was printed, to "California," and another, to
"'Frisco, or bust." Then a large truck carried
a forest, and in the forest were Pocahontas and
several Indians; they had a real wigwam and
other Indian relics. Then there was Washing-
ton crossing the Delaware River, in a real ves-
sel, and appropriately costumed were the sev-
eral characters. Next came the Jeanette, ice-
bound in the Arctic regions; and the icebergs
were admirably gotten up as to shape, size and
color; they had a blue cast, and were covered
with some glittering substance; even the rig-
ging in the ship was covered with hoar frost,
and as the sun made his appearance during the
procession, it very materially heightened the
effect; for which old Sol has my thanks. The
crew and passengers on this vessel had on fur
clothes, and there were two immense polar
bears in the rear of the bergs. Next came
"The Landing of Columbus," There were
evergreen trees, and Indians peeping through
the bushes and uttering their shrill war whoop.
Then came a Southern scene; there were
bushes on which cotton was growing, and the
darkies picking it and singing and cutting
their queer antics, which created much mirth.
One of the tableaux burned before the pro-
cesson started, so we were minus one.
	It was a noble idea (the introduction of the
tableaux), and we are indebted to Col. An-
drews, of the Dramond Palace, for the original
invention. There were many other new fea-
tures, which I cannot remember sufficiently to
delineate them to you. The procession was
very long; I stood still in one place for over
two hours, and then did not see all.
	Woodward's Garden in the afternoon had
daylight fireworks. They are an entirely new
invention, and were a decided success. They
consist of bombs, and are hurled in the air and
explode; some are men, and the wind causes
the legs and arms to move, and gives the figure
a lifelike appear[-]nce; there were animals and
serpents also. These fireworks will undoubtedly
take the place of the others, as they are not a
success here on account of the evening fog and
wind; they can never get one to burn evenly,
it is a sort of go-as-you-please. Hence fire-
works in the evening here are not very popu-
lar, although there were more than fifty thou-
sand went to see those that were advertised to
take place in the evening of the 5th, but which
were a grand fizzle; only the railroads saw
where the fun was—in the dimes.
	There were, as usual, a great many fires, but
only one large one. There were thirty horses
burned and six firemen injured by the roof
falling on them. It was a terrible fire, and
firecrackers was the cause.
	There were very many accidents with the
small boys, and these will happen where there
are so many children and no place but the
street for them to play.
	The sad accident at Monterey cast a gloom
over many of the companies. It is the fashion
for each of the military companies to take a
trip to the country and camp. Young Burk
was on that pleasure trip when he accidently
met his death through the carelessness of one
of his companions. He was the only son of
Justice Burk, aged 22 years. After the mili-
tary had disbanded from the procession, they
formed again and went to the depot and es-
corted his remains to his residence. The hearse
followed the soldiers. and the band played the
Dead March. The body was in the dead
wagon, which followed the hearse. The dead
wagon was covered with the new flag, and his
gun, boots, and other military accoutrements.
It was the saddest procession I ever saw, and
each passer doffed his hat in respect to one who


was so worthy. “In the midst of life we are in
death.” 
	And so another Fourth has gone.  During
the  excitement I queried wither  it  was  worth
so much expense. and  finally concluded it was,
as  the  rich foot  the bills  and it gives work to
many worthy people, and  an  immense amount
of money  changes hands;  and  in  the  long run
these  celebrations do  much good, besides keep
ing  the  heart warm with the  remembrance  of
our  glorious American Constitution. 
	“Three cheers for America, the home of the
true and the brave."
NELLIE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


UTAH  COUNTY  SILK ASSOCIATION.
	A pleasant gathering of  the  principal mem-
bers of the Silk Association of this county con-
vened  at  Father Graves gardens.  In the shade
of the  beautiful avenue was a long table spread
with “good things,” which had  been provided
by the sisters.  About  a  hundred  guests  par-
took  of  the  bounties spread:  while  thus  enga-
ged  the merry  jest and sparkling repartee, en-
livened the scenes, filling the hearts of all with
a sense of joy and thankfulness for God's many
mercies.  The  guests then rambled around the
pleasant grounds,  visiting the cocoonery  where
BrotherGraves is making it practical illustration
of the  enterprise  he advocates so much.
	They were then  called to order by  Brother
Lovelass,  the  Bishop  remarked  that  we  had
met  to  enjoy  ourselves, that  the  sisters  had
labored faithfully for this enterprise which had
been instituted by  the Prophets of God.
	While learning these things ourlelves remem-
ber  the  day  would  come when they would
have to instruct others, that thereby this people
might  become  self-sustaining;  for  many  who
would  be  gathered  from  the  nations  of the
earth, would  need  help;  that  such  meetings
were calculated to do away with preujdice, and
make us love each other,  and  therefore were
for  our good.
	Brother Paxman spoke of the  growing lab-
ors  of  the  sisters, that their duties  would in-
crease  until  the coming  of the Savior.  That
this event was near at hand, and those who
were  striving  to  accomplish  useful  labors  in
temporal and spiritual things and live humbly,
were  like  the  wise  virgins  who  were  pre-
pared to go forth, when the cry comes, "Lo! the
Bride-groom cometh  go ye  out to  meet him.
That these duties  were  numerous,  and one  of
them was silk raising. Said we must teach our
children these  things, that they  might help  to
push  on the kingdom of God.
	President Smoot was glad  to meet  with  the
sisters in  this  capacity, said he  was  informed
that it was gaining strength, although its growth
was  slow,  hoped  it  would  be  sure.  That
silk could be produced from the elements, very
cheaply, and  when  produced  was  always  an
article  of  commerce, that those  who  were not
able to do very hard labor could engage in the
cultivation of silk, and by so  doing they could
help to sustain themselves and increase home-
industry.  Hoped the intelligent efforts  of  the
people would never cease  until they  had fully
developed the  many resources of the Territory.
Advised all engaged  in the  enterprise to keep
out, of debt as debt had been  the ruin of many
laudable  enterprises;  told the sisters to ask as-
sistance of the brethren,when needful for them
to go on in this good work and all wise men and
women would say, Amen.
	The Secretary, Brother  Albert  Jones, read
the  constitution  of  the  Silk  Association of
Utah county.
	Sister Zina  D.  Young ,felt  well pleased to
meet  with the mothers in Isreal, in this capacity;
spoke of the time  when president Brigham
Young addressed the  Saints  for the first  time
on  the  Temple block.,and he then made the
remark, that silk was  in  the elements around
them.  That she had remembered these words,
and when called upon to  engage in this  labor
had cheerfully  responded;  also of a time when
the sisters  were  assembled  together  at Lehi.
President Young entered, and said "What do
I see before me?  A congregation of Eves," how
grand the thought, and while recalling the past
she was  forcibly  reminded  of  the  time  when
Joseph Smith the Prophet walked up and down
clapping his hands  and  shouting  "Hosannah!
hosannah! hosannah! to  God,  and the Lamb.
I have now established  on  the earth  what has
not been since the  time  of  Solomn's Temple."
Exhorted the sisters to  live  those  principles
which unite and bind together, and seek for an
increase of faith in God.
	The assembly  sang "We thank thee O God
for a prophet." 
	Sister Margaret T. Smoot, spoke of the many
things the sisters  had  to  encourage  them, that
the brethren  were  one of them.  That  the
remarks of Sister Young impressed her deeply.
That they were calculated to inspire the soul of
any one who had a soul, and hoped  union would
ever reign  with  the sisters.
	Sisters Beebe, of Provo, Douglas of  Payson,
and Harrison of Springvill made some excellent
remarks.  The  former  returning  thanks  to
Brother Graves  for  his kindness.  The  latter
said there had been 25 lb. of cocoons, and 5 oz.
of eggs  raised  in  Springville  this year, by the
Relief Society.  Brother Z. Coltrin  also  occu-
pied a few moments  in a  few  happy  remarks
and the  assembly  dispersed  for  other  enjoy-
ments feeling refreshed in spirit.
A MEMBER.


[Column 1]
A HAPPY RESTORATION.—I can truly say
that I owe my present existence and happy res-
toration to the hopes and joys of life, to the use
of Warner's Safe Kidney Cure, and I say to
every one suffering from any manner of kidney,
liver or urinary trouble, "Use this remedy and
recover."
	Holley, N. Y. Feb. 25, 1880.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent. Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H.WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors.
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, is Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

NEW SPRING STOCK!
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 East Temple St., Salt Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings; Five hundred pairs Kid Gloves; Trimmings; Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
☞ Largest Wholescale Millinery Stock in the West.
Notions Boots and Shoes; Gents' and Boys' Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,&nbsp;		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DIN WOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all  Nations.
VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  SEPTEMBER  15, 1880.		No. 8.


A MOTHER'S  ADDRESS  TO HER
				CHILDREN.
	Written for Sister M. I. Horne and addressed
by  her  to upwards  of  fifty  of her  children  and
grandchildren, on the  occasion of their  Re-union
in the old home. By E. H. Woodmansee.

Is it needful  that I should SAY welcome?
	Is it needful my feelings to speak?
In a measure I'll try to express them,
	But language is feeble and weak
To tell the entire satisfaction--
	The comfort,  the  pride and the pleasure;
That I have in beholding my children,
	Again in the old home together.

When I look on this circle of faces,
	With Jacob, I'm led to exclaim--
"All these God  hath given me," surely--
	'Tis meet to acknowledge his name;
With praise and with thanks I adore Him,
	That so many belonging to me--
My children, and their  children also--
	Well and happy arround me I see.

My bosom  is thrill'd with emotion;
	Hopes and fears,  that I cannot relate;
Reaching out to the future before you--
	Hopes and fears, for your possible fate.
O, a mother would  fain live for ever--
	And sheild all her children  from  ill;
Yet her arm is  but flesh, it is feeble--
	Compared to her love and her will.

Aud Age! must  pass over "the River"--
	It cannot contend with the tide:
But  the Lord  is a safe guard foreve;
	He is always a help to the tried.
And trial is  mortality's portion,
	Yea, the Saints must  be  tried as by fire;
To refine, to prepare, to perfect them--
	For the glory, to which they aspire.

Though our patience and worth, we will merit
	That grand  and endurable prize
A crown,  of Eternal Salvation--
	The reward  of the faithful and wise.
But O, we must struggle to gain it,--
	For such is our Father's decree;
God himself cannot make us obtain it;
	Unless we will diligent be.

And this is a mother's petition--
	That your love may  be never estranged--
From  the Truth,  that the light of the Gospel--
	May be yours, through each  trial and change.
Be true to yourselves,  for your honor--
	By your covenants faithfully stand;
The soul that is bound by his honor--
	Is fitted to serve, or command.

If but one of a househould,  to virtue
	Turn's traitor, and merits his doom;
All who love him, are plunged into sorrow;
	Into deepest affliction and gloom.
I pray that you all may be faithful
	To your conscience, your friends and your God
That you'll walk in the "strait narrow pathway"
	That the wise and the worthy have trod.

I trust  by your  actions forever--
	Your motives will worthy be proved;
That  you all  may be justly respected,
	Even honor'd, and trusted, and lov'd.
Wherever you go, may the angels--
	Your footsteps direct and attend;
May your toil  be abundantly prosper'd;
	Yea, may  blessings upon you descend.

And if in the old home together--
	Face to face we may never more meet;
In a home that is brighter and better--
	May this circle be full and complete;
[column break]
Where the ties of affection are strengthen'd--
	Where they blossom, and flourish, and grow;
Where kindred in love are united;
	Nor anguish of parting will know.

When Earth is a sanctified planet;
	When 'tis cleansed  and celestialized  too;
May we all be allow'd to possess it,
	With the noble, the tried and the true;
And  receive with the faithful  our portion
	That the Father is pleased to bestow,
On  all who have valiantly labor'd
	To build up his kingdom below.
That  we all may have wisdom to merit
	(Nor one even more than another)
The blessing of "Life everlasting,"
	Is the prayer, and the hope of your mother.

S. L. City, Aug. 25th 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	Sister Eliza has evinced, through the whole
course of her eventful life, a remarkable degree
of adaptability to circumstances, which has en-
abled her to pass through the trying experiences
with which "Mormon" life abounds with greater
equanimity than she could otherwise have
done. The great secret of the success she has
achieved is no doubt mainly due to the simple
fact that she has never been known to shrink
from any task assigned her, however arduous
it might appear.
	On the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold,
bleak winter, Miss Snow, with her father's
family, left her home in Davies County, Mo.--
the "Mormon's" in that locality having been
previously ordered by the Governor to leave
the county within ten days. They accordingly
moved from Davies to Caldwell Co.
	Sister Eliza says her father, in assisting wid-
ows and others, was detained until the very
last day of "grace" allotted to the Mormons
for leaving the county; the weather was very
cold indeed, and the ground was covered with
snow; she walked on to warm her aching feet
until the teams would overtake her; meantime
she met one of the "so-called militia," who
abruptly accosted her: "Well, I think this will
cure you of your faith." The young heroine
looked him steadily in the eye and replied: "It
will take more than this to cure me of my
faith." His countenance fell and he responded,
"I must confess you are a better soldier than I
am." It is indeed wonderful to what injustice,
hardships and persecutions those grandly brave
men and women endured for the sake of their
religion, without a murmur or complaint; and
remember, kind readers, these things transpired
before the principle of plural marriage had
ever been revealed. While this little company
of fugitives were fleeing from danger towards
Far West, they stopped one night at what was
called the "Half-way House," a place built of
logs, perhaps twenty feet square, and then en-
tirely without chinking. This had been the
"almost shelterless shelter" of the hundreds of
poor wanderers who had gone on before them,
compelled by the ruthless mobs to leave their
homes of comfort in mid-winter. On this oc-
casion there were about seventy-five or eighty
persons. Miss Snow says she and her sister Leo-
nora managed so that their mother could lie
down, and they sat by upon the floor to prevent
her being trampled upon, for the travelers were

[Column 2]
crowded into this small space like so many
cattle, and they could hardly be responsible for
their movements. The food the people had
with them was frozen hard, and though there
was a blazing fire in one side of the room, she
says it was not possible for them to get to it to
thaw the food for their suppers, therefore they
resorted to a very novel expediency, which she
tells thus: "The boys milked, and while one
strained the milk another held the pan (for
there was no chance of putting anything down);
then while one held a bowl of the warm milk,
another would, as expeditiously as possible,
thinly slice the frozen bread into it, and thus
we managed for supper. In the morning we
were less crowded, as some started very early,
and we toasted our bread and thawed our meat
before the fire. But, withal, that was a very
merry night. About twenty feet from the
house was a shed, in the centre of which the
brethren built a roaring fire, around which
some of them stood and sang songs and hymns
all night, while others parched corn, roasted
frosted potatoes, etc. Not a complaint was
heard--all were cheerful, and judging from
appearances, strangers would have taken us to
be pleasure excursionists rather than a band of
gubernatorial exiles."
	Reaching the city of Far West, they found
such scenes of sorrow and suffering as no lan-
guage can faithfully depict. The prophet and
many other prominent brethren had been
dragged off to prison, their families were desti-
tute, "and desolation seemed inscribed on
everything but the hearts of the faithful Saints.
In the midst of affliction, they trusted in God."
	It is indeed pitiful to even hear related, or
to read, the history of the cruelties inflicted
upon those innocent, inoffensive men, women
and children during the persecutions in Mis-
souri.
	Sister Eliza says, on the 5th of March, 1839,
while the weather was still very cold and win-
try, they left Far West, leaving much of their
property behind them, and started for Illinois,
whither many of these poor exiles had preceded
them. Her father moved into one of the
northern counties of that State, but Eliza and
her sister stopped in Quincy, Illinois. While
there she wrote some characteristic articles for
the press, and received very flattering encomi-
ums of praise, and many pressing solicitations
to contribute other poetical articles. It was of
course something of a novelty to find genius so
rare inherent in a "Mormon girl," an exile at
that. From Quincy Miss Snow and her sister
moved to Lima, and lived there for a short
time, supporting themselves with needle-work,
compelled to submit to circumstances. It was
then their home-industrial training stood them
in good stead.
	In May, 1839, the Saints began to gather in
Commerce, on the banks of the Mississippi,
afterwards called Nauvoo; and about the mid-
dle of July Sidney Rigdon sent for Miss Snow
to come up there and teach his family school.
She had been living in comparative seclusion,
and away from the society of the Saints, and
it must have been a happy message which came
to her, to join the society of those she loved so
truly, and be associated again with those who
were searching for the knowledge and intelli-
gence which comes only from a divine source.
	During the seven years that Sister Eliza re-
sided in Nauvoo, some of the most important
events occurred in her career which could
mark the life of woman or of Saint. It was


during that  period  she  wrote the most sublime
and  lofty  poetry, and  an  inspiration  from on
High seemed  to  be  resting upon her  almost
constantly.  The  Church  itself  was  passing
through wonderful stages in advancement.  The
revelations  of God seemed to pour down upon
the Prophet Joseph, insomuch  that  a new era,
as it were, was begun, and  light and intelligence
which  had  long  been  hid  was made known to
the faithful, who had proven their  integrity to
the  cause  they had so  earnestly espoused, and
so  manfully  maintained  in  the  face  of every
difficulty and  unjust  and  unwarrantable  op-
pression.
 Woman participated in the glorious blessings
that were imparted with the ushering in of this
phase of  the  new  dispensation;  and  woman
partook  of  the  divine  sacrament,  which  was
offered  only to  those  who  had  complied with
the requirements of heaven  and  made a sacri-
fice through obedience.  At  this  period a new
era dawned upon woman;  marriage and moth-
erhood  were  indeed  supremely  glorified,  and
the  Spirit  of  God  enlightened  the minds of
those  who  humbled  themselves  and  sought a
testimony of the divinity of those eternal prin-
ciples, which seemed too sublimely  lofty for hu-
man comprehension.
 Perhaps  it  was about this  time  that  Sister
Eliza  composed  the  wonderful  hymn,  which
has been sung by thousands and thousands ever
since, and  in  every land  to  which  the  Gospel
has  been  carried, in which she so beautifully
portrays  the  home  of  our Father and Mother
in  heaven, our  mission here  on  earth and our
welcome  home  to  the  paternal mansion  in the
celestial kingdom.
 The "Invocation" breathes  the  very soul of
purity, and has awakened thoughts in the minds
of thousands  concerning our former home that
would  otherwise  never  have  been  stirred.
Who  ever  thought  of a  real  mother  in  the
spirit world?  and  yet the mother-love is strong
in the soul of man;  but these beautiful lines of
hers  have  been  like a sweet  and  grateful in-
cense  to  the  hearts  of  many  who  longed  for
some  satisfactory expression  of  this deep emo-
tion  which  they  could  not  define,  but which
they find in these touching words:

	"In the heavens are parents single?
	No; the thought makes reason stare!
	Truth is reason--truth eternal
	Tells me I've a mother there.

	"When I leave this frail existence--
	When I lay this mortal by,
	Father, Mother, may I meet you
	In your royal courts on high?

The whole  hymn  is  full  of  tenderness,  and
yet there is a strength  of  language in it which
carries conviction with the words.
The  gift  of  prophecy,  through  the  inspira-
tion  of  poetry, is  noticeable  in  the  writings ofo
this eminent  woman,  and  indeed she seems to
inherit from her illustrious race this character-
istic of her Hebrew origin.
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


"XANTIPPE—A FRAGMENT."
			  BY AMY LEVY.
   In the May number of  the University Mag-
azine  appeared  a short  poem  entitled “Xan-
tippe; a Fragment,” which besides  being of
considerable interest  to  classical  scholars,
nobly expresses the indignation of true woman-
hood at the unjust subjection  in  which  women
have been kept.  The  novelty  of the  concep-
tion of Xantippe's character,  and  the  earnest
and thoughtful beauty of the  lines, tempt  the
writer of this brief  notice  to direct attention
to it.
   The name of Xantippe, the  celebrated  wife
of the  great  philosopher  Socrates, is more or
﻿less familiar to every one.  Her fame  has  not
been,  hitherto,  altogether  an  enviable  one.
She stands forth as the prototype of a “scold,”
and is very far from being a romantic and poe-
tic figure in  history.  That  this popular  view
of Socrates’ wife is  not  altogether  a just one;
there is some ground for supposing, and indeed
every reason to  believe  that  she  was a  very
true and attached wife and an excellent mother,
though undoubtedly of  a hasty and passionate
tempter.  Socrates himself,  is said to have  ad-
mitted that she always  influenced  him for  the
good.  It should be remembered too, in mitiga-
tion, that many  things  in  the life of  Socrates
must have been  sore trials  to his wife—for in-
stance, his devotion to  the fair Aspasia.  Still,
however this  may  be, the  hand is a  bold  one
which attempts to,in the face of the popular ver-
dict of  centuries, invest  her  with  a  character
totally foreign to that which has been assigned
her. This Miss Levy  does, and in some  very
beautiful, thoughtful  and  powerful lines, pro-
ceeds to  invest “Xantippe” with  an  interest
until now quite unthought of.
  At seventeen, Xantippe,  a  fair  Athenian
girl, stands “at life’s great  threshold  with a
beating  heart  and  soul,  resolved  to  conquer
and attain.” She sees Socrates in  the  public
places of the city, and her first instinctive feel-
ing is one of repugnance  at  his  uncouth  and
almost  deformed  appearance;  and  when  told
by her father that she is to  wed him—
	She foolish wept, to see at once cast down
	The maiden image of a future love,
	Where perfect body matched the perfect  soul.
But at length  the mighty  soul  of  the great 
philosopher sweeps  before  it this  repugnance,
and the young  maiden loses all  thought of the
uncouth frame, in  noting  the  magic flash of
genius in his  eye, and  listening to the flow of
his learned  eloquence.  Here  the  nobler
thoughts of the  maiden find  their  sequel, her
soul kindles  with the thought of the holy com-
munion of her mind  and his, and with dreams
of life, in  which, strenthened and  upheld  by
his majestic intellect, she may fathom the depths
of  the  unknown,  and  in  true  unison, pass
through  life  to  a  glorious  eternity,  not the
mere plaything, not the  household drudge, the
passive bearer of his children, but as true wife,
true helpmeet, and  kindred soul.  Her  early
and dawning dream is  realized, and in a noble
enthusiasm she  becomes the wife  of Socrates.
	Wed to him, the cruel truth is borne  in up-
on  her;  the  hopelessness  of  her  dreams, is re-
vealed  to  her.  The  philosopher  does not
wish for a  companion--does not seek  for such
in  woman.  He  treats  her  kindly, and gives
her raiment  and food; her mind does not exist
for him.  Yet she does not wish to blame him,
for he meant
	No evil, so I take it, to his wife;
	Twas only that the high philosopher
	Pregnant with noble theories and great thoughts,
	Deigned not to stoop to trust to slight a thing
	As the fine fabric of a woman's brain. 
	I think if he had stooped a little and cared,
	I might have risen nearer to his hight,
	And not been shattered, neither fit for use
	As goodly household vessel, nor for that 
	Far finer thing which I had hoped to be.
    Xantippe for a short time struggles with  her 
fate, and to her unresponsive lord urges her
thirst for real love. At length her spirit  is
broken, and  she  determines  to bend to  fate,
and leaving all her high aspirations unfulfilled,
to strive to become  the  thrifty  housewife; the
noble burst of angry and  eloquent  despair,  in
which  she  takes  this resolve, is exceeding
powerful. .  . ."Can it be
	That we poor women are empirical;
	That gods who fashioned us did strive to make
	Beings too fine, too subtly delicate,
	With sense that thrilled response to every touch
	Of nature;  and  their task is not complete;
	That they have sent their half completed work
	To bleed and quiver hero upon the earth?
	To bleed and quiver and to weep and weep,
	To beat its soul against the marble walls 
 	Of men's'cold hearts and then at last to die?
								 R. L. K.
—English Woman's  Review.


THE EDITOR,

	The work of an editor can only be appreci-
ated by those who have had the fortune to have
had some little experience of it. The editor of
a London daily newspaper is held answerable
for every word in forty-eight, and sometimes
sixty columns. The merest slip of the pen, an
epithet too much, a wrong date, a name mis-
spelt or with a wrong initial before it, a mis-
take as to some obscure personage only too
glad to seize the opportunity of showing himself,
the misinterpretation of some passage perhaps
incapable of interpretation, the most trifling
offence to the personal or national susceptibility
of those who do not even profess to care for the
feelings of others, may prove not only disagree-
able,but even,costly mistakes to which an editor
is liable. As it is imposible to say what a night
may bring forth, and the most important intel-
ligence is apt to be the latest, it will ofteu find
him with none to share his responsibility, with-
out advisers, and with colleagues either pre-
engaged on other matters or no longer at hand.
The editor must be on the spot-till the paper is
sent to press, and make decisions on which not
only the approval of the British Public, but
great events, and even great causes, may hang.
All the most serious part of his duties has to
be discharged at the end of a long day's work,
a day of interruptions and conversations, of
letter reading and letter writing, when mind
and body are not what they were twelve hours
ago, and wearied nature is putting in her gentle
pleas. An editor cannot husband his strength
for the night's battle with comparative repose
in the solitude of a study or the freshness of
green fields. He must see the world, converse
with its foremost or busiest actors, be open to
information, and on guard against error. All
this ought to be borne in mind by those who
complain that journalism is not infallibly ac-
curate, just and agreeable. Their complaints
are like those of the conrt lord who found fault
with the disagreeable necessities of warfare.—
London Times.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	FROM Martinique comes the news of an-in-
teresting antiquarian discovery, in the shape of
the anchor of the ship in which Columbus sailed
on his third voyage to the new world. It is
well known that in 1498 his little fleet came to
anchor at the south-west extremity of the islrnd
of Trinidad, called Arenas Point, and that dur-
ing the night the ship encountered great dan-
ger from a tidal wave, caused by the sudden
swelling of one of the rivers that empties itself
into the Gulf of Paria. The only damage
suffered, however, was the loss of the Admiral's
anchor. This has recently been found by Sen-
or Agostino, while excavating in his garden at
Point Arenas. The anchor weighs 1100
pounds, and was at first supposed to be of
Phoenician origin, but careful inspection re-
vealed the date 1497 on the stock. The geol-
ogical conditions of the ground in which the
discovery was made bear out the conclusions
that the anchor is a relic of Columbus.—Ex.


NOTICE:  The Secretaries of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of this Stake are  requested to forward Quarterly
Reports immediately  to the Offics of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT to be  read at  the Sisters' Quartely
Conference Sep. 25, 1880.
		MARY A.  FREEZE, Pres.
		AUGUSTA J. CROEHERON,  Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		59


LIFE INCIDENTS.
	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

	I had  intended  to  pass  on without  farther
mention of Zion's  Camp, but  in  looking  over
their history I find it  contains so much that is
interesting, as well as suggestive, that I am in-
clined to  copy a portion  of it  for  the  perusal
of those who are interested in the work of God,
believing that it will be a source  of  comfort as
well as instruction to  the Saints who have had
to drink of the cup of sorrow, and  have  been
tried  in  the furnace  of  affliction.  The follow-
ing is from my father's journal:
	"There were  about one hundred brethren  in
our  company  who  started  for  Zion.  These
brethren  were  all  young  men, and  nearly all
Elders,  Priests,  Teachers.  or  Deacons.  The
second day we arrived at New Portage, *  *
at  which  place, on  the  7th, we  made  regula-
tions for traveling, and appointed a paymaster,
whose name  was  Frederick  G.  Williams, and
put  all  our  monies  into a general fund; some
of the brethaen had considerable, and  others
had little or none, yet all became equal. *  *
We  then  proceeded  on  our  journey twelve
miles, to the Chippeway River; here we pitched
our tents under a fine grove.
	"The next day we were divided into compa-
nies of twelve each, and captains were appoint-
ed  over each company.  I  then  organized  my
company in  the  following  manner, appointing
two  to  attend to cooking, two to see that fires
were made, two to prepare the tent at night and
prepare the bedding, and also to strike the tent
each  morning, two to  fetch and provide water,
one to do the running, two to see to the horses,
see the wagon was greased, and everything pre-
pared for starting; my business was to see that
the company was prepared for, and to see that
all things were done in order.  Our living  was
generally  very good, being  able  to  buy bread
from  the  bakers  or  inhabitants  on  the  way
through the settled part of the country.  After
this we purchased flour and had to bake our own
bread;  we  sometimes  had  to live  on  johnny-
cake  and corn dodger, and sometimes  our liv-
ing was scant.  Every night before we went to
bed we  united  in  our  tent and offered  up our
prayers before the  Lord  for  protection.  This
was done by all of the companies at the sound
of the trumpet;  and at the  sound of the trum-
pet  in  the  morning  every man  was  upon his
knees, each  one being called upon in  his turn
to  be mouth  in  prayer.  The same  order was
attended to in each tent.
	"There were  general  officers  appointed over
the  company, viz.:  Joseph Smith, Commander;
Dr. F. G. Williams, Quartermaster and Histo-
rian  of the  camp;  Zerubbabel Snow  and  Na-
than Tanner, Commissioner of subsistence; Syl-
vester Smith, Adjutant, and Roger Orton, Cap-
tain  of the  guard.  On  the 8th we started on
our  journey, and  on  Saturday,  the  10th,  we
passed  through  Mansfield and  camped for the
Sabbath  in  Richfield.  *  *  *  When  we
came  to  Belle  Fountain  we first  discovered
refractory feelings in Sylvester Smith.  *  * *
	"On Saturday, the 17th, we passed into Indi-
ana, just over the line betwixt the States of Ohio
and Indiana, where  we  camped  for  the Sab-
bath, having traveled forty miles that day;  our
feet  were  very  sore  and  blistered,  and  our
stockings were wet with blood, the weather be-
ing very warm.  I walked most of the journey,
letting the lame and  footsore ride in my stead.
I frequently invited the prophet  to ride, seeing
him  lame  and  footsore;  on  such  occasions he
would  bless  me with a hearty  good will.  My
team performed the journey very well.
	"During the night a spy from the enemy at-
tempted to get into our  camp,  but was stopped
by the guard.  We had our sentinels or guards
appointed every night, on account of spies con-
tinually harassing us.  This evening there was
[column break]
quite a difficulty between some of the brethren
and  Sylvester  Smith,  on  occasion  of  which
Brother Joseph was called to decide the matter.
Finding  quite a rebellious  spirit  in  Sylvester
Smith, and  to  some  extent  in  others, he said
they  would  meet  with  misfortune, difficulties
and hindrances, "and you will know it before you
leave  this  place;"  exhorting  them  to  humble
themselves before the Lord and become united,
that they might not be scourged.
	"A very singular  occurrence took place that
night  and the  next day concerning our teams.
On  the  following  morning when we  arose we
found almost  every horse in the camp so badly
foundered  that we  could  scarcely  lead them a
few  rods  to  the  water.  The  brethren  then
deeply realized  the  effects  of  discord.  When
Brother Joseph learned the fact  he  exclaimed
to the brethren that was for a witness that God
overruled  and had his  eye upon them, that all
those who would  humble themselves before the
Lord should  know that the hand  of  God  was
in  this  misfortune, and their horses should be
restored to  health immediately;  and by twelve
o'clock the same day the horses were as nimble
as ever, with the exception of one of Sylvester
Smith's, which soon afterwards died.  *  * *
	"May 21st we  passed  through  Indianapolis,
*  *  where we crossed White River.  *  *
We had  been  threatened by our  enemies that
we should  not  go  through  the  town, but we
passed  through  unmolested;  everything  ap-
peared  to  be  in  perfect  silence  as  we  went
through, although the people looked aghast, as
if fear  had  come  upon  them.  *  *  *  On
Sunday, the  25th, we  arrived  at  the  edge  of
Illinois.  *  *  On  the  26th  we  resumed  our
journey.  At  night  we  were  alarmed  by the
continual threatening of our enemies.  I would
here  remark  that  notwithstanding  so  many
threats were thrown out against us, we did not
fear nor hesitate to proceed on our journey, for
God was  with  us, and  angels went  before  us,
and we  had  no  fear  of either  men  or devils.
This we know because angels were seen.  * *
	"On Sunday, June 1st, we had preaching all
day, and  many  of  the inhabitants  of  the town
came  out  to  hear.  Brother  John  S.  Carter
preached  in  the  morning.  *  *  Brother
Joseph  proposed  that  some  of the  brethren
should set  forth different portions  of  the  Gos-
pel in their discourses.  He called upon Brother
Joseph  Young to preach upon the principles of
free salvation.  He  then  called upon Brother
Brigham  to  speak, who  set  forth  baptism  as
essential  to  salvation.  He  was  followed  by
Brother Orson Hyde, who proved by the Scrip-
tures  that  baptism  was  for  the  remission  of
sins.  Lyman E. Johnson spoke at some length
upon  the  necessity  of men  being  upright in
their walk and keeping the  Sabbath day holy.
Brother  Orson  Pratt  delivered  an  excellent
discourse on the principles  of  the final restora-
tion  of  all  things.  The  services  of  the  day
were  concluded  by  a  powerful  exhortation
from Eleazer Miller.  His voice was said to be
heard a mile  and a half.  *  *  Brother Mil-
ler was  one  of  the  first  that brought the Gos-
pel to us in  Mendon, N. Y., and when he used
to  retire  to  a  little grove  near my house  for
secret  prayer, he  would  get  so  filled with the
spirit  and  the  power  of  the Holy Ghost, that
he would burst out into a loud voice, so that he
was  heard  by the  surrounding inhabitants for
more than a mile.
	"After the  services  were  over  many stran-
gers were in  our  camp  making remarks upon
the  preaching  which  they  had  heard.  They
said  Brother Joseph  Young, by his  preaching,
they  should  judge  was  a  Methodist;  they
thought  Brigham  Young was a close commun-
ion  Baptist;  Orson Hyde  they supposed was a
Campbellite,  or  reformed  Baptist;  Lyman  E.
Johnson,  a  Presbyterian,  and  Orson  Pratt  a
Restorationer.  They  inquired  if  we  all be-
longed to one denomination.  The answer was
[column break]
we WERE some of us Baptists, some Methodists,
some Presbyterians, some Campbellites, some
Restorationers, &c.
	"On Sunday  morning,  when  we  passed
through Jacksonville, they undertook to count
us, and I  heard  one man say, who stood in the
door  of  a  cabinet  shop, that he had  counted a
little rising  of five hundred, but he  could  not
tell how many there were.  This thing was at-
tempted many times in villages  and  towns  as
we  passed through, but  the  people were  never
able to ascertain our number.
	"While traveling in Indiana some spies came
into our camp;  while we were eating dinner on
the  21st  of  May,  three  gentlemen  came  rid-
ing  upon  very  fine-looking  horses,  and  com-
menced  their  inquiries  of  various  ones  con-
cerning our traveling  in  so  large a body, ask-
ing  where  we were  from  and  where  we were
going.  The  reply  was  as  usual--some  from
the State of Maine, another would  say  I  am
from  York  State, some  from  Massachusetts,
some from  Ohio,  and  some  replied, "We are
from  the  East, and  as  soon  as we have  doue
eating  dinner  we  shall  be  going  to the West
again."  They  then  addressed  themselves  to
Dr.  Williams, to see if they could find out who
the leader of the camp was.  He replied, "We
have no one in particular."  They asked if we
had  not  a  General  to  take  the  lead  of the
company. The  reply was, no one in particu-
lar.  "But,"  said  they,  "is  there  not  some
one  among you whom  you  call  your  captain,
or leader,  or superior to the  rest?"  He  an-
swered, "Sometimes one and sometimes another
takes charge of the company, so as not to throw
the  burthen  upon  any  one  in  particular."
These same spies who had come from the West
passed us that same day and the next.
	"On Monday, June  2d, we  crossed  the Illi-
nois River.  The  enemies had threatened that
we shou!d not  pass  over, but we  were  ferried
across  without  any  difficulty.  Here we were
counted by the ferryman, and  he  declared  we
were five  hundred  in  number, although  there
were  only about one  hundred and  fifty of us;
our  company  had  increased  since  we  started
from Kirtland, in consequence of many having
volunteered and  joined  us  from  the  different
branches of the Church through which we had
passed on our journey.
			To be Continued.


The Sisters Quarterly Conference of this Stake
of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City,on Friday and Saturday,the 24,
and 25, of September. A general attendance is
requested of all the branch societies wherever
the sisters can make it convenient. It is not ex-
pected that reports of Relief Societies will be read,
but the secretaries are requested to bring them
or forward them to the Stake Secretary, Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, that she may be able to keep
a strict and correct account. The time will be
devoted to speaking and transacting such busi-
ness as may be brought before the conference.
The Primary and Y. L. M. I. A., Conference
will be held on Saturday, the 25th. Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson is desirous of receiving the full
reports from all the organizations in Salt Lake
County.


WE are pleased to notice that Dr. Pratt com-
mences a new class in obstetrics during the win-
ter. She has been requested to teach this branch
of medicine by the leading sisters who are con-
stantly visiting through the Territory and wit-
nessing the painful lack of knowledge in this
department. Her office is central, and she has
the necessary charts, manikin, etc., requisite to
teach as thoroughly as can be expected in such a
partial course. Not only are the sisters inter-
ested in these classes, but the brethren of the
highest authority have extended their approval
and expressed their desire that the people take
advantage of the opportunity opened to them.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1880.


VISIT OF  PRESIDENT  HAYES AND
				PARTY. 
				---------
	On Sunday morning, Sept. 5, at a quarter be-
fore ten o'clock, a special  train left this city for
Ogden, to  meet President  and Mrs. Hayes, Sec-
retary  Ramsey,  Gen. Sherman  and  the  party
traveling with  them  from  the  East.  The Salt
Lake  party  consisted  of President John Taylor
and  wife, Hon. John Sharp, Superintendent of
the Utah Central, and his daughter, Miss Nettie
Sharp,  Hon.  George  Q.  Cannon,  Gen.  D. H.
Wells and wife, Pres. Angus M. Cunnon and
his daughter,  Miss  Mina  Cannon, Gen.  H.  S.
Eldredge, Hon. Wm. Jennings and his son, Mr.
Joseph Jennings, C. W. Penrose, Editor Deseret
News, and  wife, Col. Theodore  McKean, Hon.
David O. Calder and H. W. Naisbitt, Esq.  The
train  reached  Ogden  before  eleven o'clock, and
the Presidential party did not arrive until twenty-
five  minutes  to  one  o'clock P.M. The  Ogden
Brass Band were playing enthusiastically  at the
depot, and a large crowd of citizens had assem-
bled to welcome the Chief Magistrate of the na-
tion and his friends.  There were five coaches in
the train, and the  engine was elaborately decor-
ated.  Governor Murray and  the Committe
were on board the train, having met the Eastern
party and joined them at Weber Station. 
	The President was  greeted  heartily by the as-
sembled crowd, and introduced to them by Gov-
ernor  Murray.  Prest.  Hayes said a few words,
and excused himself on account of its being the
Sabbath day; Secretary Ramsey did  the same.
Gen. Sherman being loudly called for, expressed
his  pleasure  briefly.  The  cars  containing the
new arrivals were then attached to the special
train from Salt Lake, the  engine  having been
artistically decorated  with flags and  streamers
for  the  occasion.  Immediately after, President
Hayes was introduced from the platform of his
car  by  Apostle Cannon  to  Prest. Taylor, Gen.
Wells and the other gentlemen and ladies of the 
party.  The train left Ogden amid loud cheering,
and in a few minutes the President of the United
States visited  Prest.  Taylor  and  his friends, re-
maining  with  them until  after the train passed
Kaysville.  His manner was most affable, and
he conversed with Prest. Taylor and others freely
upon  subjects  of  general interest pertaining to
the interests of  the Territory.  Shortly after the
President left, Secretary  Ramsey  came in and
spent a few moments, then Gen. Sherman, who
remained until the train reached the city.
	While the  train was  between  Kaysville and
Farmington, Mrs. Hayes  sent  to  invite the la-
dies  of Prest. Taylor's  party to visit  her in her
own car, to which they responded, and spent the
rest of the time with her until the train arrived
in the city.  Mrs. Hayes was  just as charming
as ever, very sociable with the ladies, and seemed
pleased and surprised with all that she saw and
heard. She was dressed in black cashmere, with
heavy crape trimmings, her hair put up plain in
the style  of  thirty years ago, and she looked the
very  picture  of  elegant simplicity.  Her  sweet,
intelligent face, her full, eloquent  eyes, her at-
tractive  manner, won all  hearts  at  once.  She
is  indeed  a  noble, whole-souled,  tender, loving,
gentle woman.
 At Farmington the Sunday Schools were  out
and  the  train  stopped  a  few  minutes  for the
President and Mrs. Hayes to  shake hands with
the  children.  A similar  scene was  enacted  at
Wood's  Cross, and both  the  President and  his
amiable wife seemed much pleased.
	When the train  arrived in the  city, carriages
were in waiting to escort the party to the Hotel,
which   had  been  magnificently  decorated in
honor of the arrival.  The streets were thronged
with  people, and  the  Sunday Schools were out
with  banners,  mottoes,  etc.  Crowds  of  people
had gathered around the Walker  House,  desir-
ous  of  seeing  His  Excellency;  and  after  the
party  were  inside  the  house, Governor Murray
came  out  upon the  portico with the President,
and  introduced him to the people.  He  begged
to  be  excused from  making  a  formal speech,
thanked the people for the welcome and retired
while the crowd were cheering.  The Governor
then  introduced  the  Secretary  of  War,  who
also  thanked  the  people, and  expressed his sur-
prise and  admiration  at  the  appearance of the
place and  the  people,  and  said  they  had  met
with surprises all along the route, but the present
one was beyond anything they had seen.
Gen. Sherman  was then introduced.  He has
for many  years  been  greatly  admired  and  es-
teemed  by  the  Mormon people, having visited
Salt Lake once  before,  and  also  the Mormon
settlements in Arizona. His  speech was taken
in full by a short hand reporter.
	Friends ana Fellow Citizens:  Following the
example of  my  chief--indeed, I may say, my
two chiefs--I ought to say nothing;  but I cannot
look  upon  this  crowd  of  people, and  upon the
scenery on my right and  on my left hand, with-
out saying  a few  words of  praise to  those  who
have  come  to  this  desert  land  and made it to
blossom  as  the  rose.  (Cheers  and  applause.)
An old  philosopher remarked, before any of us
were born,that he who made two blades of grass
to grow where only  one did before  was a public
benefactor.  Now the people who have made the
pears and apples, and the peaches and the wheat
and  clover and  the grass  to  grow,  when but a
short time ago there was  nothing  but the sage-
brush  to  be  seen, are entitled to our thanks  as
public benefactors.
 The President will in due time, on all proper
occasions, recognize  your kindness  to him--not
here,but else where;  for he  takes note  of every-
thing as he goes along, and he is so familiar with
the history of  this  people, that when  the  time
comes that he can say a kind word for you, he
will do it.  (Great  applause.)  All  that I  want
to  say  this Sunday afternoon  is this:  Go on as
you have begun, make homes for yourselves and
your children  and be half  as good as you  know
how to be, and you will  be good  enough for this
or any other valley. (Applause.)
	I thank you  again for the testimony to  your
Chief  Magistrate,  and I  believe it will do  good
to him and to yourselves and to the whole world.
 I beg you will excuse us from saying anything
further excepting that  we  intend spending all
of to-day and part of to-morrow in your City,and
will  do the best we can to  view the internal ar-
rangments, the  garrison on  the  hill top and
anything else that we can overtake.  We are, I
may say, on the road to California with all speed
and we can't stop.  Those fellows in  California
hold a lariat around  our  necks and we have got
to go on and make the best of our time--(Laugh-
ter and applause.)  In  the  meantime,  one and
all, we thank you for the heartly recpetion given
unto us thus far.  (Great  applause  and cheers.)
	There were loud calls for Mrs. Hayes who was
then introduced and greeted with hearty cheers.
She bowed  gracefully  and  retired.  The crowd
soon dispersed and the Sabbath  resumed  its ac-
customed serenity.
	In the  evening  the  President,  Mrs.  Hayes
and  a  number of  their  party  attended  service
at  the  Methodist  Church.  The preacher  was
most unfortunate in taking his text,as his whole
aim seemed to be to  convince  them of the gross
wickedness of the  practise of  plural marriage,
yet he  selected,  the  first  verse of  the fourth
chapter of Isaiah, which reads "And in  that day
seven women shall take hold of one man" &c.
Any person who will  read  the chapter  through
cannot fail to see that it applies to holy men and
women, in a day when  Zion is to be redeemed.
Common sense  will convince one that none but
good and pure women would make such a proposi-
tion; those who understood  the  laws and  com-
mandments  of  God.  However  let  that  pass
his sermon is not worth a moment's thought, to
those who understand the law  of  God  concern-
ing marraige.
	Monday morning  between  eight  and  nine
o'clock the President's party  visited the Taber-
nacle, and  while  there  some of the  ladies and
gentlemen held a  conversation with each  other
in low tones from  opposite sides of the building
and were greatly  surprised at  its  acoustic pro-
perties.
	A public  reception  was held  in  the  Walker
House parlors from ten  to  eleven o'clock A. M.
Many citizens  both men  and  women and also
children availed themselves of  this  opportunity
of  meeting  and  shaking  hands  with His Ex-
cellency  Pres.  Hayes  and  his distinguished
wife.
	After the  reception, the  party, in  company
with  Gov.  Murray,  the  reception committee,
their ladies  and  other  invited  guests,  among
whom were Hon. Wm. Jennings  and  wife and
Bishop John Sharp, went to Fort Douglas, where
their  arrival was greeted  by Gen. Smith with a
salute  of  artillery.  They  remained  there to
lunch, then returned to the city and took special
train  immediately  for  Ogden, at half  past one
P.M. The depot yard was crowded with people
anxious  to  catch  the  last  glimpse  of  the  illus-
trious  visitors.  Quite  a  large  company  from
Salt  Lake  accompanied  the  party  to Ogden--
Prest.  John  Taylor,  several  of  the  Apostles
and  many other  prominent citizens.  A goodly
number ofladies were also of the party.
	Soon after the train  started Pres. Hayes came
into Pres. Taylor's  car, and  held a long  and  in-
teresting conversation  with  him.  Mrs.  Hayes
expressed a wish to see the ladies of the party;
accordingly they  were  all  introduced,  she  re-
turned with them and spent some time in pleas-
ant  conversation  in  the  most  sociable manner.
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith presented Mrs. Hayes
with a volume  of her poems  and a copy  of the
little hymn book she has recently published  for
the  children.  She  was  also  presented  with  a
"silk lace  fichu, as a souvenir  of her visit to the 
City of the Saints." The silk was rasied by Mrs.
Schneiter of  this  city,  and the  article manufac-
tured  by  Mrs.  Ursenbach.  It  is a very elegant
and  elaborate piece  of  fancy lace work.  A  note
hastily written at the last moment accompanied
the gift.  Mrs. Hayes  is  certainly  one  of  the
loveliest women we have ever had the pleasure
of meeting.  Her intelligent face  is  expressive
of goodness, mercy, gentleness, tenderness. and
in fact  all  those  beautiful  qualities  that  carry
with them an inexpressible charm  and takes all
hearts captive.  She will  be  remembered with
pleasure by all who met her and we do trust that


her visit, as well as that of the President and
others, may be productive of good. Secretary
Ramsay and Gen. Sherman were genial and so
ciable with the "Mormon" party. Gen. Sher-
man had quite a long conversation with Gen.
Wells, whom he had met when here before.
Everything passed off pleasantly during the
visit of the party, and the result is in the
hands of One Who sees not as man sees.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE would call the attention of our readers to
the advertisement of Bro. George Dunford. The
firm is one of long standing, and the ladies will
do well to patronize the establishment, for they
are always polite, attentive and anxious to
please.
	MRS. E. R. Shipp, M. D., will shortly open a
class for thorough training in the art of obstet-
rics and other branches connected therewith.
Those desiring to join this class will please com-
municate with her at once, in order that all nec-
essary arrangements may be made before the
10th of October, upon which day the introduc-
tory lecture will be giuen. Address E. R. Shipp,
M. D., Salt Lake City.
	A FEW of our sisters from other lands are
availing themselves of the opportunity of be-
coming citizens. Sister Betsy Clark Williams
recived her second papers September 9, having
declared her intention to become a citizen and
taken out her first papers two years ago. Other
ladies, who are not native born should "go and
do likewise. It is not such a terrible ordeal: it
is all very simple and straightforward and surely
one would rather take a little extra trouble than
not be allowed the blessed privilege of voting.
Sisters Annie Musser and Margaret Sharp re-
ceived their naturalization papers some time
since.
	SISTERS don't neglect attending the prelimin-
ary meetings to elect the delegates from the
several counties to the Territorial Convention.
Manifest in this positive manner your interest
in the election, as well as to go to the polls and
cast your vote for the people's delegate. Let all be
united in this matter for union is power and
strength and the sisters hold some share of res-
ponsibility in regard to the maintenance of peace
and good order, and wherever and whenever
duty calls them to act or speak, let them use
that influence for the accomplishment of good.
Woman's influence is needed in connection with
man's to counteract the powers of evil in public
as well as in private.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is always painful to record the death of those
we love, and yet when a Latter-day Saint passes
away, especially after having attained to a good
old age, it is really a matter of rejoicing, for we
have an assurance that they enter into a higher
and holior state of being. Mrs. Mary Symonds
Alley, whose death occurred in this city Aug.
30, 1880, at the advanced age of eighty-five years,
was born in Salem, Mass., August 7, 1795. Her
parents were directly descended from the early
settlers of New England, who came over shortly
after the Pilgrim Fathers. Their names were
John Symonds and Susan Webb, and her father
and both her grandfathers were officers in the
revolutionary war. Her [-]usband, George Alley,
to whom she was married September 15,
1820, also served in the war of 1812, for
which he afterwards received a suitable ap-
propriation. They settled permanently in
Salem, Mass., and were highly respected by
all. There the Gospel found them in the enjoy-
ment of much of this world's goods. Sister
Alley was baptized by Elder Erastus Snow, Feb.


26, 1842, and the family started for Nauvoo Oct-
ober 24, 1812, arriving in that city January 29,
1843. Brother and Sister Alley, with their family
were in the Exodus from Nauvoo in 1846,
leaving the second time a good home and pleas-
ant surroundings for the Gospel's sake. They
remained in Winter Quarters until the spring of
1848, when they started te cross the plains in
Pres. Brigham Young's company. They settled
permanently in the 8th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Sister Alley has been a widow over twenty-one
years; she has now gone to join her husband, her
daughter and a host of relatives and friends be-
hind the vail. She was a woman of the strict-
est integrity of character, firm and unflinching
in the latter-day work. Her habits of precision
and order, and her prudence, punctuality and
early rising were characteristic of her New Eng-
land birth and training. She possessed as many
virtues and has left as unblemished a record as
any woman who ever lived. Her purity of life
and anxiety to serve God were known to all
with whom she was associated. She suffered
much pain during the last few months, but
peacefully passed away at last. She leaves three
sons and three daughters, many grandchildren
and five great-grandchildren. They may well
be proud of her memory.


[Column 1]
MARRIED LIFE.

	I wonder if there is one out of every ten of the
young people who get married,who fully realizes
the sacred obligations and duties pertaining to
married life. It seems to me that this should be
a matter in which much sober thought and
sound judgment should be used; and that if more
care was taken in the selection of a life compan-
ion by both sexes, there would be fewer ill-as-
sorted, wretched couples in the world than there
are. Marriage has rightly been termed a "lot-
tery," it is this at best; but where people marry
who are totally unfitted for each other by their
difference in tastes, habits and opinions, troubles
often arise, which though they may be "mole
hills" to commence with,soon grow to be moun-
tains. To be happy, perfect confidence and
respect should exist between husband and wife,
for where this is lacking, we often see what at
first appears to be the merest trifle, bring about
in the end the most direful results. If we once
allow jealousy to gain a foot-hold in the heart,
good bye to happiness. This passion is the cause
of much trouble, and misery; the instigator
of many crimes. It stalks abroad in the earth,
coming stealthily along like a "thief in the
night," robbing the gay of their mirth, poisoning
the mind, embittering the feelings, and corrupt-
ing the heart; destroying domestic happiness by
thrusting out love and union, and placing in
their stead suspicion and distrust; turning the
dearest friends into bitter enemies; withering
love, and blighting the fond anticipations of
families. Fault-finding should also be avoided
as much as possible as it oft does more harm
than good, for no one likes to be found fault
with, and where indulged in, often becomes a
chronic disease, turning the most amiable into
very disagreeable persons.
	We might learn many useful lessons if we
would from observation of other people's exper-
ience; but instead of this we often condemn
others and afterwards fall into the same evil
ourselves. How many different phases of
married life there are. For instance we see a
couple who start out together in a very sensible,
consistent manner, always cautious,and respect-
ful, manifesting that kindness, and delicate at-
tention which speaks louder than words, of the
pure and lasting affection existing between
them.
	Next we see a couple who seem so anxious to

[Column 2]
make people believe they are fond of each other;
that they not only offend the natural delicacy of
people who are in any degree refined; but they
also succeed in making people believe them to
be, or that they will eveneually become the very
opposite, of what they pretend, gruff and un-
kind. Again,we find a man who seems to think
of one thing in particular, viz., that he is "Lord
of Creation," which fact gives him the right to
look down on his wife considering her fit only to
be his drudge; bow in humble submission to
every wish however unreasonable,and patiently
receive his abuse. In contrast to this, and the
most rediculous of all, is the "henpecked hus-
band." With what contempt is a man looked up-
on who is led about by the will and caprice of a
woman; who hasn't manhood enough about him
to accomplish anything. But they are often
managed with such tact and skillfulness, that
they scarcely realize that it is so. A very sad
spectacle is to see a couple who have taken each
other "for better or worse," in the days of their
youth, lived together for years, and raised a large
family, finally separate, declaring they can live
together no longer, and not content with this,
must needs defame each other's character, pro-
claim their faults to the world, seeming to de-
light in throwing stones at each other, as they
start out to pursue their separate paths through
the remaining portion of their lives.
	In conclusion I will say that in my opinion,
private, or family affairs should never be made
public property, and domestic difficulties are sel-
dom overcome by outside interference.
									KATE.


SHAKING HANDS. 
			 ---------
	There are  many different  modes  of  greeting
among  civilized nations--raising  the hat, a bow.
a nod  a smile is all  that  is  expected  of all
acquaintance. Kissing, which is so  popular  at
present, is  often a mere  sham.  With regard to
kissing, the French say, "Your hand  for  an  ac-
quaintance, your cheek for  a  friend, and  your 
lips for your lover."  But it has been  carried to
such an extent that  you are expected to kiss  all
your lady  friends  every  time  you  meet them.
whether it  is  agreeable  or  not, and the kiss so
given is sometimes as false and cruel as the one
Judas once gave the Divine Master.
	Hand-shaking, as a manner of greeting, takes
precedence of all others, by reason of its greater
antiquity  and more universal usage.  We cannot
ascertain  definitely when  or  where the custom
originated, but  doubtless  it  has been  in  vogue
among  civilized nations  since  the  early feudal
times,  when it was employed as an assurance of
good faith, each  party giving  his weapon  hand
as proof  that he hand no hostile intentions.
	There are as  many varieties  of  hand-shaking
as  hand-writing, and  it  may be  considered  as
great an index to character.
 First, there  is  the  foppish  style, which con-
sists  in  merely pressing the tips of the  fingers,
which  is  no  hand-shaking  at  all, but merely a
pretense of friendliness.  Such a person is a fair-
weather  friend.  He  is  not  to  be relied upon,
but is a policy  individual  from  first  to last. If
it is to his interest, he will befriend you, other-
wise--you must look out for yourself.
	Then there is the  indifferent  individual, who
lays his cold hand in yours with a loose, clammy
touch,  and  as a Dickens  says  of  Uriah  Heep's
hand, "You  don't know what to do with  it, as
it does  nothing  for  itself."  Such a person has
no strength of character; he has no originality,
and would not dare to advance an opinion of his
own, but  stands hestiatingly, ready to coincide
with everything you say.
	Next comes  the  indefatigable  hand-shaker,
who grasps your hand so tightly that you cannot


withdraw it,  and  then  shakes,  and  talks, and
shakes, until you are so embarrassed and ill at
ease that you imagine all eyes are upon you, and
you are  correspondingly  awkward  and  uncom-
fortable.  This  method  of  shaking  hands  indi-
cates that the person who employs it possesses a
goodly  share  of  self-complacency,  and  always
imagines  that he is doing some one a great ser-
vice; and though it may originate in a desire to
reassure  you and place you at  your ease, it has
anything but the desired  effect.
 Next comes the nervous, energetic individual,
against whom  you  know  by former  experience
you  must  prepare  yourself  for  a  shock. You
unconsciously put your hand to your mouth, the 
better  to  secure  your  false  teeth, and when it
is  over  you  feel  that  you  have  reason to con-
gratulate yourself upon finding that your arm is 
not dislocated at the shoulder joint.
	Lastly there  is  the genuine hand-clasp - the
firm warm pressure of hand to hand, a medium
through which  friendly feeling may be  trans-
mitted from heart to heart, though never a word
be spoken.  How reassuring to be met by such a
person and  greeted  in such  a manner! How
pleasant  to  feel  that  his  professions  of  friend-
ship  are  not  professions  merely, and  to know
that  you  can  rely upon him and that he is sin-
cere in al he does and says.  Then truly, "Then
such God gives no dearer gifts to man."
					JENNIE JINGLE.


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BABYHOOD.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Babyhood is a theme mighty in minutae!
truly "a day of small things," the A B C of life
in this stage of existence, that ushers every hu-
man being upon the grand Theatre of the world,
yet is the foundation laid then for the character
which the infantile being shall hereafter sustain.
To woman especially it is a deeply interesting
study, for she has been ordained in the councils
of Eternity the producer and sustainer of the
human family, as well as the fosterer and in-
structor of these embryo men and women.
	Heaven is about us in our infancy, for if an
infant has a fine, healthy organization, and is
properly attended by an intelligent mother, it
will be a personification of angelic life. Many
desire children, but few realize the mighty re-
sponsibility that such gifts call down upon the
possessor!

"A spark is kindled then
That never can be quench'd again;
Whole ages down the stream of time
Shall dawn upon that soul of mine,
Yet never see that soul decline.
Yes! ages hence, and it shall be
As in its pristine vigor free!
Worlds shall be born and pass away,
But still it shall not know decay."

	These thoughts teach the mother to think,
urge her to strain every faculty, every intelli-
gence with which she has been endowed to
benefit and improve her offspring. The first
year she should dedicate exclusively to her in-
fant; no work, no business, no pleasure should
stand between her and it; after that such close
attention and watching may in a degree be dis-
pensed with. The first ten years of life almost
form the character; or at any rate give that
strong bias which, if good, no after influence can
entirely eradicate, and if evil, alas! what an un-
dertaking to undo and erase such tuition! The
infant is, in one sense, the most important per-
sonage in the household—some one says: "Truly
we are born princes." It is an imperative being,
and everything gives way before its baby sove-
reignity. Peace and gentleness should be the
atmosphere it breathes; no loud noises or rude,
harsh language should shock its tender ear,
The song that lulls it to rest should be low, soft
and loving. It should never be allowed to cry
to make its wants known, for they should be an-
ticipated and prepared for beforehand. A baby
brings with it one of the most prominent fea-
tures of heaven, viz., order; regularity and punc-
tuality seem peculiar to its nature. It should
be washed, dressed, fed and undressed with un-

[Column 2]
varying exactitude, and its sleep will then par-
take of the same precision. It should never be
allowed when in health to sleep on the lap of its
nurse; I know it is pleasing to some young
mothers to allow this, but a wise mother will
not permit her feelings, even those which spring
from love, to engender bad habits in herself or
child; this would be injurious to both—for while
the child is laid away in its quiet bed she can
perform some of the principal duties of the day,
and be ready to receive it on its awaking. In
England every well-regulated family, where
only two servants even are kept, have a nursery
for their children; and the good of this plan
could only be known by experience. It is a
large, airy room, with no more furniture in it
than is absolutely necessary—a table, wardrobe
for the children's clothes, commodes chairs, no
carpet, except a rug at the hearth for nurse or
mother. All their playthings are in this sanc-
tum, and everything they need—they take their
meals there, and such as are suitable for chil-
dren. One of the servants is deputed to officiate
in this room when needed, and the mother
spends her mornings there, and whenever her
presence is needed in the small empire,mighty in
its minutae ! The parlor, or room of the house-
hold, can then be kept clean and quiet, and in
order for the parents or visitors, and is a sanctum
wherein they can rest in peace, and arrange
their plans of domestic economy, or converse
upon subjects that children have nothing to do
with. No one sho[-]ld sleep in the nursery, not
even the baby; let its crib be placed in its moth-
er's bed room. Cradles are not good, and often
engender indolence in the nurse. In warm
weather the baby should occupy its crib-bed at
night—it is highly injurious for an infant to
sleep in a bed with two adults; it is marvelous
that people do not see this evil at once, and set
it aside, for it seems to me to be a self-evident
fact.
	Infants should never be taken into crowded as-
semblies; the atmosphere of such places is de-
structive to their tender systems. They should
be much in the open air, but not into the glaring
sun, which is injurious to their tender eyes and
to their brain. Some may ignore some of my
remarks, but none will who have ever experi-
enced them. We have nurseries for our young
trees and plants, and for our young animals, and
there they are attended as their peculiar wants
demand; so should it be for the immortal beings
placed beneath our care. The nursery should
be an infant school, where the foundation is laid
for future life. Laws of order pertaining to their
age and understanding should there be taught,
the bigger children assisting in arranging and
keeping in order all within its precincts—such as
the juvenile wardrobe, the baby basket and its
things in general; this they will do with plea-
sure, for "the baby" is ever the pet of the house-
hold, and to wait and attend upon it is ever an
agreeable occupation to the older children, for
there is ever something so sweet and angelic in
a baby that is well nursed and attended to that
is delightful and agreeable to all eyes. And the
nursery the room of the children, shonld be a
place especially set apart for peace and inno-
cence. No conversation should be held there
but what is proper and instructive for children
to hear; no tale-bearing, no back-biting, or fault-
finding, or qarreling, must be allowed within its
holy precincts. We there raise up the young
scions of humanity for time and eternity, and
no seeds must be sown there that will hereafter
produce evil, perhaps seven-fold; no weeds al-
lowed to grow that will choke the progress of
the tender plants that sojourn therein. Such a
course will form an education for future life that
the learning of the schools can never give.
	Can we with all our care make our children
all we wish? No, there will be a difference;
but if on the one hand we cannot raise some to
the standard we desire, we shall find others who
will outstrip even our most sanguine expecta-
tions, and amply repay us for our toiling solici-
tude. And where the organization is good, and
the infant and youthful training has been wise,
and judicious, and prayerful, fear not; "cast thy
bread upon the waters, and thou shalt find it
after many days." Should wise counsels be re-
jected in yonth, should the nature be wild and
will not be bound, still, ye parents fear not, for
the good seed you have sown shall produce its
own. Cause and effect are eternal principles,
and life itself is the school of God, and trial and
sorrow are its lessons, and they bring reflection,
they soften and subdue nature, they carry back
the erring into the sunny days of childhood and
youth, with their bright but beautiful day-
dreams. They will recall the gentle lessons of
the nursery, where mother sat enthroned and

[Column 3]
swayed the sceptre of love over the children
God had given her; where she enforced virtue
and right principles—and they will verily realize
by experience how good they were, and they
will rise up and endeavor to show, even if it be
late, that they are worthy of the parents who so
nurtured them in their early days, and show
also that the Lord has not taken his Spirit from
them.
	I have given only a few hints; vast, vast is
the subject, but intelligence catches hints which
are suggestive. We are fed only by crumbs, es-
pecially the precious food that falls from the
table of our Father and our God!


HOMESPUN TALK.
	Come in, girls, and sit down, I want to talk to 
you a little while; and if any of your young gen-
tlemen  friends  want  to  listen  too, I shall be
more than pleased.
	I don't  know that  what I want  to say is ex-
actly orthodox, but  to me  it  is  good  common-
sense.  You  know how we've  been preached to
and talked  to, and  how  books  and  papers are
always saying something to us about our  duties
as  the  future wives  and  mothers  of Israel.  I
know it is all good, and we surely must  try and
be as prudent as  our  giddy heads  and  dancing
heels will let us be, but - here's my bombshell -
we want  husbands who  are  going  to  be good
fathers. That's where lots  of the  trouble  lies,
and I know it!  Of course boys are lectured quite
a deal about making themselves  ornaments to
society,  and  pillars  of  Zion,  and  lights  to the
world. Are  taught  to  be  honest, industrious,
and when sent on missions  to be faithful and
true.  That's  all good - excellent, so  far  as it
goes - but it  don't  go  half  far  enough.  Are
young men  ever  taught to take the solemn re-
sponsibility  of  paternity  upon  them  with a
knowledge of  what  is  their  duty to  their  off-
spring?  Not often.  Girls, It is my candid opin-
ion that not  one-tenth  as many young men are
as nearly prepared to be fathers, that do become
so, as  are the poor  girls who  are  so much found
fault with.  Now  (this talk, remember, is with-
out  polish)  when a  soul  is  ushered  into  this
world, both man and woman owe to it a  solemn
duty.  Is it enough for a woman to nurse, wash
and rock the  child, scold, feed and patch for the
youth, and  get  rid of the young man as soon as
he is ready to marry or go out for himself?  Is it
enough for the father to look at it occasionally,
buy clothing and food for the child, school, clothe
and  whip  the  youth, and  settle  on the young
man as  much, to give him a start, as his pocket
allows?  No, I say it isn't.  I am not dealing
with mothers just now, and will give you my
idea of  a good and a bad father.
	Do you know a man  that  is  full  of  business
and  care  through  the  day, and  of  moroseness
and newspaper in the evening who growls out
to his wife about the idleness of "the boys," and
says  if  Tom  stays  away  from  Sunday  School
again  he'll "lick  him?"  Do  you  ever  meet a
man who lives for Zion, who devotes his days to
acquiring "filthy  lucre," his tongue  to the  fail-
ings of "the people and the signs of the times,"
his evenings  in  meetings and time  generally in
wondering  why  the  Almighty gave him such
reckless boys and flighty girls?  Perhaps I'd bet-
ter not call these  bad  fathers, and  yet  they are
not good ones.  I might enumerate many, many
different types  of men who fancy mothers must
teach  their  children  to  possess  all the virtues,
and  what  mothers  don't  do  Sunday Schools
must.  But again I say we want  fathers  in the
truest sense of the word.  Fathers who devote
every opportunity to  filling the  youthful  mind
with  righteous  principles.  In the hay field, at
the  dinner  table, around  the hearth, Sundays,
evenings  and mornings to  such conversation as
will form  good  ideas  in  the  mind of a  child.
Fathers  who  will  interest  their  boys  in their
business, and teach them to be careful and pru-
dent.  Fathers  who  think  sweet, wholesome
thoughts and whose  ways  are ways  of wisdom.
Fathers  who  share  the  burden of raising chil-
dren,  and who  realize paternity is a fruitful of 
good  and  evil resulted as  maternity. Fathers
whose love for Zion overflows first around their
own firesides.  Do I know  such a father?  Yes,
I do.  And his boys and  his  girls  are brightest
proofs of my arguments. 
	O girls, I could talk on and on, for this subject
is  much  on  my  mind, but I will  only  say, be
careful  how you  choose  a  husband.  Not only
seek to discover if he is energetic and full of the 
love of the Gospel, but sound him as to his views
of children  and  their  rearing.  Not modest?
Well then  it's not  modest  to marry a man and


bear children.  It is your duty to know his views
of life  in  all  its  bearings.  Spend  less  time in
courting  and  more  in sound  conversation.  Be
wise in your  actions,  wise  in  your  choice of a
husband, and come and see me again.
							SALOAME.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		63


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake held
their annual Conference at Mt Pleasant Aug.
15th, 1880. The usual opening services were
offered, after which the reports were read: the
condensed reports stated that in this stake there
were 224 teachers; 1721 members 2011 total
officers and members; 101 meetings held; 625
average attendance 109 copies of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT taken.
	The Financial report states that since the
organization of Relief Sociities in 1868, they
have received $74, 973.67 in cash and property;
and 2. 945 bushels of wheat, most of the wheat
is loaned to the brethren, disbursements to the
poor amounts to $58. 348 22; emigration $295
60; temples $515 92; home-industries 918 19;
books $44. 40; missionaries $379.15; building
897. 79; total $399. 34. And have on hand
$121. 74; in cash; property $13. 392. 59.
	The Conference passed off pleasantly, and
almost every one who addressed the audience
made appreciative mention of the refreshing
visit the stake had enjoyed just previous to
Conference, from our much beloved sisters E.
R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells, who truly added
new warmth and glow to the flame of zeal and
energy which inspires the hearts of the sisters
in assisting to forward the grand principles of
God. Much excellent and appropriate instruc-
tion was given by those who spoke especially
President M. A. P. Hyde and Counselors who
are ever blessed with a rich flow of the Spirit of
God. They urged the sisters to be energetic in
planting mulberry trees and raising silk. Also
reminded them of the great responsibility rest-
ing upon mothers in the training of their child-
ren. Told them to be very careful in the ex-
amples they set before them,to be exemplary in
their manners,promises and talk,that they might
preserve their full confidence and be enabled to
instill into their minds the principles of the
Gospel, and not let them grow up in infidelity.
Several of the brethren spoke approvingly of
the proceedings of the Conference. Singing.
Benediction by J. Frantzen. Conference ad-
journed until November 15th 1880.
				PHIDELIA KOFFORD, Sec'y.


The third Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies of Parowan Stake of Zion was
held at Paragoonah, August 29th, 1880. The
officers of the Stake, Presidents of the several
branches of Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I., and
Primary Associations were present also Pres. 
Lunt, Bishops Erastus Mc Intyre, John E. 
Dalley and Wm. C. Mitchell, Elders Wm.
Marsden and Thomas Durham, with others of 
the priesthood.
	Pres. Eellen W. Lunt, presiding. After the
usual exercises, and minutes of previous Con-
ference were read and accepted, the Statis-
tical and Financial reports of the Stake Relief
Societies were read for the half year, also the
reports from the Y. L. M. I., and Primary As-
sociations. All the reports both verbal and
written showed each respective society in pro-
sperous condition. Many excellent instruc-
tions were given by the sisters who spoke.
The current of their remarks was on the re-
sponsibility resting upon mothers, the training
of children, evil influences abroad in the land
home manufactures, plural marrage, and the
efficacy of prayer. All realizing that we were
engaged in a work that would take us back
into the presence of our heavenly Father if we
were faithful to the end. In the afternoon the


Sacrament was administered.  A Primary As-
sociation was organized.  Sally A. Olsen Pres.
Eliza  Hanks  and  Mary  L.  Robinson  Coun-
selors,  and  Mary  L.  Barton  Sec.  Bishop
John  E.  Dalley  of  Parowan  made  some  in-
teresting remarks, advised the  mothers to send
their children to the Primary meetings.  Bish-
op Erastus  Mc Intyre said he  never felt a bet-
ter  spirit  in  any  meeting  of the  Latter-day
Saints than was manifested in this Conference,
referred to the first organizations  of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo 1842, and prayed the Lord
to bless those who  were  called  to preside, with
his spirit.  Pres.  E.  W.  Lunt remarked that it
was exactly three years to-day since our beloved
President  Brigham  Young  departed  hence,
thought it would be very appropriate  to  read
his last discourse to the Relief Societies of We-
ber County, delivered in the Ogden Tabernacle
July  19th,  1877,  which  was listened  to  with
marked  attention.  An  interesting  letter  ad-
dressed  to  Pres. H. Lunt  was  also read from
Pres. Jesse N. Smith of Arizona.
	President Henry  Lunt said these, meetings
were like a feast of good  things,  the principles
advanced  were  what  would  save  the  human
family if they would  put  them in  practice, re-
marked  that  this  was the  first  Conference of
any kind held in Paragoonah.  Felt that there
was a bright future for us.  The presence of so
many was a  witness  that we  were  striving  to
live our religion.  Closed his remarks by bless-
ing the congregation.  Pres E. W. Lunt spoke
in favor  of  the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and re-
commended  every sister to take a copy.  Con-
ference was  adjourned  for three months to be
held in Parowan.  Choir  sang the anthem “O
praise the Lord.” Benediction by Elder Wm.
Marsden.
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec’y.
	Cedar City, Iron Co., Sept. 4th, 1780.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

JOHNSON, KANE CO., UTAH,
					July 29, 1880.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—In perusing a copy of
your most valuable paper, my thoughts wander
far and wide. In July 15th number the first
piece that my eye caught was "Life Incidents"
of the early days of the Church, which caused
my heart to swell with emotion for the Saints
that suffered in those days and triumphed over
all in serving the Lord. We love their memo-
ry, though gone from earth to a better realm.
Next was "Pleasure Excursion to Black Rock"
for the aged fathers and mothers. Bless them!
Methinks I can see their aged-faces beaming
with joy and heart felt thanks to the managers
for their comfort and pleasure. May they live
to enjoy many such occasions.
	As I pass over I comment on "Curiosity,"
"The Word of Wisdom," the neglect of which
is increasing very fast among our young people.
How are we to prevent it? Fathers and moth-
ers, let hot drinks alone, and set a good exam-
ple yourselves, or I believe our Heavenly Fa-
ther's Spirit will be grieved, for He will not
always bear with his children. Let us put them
from us as a thing to be shunned and despised,
especially by our young people,who have always
been taught that they were not good for the
body.
	"Woman's Convention!" Truly this is an
age of progression. The ladies' speeches are
good, and I hope they will succeed in their
efforts to obtain the suffrage. Let woman
stand up for her own rights in wisdom, and
help to make man better, that both sexes may
become equal in intelligence and influence and
assist each other in doing right, and fulfill the
mission they were placed here to work out,
which would exalt them to a higher sphere and
greater honor in the future.
	I do not wish to try your patience but will

[Column 2]
give a short account of how we spent the
Twenty-Fourth of July in this little place.
Salute of six guns at day break, twenty-four
at sunrise. At ten o'clock all repaired to the
schoolhouse. Singing, "Hail, all Hail the
Twenty-Fourth." Prayer by Chaplain W. D.
Johnson, Sen. Speech by the orator of the
day, Nephi Johnson. Select readings by the
brethren and sisters, also toasts given. Sing-
ing from the "Mountain Warbler." At twelve
o'clock all repaired to the residence of W. D.
Johnson and partook of a bountiful picnic.
The remainder of the day was spent in sport-
ive recreation, and all went merry as a mar-
riage bell," and all the people were well pleased
with the day's exercises in memory of the Pio-
neers. May the Lord bless them all.
							J. C. JOHNSON.

PAPANUI, CANTERBURY, N. Z.,
					June 19, 1880.

	DEAR EDITOR:—It is with feelings of pleas-
ure, that I am able to bear my humble testi-
mony to this work, and I thank our Heavenly
Father that He has given me a knowledge for
myself, that I know it to be the work of God.
I am also very happy to think we can keep up
to our sisters in Zion as far as possible, and by
the help of God we will carry it through.
Pray for us, sisters in Zion, for we need your
faith and prayers, and may the Lord bless us
in all our undertakings, that we may be able
to carry them through, and by the help of God
we will.
	We have also established a small Sunday
School here, to instruct the minds of the chil-
dren in the Gospel of life and salvation, as we
know that the influence of the Christian
world's false traditions must be guarded against,
or else their minds would be turned against
the true Gospel. We hope, by the help of the
Almighty, that we may be able to keep the
young minds pure until a way can be opened
to gather home among the Saints of God in
the valleys of Zion, and out of wicked Baby-
lon. We are very few in number, but still we
do our best to live up to our most holy reli-
gion, and gather up to Zion as soon as possible.
There are quite a number of Saints going home
by this mail, which will make our number
still less; but I hope to see the day when we
shall all be able to gather up to the land of
God's choice. May we who are here put on
the whole armor of righteousness, and battle
bravely to overcome all impure desires, and to
establish a reign of peace on the earth, that
we may receive all the blessings there are in
store for all the faithful. My whole desire is
to keep true and faithful to the covenants
which I have made with God, and to the work
in which we are engaged; and I pray God to
bless all his children in the earth, from the
highest to the lowest,it is the fervent prayer of
your Sister in the New and Everlasting Cove-
nant,
						ANNIE NORFOLK.


EXCURSION TO SALT LAKE.

	On Tuesday Aug. 10th, the Relief Society of
the Third Ward of Ogden City, went on a
pleasure trip to Lake Shore. About 200 peo-
ple of both old and young, including a few in-
vited guests our worthy Bishop and Counselors
not forgetting the poor of the ward, all
participating in the affair. On arriving at the
shore,the recreation commenced; some repaired
immediately to the Lake to bathe in its briny
waters, others enjoyed themselves in a large
and commodious bowery. The happy smiling
faces of the veteran fathers the aged mothers,
and middle aged; and youthful sons and
daughters, demonstrated to the observer that
all were happy. After bathing tables were


spread with dainties, fit for a king, of which
all partook freely: an hour or so was spent
very pleasently in speeches and songs. Our
old friend Father Thomas Richardson in behalf
of the Mormon Battalion, followed by our fel-
low citizen Aaron F. Farr, made a few approp-
riate remarks,on the Pioneers, contrasting 1847
to this present day. These speeches were fol-
lowed by others, from Bishops Winslow Farr
and Counselors, congratulatory of the happy
occasion. Mr. John P. Williams and others,
sang a song, "Hard times come again no more."
also Brother John Hastings 77 years old sang
an old Mormon song much to the amusement
of all. 
	There is much credit due our respected Presi-
dent Sister Dinah M. White for the able man-
ner in which the whole affair was conducted
and the great interest taken by her, for the poor,
and the aged and in fact all. She exerted her-
self to make every thing pleasant and agreeable,
and we think that such parties are calculated
to bring union and good feeling in our Society.
Ever praying for the welfare of our worthy
paper, I subscribe myself,
		Yours Respectfully
			LUCRETIA B. FARR, Sec'y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.

	A full Statistical  and  Financial  Report  of
Relief  Societies  from April  1st, 1876 to 1880.
Also a Semi-Annual  Report from April 1st, 18
80 to October 1st, 1880, are specially requested
from each of the Stake Secretaries  throughout
all the Stakes of Zion.  Forward to the Secre-
tary of the First Presiding Board. SARAH M.
KIMBALL, Salt Lake City P. O. Box, 785.

	A full Statistical and Financial Report of
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement  Associa-
tions from their first organization up to Oct. 1,
1880 is  specially requested  from  each  of  the
Stake Secretaries throughout all the Stakes of
Zion, by the President of the  central organiza-
tion of Y. L. M. I. A., Sister Elmina S. Taylor.
Direct  the  reports  to  the  Secretary,  Louie
Wells, care of WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FOREFATHERS AND FOREMOTHERS.

	At a  meeting  of  the "Tristam Coffin  Re-
union Association," held in Nantucket,  August
16,  to provide  for  the  celebration  of the  two
hundredth anniversary  of the death of the pat-
riarch of the island, it  was decided, at the sug-
gestion  of Rev.  Phebe  A. Hanaford,  that two
bronze statues should be erected instead of one.
Tristram and Dionis, from whom  all the Coffins
in America are  descended,  will  thus be  com-
memorated  together.  As  they  lived and
labored in unison,  so  in  remembrance, as in
life, they will not be  divided.  Mrs. Hanaford,
herself a  Coffin, deserves  thanks for this  sug-
gestion  to  remember  their  foremother, which
was accepted  without  a  dissenting  voice,  and
with universal applause. 	H. B. B. - Ex


WHAT SHE COULD.

	"What She  Could," is  the  name of a   song
written  by Miss M. E. Servoss, and  inscribed
to Mrs. Hayes, begining:

	"More brave than they who at the stake
	Their lives for truth resign,
	Is she who from our Nation's feasts
	Hath dared to banish wine."

	It was written at Miss  Willard's request, and
is  published  by  the  author  with music by a
popular composer, and is sold for the benefit of
the Mrs Hayes  Memorial Fund by Miss M. E.
Servoss, 156 State St.,  Chicago,  Ill., who  will
give all profits  as author  and  publisher to the
Memorial Fund.—Ex.


SERICULTURE.
The Relief Society of  the Tenth Ward have
been  experimenting  in  Silk-culture, and onr
labors have been liberally rewarded. We have
nine pounds of cocoons,and sufficient eggs,racks
and  tables, to raise a large quantity next season.
Sister Fawcet has  also raised  seven  pounds  of
cocoons at home.  Charlotta Fawcet, Elizabeth
Paul, Elizabeth Morris.  Committee.


THE aerolite which fell in Iowa in May 1879
has been sold to the British Museum for $6,
500. It was the largest meteoric stone ever
seen in America. Its weight being 431,
pounds. Its composition was earth, triolite,
iron, nichel, cobalt phosphorus, copper, sul-
phur, lead, silver, gold, silicia, magnesia,
alumina,soda, lithia and potassium yet together
like particles of a granite block.

	MRS Rachel Allen of Chester, Mas., has at-
tained the great age of 102 years and six
months, she celebrated the event by a gathering
of her friends.

	A BEAUTIFUL answer was given by a little
Scotch girl. When her class was examined
she replied to the question, "what is patience?"
"wait a wee, and dinna weary."

	THE first railroad in Syria has been com-
pleted. It is a steel tracked tramway on the
American plan.

	M. LEMAIRE the eminent French sculptor
died the 4th, inst. at the advanced age of
eighty-two years.


THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST  and
BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and  desirable lines, best brands
Children’s Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West.	Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

HAVE YOU  SEEN  THE
NEW  VICTOR  SEWING  MACHINE?
If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The New Machine
is elegant in appearance  and  admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise, and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high.  Its  self-setting  and  self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and  durable.  Be sure to see it, for  its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR  SEWING  MACHINE  CO.,  CHICAGO,  ILL.
O.  H.  RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S SAFE BITTERS
   It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
 In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
    Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness,  General Debility, etc, are 
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
 It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
   Bottles of two sizes; paces, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE KIDNEY & LIVER CURE
SAFE DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ SAVE THEYSELF
   Warner’s
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER &CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
and for Pamphlet
and testimonials.

Class in  Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL  COMMENCE  ANOTHER  CLASS  IN  OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880.  By giving three lectures
a week, and  the  students  giving  their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to  a  little  less
than five.  Terms, $30.  Books, three in number $12.
	Those desiring to join the Class should send In their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 26
CALL AND EXAMINE
	Fall and  Winter Goods.

ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and  Surgeon.
OFFICE on Main St, over Colder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE  on  South  Temple Street, between  9th  and
16th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of  Children
and  Diseases  of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 3066, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST  TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladles’
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good I York Guaranteed!

Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS,  GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,  ETC.

AT  TEASDEL'S
SALT  LAKE CITY.
  Special Departments for Gent’s Clothing and:
Carpets, Ladies’ and Children’s Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of home Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN C
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,
Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yams,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,
Cotton Batting, 
Wool Batting,
Brooms,
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER.
-AND-
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First  South  Street,
SALT  LAKE CITY.

DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted. False Teeth inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: — MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL.  9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER  1,  1880.	NO. 9.


SALT  LAKE  CITY.

All the valley lay in shadows,
Cast by clouds that hid the sun:
Ripened grain fields, em'rald meadows,
Shining lines where waters run;
Stately homes and humble dwellings,
In their blooming foliage shrined,
Caught a charm  beyond the telling,
In the summer day's decline;

Thin a smoke wreathes to the eastward,
Dusky, purple mists uprolled;
Through this filmy veil, to westward,
Softly beamed the sunset's gold;
And the while I stood in wonder,
Silent,  wrapped in fervent thought;
Lo!  a rainbow crowned the splendor
Of  the picture God had wrought.

Is  this lovely valley, teeming
With all gifts from Nature's hand,
The fair Zion of my dreaming,
In the far-off, golden land?
Is't the Zion, fair and  holy,
That 'neath God's own care shall rise,
Where the pure in heart and lowly
Shall be noblest in His eyes?

Is't the Zion of those pages
Writ by prophets grand,  of  old,
Who looked downward through the ages,
And their wondrous changes told?
Is't the land where, slowly wending,
Tribes and nations all shall meet,
In one work and worship blending,
In one people, at His feet?

Guarded by the mighty mountains,
Centuries thy dust has slept;
Freshened  by thy wakened fountains,
Thou  to life again hast leapt.
Fair and pure as thy bright waters,
Which no poisoned currents bear;
Rise thy countless sons and daughters,
Royal crowns to win and wear.

Though the world now doubt the story
Of thy sacred work and claim,
They shall live to see thy glory,
And their fallen wreck and shame.
Though the world in hate deride thee,
Though the waves of evil foam,
Through whatever ills betide thee,
Thou art Zion—thou'rt my home.

Heaven-descended, from a manger
Rose thy King to victory;
Through the desert  and the danger,
He will guard thy destiny.
Brighter than  the  rainbow's splendor,
Shines the crown awaiting thee,
Land of beauty!  Land  of  wonder!
Zion, Bride of Christ to be.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHEBON.
September 18, 1880.


[Column 1]
	THE “LIBERALS’” LIBERTY FOR
			WOMEN.

	The most cowardly effort has at last been
made! How forlorn a cause must be when the
necessity arises for its adherents to stoop to the
meanest subterfuges, and to hang its hopes on
the flimsy and uncertain power of technicali-
ties! A truly noble and worthy cause can be
manfully met, and certainly never can be in-
jured by the presence and influence of women,
especially after a faultless test of ten years
trust.
	The public plea is urged that she does not
pay tax! Does she not? If a piece of pri-
vate property can be shown upon which tax

[Column 2]
is not levied and collected at all hazards,
whether it belongs to a man or woman, save
they be "infirm, idiotic," &c., it will certainly
be worth visiting as possessing some very pecu-
liar and interesting properties—a priori. Where
a man and woman conjointly own the same
piece of property, as man and wife, is there a
necessity of paying taxes twice? Can it not be
considered as each pays his or her part, the
same as in any joint stock property. And in
this way every wife DOES pay her equal share
in all taxes her husband pays. Then shall she
also not have a voice with her brother what
shall be done with the taxes? Or shall she pay
the fiddler and stand by, like the awe-stricken
squaw, and look on at the august war dance of
her barbarous brethren. Ah! this suggests the
capsheaf of objections—she cannot go to war
and shed her blood for her country. If she
does not fight the battle of bitter, angry strife,
she fights the unceasing soul and body wearing
fight of home economy, and raises the boys
who can fight. And after all her sorrows, is it
not but right that she should have a voice in
how, when and where these soul-earned boys
shall fight? And further, were she among the
diplomats, nine times out of ten matters could
be adjusted without the sword. If she does
not do exactly everything man does, she does
many things he cannot or would not do: but it
all goes for naught, because she sets no price.
It is high time woman set a high price on all
her works and abilities, and see which bill foots
up the highest. She does not pay poll tax—
one dollar a year! It would be far more manly
to deny yourself a cigar once in two weeks
than to mention such a trifle; besides, where is
there a woman in five hundred who does not
do more than ten dollars worth a year for the
community in which she lives?
	What is the matter that just now a terrible
“fraud” has just been discovered? Were this
not a sudden hallucination, would it not have
been corrected long ago? The gist of the mat-
ter in a few words is, the"Liberals" (what a
misnomer) intend to elect the next congres-
sional representative, no matter how much in
the minority. They presume to question the
validity of the rights and privileges vouch-
safed to the Legislative Assembly (a body of
men possessing the confidence of the people,
evidenced by their very presence,) by the Con-
gress of the United States, and sanctioned by
the acting Governor of the Territory. Is law
a protection or a guide, or is it a vicious
weathercock set up on the cross roads, pointing
the road just as the wind may blow? Spiritu-
alizing the sense and meaning of words and
sentences away, has so long been a tradition,
and environing every thought with such squint-
ing technicalities and expressions, that it takes
more than the wit of a lawyer to tell what the
law really means when it is made. “The Lib-
eral Party!”—this presumptuous usurpation of
one of the most sacred words of the English
language, is an insult in the face of our honest
Constitution. That a few aliens, so far as the
country’s salvation is concerned, should come
here and feast and fatten themselves on the
hard earnings of this people, wrested only by
the most continued and patient labor from this
desert soil, and then as a diminutive minority
endeavor, by every subterfuge, distorted tech-
nicality and sacreligious prostitution of the sa-
cred word "Liberty," to deprive us of our dear-
est rights as loyal citizens of a free country
will probably be a more striking proof to the

[Column 3]
thus far prejudiced world of the unjustness and
unfairness of the principles of action of our
opponents towards us, than any amount of
complaints or arguments we could offer. Of
one thing we are certain, that our Father and
God has body, parts and passions, and that He
will hear our prayers with His ears and will
see our wrongs with His eyes, and will possibly,
in His anger, force an “ass” again to praise
Him, in spite of all his efforts to the contrary.
			ROMANIA  B.  PRATT, M. D.


WE PROTEST.

	Ever since the Gospel of the Latter days
dawned upon the earth, we have met with op-
position and oppression, especially since the es-
tablishment of the holy principle of Plural
Marriage; and the cry has come from abroad:
"Oh, the down-trodden women of Utah! What
can we do to extricate them from their bond-
age?" When lo! the mandate goes forth (there
must have been an inspirational whisper), "Give
them the franchise, and they will soon throw off
the yoke that binds them so slavishly!" It
was done. We accepted the boon gracefully
and gratefully, and for ten years have honored
the power bestowed; but not as our oppressors
had so fondly anticipated. We did not break
our allegiance with our husbands, our reli-
gion, nor our God! And the power of this
people to do good to all the world was in-
creased and strengthened, instead of being
weakened.
	Disappointed in their cherished ideas, the
would-be dignitaries of our Territory have in-
stituted proceedings to deprive us of this privi-
lege—the right to vote. Is there a lady among
us, or even in the world, who does not experi-
ence a righteous indignation, and feel to pro-
test against a course so unjust—so devoid of
that true liberality that should characterize the
official jurisdiction of any and every land.
	Not that we fear the result. No! for what-
ever is done to retard our advancement will be
turned in our favor, even as it was in the grant-
ing of this privilege.

"We trust not in man, he is mortal;
Our trust is in God: He is Eternal!"

			ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


TO SISTER H. T. KING.

	Thanks. The article on "Babyhood," which
appeared in the last EXPONENT, seems to me
one of the sweetest and best your ready pen
has ever produced. I can believe that in
thanking you for it, I express the senti-
ments of thousands of young mothers. How
good it is to have some one who can help us to
think and plan for our priceless darlings, our
babies, while they are still unable to think for
themselves, and know no more and do no bet-
ter, often, with all their heavenly attributes,
than merely to confuse and perplex us. How
thankful we should be for our "Mothers in Is-
rael;" and—I speak now from my own experi-
ence—our wise-thinking "Mothers-in-law" also.
									LULA.


It is  a  remarkable  fact  that  two-thirds  of 
the church members in this country are women,
to  one-third  men;  while  on  the  other  hand,
nineteen-twentieths  of the  criminals  are men
and only one-twentieth women.


66		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY. 
	"On Tuesday,  the  3d,  several  of us went
with Joseph Smith, Jun., to the top of a mound
on  the  bank  of the  Illinois River, which  was
several hundred feet above the river, and from
the  summit  we  had  a  pleasant  view  of the
surrounding country.  We could overlook the
tops of the trees and the meadow or prairie on
each side the river as far as our eyes could  ex-
tend,  which  was  one  of  the  most pleasant
scenes I ever beheld.  On the top of the mound
there was the appearance of three altars, which
had been built of stone, one above another, ac-
cording to the  ancient order;  and  the  ground
was  strewn  over  with  human  bones. This
caused  in  us very peculiar  feelings, to see the
bones  of  our  fellow-creatures scattered in this
manner, who had been slain in ages past. We
felt prompted to dig down into the mound, and
sending for a shovel  and hoe, we proceeded to
move  away the  earth. At  about  one  foot in
depth we  discovered the skeleton of a man, al-
most  entire;  and  between  two  of  his  ribs we
found an  Indian  arrow, which had evidently
been the cause of his death.  *  *  *  The
same day we pursued  our journey. While  on
our way we  felt anxious  to  know who the per-
son  was  who  had  been  killed  by that arrow. 
It was made known to Joseph that he had been
an officer who fell in battle in the last destruc-
tion  among  the  Lamanites, and his name was
Zelph. This caused us to rejoice much to think
that  God was so  mindful  of  us to  show these
things to his servant.  Brother Joseph had in-
quired  of  the Lord and it was made known in
a vision.  While we were  refreshing ourselves
and  teams,  about  the  middle  of  the  day,
Brother Joseph got up in a wagon and said  he
would  deliver  a  prophecy.  After  giving the
brethren much good advice, he  exhorted them
to faithfulness and humility, and said the Lord
had  told him that  there would a scourge come
upon the camp, in  consequence of the fractious
and unruly  spirits that appeared among them,
and they would  die  like sheep  with the rot. 
Still, if they would  repent  and  humble  them-
selves  before the Lord, the scourge in  a  great
measure  might  be  turned  away; "but  as the
Lord lives, this camp will suffer for giving way
to their  unruly  tempers"--which  afterwards
did take place to the sorrow of the brethren. 
	The same  day, when we  had got within one
mile  of the  river  Snye,  we  came  to  a very
beautiful little  town  called  Atlas. Here we
found honey, for the  first time on our journey,
that  we  could  buy.  *  *  * There  was a
great excitement in the country through which
we had  passed, and  also ahead of  us;  the mob
threatened to stop us, guns were fired in almost
all directions  through  the  night;  Brother  Jo-
seph  did  not  sleep  much,  if  any,  but  was
through  the  camp  pretty  much  during the
night. We  pursued  our  journey on  the 4th,
and  camped  on  the  bank  of  the  Mississippi
River.  Here we were somewhat afflicted, and
the enemy threatened much that we should not
cross over  the river  out  of Illinois  into  Mis-
souri.  *  *  When we had all got  over, we
camped about one mile from  the little town of
Lousiana, in a beautiful oak grove, immediately
on  the  bank  of  the river. At this place there
were some feelings of hostility again manifested
by Sylvester  Smith, in  consequence  of  a  dog
growling  at  him  while  he  was  marching  his
company up to the camp, he being the last that
came  over  the  river. The  next morning
Brother Joseph said that  he would descend to
the  spirit  that was manifested by some of the
brethren to  let  them  see  the  folly  of their
wickedness. He  rose  up  and  commenced by
saying: "If any man insults me  or abuses me,
I will stand in my own defence at the  expense
of my  life;  and  if  a  dog  growl  at me, I will
let  him  know that I am his master."  At this
moment Sylvester  Smith,  who  had  just  re-
turned from where he had turned out his horses
to  feed, came up, and  hearing Brother Joseph
make  those  remarks, said: "If that  dog  bites
me I'll kill him."  Joseph turned to Sylvester
and said,  "If you kill that dog I'll whip you;"
and then  went  on  to  show the  brethren how
wicked and  unchristianlike  such  conduct ap-
peared before the eyes of truth and justice. 
	"On Friday, the 6th, we  resumed  our  jour-
ney. On  Saturday  night  we  camped among
our  brethen  at  Salt River, and  prepared for
the Sabbath.  *  * Here  we were  joined by
Hyrum Smith and Lyman Wight, with another
company. The  camp now numbered two hun-
dred  and  five men, all armed and equipped as
the  law  directs. It was delightful  to  see  the
company, for  they  were  all  young  men, with
one  or  two  exceptions,  and  in  good spirits. 
We were  now  reorganized  in  the following
order: Joseph  was  acknowledged Commander
in Chief; Lyman  Wight  was  chosen General
of the camp;  then Brother Joseph chose twenty
men for his life guard, I being one of the num-
ber;  Brother  George  A.  Smith  was  Joseph's
armor  bearer;  Hyrum  Smith was chosen Cap-
tain  of  the  life  guard;  the  remainder  of  the
camp  was  organized  into  companies as before
stated. We had twenty-five wagons, two horses
in  each, and  some  three. One  day  while we
remained here our General  marched us out on
a large  prairie;  he  then  proceeded  to  inspect
us, examine our firelocks, &c. Afterwards we
were marched in platoons, and an object being
placed, we  discharged  our  pieces, in  order  to
try  them;  we  were  drilled  about  half  a  day
and then returned to the camp. 
	"My first  attempt  at  washing  my clothes
took place at  Salt River.  My  shirts being ex-
tremely dirty, I put them into a kettle of water
and boiled  them for  about two hours--having
observed  that women who  washed boiled their
clothes, and I supposed by so doing they boiled
out  the  dirt;  I  then  took  them  and washed
them, endeavoring to imitate a woman washing
as near as I  could; I rubbed the clothes with
my knuckles instead of the palm of my hand,
and  rubbed  the  skin  all  off my knuckles, so
that my hands were  very sore for several days.
My attempts  were  vain  in  trying  to  get  the
dirt  out  of  my  clothes.  I  wondered  at  this
considerably; I  scolded and fretted because I
could  not  get  the  dirt  out, and I gave  it up,
and wrung  and hung  them  out to dry. Hav-
ing no  flat irons  to iron them, I took them to
Slsters  Holbrook  and  Ripley  to  get them
ironed; when  they saw them  they said  I  had
not  washed  my  clothes. I  told  them  I  had
done my best; although I had boiled them two
hours before washing, and had washed them so
faithfully I had taken the skin off my knuckles,
still I had  not  been  successful  in  getting  the
dirt out. They laughted heartily, and informed
me  that  by  boiling them before washing I had
boiled the dirt into them.
 "On the 15th we again resumed  our march. 
Many of  the  inhabitants  went  with us several
miles;  they  seemed  to  have  much  respect for
us. We  traveled  about  fourteen  miles  and
camped on a large prairie. 
	"On Wednesday,  the  18th,  at  night  we
camped one mile  from the town of Richmond,
Ray County.  On the 19th we arose as soon as
it was light and passed through the town  before 
the inhabitants were up. As Luke Johnson
and others were passing through, before the
teams  came  along, Brother  Luke  observed a
black woman in a gentlemen's garden near the
road. She  beckoned  to  him and said, "Come 
here, massa,"  she was evidently much agitated
in  her  feelings.  He went up to the fence and
she  said  to  him: "There is a company of men
lying in  wait  here, who are calculating to kill
you this morning as you pass through." This
was nothing new to  us, as we had been contin-
ually threatened through the whole journey,and
death and destruction seemed to await us daily.
This day we  only traveled about fifteen miles;
one wagon broke  down, and the wheels run off
from  others,  and  there  seemed  to  be  many
things  to  hinder  our progress, although  we
strove with  all diligence to  speed our way for-
ward. Our  intentions were, when we started,
to go through to Clay County that day; but all
in vain.
	"This night we  camped on an elevated piece
of land  between  two branches  of the Fishing
River. Just  as  we  halted  and  were  making
preparations for the night, five men rode into
the camp and told us we should see h--l before
morning, and such horrible oaths as came from
their  lips I never  heard before. they told us
that  sixty men were  coming  from  Richmond
who had sworn to destroy us;  also seventy more
were eoming from Clay County, to assist in our
destruction. These  men were  black with  pas-
sion and armed with guns, and the whole coun-
try was in a rage  against  us, and  nothing  but
the  power  of  God  could  save  us.  All  this
time the weather was  fine and pleasant. Soon
after these  men  left  us we  discovered a small
black  cloud  rising  in  the west, and  not more
than twenty minutes  passed away before it be-
gan to  rain and hail, but we had very little of
the hail in  our  camp;  all  around  us  the hail
was heavy. The  thunders  rolled  with  awful
majesty, and  the red  lightnings flashed through
the  horizon, making  it  so  light  that  I could
see  to pick  up a pin  almost  any time through
the  night; the  earth  quaked  and  trembled,
there being no cessation; it seemed as though
the Almighty had issued forth his mandate of 
vengeance. The  wind  was  terrible. Many
trees were blown  down, and others twisted and
wrung  like  a withe. The  mob  came  to the
river two miles from us, but the river had risen
to that height that they wers  obliged to stop
without crossing  over.  The  hail fell so heavy
upon them  that it beat holes in their hats, and
in  some  instances  even  broke  the  stocks  off
their  guns. Their  horses  fled,  leaving  their
riders  on  the  ground; their  powder was wet,
and it was evident the Almighty fought in our
defense; This night the river raised forty feet.
In the morning I went to the river, in company
with  Brothers  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  Smith,
Brigham  Young  and  others, as  we  had  it in
contemplation to proceed  that morning to Lib-
erty, Clay  County;  but we  could not continue
our  journey as  there was no way to cross the
river, it  was  then  overflowing  its  banks;  pre-
vious  to  this  rain  falling it was no more than
ankle deep; such  a  time  was  never  experi-
enced  by  us  before. Still  we  felt  calm  all
night and the Lord  was with  us. The  water
was ankle  deep  to  us  all night, even on that
eminence, so we could not sleep. *  *  *
The next day when we moved into the country
we  saw that  the  hail had destroyed the crops,
and that it had come in  some directions  within 
a mile, and in other directions within half a 
mile of our camp.  *  *  We went a distance
of five  miles  on  a  prairie  to  get food for our-
horses, and also to get some provisions for our-
selves, and to get into some  secure place where
we could defend ourselves from the rage of the
enemy. We stayed there  three  or  four  days,
until the rage  of  the  people was  somewhat al-
layed. 
		To be Continued.


The Prince of Wales' sons are receiving
thirty-seven and a half cents per day for their
services in the British navy, and it is believed
that the navy pays for all it gets.

	It might have been expected from Massa-
chusetts, but it has been done in Ohio. The
"Woman's Garfield and Arthur Club, No. 1"
has organized in Cincinnati with forty members
from among the best society in the city.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		67


THE SORELY TRIED.

	"O Thou That hearest prayer, unto Thee shall all
flesh come."—Hebrew Psalmist.

With the speed of light, o'er the cloudlets blue,
Upward the Angels of Mercy flew,
Home, from their mission, on wings of love—
From the earth below to the heavens above.

Home, from their mission to mortals bless—
To obtain for the children of men redress—
To plead for souls on this earthly ball,
In the Courts Supreme, to the Judge of all.

To Him Who "giveth the ravens food,"
To the Source of light, and the Source of good,
Great was the joy of this angel throng
In telling how Virtue "had vanquished Wrong!"

In telling of all who had faithful been
To their sense of right—to the voice within;
Of all who but lean'd unto Virtue's side,
Unconscious that angels had been their guide.

Of love, repentance, and kindly deeds,
(Restricted never to sects and creeds)
And for each good deed and each cry to Heaven,
Was credit accorded and comfort given.

But the widow's prayer, and the orphan's plaint,
The feeblest call from the troubled Saint,
Already had reach'd the Eternal throne—
No need had the angels to make them known.

The cry of distress, in the hour of need,
Outstrips the Angel of Mercy's speed;
And with subtle swiftness is strength supplied
To the weary, the wounded, the sorely tried.

O ye who are bowed with the weight of care,
Believe there is comfort and help in prayer;
Your words nor your tears shall unnoticed fall—
Yea, God will answer before you call.

If not, be trustful, endure the test;
The plan of "our Father," be sure, is best;
"In the pastures green, where the clear streams glide,"
Ere long He will lead you, The Sorely Tried.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE SENTIMENT OF DUTY.

	Every mother in Israel, every true woman,
should keep constantly before her, and ever in
her soul, the sentiment of duty, for it is the
crowning virtue that adorns the human soul.
It is a bright, radiant star, that will light and
brighten our paths, no matter how dark and
gloomy may be the way: it is as a bright gem,
that leads us on to happiness, peace and joy;
it is a beacon light, set out in bold relief in the
heavens, to beckon us onward and upward, out
of the depths of misery and sin, into the realms
of light and goodness; it is a true guide to no-
bility and fame, and those who follow its ad-
monitions are the noblest, purest, best persons,
on the face of the earth. To me there is no-
thing so fair and grand, as integrity and the
sentiment of duty, which if we will only allow
it to do so, will dwell in our hearts forever, a
living fountain of pure and noble thoughts, and
create there an unbounded wealth of peace,
contentment and joy, which will endure while
life lasts.
	O, how great an influence it has upon those
who will listen to its warnings and obey its
pleadings, for it is ever vigilant; the moment
we are tempted to do wrong it is near us, show-
ing us the better way; if we seem to forget which
is the path for us to pursue, it will ever appear,
and point it out to us. It will show us, if we
are not blinded by sin, the calm, tranquil peace
to be found, by obeying its mandates, and when
we have overcome and followed its counsel,
there is no joy or satisfaction that will equal
that which will be ours. Truly there is no
greater virtue than firmness and determination
in carrying out the dictates of our consciences,
and those who possess this spirit of determina-
tion will not be drones in the hive; idlers, par-
taking of the fruit of the laborer, but, instead,

[Column 2]
bright and shining lights in the kingdom of
God. They are the women who will be found
valiant and true, never shrinking from the
paths of duty, but, when the way seems thorny
and dark, they will be striving and dauntless,
and their actions will so brighten the pathway
of life, that others who had fallen by the way-
side, discouraged, will arise, and with renewed
vigor, resume the journey of life.
	There is no subject more worthy of the con-
templation, and thorough study of the young
women of Zion, than this one, for she who lives,
acts and speaks from an enlightened conviction
of duty, exerts a strong moral influence over
all who associate with her, and she will have
many friends, for her life will be so pure and
benevolent, that the good will gather round
her to enjoy the sunshine of her noble nature,
and all will feel her influence for good. She
can bless without an effort; she will be truth-
ful, simple-hearted and reliable; she is only to
know what is right, to be ready to engage in
it; every action will be an example of integrity,
and the joy of performing the labors which her
sentiment of duty has pointed out.
	If all young women would only be guided by
the strictest ideas of duty, there would be no
more dens of infamy,no more worshipers at the
shrine of fashion, no more idle giddy devotees
of folly and worldly pleasure, for it will ever
guide the mind to something more grand and
good; it will breathe into our being a love of
the Divine, and a desire to draw nearer to our
Father, to do his sublime will. and partake of
his eternal, unchanging love.
	Piety sanctifies all the other virtues of the
soul, and sheds the balmiest, purest, sweetest
joy over our hearts, that we ever feel in this
life. No character is complete without it, and
no heart that is devoid of piety can enjoy per-
fect happiness; but she, whose soul has been
baptized by its holy influence, and imbued
with its sweet,heaven-born principles, is indeed
happy and in her joy is no alloy.
								CELIA.


THE  VALUE  OF SOCIABILITY.
	Instead of living and enjoying life, the world
seems  to be striving—striving ever  in  getting
ready to live.  As soon  as a person gets every-
thing in  order for  real living— ah! most gen-
erally before—he dies! Improvement  is the or-
der of the day with all respectable classes,  and
this is right. ‘'Work” and “business” occupy
the hands and  brains of the  masses, and  these
are excellent mottoes.  But, I have lately come
to think that perhaps  this  world  need not  be
such a prosy,practical,work-a-day sort of a world
after all, if  the majority of the  people  would
not so take it and so make it.
	There might be more sociability,a little more
of the old-fashioned calls and  visiting  indulged
in, among neighbors  and  friends, and  still  be
just as many, perhaps more  good works accom-
plished.  How  do  we  know  what  good  we
might have done for some  poor creature in our
neighborhood, to  whom  misfortune has  come,
had we known  of  the  circumstance  in  time?
Often, were neighbors  a little  more sociable, it
would be easy to avert  evils which are now un-
avoidable  because  of  the  isolation  to  which
people subject themselves.
	I am not  writing to women  who have their
time entirely  at  their  own disposal;  who  can
attend to their toilets,  make  fashionable  calls
and be in  trim for receiving fashionable callers
every day.  Neither do I write for the  benefit
of those whose time and  attention  are devoted
to the public  weal,  who  go to  more  meetings
than the most of men could endure, and see and
talk to more people  in a  week  than  they  can
possibly remember  the names  and  faces  of  in
twelve months.  But I would  speak  by means
of pen and paper to the  thousands  of mothers,
who are very properly living for their own little
worlds, their families,  Those whose babies and
household cares  necessarily  tie  them to  their
homes very closely.  I would like  to  persuade
them that staying in the house from morning
till night, day after day from  one year’s end to
another. working  and brooding over work that
it is impossible for them to accomplish, and suf-
fering with  the headache nearly  all  the  time,
does not pay, and is not  exactly fulfilling their
mission. They need a little of the fresh,  pure,
open air of heaven  as well  as  the  babies  and
the  older  children  and  the  fathers.  They
should accompany the babies when  they go for
their  morning  walk  sometimes,  two  or  three
times a week at least. They should occasionally
call on their neighbors who are like themselves,
and insist in the friendliest  manner upon their 
calls  being  returned. Lace  ruffles  and  em-
broidered cuffs need not  be thought of in  con-
nection  with  these  homely sociabilities. The
neat old-fashioned, plain linen answers quite as
well in such cases;  and, indeed, you may really
enjoy your walk and a pleasant chit-chat, with-
out having either collar or cuffs, if you can only
think it. If you  hold  to  the  belief  that you
must wait  to  "dress up"  before  taking  these
little outs, you will  never take them, you  will
never have the time. If you have been fretted
and vexed at home, do  not  manifest anything
of the kind  where  you  make  your  call.  Let
your  conversation be something  to cheer  and
strengthen both your  neighbor and yourself.
 A few weeks ago, I was suffering with a sore
throat which  lasted for  several  days,  By  re-
sorting to simple remedies, such as are generally
known, I suppose  we kept it from becoming a
serious case. But  it would  not get well. One
day, early in  the  afternoon, a friend  called  to
see me, accompanied  by her  daughter, a pleas-
ant spirited girl  at  the happy  age of fourteen. 
My two  little boys  were praised  and  admired
after the usual custom; our house--as my friend
had not visited me  here  before--was  explored
and commented upon; we talked of the different
society meetings,the "Assembly Hall," remark.
able instances  of faith in  children, the  admin-
istration  of  the  Elders  the safest,  surest  and
only  reliable  remedy  in  all  cases  of  sickness,
and kindred  topics;  interspersing  bits  of  rail-
lery and indulging in little laughs where occasion
warranted. We enjoyed ourselves together and
my friend and her young daughter remained with
us till  evening. At  the supper table I observed
that my throat was  much better. Next morn-
ing the soreness was quite  gone and I have felt
nothing of it since.
 That such charming remedies as the one cited
above would prove  effectual  in all  cases, I do
not  pretend  to  say. But  they  are harmless,
and in many instances very  good. My sisters
try them.
							LULA.


A PEOPLE'S Territorial Convention, composed
of delegates from the several counties is to be
held in the City Hall in this city on Thursday,
the 7th inst., at 6 p. m., to nominate a candidate
for Delegate to the Forty-seventh Congress, and
to transact such other business as may properly
come before the convention.
	The convention will consist of seventy-three
delegates, apportioned as follows, based upon
the population as determined by the census of
1880:
Beaver.......................2 Box Elder.....................3
Cache........................6 Davis............................3
Emery........................1 Iron...............................2
Juab...........................2 Kane.............................2
Millard......................2 Morgan..........................1
Piute..........................1 Rich..............................1
Salt Lake..................16 San Juan.......................1
Sanpete......................5 Sevier............................2
Summit......................2 Tooele...........................2
Uintah........................1 Utah..............................9
Wasatch.....................1 Washington...................2
			Weber.................6
	Total..........................................................73


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.

	Published   semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2. 00;  one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  months, $3. 00.  A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  OCTOBER  1,  1880.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S RIGHT TO VOTE IN UTAH
CONTESTED.

	We publish in this issue some particulars con
cerning the attempt recently made to take the
suffrage from the women of this Territory. All
at once these "wise men of Gotham" have de-
clared the law conferring the franchise upon
woman null and void, so positively, that they per-
emptorily order the names of certain women and
all other women to be erased from the registra-
tion list. The Supreme Court issue a writ of
mandamus to enforce this demand. Is it not a
grave reflection upon these legal gentlemen so
thoroughly acquainted with matters pertaining
to legislation, and the construction of law, to
have passed over in silence a matter which has
been so loudly talked of everywhere its merits
and demerits so extensively discussed, and have
allowed to remain a law for ten years without a
demur,and now to emphatically declare as Judge
Sutherland did in his argument on Wednesday
evening last, "We deny the validity of the act
giving women the right to vote." According to
this positive statement women here have never
cast a lawful ballot? Of what inconsistency will
they accuse women next? In the name of reason
and justice we would ask as Mrs. Blake did at
a convention at which we were present "why
don't you take women to the end of the world
and jump them off?"
	One of the principal features of the objections
urged by the plaintiff's lawyers was that the law
of 1870, now in question, did not require women
to pay taxes, and consequently stamped the act
as special legislation; and as the act of 1859 pro-
hibited any male from voting unless he was a
tax payer, that was general legislation, and the
two conflicted, but were not contradictory. This
question about tax paying seems to be a disease
with men, and yet they know that every woman
who holds any property whatever in her own
right is required by law to pay taxes, and that
thousands of women, both wives and widows,
pay taxes in this Territory. Poll tax is the only
tax from which they are exempt, that we are
aware of, and all this furore about a privileged
class of voters, is all bosh and nonsense.
	There were several interesting points in the
arguments, which are of great consequence to
all who have the vital question of woman suf-
frage at heart. We shall publish all the argu-
ments made, in full, in our next issue, October
15, as the paper was nearly ready for the press
when the question which involves woman's right
to vote was raised.
	Meanwhile, we would say, this is not the time
for men or women to sleep upon their oars, but
watch the enemy's rank and file well, and never
lose an opportunity to defend the right. Let
those who wish to maintain civil and religious
liberty, stand firm in the hour of danger, and

[Column 2]
trust in the living God, Who knows the secrets
of all hearts.
	The defense affirm that the Supreme Court
has not the power to issue mandamus. If this
demurrer could be strenuously maintained, then
those who are so anxious to do away with women
voters would have to raise some other question,
or attack from another quarter. But it is to be
hoped the women will give the enemy "no quar-
ter," and they will be obliged to succumb to a
law which has been practised and observed for
ten years, and which is calculated, in the very
nature of things, to foster good institutions and
practises, promote industries among the people,
elevate society, and eventually lift woman to a
much higher plane than that enjoyed by her in
the past.
	We attended the sitting of the Court on Thurs-
day afternoon, according to adjournment from
Wednesday evening, when the arguments were
made upon the merits of the question, but Chief
Justice Hunter explained that the Court was
not prepared to render a decision in the case of
mandamus, and therefore the court adjourned,
without transacting any business, until four
o'clock p. m. to-day.
	We have no idea what the legal opinion in
this matter will be, but we know that woman's
cause is in the hands of a higher tribunal than
that of a Supreme Court, and that it will contin-
ally triumph over every obstacle that prejudice,
tradition, envy or malice may place in the way
of woman's advancement and political equality.
"Man proposes, God disposes."


[Column 1]
ATTEMPT TO DISFRANCHISE WOMEN.

	We give below full particulars of the heroic
movement, of a few wise-acres who have pro-
claimed their chivalry as "Cock Robins" by
pouncing upon the "Jenny Wrens." How very
magnanimous they have proven themselves to
be. Let them remember the old maxim "wo to
him who builds himself up on another's ruin,"
Not that we have an idea that they can succeed,
but it will not be their fault if they do not. They
have no doubt learned by heart the coward's
moral. "Always hit some one smaller or weaker
than yourself." Or as Lillie Devereux Blake
pertinently said, concerning the same subject on
a former occasion,they resolved "to cut off some-
body's ears!!" "But when they came to consider
whose ears they could cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox who had eaten a vast
quantity of mice in his day said, "Cut off the
ears of the Field Mice." "These Field Mice are
little and weak, they cannot hurt us whatever
we do to them."
	In the Supreme Court of Utah Territory:
	Affidavit and petition for Mandamus.

TERRITORY OF UTAH,			} SS.
	COUNTY OF SALT LAKE.	}

	George R. Maxwell being first duly sworn ac-
cording to law deposes as follows:
	I am a citizen of the United States, native
born, and more than 21 years of age. I reside in
Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County; Utah Terri-
tory, and have so resided for about ten years
past. I own taxable property and reside in and
have so resided for more than two years past in
the—precinct of said city and county. I fur-
ther state that I am a duly registered voter on
the registration list of voters made in accordance
with the existing election and registration laws
of this Territory.
I further state that Robert T. Burton is duly
elected, qualified and acting assessor and register
of voters in and for said county in this Territory,
and now as such has in possession and not re-
turned to the election officer of any of the pre-
cincts of said county, the registration list of
voters of said county by him made for the pres-
ent year, as such registration officer. I further
state on information and belief that said list con-
tains the names of the following persons who are
not qualified or lawful voters,as I state on infor-

[Column 2]
mation and belief,viz.,Emmeline B. Wells,Maria
M. Blythe, and Mrs. A. G. Paddock and also a
large number of the names of women residing in
the various precincts of said Salt Lake County,
amounting to several thousand in number, but
the exact names and number of the same are to
me unknown; that being informed that said per-
sons above named, and the names of other
females to me unknown as above stated, were
and had been placed on said list by said assessor
and register as aforesaid, I, on the 24th day of
September, A. D. 1880, made a demand in writ-
ing upon said assessor and register at his office
and to his authorized and acting deputy then and
there being; to strike off from said list of voters
the names aforesaid and the names of all females
found in or contained in said list on the ground
that the said persons, nor any of them, nor any
woman had any right to vote; that said Burton,
by his duly authorized and acting deputy, then
and there refused to comply with said demand,
and said names of said persons, as lawful voters
remained, and yet remain, as I state on informa-
tion and belief, in said registration lists as lawful
voters in the county and precincts of which they
are listed.
	And affiant alleges, on his information and be-
lief, and so states the fact to be, that said persons
named, and all other women whose names are
on said list as aforesaid, are not, nor are any of
them, lawful voters; and the retention of said
names on said list as such, must be and, is a vio-
lation of the law and of the rights of affiant as
a lawfnl voter, and of the rights of all other law-
ful voters.
	The said Burton has until the 10th day of
October next to make his return of the registra-
tion list of the various precincts and that in the
mean time such return may be made at any
time, and that said list was completed by said
officer on the 19th day of September, inst., and
that affiant is informed and verily believes that
said officer declares that he will and intends to
return said list containing the names aforesaid,
and the names of a large number of other wo-
men as voters, all of which would be in viola-
tion of law and of the rights of affiant, and
all other lawful voters.
	Wherefore affiant prays for relief as follows:
	For a writ of mandamus or mandate to be is-
sued out of and from this court, commanding
and directing Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of Voters for Salt Lake County, Utah
Territory, to erase and strike from the list of
voters of Salt Lake County, made by him, the
names of the following persons, viz.: Emmeline
B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe and Mrs. A. G. Pad-
dock, and also the names of all women whose
names thereon appear as voters, on the receipt
of said writ; or that he show cause before this
Court at the Federal Court Room, in the Wa-
satch Building, Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County,
Utah Territory, on the 29th day of September,
1880, at 7 o'clock p. m. of said day, why he has
not done so; also that in the meantime the said
officer be ordered not to return said list by him
made, or any copy thereof, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
					GEO. R. MAXWELL.
				Subscribed and sworn to before
[SEAL.]			me, this 25th day of Septem-
				ber, A. D., 1880.
						J. MCKNIGHT,
							Notary Public.

	After the reading of the above, the Court
promptly issued the writ of mandamus, the text
of which is here given:
George R. Maxwell vs. Robert T. Burton, As-
	sessor and Register of voters for Salt Lake
	County, Utah Territory.
	The People of the United States of the Terri-
tory of Utah, to Robert T. Burton, Assessor and
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, Terri-
tory of Utah, Greeting:
	Whereas, It manifestly appears to us by the
affidavit of George R. Maxwell, a party benefi-
cially interested therein, that you, as assessor
and register of voters for the County of Salt
Lake and Territory of Utah, and the various
precincts of said county, have listed as lawful
voters in the registration list by you made, as
Register of voters for Salt Lake County, the
names of Emmeline B. Wells, Maria M. Blythe,
Mrs. A. G. Paddock, all women; also a large
number of the names of other persons who are
residents of Salt Lake County, and are women,
as lawful voters, and,
	Whereas, It also appears that the petitioner,
George R. Maxwell, is a lawful and registered
voter of said county, and that he made on you,


on the l4th day of September, inst., a demand
that you strike off the names aforesaid, and the
names of all women on said list, on the ground
that they and each of them were not entitled to
vote, and that said demand was refused, and the
names of said women, and a large number of
other women not named, are now in said list as
lawful voters, as it was your duty to do, and that
said list is now in your hands and under your
control, and that there is no plain, speedy or ade-
quate remedy at law for this alleged  failure and
neglect of duty.
	Therefore, We do command you that, imme-
diately after the receipt of this writ, you do
strike off and erase from said registration list of
voters the names aforesaid, and the names of  all
other women listed as voters, or that you show
cause before this court at the Federal Court
Room thereof, in the Wasatch Building, Salt
Lake City, Utah Territory, on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 29,1880, at 7 o’clock p. m. of said day,
why you have not done so; and you are further
ordered not to return said registration of voters
made by you, as aforesaid, or any part thereof,
or any copy therefrom, to any election officer
until the further order of this court.
	Witness the honorable Chief Justice and As-
sociate Justices of this Court aforesaid, this the
25th day of September, A. D. 1880.
	JOHM A. Hunter, C. J.,
	J. S. BOREMAN, A. J.;
	P. H. Emerson, A. J.
[L.S.] Attested by the Clerk and seal thereof
hereunto affixed.
	E. T. SPRAGUE;
	Clerk of Supreme Court of Utah Territory.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	FAVORABLE DECISION: Judges disagree! Just
as we go to press the decision is given in the
case of the mandamus. The Supreme Court of
the Territory sustain the demurrer. Chief Jus-
tice Hunter and Associate Justice Emerson
maintain the dignity of the law, and justice for
"Mormons." Judge Boreman gives a dissent-
ing opinion. He goes out of office to-morrow.
Gen. Maxwell has been outwitted again.
	THE County Convention composed of delegates
from the several precincts in Salt Lake County,
will be held in the Court House in this city, Sat-
urday, the 2d instant, at 2 p. m., for the purpose
of electing the 16 delegates, apportioned to this
county, to the Territorial Convention.
	REPORTS from Bear Lake Utah, Weber and
Salt Lake Conference of Relief Society, Y. L. M.
I., and Primary Associations are crowded out to
give place to important matters bearing upon the
subject of the attempt to disfranchise the women
of this Territory. We trust our readers will con-
sider this a good and sufficient reason for delay in
publishing.
	DR. Ellis R. Shipp has just returned from a
professional visit in the country. Her time has
been occupied in giving lectures upon physiolog-
ical subjects and treating diseases both Surgical
and Gynecological. She proposes now to locate
permanently in this city and open a class for the
more thorough instruction of woman in those
branches.
	We call attention to her advertisment.
	ON Tuesday evening, September 28, we receiv-
the following dispatch,from Mrs. Belva A. Lock-
wood, of Washington, D. C., "Stand by your
guns. Allow no encroachment upon your liber-
ties. No mandamus here." Mrs. Lockwood is
a brilliant lawyer and orator, and has won an
honored name that will go down to posterity,
by persevering in her efforts to aid the cause of
woman's emancipation and gaining admission as
a lawyer to the Supreme Court of the United
States.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
new class in obstetrics and continue during the
fall and winter. It will open on the 7th inst.
Much valuable information of the human sys-
tem can be obtained by attending these lectures,
and we would suggest to the young married

[Column 2]
ladies, who can devote some portion of their
time to the acquirement of useful knowledge to
attend the lectures given on a subject so intimate-
ly connected with their health and happiness.
See terms in advertisement.
	THE Semi-Annual Conference is near at hand.
On Wednesday next at ten o'clock A. M., the
sixth inst. the meeting will commence, in the
large Tabernacle. It is expected there will be a
numerous attendance from the country. As
this is the year of Jubilee, it is but natural that
people will assemble from all parts, to partake of
the spirit and blessings anticipated on such a
momentous occasion. There are many reasons
why the Latter-day Saints should naturally look
forward to the coming Conference with a great
degree of interest. The kingdom of Gcd is grow-
ing in strength and power and influence and
Zion is lengthening her borders and strengthen-
ing her stakes, and calling out into the broad
field of action more of her earnest laborers.
	We are indebted to the politeness of Mr. James
Dwyer, the able, efficient and enterprising pio-
neer bookseller of this city, for a most exquisite
bouquet of the choicest flowers of the season,
artistically arranged by the donor. Words are
weak to express our genuine appreciation of these
beautiful gifts of God, the flowers; and these
lovely and sweet perfumed ones, coming so late
in the season, and such rare specimens in them-
selves, created quite a sensation, and roused the
enthusiasm of all the family on the subject of
flowers, their beauty, merits, expression of sen-
timents, thoughts and language. Thanks, Mr.
Dwyer, and may your success as a florist equal
your fondest anticipations, in beautifying your
mountain home, which even now forms a great
attraction for all who have an eye to the beau-
tiful.
	ON Tuesday, September 28, Mr. Brigham H.
Goddard and Miss Lulu Kelly, both of this city,
were united in the holy bonds of matrimony.
The ceremony was performed by Pres. D. H.
Wells, at eleven, o'clok a. m. Mr. Goddard at-
tained his majority on the same day— two im-
portant events, in the life of the young man.
The young couple looked charming on the occa-
sion of the reception, which was held the same
evening at the residence of the bridegroom's
parents. The bride was exquisitely dressed in
simple white organdie, with orange blossoms,
and looked the picture of happiness. There
were a great number of guests, and a large va-
riety of choice presents. A delicious repast of
good things was served to all, the tables, which
seated forty people, were twice filled. We join
with many old friends of the family in wishing
these young people health, happiness and pros-
perity. May they travel down the journey of
life side by side, partaking of the rich blessings
of the new and everlasting covenant, and may
their posterity be as numerous as their hearts
desire, and their names be honored in all the
earth.


"LIBERAL" INDEED!
The attempt to take the  franchise  from  us is
indeed  a  peculiarly "Liberal"  movement!  To
have suffrage taken  from  us, after  our  having
proved ourselves loyal to its privileges,  would be
cruelty in the extreme.  Have  we not suffered
indignities enough from out enemies already?
And have not endured  hardships  enough to
merit this blessing?
					JANE S. RICHARDS.

			A QUESTION.
Having, in common  with other women of this
community, enjoyed  the  right  of franchise for
ten  years  past, and  having  broken  no  law by
which I would forfeit  that privilege, I ask, as I
feel I have a right to ask, why an attempt is be-
ing made to deprive me of my lawful rights?
			 	MERCY R. THOMPSON.


"WATCHMAN! WHAT  OF  THE HOUR?"

	Liberal! In every lexicon the word is defined
--"generous," "generosity;" yes,  and  it  means
free, as the Heaven is free! Now, in Salt  Lake
City  it  has  become  a  paradox,  and  a mis-
nomer. Last night I was startled by reading in
the Evening  News an article got up by the "Lib-
eral" (save the mark) clique in our city  to  dis-
franchise  the  women of  Utah! What  is the
matter? Where does the shoe  pinch? "I want
to know." For ten years these said women have
worn this badge of freedom, given  them  by  the
suggestion of Brigham Young, and endorsed and
signed by the then Governor  of  Utah;  and  we
ever respected and honored that  gentleman  for
that  liberal  act,  for  in  that  act  he  gave us
, 'An assurance of a Mannl" We, the Women
of Utah, blessed and thanked those  two  gentle-
men,  who, if you please, gave  a  full  and com-
plete  definition  of  the  noble  word  LIBERAL!
From that time to the present we  have  jointly
cherished the boon, and honored it in every elec-
tion, by voting for men who desired to stand, not
only as benefactors to a small handful of  people,
but  to the whole  human  family,  of whatever,
caste or clime, as far as they had the privilege to
do so; and  a  retrospective  view  will  show
we  have  been  successful  in  the  men
to  whom  we  have  given  our  suffrage;
had  they  been  men  of  another  calibre, they
would not have had our  votes. How is  it  there
has not been  discovered  in  all  these ten years,
the flaw which is now exciting  such  a  furore;
with an attempt made to take away that which
was  honorably  bestowed,  and  has  been  most
honorably acted  upon  by the  women of Utah? 
We have always  esteemed  the  Franchise  as a
great boon to woman;  and  realize  it has been a
great blessing to us. It has  conferred a respon-
sibility that has excited reflection and given dig-
nity to character; it has broadened the brain and
expanded    the  heart  of  the    recipients;
and we  have  ever  acknowledged  the had of
God in inspiring the good  men  who  gave  it to
us, to  place His daughters in  such  positions  as
His  WILL designed, knowing  that  they  would
choose the good and reject the  evil  in  such  re-
sponsibilities, and having enjoyed it so long un-
molested, we cannot but marvel, why intelligent
men, who profess to enact  laws  for  intelligent
people, should all at  once allow  their  judgment
to be hoodwinked and  become so  obtuse  and  so
warped,  that  they  can  no  longer  see the
straight and narrow way" that  leads to truth
and  equity, and  a  "righteous judgment"  even
when the small affairs  of  women  are  brought
under their august fiat! Shall we say  with  one
of old,  "How  are  the  mighty  fallen  and  the
weapons of war perished?" 
					HANNAH T. KING.


70		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ENTERING A PROTEST.

	I can but enter my solemn protest against the
so-called Liberal principles of those in our midst
who would, were it possible, take from us the
franchise honorably accorded to us by the Legis-
lative Assembly of Utah. I most emphatically
believe that the co-operation of woman with
man in affairs of State will bring about a better
condition of society; and as women are consid-
ered good at cleaning up, I must confess I think
their influence, ability and active exertions are
much needed at present.
					HANNAH B. PIDCOCK.

INDIGNATION EXPRESSED.

	I cannot but protest against the proceedings
of the so called liberals in our midst who are
seeking to take away our rights and privileges as
citizens. It arouses a feeling of indignation in
my heart, and my New England blood rebels
against such [--]nk injustice. How I rejoiced
when the suffrage was extended to us here in
these valleys and felt that it was a God given
privilege which all good and true women ought
to enjoy, and prayed earnestly that the women
of America, who so ardently desired this power
for good might also obtain equal rights as cit-
izens.
						MINERVA W. SNOW.

"THE BLIND LEAD THE BLIND."

	It is astonishing to what a degree some of
"Our Father's" creatures can becloud their own
vision, and still imagine themselves far-seeing
individuals. The case of the late contest entered
into for the purpose of disfranchising the women
of Utah, by certain parties, exhibits this moral
deformity to an unusual extent. It seems that
no amount of experience can open the eyes of
these certain parties in regard to their own folly.
They are pleased to style themselves "Liberals,"
and perhaps they think that they are really try-
ing to act liberally. But if they could only open
their eyes to the truth, they would at once see
that there is neither justice nor even honesty in
their doings, to say nothing of generosity or lib-
erality. They would also see that as in the past,
their own and their co-workers' unjust actions
toward a people who seek to attend to their own
concerns have ever been productive of good
where they have sought to bring evil, so it will
be in the future. It is only a new shot at the
old mark they have so often missed. And they
still waste their ammunition, for they will miss
again.			LULA GREENE RICHARDS.

WE SPEAK IN OUR OWN DEFENSE.

	Inasmuch as we, the veritable women of Utah,
have enjoyed the right of franchise for ten years
with good results, we as Americans would not be
honoring the heritage given us by the patriotism
bequeathed us by our forefathers, who were wil-
[-]ing to give their lives to maintain their honor
and obtain freedom for their posterity—unless we
protested against this attempt to take away our
privileges. It is our duty to express our indigna-
tion at this unheard of political injustice.
	We ask not mercy, but justice. We vote for
men of integrity that have ever honored the
constitution of our country. We are again as-
sailed in our rights; we know for what purpose.
Would it not be wiser to foster and protect vir-
tue, encourage industry and the sacred rights of
affection, than to make us feel the degradation
of the dram shop and its terrible train of conse-
quences, and take the power from us to restrain
these evils in our midst? We may well dread
what next will be required of us.
	In Cache County, there are 9,000 people with-
out a liquor store, or its attendant miseries. And
this is a fair sample of other counties in Utah
Territory, with the exception of those places
where Gentile civilization abounds. Can the
world set us a better example? And now after
our toils and endurance in settling this desert,
that even our accusers may have bread and but-
ter, and the blessing of God upon our labors,
shall we allow the tombstone of policy, which
is being carved by politicians, to be erected over
the grave of principle and honor?
	The ladies of Utah answer, NO!
						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

OUR "LIBERAL" CLIQUE!

	When reading in last evening's News the pro-
ceedings of our would-be tyrants, I confess that
for a moment I felt warmed up and really indig-
nant. It seems that we "poor, down-trodden

[Column 2]
women," whose sorrows and sufferings called forth
so much PITY until it was disgusting to every
true hearted "Mormon" woman have disappoint-
ed our very "liberal" and sympathetic friends! We
really love our husbands and prefer to be gov-
erned by our brethren instead of by our ac-
knowledged enemies. We have also proved true
to the principles of our religion, which is far
dearer to us than are our lives, or anything else
without it: and it seems we have become a pow-
er to be dreaded, and now the poor hypocrites
are trying to undo what they have done. "To
want to and can't" is their unenviable condition
and will continue to be if we will be humble and
united.
	We shall see the hand of God in this, as we
have in every other move made by our enemies.
They can do nothing against us, but for us.
These trials are necessary to separate the dross
from the pure metal. We can look back through
all our mobbings and drivings and can see the
hand of God in every move. Instead of our ene-
mies destroying us as they hoped and expected
to do, we have become rich and popular and
they are now filled with envy, and are really the
ones to be pitied, for they are trusting in their
own strength as did Goliath, and we trust in the
Almighty, who will show forth his power in
behalf of his people.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

ENFRANCHISEMENT.

	For us as women of America, and Mothers in
Israel, the glorious right of the ballot has meant
strength to those who have our confidence, and
a bulwark of defense in the cause of law and
equity.
	In the statues of our now famous Territory,
and the framing of such laws as our noble Legis-
lators have made for the governing of the same,
can plainly be seen the power of an Allwise and
just God, who never deserts his own. 
	Now let those who believe we have joyfully
exercised and fully appreciated this right, come
to the front and do what they can for the cause
of woman, for not only do we suffer but all
women who have raised the standard for their
own emancipation, have a firm plank in the plat-
form which is being constructed by them for
their greater freedom. 
	How palpable is the plan of our opposers, "dog
in the manger" style, they raise their manly (?)
voices against "weak women" as they please to
term us, to carry out their own mean design to
disable our husbands and fathers from having a
voice in the ruling of the country which their
own industry has made. Don't you know, you
one horse politicians, that the dishonorable sub-
terfuge to which you are resorting, is palpable to
every honorable man and woman who is not
eaten up by spite and avarice? Bah! the very
name of the one chosen for this great and mighty
conspiracy means failure. He has told the story
of "This little pig went to market, and this little
pig stayed at home" to the nation ever so many
times, and everybody knows his sanctity means
"loaves and fishes."
	We may my sisters, lose the right of suffrage,
but let us meet this infringement upon our rights
in solid phalanx, and show that we have the
power and the will to wave our banner of "Trust
in Israel's God" in the face of all the world. 
				ZINA YOUNG WILLIAMS.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	On August 19 we celebrated the anniversary
of our organization in Peoa, and had a very
enjoyable time. Assembled at the meeting
house at ten A. M., which was tastefully deco-
rated for the occasion by the President of the
Y. L. M. I. A., with some of the members of
the same to assist her. Opening exercises. Roll
called; fifty-one members present. Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. Report read
and accepted. Four girls and two boys sang
"The Happy Mormons." Questions on the
first principles of the Gospel, to which the
children gave very prompt answers. Thirteen
little boys and girls repeated alphabetical texts.
Six girls and three boys sang "In our lovely
Deseret." Dialogue by two little boys, entitled,
"The boy that wore old clothes." Ten little
girls and six boys sang, "I've two little hands
to work for Jesus." Three boys and three
girls repeated the first twelve verses of the


5th chapter of St. Matthew. Several of the
children recited short pieces. A dialogue by
two little girls, entitled, "What two little girls
could do."
	At noon we had recess for one hour, when
they were regaled with cake, candy and lemon-
ade. Rewards of merit were distributed. Both
young and old enjoyed themselves exceedingly;
all were well satisfied.
	Annual report of Peoa Primary Association:
Our Association was organized by Peoa Relief
Society, by order of our worthy Stake President,
Mrs. Sarah S. Richards, on August 19, 1879, with
the following officers: Mrs. Lydia Marchant,
President; Mrs. Elizabeth Maxwell and Mrs.
Anna Marchant, Counselors Miss Rhoda P.
Huffaker, Secretary; Miss lydia Newman,
Assistant Secretary, and Master Levi Pearson,
Treasurer; since which time we have endeav-
ored to the best of our ability to do all we
could to improve the children committed to
our charge. We hold our meetings weekly;
the exercises consist of select readings, ques-
tions on the principles of the Gospel, Scripture
passages and any good principles by way of
impressing it on their young minds, recitations
by the children. We have enrolled sixty-six
names; average attendance, twenty-eight. Do-
nated to the Temple, $1, 80.
	Our Bishop was present with one of his
counselors, S. Walker, and addressed the meet-
ing for a short time, encouraging the sisters
and parents to do all they could to stimulate
the children to be punctual in their attendance;
was pleased to meet with so many children,
and was also pleased with the progress they
were making; hoped they would be good chil-
dren; and if so, in a future day they would be
very glad they had ever belonged to the PRI-
MARY.
	By request two young ladies sang a gipsy
song. Meeting closed by singing, "The tide of
time is ebbing low." Benediction, S. Walker.
									L. M.


Report of the meeting held in Mt. Pleasant
Sanpete Co., Aug. 7th, 1880. At 10 A. M.
Opened with singing "The Morning Breaks"
prayer by C. W. Lund, singing "We to the
Lord will pray. Sister Morrison then intro-
duced Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and E. B.
Wells to the congregation and said she felt
glad beyond expression to have that privilege,
and hoped that good order would be observed
so that all would be benefitted by the rich in-
structions she felt would be given.
	Sister Wells said she felt glad to meet with
the sisters of this place said it is such a beauti-
ful day and your surroundings here are more
than pleasant, no doubt you have worked hard
to make your city what it is: there is much for
us all to do and to learn, and we should strive
to imitate everything that is good, noble and
pure. The Saints are building temples which
is one great step in advance to be done for our
dead,it will be a mighty work. Sisters if trials
come along try to bear them patiently, keep
them to yourselves and the Lord, do not take
others into your confidence, for that will not
make you feel better but you will always be
sorry afterwards that you have done so.
Showed that trials were necessary to bring us
near to God. She thought that we should
teach our children all that which is good, noble
and virtuous, said it is necessary that they as
well as we should know good from evil, that
they may be able to withstand temptation when
the powers of darkness beset them. Mothers
never let pass an opportunity to teach your
children the principles of our holy religion: if
it should be that your circumstances were such
that you could give them no other education,
than home education, this Gospel will enable
them to make wise men and women. There
has not been so much done in the way of
spiritual education in the past, as is now being


[Column 1]
accomplished, but let us improve every oppor-
tunity in the future. The world is watching
closely and wondering if the rising genration
will honor the Holy Priesthood and bear off
the kingdom of God as the older ones have
done; they are also wondering if our sons and
daughters will sustain and practise plural
marriage as their mothers and fathers have.
Now it is for you mothers to teach them this
principle and above all to show them a good
example. Said, Sister E. R. Snow has pub-
lished a Hymn Book expressly for the Primary
Organizations, it is a neat little work mostly of
her own poems, and urged the mothers to
procure these books for their children.
	Sister E. R. Snow then addressed the con-
gregation: Said she thought it no ordinary
position for her to arise to address an assembly
of Latter-day Saint women—was always happy
to meet with her sisters, and felt truly thank-
ful to see some of the brethren present. Al-
though she did not propose or presume to edify
the brethren she knew it to be very encourag-
ing to the sisters when the brethren manifested
an interest in our labors by occasionally at-
tending our meetings. When they are present,
instead of feeling greater timidity, she felt
more safety in speaking, trusting that if she
said anything wrong, those holding the priest-
hood would correct her, which she would thank-
fully receive.
	Not one of us can truthfully say, "I have
obeyed the Gospel." When we were baptized,
we commenced obedience, but to obey the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, requires the diligent
work of our mortal lives, with the heart, mind
and strength, wholly devoted to the interest of
Zion. I realize, that if I obey the Gospel it
will require all my powers and faculties de-
voted to the work of God while I live in the
flesh, and how much will be required beyond
the veil, is not for me to say.
	We should all realize that we are here on
missions, and, in order to fill these missions, it
is necessary that we so live as to keep the spirit
of  God constantly in our hearts, and that will
direct us step by step, until we shall have ac-
complished the work assigned us.
	Sister Eliza said, the Prophet Joseph Smith
instructed the sisters, whom he organized  into
a Society, that wherever the Church of Jesus
Christ had been fully organized, the sisters
were also organized. Reference is made to
this subject, in the New Testament, but we did
not comprehend it until God revealed it
through his prophet. God in his wisdom, has
given us the great privilege of organizations
from  the oldest member down, almost to the
child in the mother's arms. Said, none of the 
trials and persecutions we have passed through
have been as dangerous, as is the spirit of the
times in which we now live.
	Mothers  do you realize the importance of 
the early training of your children? What can
be of so much consequence to parents than that
their children shall be so cultivated as to grow
up to be men and women of God? The Primary
organizations are designed to assist the mothers
in their most responsible duties in this direc-
tion, and mothers should not think their work
at home more important, than sending their 
children to the Primary meetings. It is neces-
sary that you, mothers, cooperate with those
who are spending their time and devoting their 
energies in the cultivation of the rising genera-
tion. Encourage them by occasionally attend-
ing their meetings, and you will be astonished
at the progress and improvemeet of your little
ones. The "civilization" of the world, which
is a spirit of corruption is creeping in among us,
and it will require all the protection that can
be imparted by filling their minds with good, so
there will be no place for evil—not only should 
the children understand the principles of the
Gospel, but they must have its spirit in their
hearts.

[Column 2]
	She again spoke of the Relief Society: said,
when Joseph Smith first organized it, he said
our "duties were not only to look after the
poor, but to save souls." Said, she considered
the position of Teacher a highly responsible
one, and its duties very important. Some
ignorant persons seem to consider it a begging
calling, but they are not expected to ask for
donations unless they are specially sent to col-
lect means for some special purpose—it is gen-
erally understood that the poor are sustained
by donations, that if the sisters have anything
to impart, they give without being asked, and
although assisting the poor, and administering
to  the sick are the first duties, they are not the 
most important. To properly fulfill her duties,
a Teacher needs the Holy Ghost, that when
she enters a home, she may know what spirit
prevails there; and then she needs the wisdom
of God, that she may benefit those she meets:
Are any sorrowful, that she may administer
comfort, or if they have "lost their first love"
and become indifferent to their eternal interest,
take them by the hand and by imparting
the kind and sweet influence of her own bosom,
lead them back,
	Our organizations are designed for our culti-
vation—to help us on in the road to perfection,
they also place us in positions to be great helps
to the Priesthood.
	Sister Eliza said that Sister Wells had men-
tioned a very important subject. Celestial
Marriage, which, instead of debasing is elevat-
ing to woman. Whatever purifies, is ennobl-
ing, and to live plural marriage as we should
we have to enlarge our hearts—overcome the
inherited narrow contractedness of our nature
—subdue our selfishness and become more God-
like. She bore a strong testimony to the fact
that God had revealed it and required its
practice.
	She exhorted the mothers to watch over their
daughters, and be watchful to protect their pur-
ity. Said,if you want your daughters to become
noble and useful in their sphere, in the first
place, like Queen Victoria, teach them to be-
come good and efficient housekeepers, with "a
place for everything, and everything in its
place." Unless they know how to cook, when
they employ help, their servants will be sure to 
take advantage of their ignorance.
	She spoke encouragingly of silk culture, and
urged the people to promote it, and be in ear-
nest in forwarding Home Manufactures of  all
kinds, that we might become a self-sustaining
people. Exhorted the sisters to attend their 
meeting, said, you will make more in doing so,
than you will in staying at home. Yet I never
counsel mothers to leave their children unpro-
tected for any meeting. Your children should
be your first care—bring them with you, and
they cultivate early the habit, and they will be
punctual attendants when they grow up. In
attending meetings, if we are humble and
prayerful, we are sure to get refreshings from
above, the influence of which is carried to our
homes, home is made happier. Let no one
grow weary in well doing, but let us all  be
learning day by day; little by little, overcom-
ing our own weaknesses, and short-comings
until we attain to perfection.
	Bishops Seely and Madsen made some ex-
cellent remarks and felt instructed with what
had been said and thankful to the Sisters for
this visit. Sister Morrison then made some
closing remarks hoped that all present would
profit by the rich instructions given by our
Sisters, lay it up in our hearts and practice it
in our daily lives. Thanked the Sisters with
all her heart for their visit. Meeting adjourned
until 2, P. M., our Primaries met according to 
appointment, about three hundred small child-

[Column 3]
ren were present,when Sister E. R. Snow talked
to them in such a good motherly spirit and
created such feelings in their young and tender
hearts as will never be eradicated. She then
organized the South Ward. Officers, Ida
Caroline Larsen, President; Clementine Marion
Morrison; Clara Olson, Counselors; George
Christiansen; Secretary; Annie H. Peterson,
Treasurer. Meeting dismissed with singing
and prayer by. Bishop Wm. S. Seely.
	At 4, P. M., meeting was again called  to
order by Sister E. B. Wells who then organized
the North Ward. Officers, Mary Rowe, Presi-
dent; Matilda Neilson, Hannah C. Madsen;
Counselors; John Dehlin, Secretary; Charles
Edward Hampshire, assistant Secretary; Caro-
line Madsen, Treasurer. After a few salutary
remarks from our Bishops, meeting closed with
singing and prayer by Bishop Peter Madsen.
	M. F. C. MORRISON, Prest.
	A. LOUISE HASLER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EXPONENT: It has been some time
since I have scribbled a few lines for your
readers yet I have not forgotten you. When I
last wrote we were living in the pretty little
valley of Sevoia, now we are at St. John. We
were quite sorry to leave our New Mexico
home, as we had lived there two years and be-
come much attached to the tall pines which
stood like sentinels on every side as if to guard
us from danger. There were only five families
there and as the Indians were quite uneasy all
over the country the leading brethren in this
vicinity deemed it unsafe for us to remain longer.
Yet we trust with the blessing of the Lord to re-
turn with other Saints to settle those valleys at
some future time. While there we had no reason
to fear the natives, in fact they appeared more
friendly than ever, and were sad at our depart-
ure. There were white men we had much
greater reason to fear. They knew the Indians
had ill feelings towards the whites as a rule
and they could not see why a few people living
out as we were, could feel so safe right in their
midst, unless we were also enemies to the
Americans. Thus it was the same old story.
We claimed to be Latter-day Saints, and con-
sequently were the peace-breakers and if the
colored people were our friends we could look
for no friendship from those who are so con-
stantly opposed to that poor despised copper-
colored race. But as it is the work of our
Heavenly Father we are engaged in,we can afford
to wait his pleasure and all will be made right.
There are about forty families at this place at
present and nearly all are living in wagons and
tents, or shanties of almost any description,
though doubtless all will try to build houses
this fall. Many would have done so before
had their time not all been taken up attending
their gardens and fields.
	The first part of the season was quite dry and
rather cold, and the past six weeks considerable
rain has fallen, which has improved the looks
of the place a very great deal. We spent the
Fourth of July as pleasantly as one would ex-
pect in a new place. The people were intend-
ing having a real good time also on the Twenty-
Fourth. We were all going to have dinner
at the bowery but a heavy rain and hail storm
come on the day before so we were compelled
to give up that, yet even in St. John there are
events that cannot be postponed even for rain or
hail however furious it may descend. It was
a very inconvenient time with tents and wagon
boxes almost swimming in water still our worthy
friend, Sister Mary Johnson gave birth to a fine
daughter and is getting along as well as one
could imagine. Surely the Lord is proving
that He is willing to take care of and bless
those who prove to him they can give up good
homes in Utah and come to this land, to help
redeem it and make a desirable home for the


Saints. We should do this with willing hands,
and then we are only doing a little portion of
the work and bearing some few of the trials
our mothers and grandmothers were called to
pass through in the rise of the Church and the
first settling of Utah. There are no Societies
as yet here for the sisters, young, or old still we
do not despair but trust that in a few short
months we will have their good influence in our
little settlement, There is a Sabbath School
which I understand is a great help to the
c[--]ldren. It will not be long before the Rail-
road, will be quite near, then how anxiously
will we look for some of our dear sisters from
Salt Lake and that region to pay us a visit.
Even now I can almost imagine I hear their kind
voices and feel the heavenly inflnence they ever
carry. Many of them I am personally acquainted
with, and to all I would say, may heaven's
blessing be with you while you labor in this
life for the welfare of Zion, and may the EX-
PONENT and its noble editor ever be prospered
is the prayer of its friend:
						MARY STUART.
	St. John, Apache Co., Arizona. Aug. 12, 1880.


72		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REFLECTIONS UPON THE PROCESSION.

	What do I hear? Music, yes, and see the pro-
cession is on the move. What a charming
sight when compared with the entrance of the pio-
neers 33 years ago to day; dusty and wayworn; yet
with hearts beating high and eyes brightened
with love to Israel's God whose hand had brought
them safely through. And this the result of 33
years improvement.
	Never shall I forget the tears of joy starting from
our eyes at the first sight of Great Salt Lake as
we saw it from the top of yon high mountain. It
looked like a peaceful quiet resting place upon its
shores; for we were told by the pioneers as we
met them at Pacific spring that this would be
our home. We had been traveling two and a half
months with ox teams, carrying grain to put in
a fall crop, which was soon accomplished when
we found our place of destination.
	Nor is this all,seven times seven years in pros-
perity have passed away since the Lord restored
the Everlasting Covenant; preparatory to His
second coming. Do you ask is this without trials?
I answer, No. Yet in our most severe trials, we
could go to God our Father for wisdom, and learn
that it was all for our best good. Thus our af-
flictions were sanctified to us, and greater intel-
ligence given; so that the wound was healed and
we went on our way rejoiceing. Hard indeed to
lose our prophet; but was not the same intelli-
gence given to twelve others to carry on the
work. Also in the case when five hundred men
were called to go to the Mexican war. This
seemed [-]o much to a traveling community, try-
ing to find a resting place. But what was the
result? This land belonged to Mexico, and when
a treaty was made, were we not entitled to
homes in these valleys? Most certainly. In this
again we saw our Father's hand. This is but one
instance of the many. But whose carriages are
these with beautiful black horses? Oh! I see! The
faithful and true! the veterans of the day. Faith-
ful in what, do you ask? Faithful to their God
and their country. Faithful in preaching the
Gospel to the nations of the earth, and also faith-
ful to all that is committed to their care. Rut
they are not the only ones imitating our Savior
whose name was the faithful and true.
	The mothers of Israel follow in deeds of love
and kindness to husbands and sons and
finally to all who need their kindness not
only at home, but also in form of Relief So-
cieties. Behold their banner! Also the carriage
of industry, with machines for kniting and sew-
ing, straw braiding, reeling silk, crochet, &c.,
&c., well calculated to make our home pleasant.
The Sabbath Schools also, with cherub faces look-
ing so heavenly. God bless the children!
	But what is this rude cabin of logs, covered
with dirt, and chimney of mud. This repre-
sents our former homes in this valley. Were we
ever happy in such rude structures? Oh, yes;
[---] were all on the same footing, looking forward
[---] [---] days. How often could you hear the
m[---] [---] and joyous ex[-]ressions of love and
hope in these miserable looking houses. Not only
so, [--] [--] morning and evening prayer arose
with songs of thanksgiving for this quiet resting
place. What come next? A mansion, with
tall steps, large windows and lace curtains, rep-


resenting the present times. But are we more
happy now than in the log hut? That will de-
pend entirely upon the spirit we cultivate.
	But to continue with our mechanical skill.
What can I say? Language cannot express the
artistic beauty and grandeur of the scene! And
we feel to say, if so much has been done in this
short period of time, what will the next thirty-
three years bring to us? One thing let us re-
member; it is this; let us not become idolators
over the workmanship of our own hands. But
let us remember the Author of all our blessings.
He who has upheld and sustained us thus far,
will enable us to endure to the end of the race,
if we do not forget Him. It is written that the
wicked shall be turned into hell with all the na-
tions who forget God. And have we not seen
this verified many times when people became
absorbed in the affairs of life; they seemed to
forget that God was the Great Master Workman,
standing at the head of all science—and our kind
Father to instruct and guide us. Let us never
forget God, the Author of all blessings.


Gen. Garfield is not a Woman Suffragist in
the sense of mere wordy declaration, but while
in Congress he voted to allow a woman to prac-
tice law before the Supreme Court of the
United States; and one such act is worth a
thousand glittering generalities.—Ex.


[Column 1]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter’s old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West, Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uions and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia. Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors’ bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
[Information graphic with two columns]
SAFE 
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE 
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVLNE 
PILLS!
READ SAVE THYSELF
Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Pamphlet 
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
Class in Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL COMMENCE ANOTHER CLASS IN OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880. By giving three lectures
a week, and the students giving their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to a little less
than five. Terms, 830. Books, three in number $12.
	Those desiring to join the Class should send in their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.

F. AUERBACH  &  BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND  EXAMINE
Fall  and Winter  Goods.

ELLEN   B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgoon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder’s Music Store.
	RESIDENCE  on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th. East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good work Guaranteed!

Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Childrens' Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels, White Yarns, Wool Batting,
Shawls, Colored Yarns, Brooms,
Linseys, Cassimers, Washboards,
Jeans, Tweeds, Brushes, Etc. Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS,WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79 First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1880.	No. 10.


[Column 1]
BEHOLD THE DAWN.

Show me the man, who is never afraid—
The cause of the poor, or oppress'd, to aid—
And I'll show you a prince! as brave, as just,
That the humblest, the highest, the world,could trust.

Show me, the man, who exerts his might—
To remedy wrongs, that the world things right—
And I'll show you a king! a champion true!
A Defender of Freedom! of Woman too!

So the being ungrateful, who tramples down—
The RIGHTS of WOMAN, is Knave or Clown;
Nearly, a Nero! he stands confest,
He could smite, like that hero (?,) his mother's breast.

And should not women have rights in common?
Who, is so base, to this fact deny?
Be sure, they are frauds, who would wrest, Rights from
	them;
Be sure they are creatures, would cheat and lie.

By her strength of affection, her strength of will—
Doth not a woman her task fulfill?
The mother of ALL! yea, their friend most true—
Is man so small, to with-hold her due?

Alas! even Adam, (O, lasting shame)
Sacrificed Eve, to a selfish aim:
"T'was the Woman that gave me the fruit" so fair—
'Tis the woman, O, Lord, that the Curse should bear.

Has she shrank from "The Curse," through the ages
	past?
Nay! Her Cross is her Crown, from first to last,
But if Woman should less of a heroine be,
The end of creation, be sure you'd see.

This fact is significant, passing strange—
Not a man would his lot, for a woman's exchange;
Or one, or the other, if men might choose—
The fate of a woman they'd all refuse.

And wherefore, should favor'd exempted man—
Oppression, append to the primal Ban?
Doth it follow, if Woman, a cross must bear—That it warrants the world to her Rights foreswear?

Or think you, because of that fatal "Fall"—
That Woman, is born to be held in thrall?
Because her submission, the Heaven's approve—
To "the one" who is worthy her special love.

It is strange that a woman her Right desires?
That of wrongs and suppression at last she tires?
Monopolies rarely the world have blest;
Distribution of blessings is always best.

Equality even, "The Sex" might claim;
But a change for good is their humble aim;
That the Laws are partial, and men perverse—
Is cruelty's Capping of Nature's Curse.

"The Laws" for protection should e'en be just,
But to love to affection the WEAK must trust(?)
Can we possibly picture a man of mind
Submitting his ALL to a God so blind?—

In the grand old Bible, 'tis thus we read
"Man's heart is decitful and wicked indeed,"
Wherefore should woman depend altogether—
For Justice, on aught that might change like the weather.

Love and protection a woman craves;
'Tis a blessing that many protection find,
But many a wife is a slave of slaves,
As many a husband is true and kind.

But what of the women who ne'er are blest—
With the staunch support of a manly breast?
Custom and Law should their rights defend—
But neither, Alas! is a woman's friend.

Custom with holds, ('tis as mean as true)
To Woman the half of her wages due;
And nothing at all, "the law relaxes—
If a woman can't vote, she must pay her taxes.

'Tis a woman's REQUEST that "The Laws" be fair,
And ere she wills it, Beware! Beware!

[Column 2]
Extend to woman, the means of grace—
Exalt through the mother, the human race.

Man's justice is tardy and sparsely given;
But the Rights of Women are dear to Heaven!
And a brighter Era, will woman see;
Behold the Dawn of her Destiny!

Is anything NEW, beneath the Sun?
Oh yes, in the WEST hath the DAY begun;
The dawn of Right in the west appears;
That shall brighter glow with the strength of years.

"The primitive Cuse" is enough to bear;
And the Women of Utah the first will share—
"The honors" with men nor content they'll be—
Till Women all over the earth are free.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN  ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	There are times in the history of individuals
when the life seems full of wonderful events
crowded into close proximity; when there is a
realizing sense of completeness, which is like a
rapturous burst of thrilling melody, a psalm of
praise and rejoicing, as it were, which is often
followed by a soul-felt requiem, sad in compari-
son, yet as grand and lofty, as eloquent and full
of meaning, as significant in greatness, as the
loudest anthem of gladness.
	Our readers who are acquainted with the
history of Nauvoo, know how many important
events transpired there during those few short
years; and in many of them the lady of whom
we write bore a conspicuous part. It was dur-
ing this period that she may be said to have
been brought forward as a leader among wo-
men. It was her destiny.
	The Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph, and women were ap-
pointed, or called and set apart, to preside, to
keep records, to lay hands on the sick, and to
perform other deeds of charity, love and mercy,
that pertain to the true mission of woman,
which had not before been defined in the ca-
pacity of an organization, now made complete
in itself and self-governing, yet reaching out
kindly to all its members an opportunity to ob-
tain knowledge and intelligence, blessings and
keys pertaining to woman and her laboss. In
this first organization, Sister Eliza was chosen
Secretary, which brought her prominently for-
ward as one of the founders of the institution,
and helped to prepare her as an organizer; or-
ganization is one of the strong features of her
character; her executive ability combined with
this happy faculty, gives great strength to this
department of her work, and she has had much
to do in this capacity. When one calls to mind
the fact that there are three hundred branches
of the Relief Society, almost as many Young
Ladies' Associations, and hundreds of Primary
Associations for the children, now in working
order, and that she has done a large proportion
of the organizing, one cannot but acknowledge
that she must have possessed extraordinary
power and ability in this direction. Through
these institutions the Lord has greatly blessed
woman, new light has dawned upon her mind,
latent thoughts have been aroused, and higher
aspirations awakened, that have given fuller
expression and deeper meaning to her lifework.
	For something more than two years after the

[Column 2]

organization of the Relief Society, the life of
this remarkable woman was exceedingly rich
in the fulness of friendship and love: she was
enjoying the companionship of those who were
dearer to her than aught else on earth—the
Prophet of God, her loyal husband; her high-
est and holiest ambition for this life was thus
satisfied in the restfulness of a union so sacred
that it seemed the perfection of earthly happi-
ness.
	But  anon, the scene was changed. Many
schemes were laid and plans formed to bring
trouble upon the Saints. Rulers and governors
sought to adopt measures and enforce laws to
oppress the people, who had already suffered so
much at the hands of their enemies. The au-
thorities of the State were interceded with in be-
half of justice for the oppressed. It was perfectly
proper, in the extremity to which the Saints
were driven, that women should entreat justice
from those in power, whose duty it was to pro-
tect law-abiding citizens. Sister Eliza was a
fit messenger to go upon such an errand. The
circumstance has never before been published.
	"In the latter part of July,1842,Mrs. Smith,
President of the Relief Society proposed a pe-
tition to Governor Carlin, asking his protection
of Joseph Smith, which was received with en-
thusiasm by unanimous vote. Sister Eliza, as
Secretary wrote the petition, which was signed
by several hundred ladies, and in company of
President Emma and Mrs. Warren Smith, vis-
ited the Governor at his residence in Quincy,
Adams, Co., Ill., where they were most cor-
dially received and courteously treated by the
Governor and family. Pres. Mrs. Smith an-
nounced to His Excellency the purport of the
visit, and her Secretary presented the Petition,
to which he responded with the kindest ex-
pression, and gave assurances of his protection
of the prophet, saying emphatically: "I believe
Mr. Smith is innocent." But alas! how verita-
bly did those petitioners prove the truthfulness
of the following saying of Josephus: "A man's
words may be either true or false, according to
the import of them, but by his actions do we
know the real intent."
	Soon  after their return home, they learned
that at the very time of their visit, and while
expressing sentiments of friendship, and prof-
fering gubernatorial protection to the prophet,
the Governor, in connection with Missouri offi-
cials, was plotting his destruction.
	The above is one of the many instances of
perfidy and double dealing from those holding
the reins of government, who should have been
protectors of the innocent. The history and
record of the events thot occurred at that time
substantiate the facts to which we refer. The
incident we have here related is one of the tes-
timonies which will stand against that Gover-
nor at the last day, for the persecution steadily
increased." Wicked men, the enemies of the
Latter-day work, would not let the prophet
rest. They laid snares in his way, they sought
to take away his life, and in an evil hour they
succeeded. Oh, the horror, the anguish of that
terrible tragedy can never, never be told in
words. The Saints all mourned the prophet
slain, but alas! for those to whom his plighted
vows were pledged: none know, but those who
suffered, what agony rent their souls! What
of Eliza—this gifted, noble woman, who had
given to this great man, this loyal servant of
the Most High, her heart's best affections; who
had thought no sacrifice too great to assist him
in establishing again on the earth the new and


everlasting  covenant  of  marriage  through the
holy order of the Melchizedec  Priesthood?
	When the news of his massacre first reached
her, she  could  not  believe  it;  and  it was well
that  she  did not,  or  she might have sunk  un-
der  the  terrible blow. But gradually she came
to understand and realize that he was gone, and
mourned  for  him, not  only as  the leader of a
great people, but  as  the  true, faithful and ten-
der wife mourns, and she poured forth her soul
in  characteristic  verse;  the  poetry  of  her wo-
man  nature  was  stirred  to  her  heart's  inner
fountains, by the  cruel martyrdom. Yet  God
was in all her thoughts.  He was her refuge in
this  hour  of heavy trial, which  she was  com-
pelled to bear in silence and alone. What had
the world  to  do with  her  wounds, or her dis-
tress?  Nothing!  It was a union of hearts and
lives  which  the  world  did  not  recognize, but
God, Who  knoweth  the  secrets  of  all  hearts,
took  her  into  His  precious  care.  His  love
soothed  her, and  she  looked  forward with the
eye of  faith, and  a  calmness  and  trustfulness
which  passeth  understanding, to  the  re-union
beyond,when she would meet her beloved again,
and  partake  of  the  fulness  of  the  exaltation
which  she  knew  would  be  obtained   through
obedience  to  that  higher  law which  God  had
revealed, through  him who  had  laid down his
life in trying to establish it.
	She  dedicated  herself  anew to the work  she
had so heroically begun. She had received the 
baptism of suffering, and arisen  from the terri-
ble ordeal with  a  determination  to take up all
the burdens of life and bear them through good
or  ill  report,  relying  upon  the  arm  that   is
mighty to save.
	The  Temple, which  had  been  in  process of
erection at the time of the death of the prophet,
was  at  length  finished; and woman was  called
upon  to  take her part in administering therein,
officiating in the character of  priestess. Sister
Eliza then began another  era  in  her  peculiar
life;  and  she  ministered in that Temple in the 
holy rites that pertain to the house of the Lord
as priestess and Mother in Israel to hundreds of
her sex.
	To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

HONOLULU, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		Aug. 1, 1880.
	EDITOR EXPONENT:—If your valuable pa-
per can afford space for a brief communication
from a country so remote from Zion as this is,
I will offer a few items on matters connected
with our mission on these Islands.
	On the first day of June, 1879, I started from
my home in Provo in company with my hus-
band, to fill a mission among the Hawaiians.
We arrived in the beautirul tropical town of
Honolulu, the metropolis of the Islands, after
an absence of five years, and was welcomed by
the native brethren and sisters with such mani-
festations as they in their simplicity are able to
make. 
	At the following October Conference, held
at Laie, I was chosen to take the Superinten-
dency of all the Relief Societies, organized in
our Church, on these Islands. Sisters Sarah
Dean, Nellie Alexander and Gundy Anderson,
and two faithful native sisters, wore chosen to
assist in that capacity. Accordingly, I took a
trip to the Island of Kawai, which lies about
one hundred miles N. W., accompanied by the
two native sisters, Kaahanui and Kealohanui,
the former being able to turn the scales at 275
pounds; the foreign sisters not being able to
accompany me, in consequence of having small
children to care for. We left Honolulu at 5:30
o'clock P. M. of July 19, Mr. Cluff having ac-
companied me to Honolulu, and placed me
safely on board the little steamer James McKee.
My admiration of the beautiful scenery back

[Column 2]

of the town of Honolulu, as we steamed out
through the channel, was suddenly changed
when fairly outside of the reef, where we got
the full effects of the trade winds that whistled
over the mountains. I had always thought
that my former sea voyages were all I could
possibly endure and live, but the playful way
in which the little steamer glided from wave
to wave was worse to me, seemingly, than death,
and I found that I really had not known what 
sea-sickness was.
	We landed at Nawiliwili Kawai on the fol-
lowing morning almost unable to move when
upon the land; fortunately for me the voyage
was a short one. I met my nephew, Elder B.
Clnff, Jun., who was making a tour of this
island; he procured a buggy and took me to
the residence of Bro. Kawe (the cry), President
of the Hanumaula branch, who extended to us
all the courtesy and kindness possible for a na-
tive to bestow, and their hospitable character-
istic, as a people, is noted by strangers. Not
only were the members of our Church kind
and obliging, but the neighbors who made no
profession of faith, especially Mr. Kamanu
(the bird) and his gracious wife, Kahoopii (to
sue at law). During our stay at this place,
Mrs. Kahoopii never failed to supply us, regu-
larly at meal time, with well prepared refresh-
ments served up on a salver, their circumstan-
ces pecuniarily being above the average native
people. 
	On our way from Nawiliwili to Koloa we
visited a plantation where they manufacture
starch from the root of the Manioc. The root
of this plant has a close resemblance to the
Yam, and requires at least eighteen months
growth before use; but it may continue grow-
ing for years without injury. The average
yield per acre is about three tons, and the ex-
pense of manufacturing is very light, compared
to the cost of the manufacturing of sugar.
	The town of Koloa, especially the lower part
of it, is built upon a lava flow of very ancient
formation, and when the Islands swarmed with
a pure Hawaiian population, compelling the
cultivation of every available spot of ground,
the lava rock was gathered in heaps, giving
space for a hill of sweet potatoes, squash, or
onions, and thus piles of rock remain as monu-
ments of the past.
	Having made arrangements to organize a
Relief Society at Koloa on the 26th of July,
we made our way over rolling hills and through
green pastures, where the herds of cattle were
grazing leisurely upon the hills and plains,
when we suddenly came upon the brink of
what appeared a deep chasm, defying any fur-
ther advance; but we were soon informed that
the town of Hanapepe lay almost beneath us. 
Standing upon the brink we looked down sev-
eral hundred feet below, upon the town and
beautiful, wavy fields of rice and Kalo; this
deep, narrow valley is walled in with precipices
of red rock, very much like that of Echo
Canon in Utah. Hanapepe signifies broken,
bruised, crushed—and I am certain the name
is very applicable. Our stay at this place was
very brief, but pleasant. I found the water
there surpassed in coolness any that I have
tasted on the Islands.
	We returned to Koloa, and on the 26th, ac-
cording to previous appointment, we organized
a Relief Society, uniting the sisters of Koloa,
Hanapepe and Kemoa in one Society for the
present, which numbers seventy-four officers
and members.
	There may be a curiosity in the minds of
some of the readers of the EXPONENT to know
how a Society of this kind operates among the
sisters of our Church here. Our organizations
are in accordance with those at home,but there
are many more difficulties attending a Society
of this kind here than at home. The peculiari-
ties, customs, traditions, habits and supersti-
tions of this people are such that it requires

[Column 3]

more instruction and a wonderful supply of
patience to keep them from various vagaries;
more especially is this the case during the ab-
sence of our Elders, when they fly off, as it
were, upon superstitious ideas, and not unfre-
quently get into a spirit of jangling. The
Society at Laie, which is always under the
immediate care of the Elders, has been so
trained that they move along with less difficulty
than that which attends organizations among
those of less experience; but the improvements
made in the Society at Laie are sufficient to
give us hope for others: I am satisfied that
our sisters from home, when they acquire a
knowledge of the language, can do much good
in uniting our Hawaiian sisters. One difficulty
which exists with members of Relief Societies
at home is never felt by our Hawaiian sisters;
I refer to a diffidence in speaking in public.
Here the difficulty comes in when you want
them to stop, for they never tire of talking.
	Leaving Koloa we went to Wailua, passing
Nawiliwili to the right. Here we enjoyed the
beautiful scenery, and also the boating on the
river, visiting the falls, and listening to the
legends and myths connected with the place,
as recited by our native friends. Here we
met Sister Nahinu, who is a cousin of the
present Queen and a chiefess. She is a very
pleasant lady, and is very much interested in
the progress of Zion. She and her husband,
also a member of the Church, entertain strong
hopes of going to Utah, and now await the
consent of the King. 
	We returned home after an absence of two
weeks, pretty nearly prostrate with the extra
sea-sickness.
	Please extend my kind regards to Sisters
E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Ma Smcot. Praying for your suc-
cess in your editorial capacity, I remain,
	MARGARET A. CLUFF.


LAMANITE SISTERS TESTIFY,

	At  a  meeting  of the  Relief Society  of In-
dianola  (Thistle  Valley), Sept. 16, 1880, Mrs.
Jane  Simons, President of the  Payson  Relief
Society, with  her  counselors  and other  sisters,
were present.   Meeting called to order by Pres.
Lodisia  Spencer.  Singing.   Prayer  by  Pres.
Jane Simons.   Singing.   Roll  called, thirteen
members  present. Minutes  of  previous  meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister  Douglas  spoke  to the sisters: said she
felt glad  to have the privilege of meeting with
the  sisters  of  Indianola;  was  glad  to  see  the
improvement  made  by  the  Lamanite  sisters.
Also gave some very good instructions, and en-
couraged them to do right, and the Lord would
bless them. Interpreted  by Pres. John  Spen-
cer, who was present and acted throughout the
meeting as  interpreter.
	Sister Moore  said  she  felt  glad to meet with
the  sisters  of  Indianola, and  that  she lived in
this  day and  age  of  the world, when the Gos-
pel had been made known to the human family;
and gave some very good instructions. Prayed
the Lord to bless them all.
	Sister Hancock said she was glad to have the
privilege of living in  this day. She  felt  that
the Spirit  of God  was  in  their  midst to-day.
Said she could see a great  improvement in the
Lamanites;  also felt well.
	Sister Martha  Simons  spoke  to  the  sisters;
said  she  felt  thankful  to  God  for having the
privilege  of  meeting with the  Lamanite sisters
of  Indianola. Said  we  ought  to  be  faithful
and  set a good example  to the Lamanites, and
also teach them to be cleanly and to have faith
in  God;  and  gave  other  good  instructions.
Prayed  that  God  would  bless  those  who  are
called to lead the Saints here in Indianola.
	Sister  Phebe (Lamanite) said  she  felt  glad
to see the day when the white and the red sis-


ters  could  mingle  together. Said she knew it
was right to keep  herself  clean;  and  also  en-
couraged the sisters to diligence.
	Sister  Mary  Tackipo  (Lamanite)  said  she
felt glad to  meet  with the sisters from  Payson;
had known some of them for a  long time. Said
she  was  learning  to  keep  house, and assisting
her husband in his labors. Said  she  liked  it
better than her former way of doing.
	Bro. Joseph(Lamanite) said he was glad to see
the sisters from Payson. Said the Indians with
him  felt well;  felt  like  doing right, and loved
peace.
	Sistsr  Hannah  Moritze (Lamanite) said  she
felt well in hearing the  sisters  who had spoken
there that day. Was anxious to  learn to keep
house and to keep herself  clean.
	Sister  Annetta  Panawatts  (Lamanite) said
she felt well and was glad to hear what she had
heard. Was willing to learn how to become a
good  Latter-day  Saint,  but  was  rather slow.
Said she felt different altogether  since she had
been baptized.
	Sister  Jane  Simons  said  she  felt  well  in
meeting with  the  sisters, and  of  hearing what
she had heard  from  the white women and also
the Lamanite  sisters. Felt  that  the Spirit of
God  was  there  on  that  occasion.  Gave some
good instruction  and  encouraged the sisters to
diligence  and  to  be  faithful.  Said  she was
present at the dedication of the Kirtland Tem-
ple. Had  heard  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith
prophecy in  regard to  the Lamanites embrac-
ing the  Gospel  in  the  last  days. Related  to
them a testimony of the laying on  of hands.
	Sister  D, D. Tanner said  she felt well could
see  a  great  improvement  in   the   Lamanite's
since she came to this valley and in the  Relief
Society. Prest.  John Spencersaidhe was glad
to have the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the
Relief  Society  of  Indianola  and  said, I am
pleased to see  our Sisters  who  have been with
us to-day, said they  had an  object in  view  in
coming to visit the Lamanite Sisters, described
how he found the Lamanites, in their low state
some three years previous. Said  they  are now
commencing to gather  in,  they say the Latter-
day Saints are the only friends  they have  got
President Young  told  them  many  years  ago
that we desired to teach  them truth. There is
a great labor in teaching them in their temporal
as well as their spiritual affairs,also encouraged
the sisters in their labors.
	Sister Douglas felt glad to see the peace and
good order which we  have  had  to-day  would
like very much to visit the Lamanite sisters at
their homes.
	Sister Seely said that she felt  glad that   the
sisters had come to  visit and  hoped  it  would
not be the  last  time.  Said  she  felt  willing to
take hold and assist all  she could in  teaching
the Lamanite sisters, and also the brethren,said
they were making great improvements and are
willing to  learn  everything  that is  taught  to
them. Brother Joseph's wife was administered
to by Brother  John  Spencer.  President Lod-
isia Spencer spoke,  returned her thanks to the
visiting sisters  said she  appreciated  the  good
spirit  that had  been  there  that day  and was
glad her sisters had come from Payson  to visit
them and hoped it would not be the last time.
Singing.  Benediction by  Bro. Joseph, (Lam-
anite.)
	LODISIA SPFNCER Pres.
	M. V. SELMAN, CLERK,Protem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


TULLIDGE'S great play of Elizabeth, which
was written expressly for Julia Dean Hayne
will be read at the Theatre this evening.

	WASHINGTON Territory has had one lady
School Superindent, and her success was so
satisfactory that the Democrats there, have
nominated ladies for the position in three other
counties.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM MY DIARY.

	September 28, 1880.—I got up very early
this morning, in order to have all things ready
and get to the depot in good time. Cousin
George and the little boys went along to carry
my things. There was quite a company of
us, and no doubt people thought the whole
family were going, but they didn't. Well, I
got safely on the cars, budgets, bundles and
satchels, and Cousin George got me a ticket for
home. The car was full of people, and they
all seemed to be going the same way. I de-
posited myself on the seat with my bundles, for
I was bound to keep an eye on them. I raised
the window and put down the blind, and set-
tled myself comfortably, taking out my paper
and pencil to note down anything I might see
by the way. As the car moved on there was
too much draught, so I raised the blind and
put down the sash, which gave me a better
view of the country, and I was enjoying my-
self immensely. Some people can't enjoy
themselves unless they are talking, and some
are never happy unless they are miserable, to
making some one else so, but I like a variety.
	Presently a gentleman came to a seat in fronr
of me, and finding it unoccupied, turned it
over and sat down vis-a-vis. Well, he sat down
in front of me, as I said before, and by the way
he looked at me I thought he wanted to be so-
ciable. I thought I'd try and be sociable too,
so I handed him one of my new books, just
pnblished. He looked at the outside of the
book, and then he opened it and looked at the
inside. Then he picked out a piece and com-
menced reading it. By and by he said: "Mad-
am, you are ambiguous." Now, ambiguity
never was one of my besetting sins. My worst
enemy never called me ambiguous, and I felt
like the woman who was having her husband
tried in court for beating her. "Madam," said
the judge, "does your husband beat you with
impunity?" "No, your honor," said she, "he
beats me with a stick."
	But I said nothing, only just looked at the
book and said, "How?" He explained the
matter to me and made a few general remarks
on punctuation and the ignorance of some peo-
ple, and went on reading. I leaned back in
my seat and made a few reflections on things
in general and ambiguity in particular. After
a while he leaned over toward me and said;
"Did you ever have any trouble in yonr early
life, that should give your writings a tone of
sadnes?" And I said, "No, not as I know of."
He picked out another piece and read it, and
then said: "When did you write this piece?"
"Oh, about twenty-five years ago." I almost
hated to say so long ago, but it was the truth
and I said it. "Well," said he, "didn't you
know the Cullom Bill made it a crime?"
"What a crime?" said I, wondering if I had
been ambiguous again. "Why," he said, "ad-
vising a man to marry two wives." Now I
was in a fix, worse and worse. I studied the
matter over a while and then said: "I must
have written that before the Cullom Bill passed,
because I wrote that when I was first married,
and I had been married a long while when the
Cullom Bill passed." And then I sat back
and reflected on the perversity of human na-
ture, and how it could be I had committed a
crime in telling a man to marry two wives, and
finally concluded there would be no crime,unless
the man actually did marry two wives, and
then I might be accessory, through having told
him to; and my mind was getting tolerably
calm again, when he looked up and asked if he
should criticise my book in sections, or if I
wished him to do it all then. I said, by no
means, I would not trouble him so much.
He handed me the book and walked away. I
took up my pencil and wrote a poem something
like this:

[Column 2]
You ask me why a vein of sadness
	Mingles with my sweetest lay;
Dost thou think that naught but gladness
	Ever lay along my way.

Gliding on life's changing river,
	Many happy years I've spent;
Dost thou think that sorrow never
	To my heart her shaft has sent?

Could I part with father, mother,
	Children, home and dearest friends,
And each tender impulse smother,
	That a passing sadness blends?

Let the poet tell his fancies,
	Light they are, perhaps, and vain,
But their fitful fever dances
	Ever through his busy brain.

Dost thou never think that sorrow,
	Ofttimes seen in passing by,
Of his sympathy may borrow
	Teardrops to bedew his eye?

Hard the heart, and all unfeeling,
	That can know no other's pain;
Or, in sympathy revealing,
	Make the thought his own again.

Dost not know that poet's nature
	Is to feel what others see?
Loves he every human creature,
	And his spirit must be free.

Let him, then, indulge his dreaming,
	Be his fancies sad or gay;
And whate'er of sorrow seeming,
	He will sing his sweetest lay.

							AUNT JANE.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	I have often thought that I would like to
have a voice with the rest of my sisters in our
valuable little paper. But in taking my pen
I feel my weakness, when I see the bright intel-
ligences that dwell among my beloved sisters.
But nevertheless with the help and assistance
of the spirit of my Heavenly Father, I will
endeavor to say a few words. I have not
the language to express my gratitude: I thank
my Father in Heaven that he has brought me
out of nature's darkness into the marvelous
light of the Gospel. When I heard the Elders
preach I embraced it with joy. I emigrated
in the first year of the handcart companies and
rejoiced that I was counted worthy to make a
little sacrifice for the Gospel's sake, and the
Lord has blessed me abundantly; and I feel
proud to be associated with the chosen people
of God, and pray that I may be ever worthy to
be one with them. I must say the people of
Wellsville are a good kind and warm hearted
people and the sisters are trying to strengthen
the hands of our brethren in building up the
kingdom of God, and we have an excellent
Sunday School which is a great blessing to the
young. While writing this I have been think-
ing of one of Sister Emily Hill's songs, which
we sang together on the plains.
	The chorus ran thus:
		"Hail ye heirs of glory,
			All hail, ye shall be blessed;
		Your deeds shall live in story,
			While unborn ages rest
	And I feel that the names of the faithful
handcart girls will be handed down in  honor-
able remembrance from generation to genera-
tion.
	A WORD FOR THE HAND-CART GIRLS.
		SUSANNAH STONE LLOYED.
	Wellsville Sept. 7, 1880.


If Gen. Garfield is such a man as Mrs. Sara
Spencer describes—“a man  of  the people,
brave, strong, tender and pure;  a working man,
a soldier,  a  statesman,  a  gentleman  and  a
scholar;  reverent to women, loving to children,
kind and loving to all that is human”—we had
better  thank  God for the chance to make  him
our President,—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the Council
House, South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER  15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	FIFTIETH SEMI-ANNUAL CONFER-
	ENCE.

	THE October Conference just past  has  indeed
been a remarkable one.  It was numerously  at-
tended; people being present from all parts of the
country.  The preaching throughout was inspir-
ing,  and  the  instructions  given  calculated  to
benefit all who will receive it in good and honest
hearts, and practice its life-giving principles.  It
is evident the kingdom of God is fast  increasing
in strength and power.  "Zion is growing!” The
latter-day work is progressing  rapidly, and  soon
all nations will have heard  the  glad  tidings  of
great joy.
	Conference lasted  five whole  days,  commenc-
ing on Wednesday morning at 10 o’clock, Octo-
ber 6th, and closing Sunday  afternoon,  October
10th.  The  people  manifested  no  impatience
whatever, but each day seemed more and  more
delighted.   Sunday afternoon the most  import-
ant business was transacted. It had been announc-
ed on  Sunday  morning,  that  at  a  priesthood
meeting held in the Assembly  Hall,  Saturday
evening, President  Taylor had been  nominated
as president of the Church, and that the several
quorums of the holy priesthood  then  and  there
assembled had voted upon  it.  That on Sunday
afternoon the priesthood would vote by quorums
and  after  them  the  entire congregation.  The
people were  also advised to vote conscientiously.
Accordingly the numerous  congregation assem-
bled early and  were seated  in  the  order  agreed
upon  in the  morning.  The  Tabernacle  was
crowded to its utmost capacity.  It was a grand
and  imposing spectacle to gaze  upon.
	The meeting was called to  order by President
John Taylor.  Choir sang:	
	“O God, our help in ages past,”
in the most  impressive  manner.  Elder  Albert
Carrington offered the  opening  prayer. Choir
sang:
	“O God the Eternal Father."
	Elder Orson Pratt, who is the only remaining
member of the original  Quorum of the  Twelve
Apostles,  then  presented  the  authorities
of  the  Church  to  the  Conference, who
were voted for unanimously in  the  order of the
Priesthood, each quorum  according  to  their re-
spective rank, and afterwards  the whole congre-
gation rising to their feet with  uplifted hands to
heaven.  This solemn scene  will  live forever in
the  memory of  all  who  witnessed  it.  John
Taylor was sustained as Prophet, Seer and Reve-
lator and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus
Christ of Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  world.
George Q. Cannon as First Counselor and Joseph
F. Smith  Second Counselor  in  the First Presi
dency. Wilford  Woodruff  as  President of the
Twelve  Apostles.  The  other  members of the
quorum were then  sustained  according  to their
order. As  Counselors  to  the Twelve,

[Column 2]
John W.  Young  and  Daniel  H.  Wells
Then  the  names  of  Frances  Marion
Lyman and John Henry Smith  were presented
and unanimously sustained as members  of  the
Quorum of the Twelve.  All the other  presiding
officers were sustained  in their places  according
to their proper order.  The  new  edition of  the
Book of  Doctrine and Covenants  in  its revised
form, and the Pearl  of  Great  Price, were then
presented for the acceptance of  the Conference.
President Joseph F. Smith moved that  reve-
lations in these books  be received  and  accepted
by the Conference as revelations from God to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
to all the world.  The motion was  seconded and
sustained.  Other business was transacted, after
which  President  Taylor  and  Elder Woodruff
spoke  with  great  power  to  the  people, and
then, by request of  President Taylor, the choir
and the whole vast congregation  arose  to their
feet and sang  that  soul-thrilling  hymn, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."  Conference
adjourned  until  the  6th  of  April, 1881, at 10
o’clock a.m. The benediction  was  pronounced
by Pres. Joseph F. Smith.

[Column 3]
We feel safe in recommending this book to the
general public, and especially  is it adapted to the
young people’s libraries.  Mrs. Tanner’s writings
are  evidently not  for  effect, but simply the out-
pourings of a soul, rich  in  kindness, sympathy,
tenderness, affection,  love  for  her  fellow  crea-
tures, love  of  God  and all  his works.  Many  of
her poems are excellent—they are all good.  "Is
Genius Immortal” is  certainly superior  in  true
merit.  The  books  contain  one  hundred  and
twtnty-five  pages, and  are  bound in  cloth and
leather, at $l,00 and $1,25 each;  paper covers 50
cents.  They may be  purchased  at  this  office,
also  at  the  office  of the “Deseret News" and
'Juvenile Instructor.”
	WE publish in  full  the  written  decision  of
the Judges  of the Supreme  Court  of  Utah  in
the  Mandamus  case,  which  caused  some  ani-
mated discussion on the part of the general pub-
lic while the case was pending.  It was decidedly
a  woman  question, as  the  real  object was the
disfranchisement  of  women  citizens.  We are
proud  to  say  that  the  majority  of the Judges
proved  themselves  on  the  side  of justice, and
very sorry that  the  minority man is so blind as
not  to  comprehend  the  situation  better.  We
have received telegrams  and  letters  from  the
active suffragists  in  the  East,  expressing their
indignation at  an  attempt  being  made to take
the  ballot from  the women  of  Utah, and urging
us to strongly and strenuously resist any further
attempt, should any be  made, and assuring  us,
should  such  be  the  case, they would  use their,
<such be="" the="" case,="" .they="" would="" <use="" their="" utmost,endeavors="" and="" infllittlee,="" to="" call="" attention="" injustice.="" much="" might="" said="" on="" this="" subject,="" but="" time.will="" prove="" whether="" right.will="" not="" eventually,successfully,="" triumph="" over="" wrong.'="" people’s="" territorial="" convention="" was="" held;.="" in="" city="" hall,="" oct.="" 7="" inst;,="" at="" 6="" there="" a="" full="" representation="" of:delegates,ffronfifio.="" several="" counties.="" usual.form;="" of="" transacting="" business="" nature,="" .bbserved.="" after="" which="" hon.="" moses="" thatcher,="" ,="" logan,="" nominated="" for="" delegate="" tha47.th="" congress,the="" george="" q.="" cannon,="" pledging="" him'the="" solid="" vote,="" cache="" co.,="" speaking:="" the.="" highest="" terms="" many="" his="" purity="" life,="" temperance="" aftl="" integrity..="" nomination="" was-="" seconded="" by="" john="" e.="" bboth,="" provoj-who="" also="" spoke="" praise="" nomihee;arid="" influ-="" ence,="" promised="" heartysuppoh‘pi="" utah="" co.="" ron.c.="" w.="" penrose;="" cityendorsed'.="" sentiments="" expressed,="" dwelt="" hriefiy="" lpon="" unblemished.="" character="" .and="" excellent="" abili-="" ties="" mr,="" ‘cjannon,="" proposed,="" inasmuch="" as="" appeared="" he="" no="" other="" nominee,="" that="" jthe="" name="" .cannon="" voted="" upon.="" accla-;="" mation.="" suggestion="" acted.-ppoh,="" sustained="" byrthe="" unanimous="" yoice="" ttie="" convention.="" short="" pithy="" speeches="" wej-e="" made="" dalegates.="" central="" committee="" were="" sus-="" tained="" aud="" three="" others="" added,="" one="" for,each="" new="" counties,="" emery,="" san="" juan="" uintah.="" booth="" moved="" committee-="" instructed="" draft="" resolutions="" party.="" the,="" first="" motion,="" however,="" with-="" drawn;="" .="" son.="" mdses="" thatcher="" suggested="" principle="" party="" “.the="" possible="" liberty="" man-="" woman.”="" before="" calling="" vote="" resolution="" pro-,="" posed,="" chairman,="" honl.="" harrington,="" said:="" “the="" sentiment="" expressed="" calls="" mind,="" is="" accordance="" with="" saying="" -jeffer-="" son,="" viz="" “i="" have="" sworn,="" upon="" altar="" god,="" eternal="" hostility="" every="" form="" tyranny'over="" mind="" man;="" again,="" vigilance="" price="" liberty.”="" furthereaid;="" spirit="" indicates="" right="" woman="" jsjiall="" continue="" inviolate,="" td="" shall="" acjded="" rigtvt="" hold="" all="" offices<="" div="">utmost endeavors and influence, to call attention
to  the  injustice.  Much  might be  said  on this 
subject, but  time will  prove whether  right will
not eventually, successfully triumph over wrong.
	THE People's Territorial  Convention was held
in  the  City  Hall, Oct.  7 inst., at 6 P.M. There 
was a full  representation  of  delegates  from the 
several counties.  The usual form of  transacting
business  of  this  nature  was  observed.  After
which  the  Hon.  Moses  Thatcher,  of  Logan,
nominated for Delegate to the 47th Congress the
Hon. George  Q. Cannon, pledging  for  him  the
solid  vote  of  Cache  Co., and  speaking  in  the
highest  terms  of  the  man,  his  purity  of  life,
temperance and integrity.  The nomination was
seconded by Hon. John E. Booth, of  Provo, who
also spoke in praise of the nominee and his influ-
ence, and  promised the hearty support  of  Utah
Co.  Hon. C. W. Penrose, of this  city, endorsed
the sentiments expressed, and dwelt briefly upon
the  unblemished  character  and excellent abili-
ties  of Mr. Cannon, and  proposed, inasmuch as
there appeared  to be no other nominee, that  the
name  of  Mr. Cannon  be voted  upon  by accla-
mation.  This suggestion  was  acted  upon, and
the nomination was sustained by the unanimous
voice  of  the  Convention.  Short  and  pithy
speeches were made by several of the delegates.
The  Territorial  Central  Committee  were  sus-
tained  and  three  others  added, one for  each of
the new counties, Emery, San Juan and Uintah.
Mr. John  E. Booth  moved that  the committee
be instructed to draft resolutions for the People's
Party.  The  first  motion, however,  was  with-
drawn, and the Hon. Moses Thatcher suggested
that the principle of the People's Party  be "The
highest  possible  liberty  to  man  and woman."
Before  calling for the vote on the resolution pro-
posed,  the  Chairman,  Hon.  L.  E. Harrington,
said: "The sentiment expressed  calls  to  mind,
and is in  accordance with the  saying  of Jeffer-
son, viz.:  "I have sworn, upon the altar  of God,
eternal hostility to  every form  of  tyranny  over
the  mind  of man;  and  again, eternal vigilance
is the price of liberty."  And further said; "The
spirit of the Convention  indicates that the right
of woman to vote  shall  continue inviolate, and 
to that shall be added the right to hold all offices


to which woman is adapted"—and in conversa-
tion he afterwards added the saying of Pres.
Jackson "that a plain system of government,
void of pomp, protecting all and granting favors
to none, dispensing its blessings, like the dews
of heaven, unseen and unfelt, save in the beauty
and freshness they contribute to produce," is
vital to the rights of the people. The suggestion
of Hon. Moses Thatcher was then unanimously
adopted.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said: "Inasmuch as the
ladies of Utah have an honorable representation,
I desire, in their behalf, to express their complete
satisfaction with the nomination made by the
Convention." Remarks were made in reference
to calling conventions, etc., and a Committee of
seven were appointed by the Chair to notify Mr.
Cannon of the action of the Convention. The
Convention adjourned sine die.


HOME AFFAIRS. 

	We received, through courtesy of the author,
Col. Juan Lewis, a new work of his, entitled
"Two of the Name." It is very finely written
in a pleasing style, and forms one number of a
series, styled the "Philadelphia Library." We
had the pleasure of meeting and forming a very
pleasant acquaintance with Mrs. Col. Lewis in
Washington. She is the able editor of "Wo-
man's Words," published at 625 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia. We count this journal, one of the 
very best among our exchanges, and always
look forward anxiously to its coming.
	"The Contributor," a monthly magazine, edit-
ed by Junius F. Wells, and representing the
Young People's Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, has completed one year and issued the first
number of its second volume. The new num-
ber for October is improved by the addition of
ten pages of reading matter. It is certainly well
worth the subscription, two dollars per year. The
articles in this number present a pleasing vari-
ety—historical, philosophical, sentimental and
general, with "Sketches from Life," that may
be termed humorous, and which are a happy
contrast to the solid reading. The writer, who
styles himself Gax, evidently has ability in that
style of writing, and should cultivate it by prac-
tise, as there are few who possess it in any great
degree. Gax may win name and fame, if he
will persevere. We are glad to see the "Univer-
sity of Deseret" written up in so able a manner,
and hope to see more on the same subject. The
University of Deseret has a history which should
be recorded. The struggles made by this people
to plant educational institutions in the early days
of Utah, are not recognized as they should be by
the men and women of to-day.
	"FUGITIVE POEMS."—This is the title of a
book recently published. The author, Mrs. M.
J. Tanner, is favorably known among the Saints
as a writer of both prose and verse. Her intro_
ductory  remarks, in presenting the book to the
public, are pleasing and impressive. We quote
the following from the preface:
	"Poetry is the clothing of our thoughts and
fancies, not the revelation of our experience. 
That the wildest and most erratic ideas find vent
through its channels has been proven by those
who have, long ago, been acknowledged as pos-
sessing the highest genius. I lay no claim to
erudition or elegance, but if my humble efforts
should touch a pathetic feeling in the hearts of
my readers, or gain an appreciation, I shall feel
that my labors are well rewarded."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM. 

	Sister Louisa Barnes Pratt was born in War-
wick, Franklin Co. Mass.,10th,of November 1802;
she was the 5th, daughter of Willard and Polly
Stevens Barnes. She says in her journal "My
grandfather Abraham Barnes, was a man dis-
tingushed for his piety and wisdom, being hard
of hearing he was asked if he did not regret his
deafness? O! no, he replied it is a less affliction
than the nonsense which forever assails the ear.
My grandmother Polly Stevens was reputed
amiable and affectionate very fond of children
and especially to those of her own kindred."
Both her grandparents were Unitarians and lived
to the best light they had. Her father and
mother were members of the Unitarian Church
till their removal to Lower Canada (or Canada
East) in 1810 where they joined the Episcopal,
or Church of England, in which she was con-
firmed and remained a member through the
days of her youth till after she was married and
moved to New York when she joined the Pres-
byterians.
	She was married to Addison Pratt of Win-
cherter, New Hamshire, April 3d 1831, by whom
she had four daughters, all still living. She
lived to see the fourth generarion; she had seven-
teen living grandchildren and six have died, has
one great-grandchild living, which was present
and formed a part of her enjoyment on her 77th,
anniversary. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the
waters of Lake Erie town of Ripley Chataque
Co., New York in the month of June, 1838, by
her brother in-law Elder Jonathan Crosby Nov.
35, 1838, they left Ripley New York, for Far
West,Caldwell Co. Mo. For the first five hund-
red miles mud was not seen upon the wagon
wheels, the weather was so intensely cold, then
came a January thaw which rendered the roads
almost impassable. On arriving in Indiana they
heard of the expulsion of the Saints from Far
West, and the Saints who were on their way
were counseled to remain where they were till
further orders; so they bought a farm in Clay
county and tarried there till the year 1841, when
they removed to Nauvoo arriving there at the
October Conference of that year.
	Houses were few and hard to be obtained but
it mattered not to her she was in the city of the 
Saints and in sight of the Temple.
	June 1st, 1843 her husband with three other
Elders Brother Noah Rogers, B. F. Grouard and
Knowlton Hanks, were called to go on a three
years mission to the South Sea Islands, the first
Elders of our Church sent to preach in a foreign
language; he was absent from his family five
years and four months, meeting them in Salt
Lake in Sept. 1848. When news came that they
must leave Nauvoo her heart failed her, she
thought she could not undertake the journey

[Column 2]

without her husband and with four children all
girls, but she rallied her drooping courage pro-
cured an ox team engaged a driver, and in May
1846, crossed the Mississippi and followed on
with the rest. Camped at Winter Quarters the
following Winter where she with her family ex-
perienced much sickness,privation and hardships
but no death. The summer, of '47 they spent  in
that place most of the time in sod-caves and dug
outs.
	In May 1848 she left Winter Quarters with her
family in Prest. Brigham Young's company for
Salt Lake arrived there in Sept. Two weeks
after her arrival Mr. Pratt came in, having
come the western route from the Islands, by way
of Cal., with the battalion boys, stayed with his
family one year,in the fall of '49 went with Capt.
Hunt the Southern route acompanied by two
others Elders for the Islands. The family follow-
ing in the Spring. May 8th, 1850 Sister Pratt
with her four daughters, Bro. J. Crosby and
family and several other Elders started with ox
teams for Sacramento across the Rocky Moun-
tains on their way to join Bro. Pratt in the
Islands. On the 15 Sept. 1850 from San Fran-
cisco embarked on board the brig Jane A. Her-
sey, Capt. Salmon for the Island of Tubuai,
landed there Oct. 21st. and found the husband
and the father detained a prisoner on Tahiti,
as the French Governor did not want any but the
Catholic religion promulgated under the Protec-
torate, the family were full of sorrow when they
found he was not there, but they went to work
with a will to learn the language and by the time
he arrived on Tubuai,which was Jan. 19th, 1851,
they were able to answer every quesion he
could ask them in Tahitian. Sister Pratt never
allowed the girls to give up their studies' every
morning  they repaired to the "fare bure rea" as
the natives called for meeting house pursued
their English studies in the forenoon and studied
Tahitian in the afternoon and taught the natives
to knit and sew or any thing they wished. Sis-
ter Pratt was much beloved by the native sisters
who had great faith in her anointing with con-
secrated oil their children and themselves when
ever they were sick.
	The French government laid so many restric-
tions on them they could not tarry their 
appointed time on the 6th, April 1852 they left
Tubuai and went to Tahiti where the brethren
could get work to obtain money to come home
with. The 14th of May embarked on board the
barque Callao, Capt. Sergeant, in company with
Brother Grouard and family for San Francisco.
Sister Pratt and family arrived on the 15th of
July 1852, glad to set foot on her native shore
once more; staid there till Dec., following em-
barked on the brig Fremont, Capt. Erskine for
San Pedro on their way to San Bernardino.
At the beach met Brother Wm. Fotheringham
and numerous other Elders destined to different
parts of the globe to preach the Gospel. Arrived
in San Ber. on Christmas day and found many
kind friends to welcome them back among them
	Dec. 1857, she with her youngest daughter,
the rest being married, left San Bernardino, Cal.
with the rest of the Saints in that branch to join
the Church in the valleys of the mountain. Her
husband leaving at the same time to go to Upper
California where their second child was living.
After many troubles and trials severe,she arrived
in Cedar city, Iron county Utah: staid through
the summer in that place; in the fall of 1858,
removed to Beaver, Utah, where she resided till
the day of her death. In May 1871 she made a
visit to Cunada East to the home of her child-
hood to see her brothers and sisters who were
living at that time.
	Sister Pratt's faculties remained unimpaired
to the last; she tended her own garden with
what help she could get from friends, had almost

[Column 3]

numberless correspondents, and was in the habit
of writing verses for every body around her on
every occasion. She was the life of every circle
where she was met; and had ever a consoling
word for the afflicted: Her faith in the Gospel
was unshaken, her trust in God unbounded.
She was first counselor to Mother Nyman in
the first organization of Relief Society in Beaver,
and Secretary of the same till her departure for
Canada. On the evening of Saturday Sept. 4th,
1880, she was taken with something like con-
gestive chill which settled on her lungs in the
form of pneumonia; two only of her daughters
were where they could be near her, in her last
illness they did everything weich love and
faith could suggest; but all to no avail. The
pain  in her lungs forbade her any rest for three
days; she plead earnestly for something to give
her rest, cold water cold water, was all the nour-
ishment she craved. On the morning of the 8th,
Sept. at a quarter to nine after being adminis-
tered to by the Elders she sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus.
	Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore,
	Thoughts of her virtues increase more and more;
	T'will be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet her on Heaven's bright shore,
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more.
		E. S. P. C.


THE  DECISION  OF  THE  SUPREME
COURT IN THE MANDAMUS CASE.

In the matter of  the  petition  and  affidavit  of 
George R. Maxwell for writ of mandamus,  di-
rected to Robert T. Burton,Assessor and Regis-
ter   of Salt Lake  County,  Territory  of Utah.
SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY  OF  UTAH.
Sutherland & McBride
for [Relator.
Zera Snow,
Zerrubbabel Snow,
J. L. Rawlins,
Richards &  Williams,
Bennett & Harkness,
A. Miner,
	For Respondent.
	A  petition  was presented  to  this Court at its
present session  by the relator for a writ  of man-
damus,  to  compel Robert T.  Burton,  Assessor
and   Register  of  voters  for Salt  Lake County,
Utah   Territory,  to  erase and  strike  from  the
list  of  voters of, Salt  Lake  County,  made by
him the name  of  the  following  persons,  viz.:
Emeline   B.   Wells, Ma[-]ia  M. Blythe and  Mrs.
A. G. Paddock, and also the names of all  women
whose  names  thereon  appear  on  the  aforesaid
list,  or  that  he  show  cause before this  court
on  the 29th day of September, why  he has  not
done so.   Also that  in  the  meantime  the  said
officer  be ordered not  to return said  list  or  any
copy thereof  to any election officer until the fur-
ther order of this court.
	An alternative  writ  was  ordered at the  time
of filing the petition and the  cause  came up for
hearing  on the day  mentioned  in  the  alterna-
tive writ,  to wit: Sept. 29, 1880.
	The respondent  on the day fixed for the hear-
ing appeared by counsel who interposed a de-
murrer  to  the  petition  and  writ,  assigning as
grounds therefor,
1.  That this court  has  no jurisdiction  of  the
subject of this action.
2.  Neither the petition  nor  writ herein state
facts  sufficient to constitute  a  cause  of  action,
thus raising two questions for the  determination
of this court.
	It has been   heretofore  held  by the  Supreme
Court of this  Territory, in the case  of Shepperd
vs the 2nd District Court, that this  court has no
original jurisdiction to issue mandamus except to
enable it  to  exercise  its  appellate jurisdiction.
And the Court  in that  case  cites sections 1,907,
1,866  and  1,869 of  the  Revised  Statutes of  the
United States, and  the  3d section of an act enti-
tled, "An  Act in  Relation  to Courts and judicial
officers in the Territory  of  Utah,  (Poland law)
which are as follows:
	Sec. 1,907.   "The judicial power in Utah shall
be  vested  in   a  Supreme Court, District Court
Probate Court and the Justice of the Peace."


Sec. 1,869. "The jurisdiction both appellate
and original o the courts provided for by sec-
tion 1,907 shall be limited by law."
Sec. 1,860. "Writs of error, bills of excep-
tions and appeals shall be allowed in all cases
from the final decisions of the District Court to
the Supreme Court of all the Territories, respec-
ively, under such regulations as may be provid-
ed by law, but in no case removed to the Su-
preme Court shall trial by jury be allowed in
that court."
Third section Judicial act.
"The District Court shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction in all suits and proceedings
in chancery, and in all actions at law in which
the sum or value of the thing in controversy
shall be $300 or upwards.
The Supreme Court in passing upon these
laws, in the decision cited, says:
"Regarding the acts of Congress as the Su-
reme law of the Territory having a controlling
power similar to, if not co-extensive with the
constitution of any particular State over their
respective Legislatures and judicial depart-
ments, we are forced to the conclusion that, in
so far as section 445 of our Practice Act, which
provides that the writ of mandamus may be is-
sued by any Coury of this Territory, except a
[-]ustice of the Peace, is in conflict with the acts
of Congress above referred to, it is wholly
inoperative and void.
The decision of the Coury is based upon the
theory that the Acts of Congress in reference
[--] the courts referred to, are paramount to all
territorial legislation. In this theory we now
oncur, and if there is any Congressional enact-
ment which has the effect of making inoperative
and void, Section 445 of the Practice Act, then
of course the Act is void. So far as it confers
upon this court power to issue mandamus ex-
cept in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
It is insisted that the third section of the Act
in relation to courts and judicial officers in the
Territory of Utah as above quoted, resolves that
question. To a certain extent said third section
has the effect of limiting the jurisdiction of
this court, but only to that certain extent. It
confers upon the District Court, exclusive, orig-
inal jurisdiction in all suits or proceedings in
chancery, and in all actions at law in which the
sum or value of the thing in controversy shall
-e three hundred dollars or upwards.
To determine therefore whther the Congres-
sional enactment destroys the Legislative en-
actment, we must look into the character of the
proceeding wherein the rule is sought to be ap-
plied. Clearly if the case is a suit or pro-
ceeding in chancery, then the exclusive ori-
ginal jurisdiction over it is in the District
Court; and if the case be an action at law to
which the sum or value of the thing in con-
troversy shall be three hundred dollars or up-
wards, then the exclusive original jurisdiction
over it is in the District Court.
But if it is not a suit [-]r proceeding in chan-
cery, or it is not a suit at law wherein the sum or
value of the thing in controversy is three hun-
dred dollars or upwards, then the District
Court does not by virtue of the third section
obtain the exclusive original jurisdiction. The
Poland Bill confers upon Justices of Peace,
jurisdiction in all cases where the debt or sum
claimed shall be less than three hundred
dollars, thus giving to Justices' Courts concur-
rent jurisdiction with the District Courts in
such cases where the amount in controversy is
less than three hundred dollars.
Sec. 445 of the Practice Act provides that the
writ of mandamus "may be issued by any court
-- this Territory, except a justice's to any in-
terior tribunal, corporation, board or person to
compel the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust or station." Under this provision
the relator has applied to this court for the writ,
and the demurrer interposed to his complaint
and affidavit raises the jurisdictional question,
and in the resolving that question it becomes our
duty to apply the rule of construction heretofore
referredto. The case is not a suit or proceed-
ing in chancery, and therefore the District
Court has not exclusive original jurisdiction
over it, nor is the amount involved in it $300 or
upwards, nor is it less than $300.
It has no monied value whatever, and has no
element calling for the chancery powers of the
court, but it is of that class of cases in which
the practice act confers upon this Court, under
the broad term any court, jurisdiction to issue
writs of mandamus.
To my mind there is a wide difference in the
office of the two writs, viz., mandamus and
pertoirari.
	The former is termed in our statute a writ of
mandate an dthe latter is termed a writ of re-
view.
Clearly in the one case looking to the enforce-
ment of some act or duty refused to be done
by an officer in the execution of a trust which
by law he is required to do or perform.
In the other looking to certain proceedings
had by some inferior tribunal, wherein there is
alleged error or other informality in the proceed-
ing which the superior court issues the writ,
desires to review, to ascertain if or not error or
informality exists.
	In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
	In the case of the writ of mandamus, I hold
it can only be issued in the particular cases pro-
vided by the statute, and that the statute limits
the power to issue it to such cases wherein
it is sought to compel the performance of any
act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust or station.
This case is not of the kind here spoken of.
The officer against whom this writ is directed
has performed his duty. We are not called upon
to command him to do any duty he has failed or
refused to perform, but we are asked to compel
him to undo an act which the law compelled
him to do and he has done. This we cannot do.
The validity of the law which imposed the
duty upon the respondent to enter the names
of the persons named in the register, cannot
be brought into question in a proceeding of this
kind. We find that there is a law on our
statute books in reference to registration, com-
pelling the respondent to do what we are now
asked to compel him to undo. We cannot, for
the purposes of this proceeding inquire into
its validity. Having satisfied ourselves that
the duty required by the statute to be perform-
ed, has been performed, nothing is left for us to
do. The office of the writ is not to require the
respondent to do something not within the
scope of his official authority. Beyond that he
cannot go, and this court could not compel him
to exceed the functions of his office. In this
case it was the duty of the respondent to enter
 the names upon the register,and having so entered
them he could not afterwards legally erase them,
and if he could not, then this Court cannot
through the agency of the writ of mandamus
compel him to.
Section 2 of the act of Feb. 22, 1878, provides
that it shall be the duty of the Assessor of
each county in perosn, or by deputy, at the time
each year, beginning in 1879, to take up the
transcript of the next preceding Registration
List and proceed to the revision of the same,
and for this purpose he shall visit every dwell-
ing house in each precinct, and make careful
inquiryif any person, whose name is of his list,
has died or removed from the precinct, or is
otherwise disqualified as a voter of such precinct,
and if so, to erase the same therefrom, or
whether any qualified voter resides therein,
whose name is not on his list, and if so to add
the same thereto in the manner provided in
the preceding section.
The preceding section imposes upon the Regis-
tration Offices the duty of visiting every dwell-
ing, house in each precinct and of making care-
ful inquiry as to any or all persons entitled to
vote, and to ascertain upon what ground such
person claims to be a voter, and shall require
each person entitled to vote, and desiring to be
registered, to take and subscribe an oath, in
form, or substance as therein prescribed.
Section 3 provides that it shall be the duty of
wach Assessor in person or by deputy, during
the week commencing the first Monday in June
of each year at his office to enter on his Registry
List the name of any voter that may have been
omitted, on such voter appearing and comply-
ing with the provision of the first section of
this act required for voters for registration pur-
poses.
By Section four he is required, on the comple-
tion of this list, to make out a list, in alpha-
betical order, for each Precinct, and to deliver
the same on or before July first in each year,
with all the affidavits, to the Clerk of the County
Court.
Having performed the duties thus prescribed,
the functions of the Assessor cease, and he has
no further duty to perform in regard to that
Registration List, until the beginning of the
year 1880, and having for that year pursued the
same course, he has no further duty to perform
with the Registration List for 1880, until the
beginning of the year 1881, and the List for 1880
is the one from which it is now sought to have

[Column 3]
the erasure made. This same act of Feb'y 22,
1878, provides how the name of any person in
said Registration List may be stricken there-
from, and by whom it shall be done.
"Sec. 7. The Clerk of the County Court, shall
file, and carefully preserve all said affidavits and
Registry Lists and shall make a copy of each
Precinct Registry List, and cause the same to
be posted up at least 15 days before any election,
at or near the place of election, and shall make
and transmit another copy to the Judges of
Election.
Sec. 8.--The Clerk of the County Court, shall
cause to be printed or written a notice which
shall designate the offices to be filled, and
stating that the election will commence at
---------(designating the place for holding the
polls,) one hour after sunrise, and continue
until sunset on the-----------day of-------, 18—.
(Naming the day of election.)
 Dated at-------A, D. 18---.
Clerk of County Court.
A copy of which shall be posted up, at least
15 days before the election, in three public
places in said Precinct, best calculated to give
notice to all voters. It shall also be the duty of
the Clerk of the County Court to give notice on
the lists so posted, that the senior Justices of
the Peace for said Precinct will hear objections
the rhe right to vote, or any person registered, un-
til sunset of the fifth day preceding the day of-
election. Said objections shall be made by a
qualified voter in writing and delivered to the
said Justice who shall issue a written notice to
the person objected to, stating the place, day
and hour when the objection will be heard.
The person making the objection shall serve, or
caused to be served, said notice upon the person
objected to, and shall also make returns of such
service to the Justice before whom the objection
shall be heard. Upoln the hearing of the case, if
said Justice shall find that the person ob-
ject4ed to is not a qualified voter, he shall, within
three days prior to the election, transmit a certi-
fied list of the names of all such unqualified
persons, to the Judges of Election, and said
Judges shall strike such names from the Regis-
try List before the opening of the polls.
Granting that the issuance of this writ is with-
in the jurisdictional powers of this court, it is
the law that it can be directed to an officer to
compel him to do a mere ministrial act which
the relator has a right to have doen by him,
and as to which the officer has no discretion.
But it must be to compel him to do a mere min-
isterial act, and this act must be one which by
law he is required to perform and which he has
refued to do.
Chief Justice Taney in the case of The State of
Mississipi vs. Johnson 4. Wall 475 has given a
clear definition of a ministerial duty. He says:
"A ministerial duty, the performance of which
may, in proper cases, be required, is one in
which nothing is left to discretion. It is a simple,
definite duty, arising under circumstances ad-
mitted or proved to exist and imposed by law."
Are the duties required of the Assessor in
relation to registering persons and preparing the
Registra- tiou Lists, mere ministerial duties?
If they are, and he has refused or neglected to
perform them, he undoubtedly could be com-
pelled by mandamus to perform them. Fol-
lowing the definition given to "a ministerial
duty" as above quoted, these acts do not fall
within it. To be ministerial, nothing is to be
left to the discretion of the Assessor. In the case
at bar, one of the duties imposed upon the Asses-
sor is to ascertain upon what grounds any and
all persons claim to be voters, and he is further-
more required to make careful inquiry if any
person whose name is on the list has died or
removed from the precinct, or is otherwise dis-
qualified as a voter. These are all duties which
require investigation, research and opinion, dis-
cretion and consideration. He must form a
judgment and act upon that judgment and it is
incumbent upon him to exercise discretion
in arriving at that judgment. He has the
discretion upon the judgment formed by him
from the inquiries he is required to make, to
erase from the Registration List of the preced-
ing year any name that may be thereon. All
these acts are not therefore mere ministe-
rial duties, but are duties as to which the officer
has a discretion, and are therefore not such du-
ties which he can be compelled to   do through
the agency of the writ of mandamus.
	It was insisted in argument by counsel for
the relator, that the court has the power by
mandamus to compel the respondent to perform
an act not within the scope of his authority, if
his refusal to do the act would work an injury.


[Column 1]

	This court cannot impose a duty on an officer
which is not within the power imposed on him
by law. A mandamus will not be granted to
command any person to exercise a jurisdiction
which that person is not most clearly and cer-
tainly appointed to and bound by law to exer-
cise; for the court will not grant such writ ex-
cept it clearly see that there is a power lodged
in the person against whom the mandamus
is prayed."
	In annoucing this opinion on the question of
the right of this Court to issue the writ, His
Honor Judge Boreman concurs with Judge
Hunter, though upon other grounds, as would
appear from his opinion on file. Judge Emerson
does not agree with the majority of the Court
in this right, and hence dissents as to that
branch of the opinion. Judge Boreman dissents
from the majority of the Court in its opinion re-
fusing the writ,for the reasons stated in his opin-
ion on file.
	Judges Hunter and Emerson concur in refus-
ing the writ on the grounds stated in the major-
ity opinion.
	The demurrer is sustained.
		DISSENTING OPINION.
In the Swpreme Court of Utah Territory, June 
Term, 1880, adjourned to 25th September,
1880.

George R.  Maxwell,
	Plaintiff,
vs.
Robert T. Burton,
	Defendant.

AN APPLICATION FOR MANDAMUS.

	Boreman, Justice, delivered the following
opinion:
	As an original question, I have uniformly
been of the opinion thatthe Supreme Court had
no jurisdiction in such cases as this, except in
aid of its appellate powers. I have considered
that the Supreme Court had no distinctively
original jurisdiction, except in cases of habeas
corpus. The issuing of the mandamus as prayed
is an exercise of original jurisdiction. In the late
case of Emeline Young and others vs. George
Q. Cannon et al., this Court, after exhaustive
argument, declared that it had jurisdiction to
issue the writ of certiorari, which is an origi-
nal writ of the same class as that ofmandam-
us, and coming to us from the same source, the
King's Bench. I assumed that that decision was
to settle the practice, and that in this class of
cases, to which both certiorari and mandamus
belong, the Supreme Court would take jurisdic-
tion. I think it our duty now to stand by that
decision and not again unsettle the practice, as
I deem would be done if the writ were now de-
nied.
	Upon the merits of the case I cannot agree
with a majority of the Court. I deem this to
be a proper case in which to issue the writ. The
Legislature had no authority to allow anybody
to vote who were not citizens or who had not
declared their intentions to become such. It
has never enacted that parties who had declar-
ed their intentions to become citizens might
vote. Therefore the registering officer is not
authorized to allow anybody to vote who are
not citizens. The statute granting suffrage to
women allows them to vote without being citi-
zens if they are "the wife, widow or the daugh-
ter of a native-born or naturalized citizen."
Such a provision is utterly void, in my opinion,
and it is the duty of the registering officer to
obey the law of Congress and not that of the
Territory, when they conflict.
	The act conferring the elective franchise
upon women is unjust, as granting the franchise
to women upon easier terms than to males.
Men are required to be tax-payers by the stat-
ute, but not so with women; the men are all
required to be residents, but not so the women,
if they be the "wife, widow, or daughter;" and
all men who ask to vote must be citizens,or they
will be rejected, but not so with all women. This
matter of citizenship is important, when we
consider that the bulk of the population of this
Territory is of foreign birth, or children born in
this Territory of foreign parents. The statute
granting the elective franchise to women des-
troys the uniformity and impartiality which
should exist in regard to the qualifications of
voters, and the act which will do this is unjust
and ought not to be upheld. I do not think that
it will do to say that the requirement as to male
voters, which is not found amongst the require-
ments of the female voters, will be nugatory.
We have no right to conclude that this is so.

[Column 2]

The Legislature has expressed itself to the con-
trary. It first passed the statute allowing males
to vote, requiring them to be citizens, etc. It
afterwards passed the statute granting the
elective franchise to women, and subsequently it
enacts the registration law, wherein it retains all
the qualifications originally required as to male
voters. It certainly, therefore, had no intention
of repealing any part thereof. The two laws in
regard to suffrage show great unfairness and
lack of uniformity between the requirements
of male voters and those of female voters, but
as the Legislature so intended,what authority
have we to say that the one repeals the other.
This certainly does not exist by implieation as
they are statutes regarding different classes. The
two laws are not inconsistent further than that
one is unconstitutional, unjust and unfair to
the body of voters mentioned in the first,
and being so should not be upheld. If the Legis-
lature had power to make one set of qualifica-
tions for one class of voters and another set
for another class of voters, then the two laws
can stand,but if the Legislature has not such pow-
er, its attempt to do so is nugatory and void.
	For these reasons thus hastily stated I am un-
able to agree with my associates in denying the
writ in this case.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Paris, Bear Lake Co. Idaho Territory, Sept.
7th 1880. Minutes of the fourth semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Societies of the Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in the St Charles
Meeting House Aug. 28th and 29th, 1880.
Saturday morning Aug. 28th 10 A. M. Pres-
ent Prest. Julia P. Lindsay with her Counselors
M. E. Collings M. M. Rich. President James
H. Hart,Elders Hugh Findly, W. M. Allred and
sevreal other brethren. Meeting called to or-
der by President J. P. Lindsay, choir sang 
“Come thou desire of all the Saints,” opening,
prayer by Elder W. M. Allred, Pres. J. P. Lind-
say made some very interesting remarks suited
to the occasion and expressed pleasure at see-
ing so many assembled together. Notwith-
standing the busy season, hoped they would
enjoy the spirit of God in their meetings dur-
ing Conference. The roll was called for the
Stake officers, also officers of branch Relief
Societies and Primary Associations. Minutes
of previous Conference read and accepted.
Statistical and Financial reports of Relief So-
cieties and Primary Associations also read.
Counselor Elizabeth Collings, advised the sisters
to stop fault-finding, build each other up and
work unitedly in building up God’s kingdom,
did not think it was advisable for those pro-
fessing to be Latter-day Saints to continue
moving from place to place, unless called upon
by the servants of God holding the holy priest-
hood. Then it was our duty to go whenever
wanted, and to do all that lay in our power to
build up and beautify the place designated.
Counseled them to attend their meetings.
Obey those placed to preside “Obedience is
better thnn sacrifice.” By attending to these
things we could claim the blessings of the Al-
mighty. Counselor Mariah Rich, in her re-
marks exhorted the sisters to be faithful in
keeping the covenants they, had made trust in
the Lord when they arose to speak and He
would put words into their mouths to the
edification of their hearers. Never partake of
the Sacrament with bad feelings against any
one; if there is any wrong try to make it right,
for all wrong must be righted either here or
hereafter. The choir sang an Anthem, “The
Lord is King.” Benediction by Prest. James
H. Hart.
	Saturday at 2 P. M., after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer the Presidents of the
various branches gave verbal reports of their
respective societies which were very satisfactry.
President Lindsay spoke at some length on the
duties of parents and children, hoped the sisters
would be liberal in donating of their abundence
to help build temples, gather the poor, sustain

[Column 2]
the needy that were in our midst and do all the
good that lay in their power whenever an op-
portunity presented itself. Contrasted the con-
dition of the Saints in these valleys with those
who lived in Nauvoo; who in poverty and sick-
ness, through diligence and faithfulness built
a temple to the Lord. And that we who were
so abundantly blessed and prospered could do a
great amount of good if we would.
	Mrs. Emeline Rich said her hopes and desires
were with the Church and always had been;
felt interested in everything that was calculated
to forward the work of God, was pleased to see
the progress the sisters were making and the
amount of good they were doing. Prest. James
H. Hart encouraged the sisters very much in
his remarks and commended them for the good
work they had done, approved of the active
part they had taken in gleaning and saving
grain. Also for the hats they were beginning
to make, hoped they would continue to improve
in every thing that was calculated to build up
the kingdom of God. Singing. Benediction.
	Sunday morning Aug 29th, 10 A. M., meet-
ing opened in the usual manner. The Y. L.
M. I. A., occupied the forenoon.
	Sunday afternoon Aug. 29th, 2 P. M., meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Sacra-
ment administered, after these services were
over, the Presidents of Primary Associa-
tions reported verbally, each showing that
much good is resulting amongst the children
attending those meetings. Pres. Lindsay said,
she had listened with great pleasure to the
remarks made by the young ladies; also to hear
of so much good resulting among the children
through the diligent labors of presidents and
other officers of these organizations, counseled
mothers to do all that lay in their power to send
their children to the meetings; showed the nec-
essity of our becoming self-sustaining; gave
valuable instructions to presidents and officers
of Relief Societies and Primary Associations
regarding their respective duties. Enjoined
upon the sisters the necessity of taking the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the good they
would derive from reading its pages; also that
other church publications should be patronized
more than they were. Mrs. Alice M. Rich
tendered her resignation as Stake Secretary for
Relief Societies, which was accepted and a vote
of thanks given her for the able and efficient
manner in which she attended to the duties of
Secretary while acting in that office. Mrs.
Elizabeth Pugmire, was appointed Secretary
for Relief Soeieties in Bear Lake Stake and
Mrs Annie Laker Stake President. for Primary
Associations, Mrs. Elizabeth Pugmire and Mrs.
Elizabeth Hunt, her Counselors; Miss Luana
Booth, Secretary; Miss Charlotta Hunt Treas-
urer. Conference adjorned for six months.
Choir sang Anthem “Awake put on thy strength
O Zion,” &c. Benediction by James H. Hart.
 	 Statistical and Financial report of the
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake from their
first organizatiou Aug. 28th, 1868. to Aug.
28th, 1880. 
	Statistical: teachers, 126; members 396;
total officers and members,559; meetings held,
801; average attendance, 207; church papers
taken 115; WOMEN'S EXPONENT 38.
	Financial: Receipts in cash,$760,78 receipts
in property, $1720,79; wheat gleaned and
donated by members, bushels 547, lbs. 46; dis-
bursed, cash to the needy, $21,76; home indus-
tries, 86,92; emigration, 127,30; missionaries,
69,50; temple, 85,20; books, 26,47; total, $417,
15; property to the needy, 617,19; temple
504,43; missionaries, 10,40; home industries,
590; total, $1137,92; on hand: cash 343,63;
property,582,87; wheat,bushels 547, lbs. 46.
	E. PUGMIRE Sec.


ELEVEN States have School Suffrage, and
Lucy Stone says all of them on a broader scale
than Massachusetts.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY

(CONCLUDED.)

	When  this  exercise  is  finished, in  this  de-
partment, as in all the others, the signal is given
and  the  pupils proceed with the  usual  studies
of  the  day.  As  a  teacher,  Brother  Milton
H. Hardy has proven  one of the most efficient
we have ever had in our Territory. His order,
system,  and  method  of  arousing  the  latent
powers of his pupils, filling  all with a keen de-
sire to excel, is something  that  strikes all who
take  the  trouble to sound his pupils, or listen
to his instructions in the schoolroom. Like the
snow upon the  mountain,  which sinks into the
thirsty earth, to burst forth in the pleasant  val-
ley  below  into  a  living  spring  of  sparkling
water, do  we  behold  the  fruits  of  such  labor
bestowed upon our children.
	Let us take our place in the room where the
Principal  of  this  Academy is  imparting to his
scholars  the  words  of inspiration  and  truth
with which he is ever endowed. Monday and
Thursday the Book of Mormon is taken as the 
text. Its origin and  value are fully  explained,
together with the wondrous manner in which it
was  brought forth—these are  laid before the
school. Everything is based  upon our faith in
God, the spirit of order, truth, and an exalting
of our fallen natures is instilled into the mind
of all. As  Brother Maeser  has  unlimited con-
fidence  in  his  scholars, each  one tries to keep
that confidence alive, and the only punishment
which  is  ever  administered is the thought that
this sacred confidence is gone,
	The theology  exercises,  as  given  by  him,
take  the  most  essential  points  taught in  the
New Testament and  Book  of Mormon;  also  a
portion  of  each  Wednesday  as a  grand theo-
logical  class, where  students  are  called  upon
for exercises from sacred works, bearing of tes-
timony and essays upon good subjects.
	He also  teaches  the  higher  branches  of
science, such  as  Latin, Botany,  Geology  &c.;
Mathematics  are  taught by Prof. Booth;  Sur-
veying,  Trigonometry  and  Phonography  by
Prof. Hardy.
	This is  only a bird's  eye  view of the labors
done  in  one  department, and I will  leave oth-
ers to tell the rest, with the  addition  of music,
	My brief  review  of  the  Theological  depart-
ment of the Academy must  be  understood  by
my  sisters  as  only  one  pillar  of  education
adopted here, but  it  is the most important and
receives the most  thought  from  the  teachers.
And  if  you, my dear  sisters, could  behold the
scene  as I  do  from  day  to  day, the  gradual
awakening  of  the  truth  of  this  great  work
upon the minds of the children of the Latter-
day  Saints, you  would  say "Glory  to  God,"
that we  have  such  an  institution in our midst,
where your children and mine can drink in and
receive  of the  blessing of a  testimony and  as-
surance  of the  true  object  of  life.  Will  you
help  sustain it by  your  faith  and  prayers, as
well  as  by  the  attendance  of your  children,
when possible?
	One word for the  Normal.  In  this  depart-
ment  is  brought  to  bear  the  experience  of a
teacher who has been teaching school for about
thirty years, and  the  system,  together with the
practical workings  of  school  teaching  is  so
thorough  and  complete  that  the  influence  of
those who  graduate here  is  already being  felt
and  appreciated by all who have  opened their
schools to them. 	
	Besides the watchful  care  extended  over
each one in school, there is  a  domestic  depart-
ment instituted, with strict regulations as to the
hours kept  by  those  who  attend, and  a  visit
from either a teacher or an  old  student once a
week, to find if  all things are agreeable between
host and hostess and boarders.  Thus  securing
n  almost  fraternal  care  over  those  who are
way from home, and  keeping  bnt  one  object
in  view,  the  elevating  of  God's  children  on
earth, and securing their eternal salvation.
Z. Y. Williams.


WE are proud and happy to be able to state
that Hon. George Q, Cannon has accepted the
nomination tendered him at the late Territo-
rial Convention. We are very sorry we have
not space to publish the letter of the committee
and his reply. Personally he is highly respect-
ed in Washington, as well as in Utah; it is the
people he represents against whom so much
prejudice exists. He will go to Congress with
the sincere esteem of the people who will have
cast their votes for him, and the full and im-
plicit confidence that he will maintain un-
flinchingly the dignity of his position, as the
representative of the rights of the whole peo-
ple of Utah Territory.


LUCY Stone of Boston one of the most truly
liberal minded women of the age, has written a
concise but able article in the "Woman's
Journal," Oct. 9, on the recent attempt to dis-
franchise the women of Utah. She strikes at
the root of the matter when she says, "It would
certainly never have been attempted if these
citizens had not been Mormons." Good for
this brave noble woman. We shall not forget
her courageous words.


[Column 1]
DR.  ELLIS  R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable  lines, best brands
Children's  Fine  Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE 
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation. Dizziness,  General  Debility,  etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50. cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H.H. WANRER & CO.
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
Class in  Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL COMMENCE  ANOTHER  CLASS  IN OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880.  By giving three lectures
a week, and the students giving  their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to a little less
than five.  ☞ Terms, $30. Books, three in number $12.
  Those desiring to Join the Class should send  in their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.
F.  AUERBACH  &  BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 &126
CALL AND EXAMINE. 
Fall and  Winter GOODS.
ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE  on  South  Temple Street, between  9th and
10th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases  of  Children
and  Diseases  of  the THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

Agent tor RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
  Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
PALACE  OF  FASHION, No. 17  EAST  TEMPLE ST.
	MRS. C.  E.  DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes; Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good  Work  Guaranteed !
	Z. O. M.  I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL DEALERS
Dry GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES.
 HEAVY &  SHELF  HARDWARE,
GLASS  &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL  IMPLEMENTS, ETC,
AT TEASDEL'S
	SALT LAKE CITY. 
Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets, Ladies and Children’s Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and  Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.  P.  TEASDEL.
A  LARGE STOCK
Of Home  Made  Trunks  for Sale; by  JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent tor the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also  HOME Made

Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,

Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,

Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALER  IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING  BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER
		AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First  South Street,
	SALT LAKE  CITY.
DR.  A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST,
SPECIAL ATTENTION, PAID
to Filling and Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH  inserted
from one tooth to a FullSet in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE—MAIN ST. OPPOS'ITE SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
		P.O.	BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1880.	No. 11.


DUTY.

Oft we ask ourselves the question--
	What is best for us to do?
What soul-work, or hand-vocation,
	Best for woman to pursue?
Shall we be the dolls of fashion--
	Loved and flattered for a while,
Wither 'neath man's sterner passion,
	Live again on fonder smile?
Shall we live for vain ambition?
	Live for friends of wealth and power?
Feast on words of adulation--
	On the friendship of an hour?
Shall we live for public duties?
	To reform the low and vile?
Cultivate angelic beauties,
	In the minds now filled with guile?
Shall we live for Home's fair altar,
	Ne'er to pass beyond its shrine?
Never in this purpose falter?
	Let all hopes around it twine?

To these queries what's the answer?
	Duty! duty seems to call;
Let our thoughts and feelings center
	On stern duty first of all.
Know it, love it, act it bravely,
	Wheresoe'er the path may lead:
For 'twill give most perfect pleasure,
	And at last the richest meed.

E. R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	During the seven years Sister Eliza resided
in Nauvoo, she wrote many of the articles
contained in her two volumes of poems. Her
mind was fertile, and fresh subjects and inci-
dents were constantly developing her talent
for writing, and inspiring her muse to pour
forth rich melodies in song and verse. Mean-
time, persecution raged, until at last the exo-
dus of the Saints from Nauvoo was decided
upon, and the cry went forth "to your tents,
O Israel." She was among the first to leave
the beautiful city, the graves of her lamented
dead, and the scenes and places round which
so many tender recollections clustered. Early
in the month of February, 1846, she crossed
the Mississippi River, in company of Col.
Stephen Markham and family, and camped
with thousands of others who had left their
homes, and were living in tents and wagons,
preparatory to starting upon their journey to
the Rocky Mountains. Sister Eliza's pen was
ever busy; the following is an extract from
a poem written after leaving the city of Nau-
voo, "West side Mississippi, February 19, 1846:"

	"Although in woods and tents we dwell,
	Shout! Shout! O Camp of Israel!
	No Christian mobs on earth can bind
	Our thoughts, or steal our peace of mind.

			CHORUS:
	Though we fly from vile oppression,
	'We'll maintin our pure profession, 
	Seek a peaceable possession, 
	Far from Gentiles and oppression. 

	We've left the city of Nauvoo, 
	And our beloved Temple, too,
	And to the wilderness we go,
	Amid the winter frosts and snow. 

[Column 2]

	The Camp, the Camp—its numbers swell—
	Shout! Shout! O Camp of Israel!
	The King, the Lord of Hosts, is near, 
	His armies guard our front and rear."

	While the Saints were encamped at Sugar
Creek, across the river, in Iowa, waiting the
arrival of others and making arrangements for
traveling, the weather was cold, windy and
stormy, and it required undaunted heroism and
an unflinching purpose to endure, all the hard-
ships and privations incidental to the time.
Sleeping in tents upon the cold, frozen ground,
in snow storm, or rain, was not the most agree-
able thing in the world, but Eliza was deter-
mined to share the fortunes of the Saints, to
live or die with them. Her mission was with
her people, and although she perhaps did not
realize the importance of the position she was
destined to occupy, yet there is no doubt she
had an intuition of the future, and of the great
work which lay before her, and this made her
resolution to persevere under difficulties
stronger, and buoyed her up when called to
pass through severe trials and affliction.
	Her pen was active, and the effusions writ-
ten in wagons and by the wayside are full of
originality, and graphically expressive of the
every day lives and journeyings of the Saints.
We give a few lines here, from one of her
poems, which are specially suggestive:

	"Lo! a mighty host of Jacob,
	Tented on the Western shore
	Of the noble Mississippi, 
	Which they had been crossing o'er.

	"Soon the carriage wheels are moving
	Onward to a woodland dell,
	Where at sunset all are quartered—
	Camp of Israel! all is well."

	Sister Eliza traveled with Col. Markham's
family. Col. M. was a tried and sterling friend
of the Prophet Joseph. It is impossible, in
this brief sketch, to recount all the adventures
of this wonderful journey, commenced in mid-
winter, but we must leave the reader to imag-
ine something of the cold, the inconvenience
of traveling over a new country at such an un-
seasonable time, bad roads, or no roads at all,
mud, rain, snow, sleet, rivers to cross, and all
the hardships of a pioneer journey with insuffi-
cient teams and incomplete outfits. She says
she "frosted her feet often enough to occasion
her much inconvenience afterwards." "At
one time," she writes in her diary, "I was
seated on a chest in a lumber wagon, with a
brass kettle for a footstool."
	The Saints made settlements by the way,
where some families were left to put in grain 
and make a resting and recruiting place for
those who were to come afterwards! At the 
middle fork of Green River, on the first day
of June, Bro. M., with others, stopped at one
of these points. Here Sister M. and Sister
Eliza lived in a house made of logs piled up
loose like children's cob houses, with cracks
between the logs from three to four inches wide,
a tent cloth stretched over the top, while blan-
kets and carpets were hung up on the inside as 
a protection from inclement weather. 
	On the 19th of August, when Bro. M., who
had been absent about three weeks, returned
they bade goodby to Mt. Pisgah, but when
they were ready to start they were minus a
teamster. Sister M. undertook to drive one
yoke of cattle, but she soon fell sick and Sister

[Column 3]

Eliza was left to drive. She says had it been
a horse team she would have felt capable, but
driving oxen was new business. However, she
soon learned to "haw" and "gee," and became
such an adept that she could sit in the wagon
and drive, and acquit herself creditably. But
this was not all. The family, one after another
were sick, and she had to assist in cooking and
nursing, as well as driving the team; in which
she realized the truth of the Scripture, "As
thy day so thy strength shall be."
	On the 27th they crossed the Missouri River
at Council Bluffs, and the next day arrived at
the general camp at Winter Quarters. From
constant exposure and continued hardship Sis-
ter Eliza broke down; a slow fever set in, chills
and fever followed, and she lay in the wagon
very ill. Heavy autumnal rains came on, and 
she was often "wet nearly from head to foot."
She felt that she stood just at the gates of
death, that it was but a step beyond, and that
once inside the portals she would be free from
pain and suffering; but her great life-work lay
before her, and she summoned courage and.
supreme faith to her aid. The wagon she had
been occupying with Sister M. for a bedroom
was needed to go out for "supplies," and they
moved into a log house only partly finished.
It had no chinking, the wind was cold and
blustering,and no chimney, the fire was built on
one side, and the room, which had no floor,
was always filled with smoke. This was unen-
durable, and the fire had to be dispensed with,
and the cooking done out of doors; the intense
cold being preferable to the smoke. Towards
the latter part of November the house in which
she lived was made more comfortable. There
was much sickness and destitution among the
Saints, and many died in consequence of the
privation and suffering. About the close of
the year, when Sister Eliza was sick and had,
seemingly, endured to her utmost capacity; she
received the sad news of her mother's death;
and though she grieved that she could not be
permitted to behold her again in the flesh, yet
she knew she had suffered much in consequence
of the persecutions of the Saints, and had
now laid down in peace to sleep until the morn-
ing of the resurrection.
	On the 7th of April, 1847, the pioneers, un-
der the direction of President Brigham Young,
left Winter Quarters to search out a gathering
place for the Pilgrim Saints. This was a theme
worthy the pen of the poetess, and she dedi-
cated to Pres. Young and the pioneers "A
Journeying Song," from which we give a verse
or two as illustrative of the poem, which was
both inspiring and comforting to them at that
time when all was stern, cold reality.

	"The time of winter now is o'er—
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our shelt'ring roofs once more, 
		And to our tents again. 

		CHORUS:
	Thou Camp of Israel, onward move:
		O Jacob, rise and sing;
	Ye Saints, the world's salvation prove—
		All hail to Zion's King.

	We go to choice and goodly lands,
		With rich and fertile soil,
	That by the labor of our hands
		Will yield us wine and oil.

	We'll find a climate pure and free,
		Producing life and health,
	Where steady care and industry
		Will prove a source of wealth.


*		*		*		*		*		*

We seek a land where truth will reign,
	And innocence be free;
Where lawful rights will be maintained—
	A land of liberty.

CHORUS."

	Early in June companies of families were
formed, who started Westward, following, when
they could, the track of the pioneers. In one
of these companies, in charge of Capt. Jede-
diah M. Grant, Sister Eliza continued her pil-
grimage, with the family of Bro. Robert Pierce.
It was a long and tedious journey, and none
but those acquainted with the facts can ever
fully appreciate what such a journey really is,
and especially how it would affect a sensitive,
delicate woman, but just recovering from a se-
vere illness. The lady writes: "Much of the
time we were on an untrodden way; but when
we came to the track of the pioneers, as we oc-
casionally did, and read the date of their pres-
ence, with an 'all well' accompaniment, on a
bleached buffalo skull, we had a general time
of rejoicing." She refers in glowing terms and
poetic verse to the moonlight and starlight eve-
nings, when the brethren and sisters circled
around the blazing camp fires and sung hymns
of praise, their voices reverberating "from hill
to hill, and echoing through the silent expanse,
seemed to fill the vast concave above while the
glory of God seemed to rest on all around."
	On the bank of the Platte River, August
25, 1847, Sister Eliza wrote her characteristic
"Song of the Desert," which may be found on
page 181, Vol. 1, of her poems.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Beside the broad, smooth river,
	Beside the flowing spring,"
Beside the limpid streamlet,
	We often sit and sing.

Beneath the sparkling concave,
	When stars in millions come
To cheer the pilgrim strangers
	And bid us feel at home;
Beneath the lovely moonlight,
	When Cynthia spreads her rays;
In social groups assembled,
	We join in songs of praise."

	But there were other scenes enacted, and
many dark days as well as bright ones. "Nurs-
ing the sick in tents and wagons, and burying
the dead by the wayside, consigning the loved
ones to lonely graves in the midst of a wild
desert, was indeed mournful, yes, pitiful." But
we can only just glance at those sad occurren-
ces, those heart-rending scenes, and pass on
with our simple but truthful narrative.

To be Continued.


82	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 21st Colonel Sconce and two other
leading men from Ray County came to see us,
desiring to know what our intentions were, for
said he, "I see that there is an Almighty power
that protects this people, for I started from
Richmond, Ray County, with a company of
armed men, having a fixed determination to
destroy you, but was kept back by the storm
and was not able to reach you." When he
came into camp he was seized with such a
trembling that he was obliged to sit down in
order to compose himself. When he desired
to know what our intentions were, Brother Jo-
seph arose and began to speak, and the power
of God rested upon him. He gave a relation
of the sufferings of our people in Jackson
County, and also many of our persecutions, and
what we had suffered from our enemies for our
religion; and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them

[Column 2]
clothing, and to reinstate them upon their own
lands; that we had no intention to molest or
injure any people, but only to administer to the
wants of our afflicted brethren; and that the
evil reports which were circulated about us
were false, and were circulated by our ene-
mies to get us destroyed.
	"After he had got through,	*	*	the power
of which melted them into compassion, they
arose and offered him their hands, and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us. They accordingly went forth and rode
days and night to pacify the people. They
wept, because they saw we were a poor, afflicted
people, and our intentions were pure. The
next day the Sheriff of that county, named
Neil Gilliam, came to deliver a short address
to us. We formed into companies and marched
into a grove a little distance from the camp,
and there formed ourselves into a circle, and
sat down upon the ground.
	"Previous to Mr. Gilliam's address he said:
"I have heard much concerning Joseph Smith,
and I have been informed that he is in your
camp; if he is here, I would like to see him."
Brother Joseph arose and said, "I am the
man." This was the first time he was made
known during the journey of one thousand
miles. Mr. Gilliam then arose and gave us
some instructions concerning the manners and
customs of the people, their disposition, &c.,
and what course we should take in order to
gain their favor and protection.	*	*	*
	"Being in want of salt, I took it upon me to
go to some of the inhabitants and get some;
Brother Cyrus Smalling took his rifle and went
along with me. After passing through a path
enclosed by hazle brush, about two miles from
the camp, I discovered a deer standing across
the path; I made motions to Bro. Smalling,
and he, drawing up his rifle over my shoulder,
which served for a rest, fired and hit the deer;
it ran a few rods and fell. We cut a pole, and
fastening the deer on it, got it over our shoul-
ders and carried it along to the camp, when we
dressed it and divided it among the different
companies, and had an excellent feast.
	"Here Brothers Ezra Thayer and Thomas
Hayes were taken sick with the cholera. We
left them there, and also Bro. Joseph Hancock,
who had been taken with the cholera during
the storm, and who was the first person attacked
with it. Brother Joseph called the camp to-
gether, and told us that in consequence of the
disobedience of some who had not been willing
to listen to his words, but had been rebellious,
God had decreed that sickness should come
upon us.	*	*	I am sorry, but I cannot
help it! When he spoke these things it pierced
me like a dart, having a testimony that so it
would be.
	"On the morning of the 24th we started for
Liberty, Clay County, where our brethren were
residing who had been driven from Jackson
County.	*	*	*	When we were within five
or six miles of Liberty, General Atchison and
several other gentlemen met us, desiring that
we would not go to Liberty, as the feelings of
the people in that place were much enraged
against us. Changing our course and bearing
to the left, we pursued our way across a prairie;
then passing through a wood we came to Bro.
Sidney Gilbert's, where we camped on the bot-
tom of Rush Creek, in a field belonging to
Brother Burgess.
	"The destroyer came upon us, as we had
been warned by the servant of God. About
12 o'clock at night we began to hear the cries
of those who were seized. Even those on
guard fell, with their guns in their hands, to
the ground, and we had to exert ourselves con-
siderably to attend to the sick, for they were
stricken down on every hand. Thus it con-
tinued till morning, when the camp was sepa-

[Column 3]
rated into several small bands, and were dis-
persed among the brethren.
	"I was left at the camp in company with Jo-
seph B. Noble, John D. Parker, Luke Johnson
and Warren Ingalls, in care of those who were
sick. We stayed with and prayed for them,
hoping they would recover; but all hope was
lost, for about six o'clock in the evening John
S. Carter expired. When the cholera first
broke out he was the first who went forward to
rebuke it, when he was immediately seized by
it, and was the first who died. In about thirty
minutes after, Seth Hitchcock died; and it ap-
peared as though we must all sink under the
power of the destroyer. We were not able to
obtain lumber to make them coffins, but were
under the necessity of rolling them up in their
blankets and burying them in that manner;
we placed them on a sled, which was drawn by
a horse about half a mile, and buried them in
a little bluff by the side of a small branch of
Rush Creek; this was accomplished by dark.
	"Our hopes were that no more would die;
but while we were uniting in prayer with up-
lifted hands to God, we looked at our beloved
brother, Eber Wilcox, who was gasping his
last. At this scene my feelings were beyond
expression. Those only who witnessed it can
realize anything of the extent of our sufferings;
and I felt to weep and pray to the Lord that
he would spare my life, that I might behold
my dear family again. I felt to covenant with
my God and my brethren, never to commit an-
other sin while I lived. We felt to sit and
weep over our brethren, and so great was our
sorrow that we could have washed them with
our tears. To realize that they had traveled a
thousand miles through so much fatigue to lay
down their lives for their brethren increased
our love for them.
	"Brothers Brigham and Joseph Young came
from Liberty and assisted us to bury Bro. Wil-
cox; their presence gave us much consolation.
About twelve o'clock at night we placed Bro.
Wilcox on a small sled, which we drew to the
place of interment, with one hand hold of the
rope, and in the other we bore our firelocks for
our defense. While two were digging the
grave, lhe others stood with their arms to de-
fend them.
	"While Brother Luke Johnson was digging,
the cholera attacked him with cramping and
blindness. Brother Brigham laid hold of him
and pulled him out of the grave, and shook
him about, talked to him, and prayed for him,
and exhorted him to jump about and exercise
himself, when it would leave him for a few mo-
ments; then it would attack him again, and
thus we had the greatest difficulty to keep the
destroyer from laying us low. Soon after we
returned, another brother was taken from our
little band; thus it continued, until five out of
ten were taken away.
	"It was truly affecting to see the love mani-
fested among the brethren for each other dur-
ing this affliction. Brother Joseph, seeing the
sufferings of his brethren, stepped forward to
rebuke the destroyer. but was immediately
seized with the disease, and I assisted him a
short distance from the place, when it was with
difficulty he could walk. All that kept our
enemies from us was the fear of the destroyer
which the Lord had sent among us. After
burying these five brethren I was seized by the
hand of the destroyer as I went into the woods
to pray; I was in[---]tly struck blind, and saw
no way whereby I [-]ould free myself from the
disease, only to exert myself by jumping and
threshing myself about until my sight returned
to me and my blood began to circulate in my
veins; I started and ran some distance, and by
this means, through the help of God I was en-
abled to extricate myself from the grasp of
death.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER WOODARD ON HER
SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.

BY LAURA C. PACK.

Seventy years of a noble life—
A tender mother, a faithful wife!
How much those words to those who know
The hours of care and pain and woe,
The sleepless nights, when the storm beats wild,
And the mother prays for her absent child;
Or bends in pitying grief above
The suffering form of one she loves:
And works with a terrible pain in her heart,
Lest from the suff'rer she soon must part.
And oh! when her lonely vigils are o'er,
And the loved form carried from out her door,
How lonely her home, to her heart how bare,
Though loved ones still assemble there.
And when time has worn from others the smart,
It is still, still there in her aching heart;
And oft when the household are locked in sleep,
Alone will she muse o'er the past, and weep.
Yet other sorrows, more hard to bear,
It is oft the mother's lot to share;
And her bitter tears, by anguish wrung,
Are hidden from every eye but One—
He, Who has given her strength to bear
The grief that another cannot share.
All this, and more than my pen can tell,
Hast thon passed thro' nobly, bravely, well;
'Midst all the care of thy household band,
From others thou hast not withheld thy hand,
But hast ever been ready, with word and deed,
To succor and bless where they've stood in need.
And thy loving deeds and tender care
Have gone before and will meet thee there,
When thy earthly pilgrimage is o'er,
And thy spirit shall pass to that happy shore.
But may God still grant thee strength to impart
Comfort and peace to the stricken heart—
According to they kind desires,
And as the good spirit in thee inspires.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL OF AN IRISH MAIDEN.

FIFTY YEARS AGO.

	Outside of Carlow, Ireland, about three
miles, there is a delightful romantic spot called
Glogrennen. It consists of a large domain sev-
eral acres in extent, entered through the grand
old archway of a ruined castle, large enough
for the gatekeeper and his family to reside in.
The walls are several feet thick, and very
nearly covered with ivy—real climbing ivy,
perhaps hundreds of years old.
	About a mile and a half from the entrance
is the House, the residence of, in those days,
Colonel Rochefort (something of France about
that name; it would sound better, considering
the surroundings, if it began with an Irish
"O,"); but at all events, the house had three
hundred and sixty-five windows in it, and not
much beauty of architecture about it; as well
as I remember, it was a square, and, from the
number of windows, I should judge a solid
one.
	Leaving the grand avenue, we pass through
some well cultivated fields, and coming to a
wood, or ancient forest, we begin an ascent of
about a mile of rough, rocky road through
fine old trees, until we come to the grand ruin
of an ancient Abbey. Inside the walls, which
are four or five feet thick, is the burying
ground of the Rochefort family. Some fine
marble slabs adorn the old walls, bright and
polished; you could not but remark the con-
trast of the old worn, rough stone and the re-
fined white or black marble. One slab I recol-
lect had the following inscription:

	"LUCY  ROCHEFORT,
	JUST
	KNOWN  AND  LOST."

	Another was erected in memory of a little
boy, grandson of the housekeeper, who fell ou

[Column 2]

of one of the windows into the area that sur-
rounded the house, and was immediately killed:

	"JOHNNY BATES,
	ONE OF
	CHRIST'S LITTLE ONES."

	Outside the walls is a space in the wood,
used as a burying place for families living on
the estate, and a few others.
	A young lady named Rebecca Cole died in
Carlow; she was taken to this beautiful spot
for interment. I recollect when the coffin was
taken out of the hearse it was reverently borne
by four young men with bands of white linen
passed underneath the coffin; which was fol-
lowed by twelve young girls dressed in white,
walking two by two, each carrying a garland
of white flowers on a sort of handle also cov-
ered with white. When the grave was filled
in, it was covered with green sods, procured
from an adjoining meadow in long strips, cut
about a foot broad and six or seven feet long,
so as to be easily carried by two men; enough
of them had been prepared to altogether cover
the new turned earth. When all this was
done, the twelve young ladies placed upright
in the grave the sticks with the garlands on,
six on each side, then knelt down round the
grave in the most graceful manner, and sang a
funeral dirge.
	My father took me in his arms and held me
in one of the ruined windows of the old abbey,
so that I could see the interesting group;
mourners and friends stood in the distance.
	That scene will never be eradicated from my
memory. The gorgeous spring sunshine, the
delightful tint of green the new grass displayed,
contrasting with the pure white dresses of
those twelve lovely girls, and their enchanting
voices filling the air with seraphic music, and
in the back ground groups of observers scat-
tered among the fine, majestic, ancient oak and
elm trees. The picture and echo of the music
will ever live in my remembrance.
	FIDELIA.


MUSIC.

	What a charm the very name has, it thrills
the soul and fills it with gladdening thoughts.
Who can tell how many homes have been made
bright and cheerful by the sweet songs sung
therein. Music is a mediator for all our
thoughts and feelings. It has praises of God
and his works, accents of joy, murmurings of
grief, whisperings of love and in itself it is
divine. Who does not love to wander by a
flowing stream and listen to the charmed sound
of its crystal waters as they gently glide towards
the ocean carrying new notes to the lonely
siren who reigns as a nightingale among the
waters. All nature is filled with music.
	Can there be a living soul that does not love
to wander through a forest where the while
air resounds with the merry songs of birds.
Sweet songsters of the grove how joyous you are
and what a halo of happiness you cast on all
around. Oh pretty, happy creatures, living in
the tree tops, soaring to heaven, who does not
rejoice with you in your pleasant life, pray tell
us are your songs not praises to Him—who
gave you such a life? How pleasant it is, to sit
around the fire on a winter night, and guile
the hours away with pleasant songs, or to sit
under Luna's fair rays on a summer evening,
after the little birds have sung themselves to
sleep, and fill the air with joyous sounds.
How blessed is the one who has the gift of
song. Oh could she but feel the sadness of a
heart that has it not, she would forever sing
praises to her Maker for this glorious gift. I
wonder if the one so endowed ever thinks
how many moments of pleasure she gives to all
who hear her, or how great a comforter she is
to herself.


'Tis pleasant to walk along the streets and
stop now and then to hear the voice of some
sweet maiden singing to the family circle, or
'tis enchanting to listen to the midnight min-
strel sounding praises to his lady love or 'tis
grand to hear the solemn organ chanting praises
to the Lord, yet 'tis most sweet to hear a
mother lull her little ones to sleep.
	There is scarcely a home in all the land that
has not been made happy by the sound of music,
and when a home is bereft of its songster, 'tis
like a cage without a bird or almost like a
man without a soul. Every one should try to
cultivate a taste and talent for music, for those
who possess it have the power of shedding joy
and happiness on all around; and we should
all try to fulfill the commands of the Creator
by praising Him with the lute and the harp in
the song and in the dance.
[handwritten] Annie [-] Camelia.
								CAMELIA.


RUSKIN'S HOME PICTURES.

	A correspondent of the New York World,
who lately visited this eccentric genius, says:
	"Mr. Ruskin lives now among the English
lakes, at Brantwood, on Lake Coniston. His
house is on a slope above the lake, and is best
approached, as I approached it a few weeks
ago, by water. A more charming house could
not be imagined. The visitor, looking down
from the front of the house on the lovely lake,
and away up the grand hills that tower above
the quiet village, sees one of nature's fairest
scenes, and within doors there are treasures of
art and industry which I should have liked
weeks instead of hours to examine.
	Some of Mr. Ruskin's pictures are well
krown from frequent allusions to them in
his writings. He often refers to Titian's
'Venetian Senator,' a most imposing picture
which hangs in the dining-room under glass
There also is a picture of Angelica Kaufmann
—Miss Angel— by Sir Joshua Reynolds; a
portrait of Turner when a young man, painted
by himself, and Napoleon I. on horseback, by
Meissionneir—a painting which is more speaking
than a shelf-ful of biography about the little
Corporal. The collection of Turner's is unique.
Some of the paintings are very early ones, and
were made when the artist was still trammelled
by conventionalities. Others, again, show when
he had learned to fly. Mr. Ruskin showed
me with a magnifying-glass the amount of min-
ute, conscientious work which they all contain.
He said that Turner never, or almost never,
painted in the open air. He observed and
made notes, but he worked in the studio. I
asked whether that was a mere habit,or whether
it proceeded from any principle. 'From the
most important principle;' said Mr. Ruskin.
'In the open air the scene is constantly chang-
ing.. The clouds, the shadows, the hues shift
from moment to moment. You cannot, there-
fore, be true to nature and represent a harmon-
ious whole if you attempt to copy what is con-
tinually changing. You must grasp the scene
as a unity, and then evolve it on the canvas."
—Ex,


Good habits are the porters that throw open
wide the gates of success.

	Education should enable one to think for
himself, not cram with the thoughts and ideas
of other people.

	A man should not be judged by his failure
in life, for there are a class of men who are too
scrupulously honest to succeed.

	To obtain by one's own industry, fully as
much as one spends, gives men or women a
feeling of true independence that those cannot
have who subsist upon the bounty or hand-
earnings of others.


84	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE COMING ELECTION.

SCHOOL SUFFRAGE IN NEW YORK.

	To-morrow the election will be held in all the
precincts of the Territory,and the People's Party
will cast their votes for the Delegate to Congress
from Utah. Notwithstanding the attempt
which was made to take the franchise from the
women of this Territory, woman will have the
privilege of the ballot, and thus help to swell
the numbers of the People's Party, who would
no doubt, without the votes of women, be largely
in the majority. The suffrage for women is be-
ing more extensively discussed as time rolls on,
and already much has been done in this direc-
tion, that thirty years ago seemed impossible.
There is a bond of sympathy which unites wo-
men on this subject that is strong as iron and
will not give way, though opinions on other sub-
jects materially differ. Many of the leading
women suffragists have expressed themselves on
the recent attempt to disfranchise the women of
Utah, in such a way as to give strength to the
preconceived opinion that they would, were it
necessary, wrestle to help maintain the posi-
tion which the women of Utah have had secured
to them for the last ten years, and which rights
have been preserved sacred and inviolate.
	Mrs. Lewis, editor of Woman's Words, Phila-
delphia, says, under the heading "Disfranchis-
ing Women:"
	"Another effort is being made in Utah to dis-
franchise the women of that Territory, as we
learn by a dispatch from Mrs. Wells; a man-
damus having been issued by the Supreme Court
bearing on the question. We do not believe it
will succeed. Liberty takes no step backward,
and when the elective franchise is once exer-
cised, no power can take it away without a revo-
lution. It is one of the alarms, we judge, de-
signed to help the Democratic Party. If so,
they will soon find plenty of business on hand
in soothing the terrorized voters of the South."
Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, editor of the Na-
tional Citizen, Syracuse, New York, has an edi-
torial on the same subject; it is entitled "Attack
upon Vested Rights," "Woman's Cowardly
Enemies," &c. Mrs. Gage is a powerful writer,
and she takes this opportunity to impress upon
women everywhere the necessity of securing a
constitutional amendment. She closes with the
following paragraph:
	"Let this attempt to deprive the women of
Utah of their political rights, nerve the heart
and brain of every woman to more strenuous
effort for a sixteenth amendment which shall
recognize the rights of all United States citizens
to the ballot. When once this is gained, no iso-
lated state or territory can strike such a blow at
suffrage rights."
	Mesdames Gage, Blake and Slocum have been

[Column 2]
actively engaged for some time past in lecturing
to help educate women politically and preparing
the field for the women of New York that they
might exercise the privilege of the ballot given
them Feb. 12, ult., on the school question, at the
election, which was held about the middle of
October. Mrs. Blake in a letter to the National
Citizen said she had canvassed ten counties;
that at several points women were nominated
to serve as trustees and the sequel of the election
proves that Mrs. Blake was right in predicting
they would be elected. Ladies took their own
carriages out for voters, others stood at the door
and distributed votes, and received at the polling
places. Mrs. Gage sat in a Justice's office with
the inspectors to watch the deposits. She was
strongly urged to run as Trustee but refused
for lack of time, however a young energetic
woman got the position proffered to her. Mrs.
G. says when the time drew near for the voting
of women in the eleven thousand school districts
of the State, the men began to grow uneasy;
but the verdiet is that "so quiet a school election
was never known." They had some opposition
from State Superintendent of schools, Neil Gil-
more, who published a circular and letter; with
a view of intimidating women. If Mr. Gilmore
does not "mend his manners," in this regard,
these selfsame ladies will give him just such a
game as they did Lucius Robinson.
	The women of Utah, appreciating as they do
the privilege of the franchise, will rejoice in the
eminent success of this vexed question in the
Empire State, and also in all the extended rec-
ognition of woman as an intelligent, responsible
being, a creature of mind and soul.
	The women of this Territory should not forget
election day, and not only go forward and vote,
appreciating the opportunity, but stimulate oth-
ers to do so, and assist all in their power to help
the aged and infirm, that they may have an op-
portunity of casting their votes, that the Peo-
ple's Party may be faithfully represented by
both sexes. Show by good works that the ballot
is not lightly held, or ignorantly handled. Study
to become better informed upon all the subjects
of law and government, that the influence of
woman may at all times and in all places be that
which will tell for good; that men may seek
women for counsel, and mutual benefit and so-
cial and political elevation be the ultimate result
of woman's political emancipation.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
went to Lehi and attended the annual meeting
of the Relief Society on Wednesday, October 27.
These two sisters will probably start for St.
George in a few days, visiting the different set-
tlements by the way, and meeting with the So-
cieties wherever practicable.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow and B. W. Smith left the
city Sept. 23, to attend the Ladies Conference at
Richfield,and visit other towns in Sevier County.
They were absent ten days and held twenty
meetings, all well attended. The brethren and
sisters received them joyfully and no doubt ap-
preciated their wise and excellent counsel and
instruction.
	WE return our sincere thanks to the little
girls at Chester, for the beautiful wreath of hair
we received from them. The wreath contains a
lock of hair from the head of each of the officers
and members of the Primary Association, nicely
arranged, and the colors artistically blended. It
will be a handsome ornament for the office, and
very precious to us as the gift and workmanship
of those little girls, who are learning to beautify
with the work of their own hands.

[Column 2]
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of the 11th Ward held its
annual meeting Oct. 10th, that being the ninth
anniversary of its organization. The assembly
was large, including Bishop A. McRae,
Counselor J. H. Felt, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S.
Taylor, S. M. Haywood, S. M. Kimball, H. T.
King, E. Howard and C. C. Cannon. Pres. M.
Freeze announced a short programme and the ex-
ercises began with reading the minutes of the
last annual meeting. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp made
a short and very appropriate speach and read an
original poem, Miss Amy Penrose recited
"The Little Hero" in a most pleasing manner.
An interesting essay by Coun. Lillie Freeze was
read, each of the lady visitors made remarks of
a very instructive and encouraging nature, cal-
culated to inspire all with greater diligence in
the spiritual progress of woman. At the close
of the meeting the assembly repaired to the
adjoining room and partook of refreshments
nicely arranged by a committee of young ladies.
Thus closed another of our delightful reunions.
										L.

	In company with Mrs. Zina D. Young we
visited Morgan and attended the Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of that Stake. Some
changes were made in the officers, and a central
organization formed for the Primary Associa-
tions of that Stake. The sisters there are doing
well and trying to improve in every good thing.
Pres. W. G. Smith, Bishops and many other
brethren attended the meetings. Seven meet-
ings were held in the three days we were ab-
sent. The sisters of the County have a granary
nearly completed, built of concrete, with shin-
gled roof; it is 18 x 22 feet in the clear. They
have been very energetic to get so much done,
and other sisters may take courage by their ex-
ample of industry and economy. While we
were at the residence of Bro. Samuel Francis,
the Morgan Brass Band gave us a cheering sere-
nade. There were ten instruments, and the boys,
who are all young, under the able instruction
and leadership of Brother Bull, are progressing
finely. Their leader was associated with Ballo's
Band in the early days of Utah. It was quite
a surprise, but most truly acceptable. When we
were leaving, the children came in crowds to
bid us goodby, and sang some sweet little hymns
at the depot.
	THE Tenth Quarterly Conference of Davis
Stake Relief Society was held at Farmington
Oct. 15 1880. Sister Prescendia Kimball and Zina
D. H. Young, of Salt Lake attended. Prest-
Wm. R. Smith and Counselor Anson Call of
Davis Stake Presidency, and others of the local
brethren were present. Much good and wise
counsel was given in a pleasing and instructive
manner; many subjects of interest were dwelt
upon. Kindness,and gentleness,characterizing all
that was said and done.
	Immediately after the close of this Conference,
the Primary Associations held a Conference.
The remarks of Sisters Kimball, Young, Rogers,
et. al. were alike instructive and enteresting.
	The children merit the approbation they re-
ceived from their teachers.
	President Rogers is justly proud of the affec-
tion they manifest for those who have labored so
faithfully in their interest. The officers were
set apart by President Smith Counselor Call and
Bishop Hess, as follows: Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
President; Mrs. Julia Hess and Lucy A. Clark,
Counselors; Miss Sarah E. Richards, Secretary;
Mrs. Annie Wilcox, Treasurer. Officers of the
Davis Stake Primary Association.
	M. E. RICHARDS, Secretary Relief Society,
Davis Stake.
	ON Monday, October 18, there was a select
gathering of invited guests, all ladies; at the


residence of Mrs. Marian R. Pratt, The after-
noon was spent in cheerful, social converse, and
about six o'clock Apostle Orson Pratt and seven-
teen ladies sat down to dinner. The conversa-
tion at the table was a spiritual feast. Brother
Pratt referred to his early history in the Church
and to many wonderful events of that period,
with which several of the elderly ladies were
conversant. After dinner the conversation con-
tinued in much the same strain. Later in the
evening Sister E. A. Whitney sang a song of
Zion, and Sister Zina D. Young gave the inter-
pretation. It was a psalm of praise and rejoic-
ing. Miss Rintha Pratt sang one or two charm-
ing little melodies, and Willard Weihe and sev-
eral other musicians played a few choice pieces
in a lively manner. There were six instruments,
and the effect of the music was inspiring. The
musicians went out upon the lawn, and the
effect was more delightful still. Some of the
young people were dancing on the lawn by
moonlight. It was indeed quite a temptation to
one fond of this beautiful recreation. This visit
will be long remembered. The charming and
soul-inspiring words of the Apostle, Mother
Whitney's song, the music and the sweet inter-
course of old-time friends were indeed soul-satis-
fying.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


OBITUARY.

	DIED: Prove Sept. 30, 1880. Julia A. Fosset,
wife of Thomas T. Holdaway, of childbirth.
aged 23 years and three months. Deceased was
born and brought up in Provo. Was a faithful
Latter-day Saint and an active member of the
Relief Society. She left a husband and three
small children, a father, mother and a large
circle of relatives to mourn her loss. She was
taken sick about midnight and died at four
o'clock in the morning. Her loss is mourned
sincerely by all who knew her.

She has gone, but our hearts in forgetting
	Can never forget she was dear,
Like a gem that is lost from its setting
	Her name and her place are still here.
								M. J. T.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Subscribed by the Relief Society of Beaver
City, to the memory of Mrs. Louisa B. Pratt.
	Our departed sister and fellow-member, who
died at Beaver Sept. 8th, 1880. aged 77 years, 9
months and 29 days; she was respected by all
who knew her, was devoted to her religion and
her God, and ever manifested a willingness to
aid the progress of His work.
	Resolved: That we extend to the bereaved
family our heartfelt sympathy, hoping they will
follow an example so worthy, and that while
mourning her loss, they may realize that,th[-]ugh
suddenly called from this earth, she has gone to
continue the labors that old age partially pre-
vented while here.
	Resolved, that while her departure saddens
our hearts it arouses our desires to continue more
faithful, that our last days, like hers. may be
blessed by the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
tendered to her children, also sent to the WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT, for publication, and placed on
the record book of the Secratary.
		MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y. R. S.
	Beaver.

	Damsel Lee, daughter of Wm. ,Lee and Jane
Lyon, born at Grantsville, April 28th 1875, died
September 29, 1880.
	It has pleased our Heavenly Father, in his in-
scrutable purposes to call from our midst, our
respected and beloved sister. We the members


of the Grantsville Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion desire to express our love and esteem to her
memory; therefore:
	Be it Resolved: That we mourn her loss but
not as those without hope, that we deeply sym-
pathize with her parents and relations. She was
an active member of our Association and in every
way gave promise of a useful life.
	That the above be placed upon record a copy
of the same be given to her parents, and pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		MARENTHA A. STODDARD, President.
		LUCY A. CLARK,
		MAY L. RICH,		Counselors.


[Column 1]
IN  THE SENATE OF OREGON.

	Mrs. Duniway expressed her deep appreciation
of the high honor the Senate, by its invitation,
had conferred upon her as a representative of the
great class of otherwise unrepresented though
taxpaying citizens of this commonwealth,
"who," she said, "have commissioned me, as
their humble servant, to appear before you on
their behalf, and urge you to grant to the voters
of Oregon the privilege and power to decide
whether or not your wives, your mothers, your
sisteis and daughters shall be accorded the right
to a voice in making the laws of a government
which they are taxed to sustain, and to the
statutes of which they are held amenable. We
are not unmindful that I am here to-night by
your court[---] rather than by acknowledged
right; and I confess that I find it a rather dif-
ficult task to stand before you and by your con-
sent make a complaint which you have the
the power—but for your magnanimity—to de-
prive me of opportunity to make at all. But, if
you could read the letters I get from almost
every quarter, and almost every post, written by
women that work at the loom, or the churn-dash,
or the wash-board, or the cooking stove, and
who, through their labor in rearing sons and
daughters, are taxed to sustain the government
and uphold the laws you are here to consider,
you would not wonder that I, also a mother of
men, have the courage to discharge my duty on
their behalf to the best of my humble but ear-
nest ability. 'Courage,' these Spartan wives
and mothers write to me; we are at home
praying for you.' And, Mr. President, I feel
the inspiration of their prayers to-night. They
bid me to come before you as their standard-
bearer and your friend, to assure you that their
interests are your interests, and they will do
you good not evil all the days of your lives;
They are willing to trust the voice of the voters,
if you will but grant them—the husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons—power to decide that
their wives and mothers shall have the same
right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness
that you claim for yourselves. I do not believe
that the Senators will feel that they can afford
to establish the dangerous precedent that would
result from the proposed decision that it would
not be possible to submit another amendment
to any part of the State Constitution while two
or more amendments are pending. It was wis-
dom on the part of the formers of the Constitu-
tion to provide that no amendment to a pending
amendment could be offered by the Legislature
before which such amendment, while pending,
must go for ratification. The man who, in
crossing a stream, used the handle of a scythe
for a bridge, but failed to see, till it was too late,
that in so doing the blade of the insrument must
sway round and cut off his head, was not one
whit more short-sighted than the Senator who
would be willing to so construe a single clause of
the Constitution as to make the Constitution
itself inoperative as a whole, or even in part.
Mr. President, I learned, while yet a little child,
when attending school in a little log cabin in
the heart of a frontier wilderness, to revere the
immortal words of Thomas Jefferson, 'All men
are created equal; endowed by their Creator
with certain inalienable rights; that among these
are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness;
that governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed; and that, whenever
any form of government becomes destructive of
these ends, it is the right of the people to alter
or abolish it.' I believe the inspiration of Liberty
was born with every wise woman's existence.
Certain am I that it has grown with her growth
and strengthened with her strength; and I well
remember the electric thrills that stirred me in
every sentient fiber of my nature, when, as a
child, the heroic struggles of the revolutionary

[Column 2]
fathers and mothers, who freely pledged and
freely gave their lives, their fortunes and their 
sacred honor that Columbia might be free, were
taught in our schools. The Constitution ex-
pressly provides that every citizen shall be guar-
anteed the equal protection of the laws. And
yet, Mr. President, one-half of the people are
taxed without representation and governed with-
out consent. This government is not a democ-
racy, nor a republic. It is a government of one-
half of the people by the other half, instead. It
is an aristocracy of sex, wherein one-half of the
citizens enjoy a monopoly of the rights and im-
munities which are denied to the other half. It
is not necessary for me to insult the intelligence
of an august Senate like this to make the ex-
planation that the generic term men, as applied
to the inalienable rights of the human family,
includes women. Men are always willing to
admit this fact when women's taxes are due, or
when a woman breaks a law that all persons of
her sex are denied a voice in making. The man
has never yet lived who has said of a woman
convicted of crime, 'May it please the Court and
the jury, I represent this woman. Punish me!'
Women complain that they are rated in law
with idiots, insane persons, criminals and China-
men. Time was when they had the negro for
company; but modern legislation has reached
out its hand and lifted the colored citizen upon
the high pedestal of equality before the law;
and to-day he is a United States Marshal, a Sen-
ator or a Representive in Congress; a law-maker,
before whose mandate your wives and mothers
must bow while they proclaim the lesson taught
by your government—that taxation without rep-
resentation is tyranny. We ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and gentlemen of the Senate, to take the
necessary steps to submit this resolution for
amending the Constitution to the votes of the
sons of women. We believe that you will do
your duty. The eyes of the world are upon you.
Oregon has already written her name higher
than that of any other State in the Union in
her recognition of equal rights fer the mothers
of men. Her legislation has been liberal, be-
cause her sons have been free. Let the grand
picture of the Father of his Country beam upon
you to-night with an inspiration of irresistible
power. You are making history. The same
spirit of liberty that presided over the destinies
of Washington a hundred years ago is presiding
over the destinies of the people of Oregon to-day.
It is in your power to write the name of your
young and growing commonwealth yet higher—
aye, the highest of all in the mighty constella-
tion of the United States of America. It is in
your power to place the honor upon the brow of
Oregon that alone can accrue to the State which
shall take the lead in this grand movement for
the enfranchisement of the mothers of men.
The blue air of the hoary mountains has an-
swered back to the pellucid atmosphere of the
billowy ocean, and filled the men and women of 
this grand young State with the electric fires of
an exalted patriotism. Our people have inhaled
the spirit of liberty with their very breath. Let
them give Oregon an opportunity to lead the
van in the great galaxy of the States that will
surely fall into line when you shall have set the
grand example, and your descendants shall see
her shine in the history of the centuries to come
with a luster that shall dim the glory of a Massa-
chusetts, a North Carolina or an Old Virginia.
Mr. President, I know that this is not the time
or place for discussing the pros and cons of this
woman movement. These will be considered in
their proper place before the people after the ac-
tion of this Honorable Body, for which we now
pray, shall have made it possible for them to
give or withhold their votes upon it. Thanking
you, gentlemen of the Senate, for the high honor
you have conferred upon me in the name of wo-
manhood, in listening thus profoundly to my
feeble utterances, I rest our case in your hands."
	SENATOR HUMPHREY: "Mr. President, * *
I am in favor of granting the right of suffrage
to the women of Oregon. They have earned it
and are entitled to it. The gentleman from Polk
assures us that his wife is better than a China-
man. I cordially agree with him in that. She
is not only better than a Chinaman, but she is
better than he is. He says that women ought
to raise the voters and teach them how to vote.
This they do already; and they have been at
work at it for the past hundred years. And it is 
folly to say that a woman who is capable of in-
structing and influencing voters is not fit to vote
herself. Many of them are much wiser than
we are, Mr. President; and all of them have the
same physical and mental necessities that we
possess, and the same inherent, inalienable right


to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Women
are not complaining about natural laws. So far
as I know, no woman who wants the ballot
wishes to be a man; and, even should they wish
to be men in our stead, the Senator from Polk
needn't be afraid of the consequences, for there
is a higher law than man can make, or woman
can break, that settles that question. The Sena-
tor isn't very good-looking, aud it is just possible
<l-16klng add’="" it="" is="" just;="" possibly'="" thath'6="" m&y'="" nor,="" get="" .thevqtelbt'wdm.en.tp="" rbi="" turn="" him="" to="" .office;="" but="" i="" haye="" no="" iear="" on="" that="" score;="" shah="" vote="" for="" the="" resolution.”'="" senator="" hainis;="" “mr.,president,="" earl="" of="" aj'rlie,="" ffphj.="" thdhingdom.pf="" $ritmh,="" inakliff="" oregon="" a.="" visitr.="" !ouj="" are="" ,aixe,?that.="" a="" viast'ambuht;="" hcotiph="" capital="" mginviited="" amohk’iisand="" that'many="" our'greatesteh="" ter-="" prise3flfor'tfan9ik)rtation'="" ’jn="" jiands’.of="" efcjghipd's!="" bjebte'="" there-is="" howa="" jtfoj&fln="" progress="" for;cdttipg="" capad="" 'through="" ‘the="" isthmus="" pahatna,="" aha="" 5y&="" to,="" be,="" hackednncipili="">that he may not get the votes of women to re-
turn him to office; but I have no fear on that
score. I shall vote for the resolution."
	SENATOR HAINES; "Mr. President, the Earl
of Airlie, from the kingdom of Great Britain, is
making Oregon a visit. You are aware that a
vast amount of Scotch capital is being invested
among us, and that many of our greatest enter-
prises for transportation are in the hands of
England's subjects. There is now a project in
progress for cutting a canal through the Isthmus
of Panama, and it is to be backed principally by
English capital. And it does seem to me that
if Queen Victoria can manage, with unparalleled
success, the greatest financial schemes of the
world, and preside with becoming wisdom and
proper dignity overt the kingdom that controls a
Gladstone, or a Beaconsfield, the women of Ore-
gon ought to be allowed to vote. Sir, the day is
not far distant when a woman—probably the
lady who has addressed us to-night—will occupy
your seat as President of this Senate Chamber.
And why not? May not a woman of Oregon oc-
cupy a chair like that, if Queen Victoria can oc-
cupy a throne? We shall be spared the disgrace-
ful scenes that mar the good name of the Federal
Congress when women take their proper place
as co-workers with men in making laws. I
shall vote for the resolution."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VISITING TOUR.

	Mrs. E. S. Taylor well known here as one of
the leading women in Israel, left this city Aug.
5th, to visit her friends in the East, and meet
her husband Elder George H. Taylor returning
from his mission to England. She traveled to
Chicago in company with some acquaintances,
where she took a branch of the North Western
Railroad and went to near Milwaukee, staying
about a week with relatives in Wisconsin; who
were delighted to see her and anxious to hear all
about Utah and the people. Leaving the West
she journeyed to the State of New York, visiting
Niagra Falls on her route, admiring its mag-
nificent and wonderful beauty, as all strangers
invariably do. She stopped in Rochester where
she was warmly welcomed by numerous rela-
tives and friends. There she visited all the
places of note, and reports it the most beautiful
city for cleanliness, shrubbery, flowers and also
in many other respects of any city she visited
while absent from home. Most of her time
there was spent at a country seat on Lake On-
tario, situated in a very romantic spot,and while
there she enjoyed herself very much in family
gatherings got up for her especial benefit, social
parties out-doors and in,boat rides, sails by moon-
light and pleasure parties of almost all kinds.
At one of these gatherings there were twenty-five
relatives mostly cousins; and thus the hours
passed swiftly by.
	One or two of the Rochester papers gave her
rather lengthy notices, spoke highly of her as an
intelligent educated lady, and gave a brief
synopsis of her views upon marriage and her
family affairs. Refered to her husband as a pros-
perous business man and alluded to his European
mission. Mrs. Taylor's relatives introduced her
into the best society where she had ample op-
portunity to converse with an intelligent class of
people.
	From Rochester her route was to Utica where
she visited places of interest, the one which at-
tracted her attention most was the New York
State Insane Asylum. It contains six hundred
inmates. The building is in the form of a court
and the grounds are laid out in the most sym-
metrical order, adorned with shade trees, shrub-
bery, vines and flowers and walks, all complete.
Everything has been arranged for the amuse-
ment of the inmates who are able to participate
in out door exercises, such as croquet, base-ball;
quoits and such like sports. Inside is a very
fine library, views and sterescope, piano and
other musical instruments in fact all that would
contribute to make a home pleasent. The most
perfect order prevails throughout every depart-
ment of the house and grounds. Leaving Utica
she passed through the Oneida community and
traveled down through Courtlandt and Shenan-
doah counties; all along are little villages and

[Column 2]
small quaint country towns nestled down among
the hills. Mrs. Taylor was visiting the country
after twenty-one years absence. Many scenes
and incidents were brought back to recollection
that she had nearly forgotten; which were
pleasant to revert to. She pursuded this route to
Newark, New Jersey, where she spent about four
weeks among relatives meantime mak-
ing frequent visits to New York and the
surrounding country, visited Central Park,Green-
wood, and Coney Island; spent one lovely Sab-
bath day there, when there were twenty-one
thousand bathing in the sea; Gilmore's Band
playing at Manhattan, and another at Brighton
Beach. It seemed as if the Sabbath was en-
tirely ignored by these pleasure seekers. She
went up the Hudson River to Haverstraw, the
place where she was married many years ago.
Mrs. Taylor tells us she wanted very much to
bring the Hudson River and Lake Ontario home
with her.
	At Newark she visited the Insane Asylum of
Essex County, which contained two hundred
and seventy inmates; they also have belonging
to that county eighty insane persons in the State
Asylum. Mrs. Taylor had every opportunity to
speak of our people socially and politically, as
well as religiously. She was at all times cour-
teously treated by those she met, and many in-
quiries made of her concerning her people and
the country generally.
	While fifteen miles out of New York a tele-
gram came that the Steamer Nevada would
reach harbor the next morning; as she crossed
the Hoboken ferry she saw the steamer sailing
up the bay. She had been separated from her
husband nearly two years—it is n[--]dless to des-
cribe the joyful meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor
remained in the vicinity of New York about ten
days longer, visiting friends and notable places.
They traveled westward by the Alleghany route,
the scenery at that season being most charming,
the heavy foliage exquisitely tinted, and the
weather lovely. At Chicago they met Miss Ida
Cook returning home, and as there were several
returning missionaries, the party was a very
pleasant one. Mr. George S. Taylor met his
father and mother at Evanston, and other
friends were waiting in Ogden. They arrived
here on the evening of October 2d, satisfied with
the trip, but glad to be at home once more.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

Fountain Green.
	The Conference of the Primary Association
of Fountain Green was held in the schoolhouse,
October 4, 1880. There was a good attendance
of the Association, and of the parents. Bish-
op R. L. Johnson and his Counselors, Martin
Lund and Reuben Carter, were also present.
	Meeting was called to order by Sister Har-
riet Huggins, President of the Association.
Sang, "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet."
Prayer by William Adams, Jun., aged six
years. Children sang. Minutes of the first
and last meeting were then read and accepted.
The programme was then presented to the au-
dience, which consisted of select readings, reci-
tations, essays, repeating the articles of faith
in concert, and other exercises; after which
Bishop R. L. Johnson spoke to the children
and sisters most encouragingly. Bro. Martin
Lund also addressed the audience, expressing
great pleasure. Bro. Reuben Carter followed
in a similar strain.
	The financial report for the year was then
read: Received from the members, $11,28.
Disbursements for the year: two quilts pieced
by the children and donated to the Manti Tem-
ple, valued at $14; also $4 in cash to the Manti
Temple; for cards and stationery, $1,60. Prof-
its on home industries, $8,32.
	Candy and other presents were then distrib-
uted among the children, which pleased them
exceedingly.
	HARRIET HUGGINS, Pres't,
	ANNIE ANDERSON, Sec'y.
	ELIZA CALLARD, Ass't  Sec'y.

CONCHO, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-

[Column 2]

ized on the 14th of March, 1880, by Elders
John W. Young and Lorenzo H. Hatch, with
the following named officers: Matilda P. Kil-
lian, President; May Hettabell Brady and
Elizabeth J. Pulsipher, Counselors; Lucinda
J. Clemons, Secretary, add Charlotte Monk,
Treasurer.
	We are getting along very well; our Presi-
dent is an energetic woman, and one that is
qualified for the position she holds, and is al-
ways prompting the sisters to be up and alive
to their duties. We meet often and are united;
hold speaking meetings every fast day. We
read the EXPONENT and pray for its success.
	May the Lord bless the Relief Societies
throughout Israel. Your sister in the Gospel,
	LUCINDA J. CLEMONS.

PIMA, PIMA Co., ARIZONA.
	The sisters of this place were organized into
a Relief Society on the first day of July,1880,
by our President, J. K. Rogers, with Sister
Mary L. Ransom, President, Sisters Josephine
Rogers and Caroline Teeples, Counselors. We
have thirty-four members enrolled, and are do-
ing very well for the short time we have been
organized; we hope to be able to send in a fa-
vorable report as soon as we have had time to
see what we can do.
	We ever pray for the welfare of all our sis-
ters and for the prosperity of all their right-
eous undertakings.
	MARY L. RANSOM, Pres't,
	HARRIET B. TEEPLES, Sec'y.

	The Relief Societies of Weber County held
their Quarterly Conference in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle on Thursday, September 16. 1880.
There was a good attendance from the county,
as well as the city. The meeting was conduct-
ed by Pres. J. S. Richards. After the usual
singing and prayer, the reports were read from
the different societies throughout the Stake.
	The remainder of the morning was taken up
by President D. H. Peery, who delivered a
very interesting discourse. He was followed
by Sister Higbee.
	The afternoon was occupied by the several
presidents, who gave a verbal report of their
respective societies, and bore a true and faith-
ful testimony to the work of God. The sisters
all feel well in their religion. The meeting
was adjourned until December 9, 1880.
	JANE S. RICHARDS, Pres't.
	H. M. W. POULTER, Sec'y.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference of We-
ber Stake of Zion was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle, Sept. 17, 1880, commencing at ten A.
M.; Mrs. Sarah Herrick presiding. Opened
with singing and prayer. The reports were
read, with good showing from the several asso-
ciations. Bishop McQuarrie then addressed
the young ladies, exhorting them to lay aside
the follies of the world and cling closer to their 
religion and their God; to improve in all the
principles pertaining to the Gospel, not only
spiritually, but temporally. He spoke encour-
agingly of many things for the good of the
young, and was listened to with great interest
by the congregation. He was followed by
Mrs. M. J, Tanner, of Provo, who bore a faith-
ful testimony to the work of God; she was
pleased to see so many young ladies engaged in
the work of mutual improvement; knew that
they would one and all be blest in striving to
keep the laws of our heavenly Father, who
witholds no good gifts from his children if they
will earnestly seek to do his will and keep his
commandments. Bishop Hammond of Hunts-
ville spoke in a very kindly and encouraging
manner to the young sisters, he was followed
by Brother Wm. Wright. The afternoon meet


[Column 1]
ing commenced with singing and prayer after
which Sister Sarah Herrick and Counselors
made a few remarks, the Presidents of
each society then bore their testimony and
gave a report of their societies; all are doing
well, the young ladies are taking a lively in-
terest in their meetings, and are striving to im-
prove in all things that will tend to make them
good and able women in Zion.
				SARAH HERRICK, Pres.
				ROSE CANFIELD, Sec'y.

	The Primary Associations of Weber Stake
of Zion, held their Conference, in the Taber-
nacle, Ogden City, Sept. 18th, 1880. Mrs
Josephine R. West presiding. We had in at-
tendance several of the Bishops and the fathers
and mothers of the children. The children
took up the time in the morning in singing and
reciting appropriate peices. The afternoon
meeting was continued with much the same ex-
ercises excepting the remarks made by the
presidents who felt that God was blessing them
in their labors with the children. The Presi-
dent then nominated her Counselors Sister E.
J. Stanford and Sister Rose Canfield, to assist
her, also Sister Mary A. Ellis Secretary, and
Emily Newman Treasurer, they were unanim-
ously sustained by the parents and children.
After singing and prayer, the Conference ad-
journed for three months, all went home feeling
well and happy.
				JOSEPHINE WEST, Pres.
				MARY A. ELLIS, Sec'y.

	Minutes of Conference of Y. L; M. I. A., of
Bear Lake Stake, held in St. Charles Aug.
29th, 1880, at 2 P. M. President Nancy Pug-
mire presiding. Present of the Stake presi-
dency, James H. Hart, Bishop Hunt and presi-
dency of Relief Societies. Meeting opened by
singing, and prayer by Elder J. O. Stewart.
Singing "Arise my Soul arise." Roll was
called and minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. The Secretary then read
the Statistical and Financial reports, showing
an increase of members and funds since last
Conference. Verbal reports were then called
for by the President from the various associa-
tions, all of which gave unmistakable evidence
that the young ladies interests were in the as-
cendant, and although somewhat isolated, and
deprived of many advantages enjoyed in a
more thickly populated district of country, they
are wide awake to the necessity of using all the
means and opportunities to advance themselves
in the scale of intelligence; thereby fitting them-
selves for the grand future that awaits them.
	Counselor Alice Rich, urged upon the young
ladies the necessity of devoting their
leisure moments to the perusal of the
Church works, in order to become
familiar with the principles of our religion;
so if called upon to expound or defend
its principles they could do so understandingly,
and thus prove to the world, that we possess a
greater amount of intelligence than has been
accredited us. President Nancy Pugmire,
wished the young ladies to continue editing
manuscript, papers in their Associations, as it
unfolded a wide field for thought, and by con-
tinued efforts in that direction as a natural
consequence their minds would expand, and
they would become greater and wiser; eluci-
dated with great force the many opportunities
afforded us to acquire knowledge, compared
with those which our parents had. Wished
the presidents to use their means and influence
in helping towards the erection of a high
school in Paris, and thus advance the educa-
tional interests of the Stake. Told the young
ladies to be considerate of their parents, in
their declining years, and sometimes sacrifice
their feelings in their favor, and then when
memory reverts back what a source of comfort

[Column 2]
and satisfaction it will bring. Counseler Annie
Cook spoke very earnestly in regard to the
young ladies patronizing home industries, said
this was one avenue open for action. that we
had the material within our reach for the man-
ufacture of home made hats, and we had sisters
of experience among us who were willing to in-
struct us, so there was no reason to prevent our
going into the business more extensively. Now
that the season for gleaning was fast approach-
ing, she hoped the girls would do all they could
to store away grain that would otherwise be
wasted; knew the young ladies had been or-
ganized for the accomplishment of a great and
good purpose; so let us labor diligently.
President Lindsay felt to congratulate the
young sisters in the progress they had made,
felt confident that Sister Pugmire and Coun-
selors had the spirit of their calling upon them
by the advancement they had made, counseled
the young not to give too much of their time
and means to outward adornment, but rather
use it to the building up of God's kingdom, up-
on which we would be reaping an interest
throughout the countless ages of eternity.
Continue to cultivate your minds for this is an
age of progression, and much is expected at
your hands. Singing by the Choir, "In the
City of our Lord."
	Benediction by Brother George Passey.
Meeting adjourned for six months. L. M.
Hart, Sec'y.
	Statistical and Financial reports of the Pri-
mary Associations of the Bear Lake Stake, from
March 1st, 1880, Aug. 28th, 1880.
	Statistical; officers, 53; members 622; total
officers and members, 675; meetings held, 237;
average attendance, 274.
	Financial: Receipts in cash, $1,80; property,
22,23; disbursments, to missionaries, property,
$6,69; temple, $9,44;books,cash 1.05; amount on
hand: cash, $75; property, 37,11.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Pres.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 87


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

				SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA.

MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH:

	Dear Sister:—Saturday, August 14, I started,
in company with Bishop Hunt and his daugh-
ter, who is President of the Young Ladies'
Associations of this Stake and Stake Secretary
for the Relief Society; she is a young lady of
fine ability, speaks the Spanish language, and
sings several songs beautifully in Spanish; we
also had the company of Brother Thomas West,
Superintendent of the Sunday Schools of this
Stake, and Brother Rogers, President of the
Young Men's Associations; we traveled some
two hundred miles, holding meetings and or-
ganizing.
	We held joint meetings in connection with
the brethren, in consequence of all having a
desire to do so; there was a general tnrn out,
and a great deal of interest manifested by the
brethren and sisters. They felt well, and the
Spirit of God was poured out upon us to en-
courage us.
	On our tour we had the pleasure of camping
ing out three nights; we enjoyed songs and
sweet music from the voices of my son Joseph
and Miss Ida Hunt, who took their guitars
along, which was a treat to the Saints where
we visited. Miss Nannie Freeman, niece of the
well known Bishop Smoot, and Secretary of
the Young Ladies, was one of the company.
	We expect to hold our first Quarterly Con-
ference at Snowflake on the 25th and 26th of
September, 1880, when the secretaries will
make out reports and send to the Secretary.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. The Primary Associa-
tions are not yet organized.
	Any counsel you may think proper to give


relative to the organizations of the sisters in
this Stake of Zion, will be thankfully received.
The subjects we have laid before the sisters are
the training and taking care of their children,
the importance of establishing home industries,
and keeping out of our settlements outside ele-
ments, Babylon and her fashions, the making
of our own hats and storing of grain, sustaining
the Priesthood, subscribing for and reading the
EXPONENT, so as to be posted in relation to
the counsels of our sisters who are appointed
to preside. 
	God has blessed us abundantly in this land;
the hills and valleys wherever we go are cov-
ered with a mantle of green, and the fields
with waving grain; the beasts of the field are
made to rejoice, and the everlasting hills echo
the praises of our God, because of the blessings
of the Holy Priesthood that have come upon
the land.
	I must say before I close that I am not only
encouraged but delighted with the sisters whose
acquaintance I have made in this Stake. Bro. 
Jesse N's family is worthy of imitation, also
the families of Bro. Hunt and Bro. Hatch,
whose daughters have learned the Spanish lan-
guage. We desire an interest in the prayers
of the Saints. With love to yourself and
council, I am as ever devoted to the interest
of Zion.
	W.  EAST.


LETTER FROM HYRUM.

							OCTOBER 20, 1880.
	DEAR SISTER WELLS: The sisters here are all
alive to their duties as a Relief Society and de-
sire to do their part in rolling on this mighty
work in building temples, clothing the needy, or
anything required of them. According to coun-
sel from our beloved Sister E. R. S. Smith, we
have made a small beginning in silk culture.
One of our faithful sisters J. Nielson has raised
this season about 10 lbs. of beautiful cocoons for
which she received a Diploma at our fair,
which encouraged her to "try again." We feel sure
that the climate is favorable for raising silk.
We look anxiously forward to the time when we
shall be blest with a visit from some of our be-
loved sisters from Salt Lake City, and receive
some instructions and encouragement from
them. We are pleased to read in Our Paper the
different ideas of our sisters with regard to polit-
ical rights and say God bless them for so nobly
defending the franchise. We feel to coincide
with them. Why are we not organized in a
Stake? What have we done that we should be
left out in the cold?
	Very Respectfully Your Sisters in the Gospel.
					C. LILJENQUIST, Pres.
					N. N. NEILSON, Sec'y.


AMONG THE GRAVES.

	Who is there that cannot sympatize with
us when we talk of spending an hour among
the graves? Who has not been called to follow
some loved one to his last resting place? And
if, perchance, there should be any (few indeed
their number) who have not been called to
consign those near and dear to them to the si-
lent recesses of the tomb, yet have they visited
the house of affliction, to comfort the mourner,
to pour the balm of sympathy and consolation
into the sorrowing hearts of the bereaved ones,
to weep with those that weep, and with willing
hands assist in performing the last rites for the
departed—so sad, and yet so necessary! Then
we join the train of mourners, and follow the
remains to their last resting place, and feel the
heart pang that all must experience when the
first earth drops on the narrow abode of those
so loved; the earth closes over them, and we
see them no more. Perhaps we return a few
times, perchance to scatter a few flowers, or
raise some monument to the memory of the
dead. Then we stand among the graves, and
ponder, and seek to penetrate the mystery of
the tomb, and of our being. Lying all around


us are the trappings and spoils of the grim
monster, Death—from the infant of a day to
the aged patriarch; the maiden in the first
blush of womanhood the youth, just entering
on the joys and ambitions of life; the mother,
who is cut off in the midst of her usefulness;
the strong man in his prime, the man of wis-
dom, and the man who has spent his days in
sin and sold himself for naught. The strength
of the strongest has become weak, and all have
succumbed to the power of the great destroyer,
Death.
	And is there no escape from thee, thou
mighty Conqueror? Must our eyes ever dwell
on the darkness of the tomb? Is there no
hope? O, yes; for when we raise our tearful
eyes, and in anguish of spirit breathe a silent
prayer to the Father of mercy to heal our
broken hearts and send comfort to us in our af-
fliction, the sweet and consoling influence of
the Spirit of the Lord descends upon us, and
we are enabled to leave the darkness of the
tomb, and to understand that the sting of death
has been taken away, and the darkness of the
grave been conquered; for heaven-born Faith
raises her glorious pinion and soars aloft to
where sits the Redeemer, who was tempted in
all things like unto us, yet without sin. Who
broke the bonds of death and the grave, and
ever liveth to make intercession for us who
love Him and keep his commandments.
	And glorious Hope casts her anchor sure
and steadfast within the veil of the promises,
judging Him faithful, Who has promised, know-
ing that He doeth all things well. And there
must needs be a space between the time of
death and the resurrection; and mighty Love,
stronger than death, casteth out all fear, and
anticipates the rest that remains for the people
of God; while with Faith's strong-reading eye
we pierce the future, and behold in anticipation
the glories and triumphs of the Saints—when
the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion with
the great company of the redeemed, who have
come up through great tribulation; when the
tears shall be wiped from off all faces, and
sickness, sorrow, pain and death be felt and
feared no more.
	Then let us leave the silent inhabitants of
the graves to rest in peace, till the glorious
morning of the resurrection, when they shall
come forth in immortality, to inherit the glory
prepared for them. And let us who are still
left to toil and suffer in the great battle of life,
so live, that when the summons comes for us,
when "the silken cord shall be loosed and the
golden bowl be broken;" when the shadows of
the dark valley surround us, though the waters
may be cold, and nature shrinks abashed, may
we meet Death, not as a conqueror, but as a
friend. "Oh, Death, where is thy sting! Oh,
Grave, where is thy victory!"
								N. C. Y,


88	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN ARE TAX PAYERS.

	Are women not tax payers? In looking over
the "News" of the 29th Sept., my eye rested on
disfranchisement of Women; in reading the
paragraphs what was my surprise and indigna-
tion towards our so called "Liberal" citizens;
shall I call them? No; they cannot be liberal
after enjoying the franchise for ten years, at
this late date to wish to deprive us of our
rights: not tax payers? Ah! I think we are very
heavy tax payers. Does not every wife own
property in connection with her husband? I
think so. Does not her labor help to make
that property? Does she not stand by her hus-
band as a help, and rear the boys to work out
the poll tax? Yes we do, and often our lot is
hard and tedious, are we not always ready to
advise and counsel for the best, and willing to
suffer with our husbands sons, fathers? Yes we
are, and lend a helping hand when needed


Have these would be "liberal" men a mother
a wife a sister? It would seem not; or do they
think Mormon women so weak-minded that
we will not try to defend ourselves? We ask
for the justice and freedom that belong to
American citizens, and wish to vote for men of
integrity and those that will stand by the con-
stitution of our country.
	Women not tax payers, indeed! but very few
are not. We pay our taxes with our husbands.
Many women own property of their own; 'tis
but a plea, a plan to hurl another shot, but
they will miss as they always have; and it only
helps to fill up the pages of the past; we will
see who will be the winner, God is at the
helm sisters! let us stand up for our rights and
defend our position on this question intel-
ligently and honorably. Let us be united and
humble and trust to providence, and we will
see that good will be the result. We will rely
on the strength of Israel's God, while our
enemies rely on their own strength; and they
will fall, while we will stand. Let us be firm
and stand up nobly in our own defence, and
not be unjustly deprived of our lawful rights.
						JANE C. JOHNSON.
	Johnson, Kane Co. Utah.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	The Woman’s Congress assembled in this
city and in session as we go to press, held its
first public meeting on Wednesday afternoon,
in the new Meionaon Hall in Tremont Temple.
	It was a remarkable gathering of women
who had come from the Rocky Mountains, and
all the way between, with an earnest purpose
to contribute something to the solution of im-
portant questions.
	To me, it was an unmixed pleasure to look
over that audience of intelligent women, who
were dealing ably with grave topics of profound
interest to human well-being. There came
back to my mind in vivid contrast a meeting
of the Association of Congregational Ministers
of Massachusetts in North Brookfield in 1837,
where I heard the dangers that “threaten the
female character with wide-spread and per-
manent injury,” set forth in a “pastoral letter,”
which was called out by the fact that the voices
of three peerless women, Angelina and Sarah
Grimke, and Abby Kelly Foster had been lifted
up for the sake of the slave.
	Between that time, when everybody gazed
with gaping wonder at a woman who spoke in
public, as at a spectacle, and this, the great
changes have been wrought by which the doors
utterly closed before to the expression of the
feminine half of humanity have been opened.
One result is this Woman’s Congress. Can we
help hailing it with profound gratitude? A
fuller report of its doings will be given next
week.						L.S.
—Womam's Journal. October, 14.


Self-control is a powerful weapon, working
silently and effectually in emergencies and
difficulties.


[column 1]
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN AND  SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
	BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES &  SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
	Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

[column 2]
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
	—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND EXAMINE
	Fall and Winter Goods.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE  on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children 
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

		Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, 

AT TEASDEL'S
	LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
	—AND—
	BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
	DENTIST.

[to the right of an image of teeth and bone]
SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. P[--]CES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.

OFFICE: — MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
	P. O. BOX,[54],


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1880 No. 12.


[Column 1]
A DAY OF MOTHER-LIFE.

This day has been so full of cares,
	Of accidents and plans astray;
Of dust and sultry, fainting air,
	And even danger and dismay,
I gladly saw the curtain close
	About the gorgeous bed of Day;
And Night approach and bring repose.
	To call me from my toll away.

To-day my busy hands and feet
	Would need be faster though they flew—
Breakfast to set and rooms make neat.
	And washing over-see or do.
Children to dress and husband aid
	In weighty things which may not wait—
This done, one hasty kiss he gave
	And vanished through the arbor gate.

The steep and oft forbidden stairs
	The baby climbs to very top,
And twenty other mischief's dares.
	And mother's work as often stops,
And now he bumps his precious nose
	And must be petted and caressed:
His brother now has hurt his toes
	Which must be gently bathed and dressed.

The yeast thrice spilled, no tread is made,
	The fat is scorching in the pot—
The dinner very late is laid.
	And then baked apples are forgot.
We linger some for pleasant talk—
	But oh! what means that brazen glare!
That volume high of flame and smoke!
	Ah fly! the woodyard is on fire!

Then husband, I and washmaid too,
	With tubs and buckets swiftly run;
Two neighbor sisters also flew
	To help us do what could be done.
Husband pulled the cordwood down
	And flung huge blazing brands about,
While we the crackling cinders drowned
	With careful search till all were "out."

The battle won, with panting breath
	We sought again the portal shade:
	But there, the dining table left,
A housewife's heart might sore dismayed—
	Baby, left king of all the feast,
Had mixed the sugar, meat and sauce,
	The tablecloth be smeared and creased,
Two glasses lay in fragments tossed.

The dining-room is cleared at last
	And baby washed and laid to sleep;
Now here's a deep and quivering gash—
	In daughter's head—I almost weep.
At play she ran and tossed about,
	And struck against the windowsill;
Ah, daughter, you'll be careful now,
	And mother's frequent wish fulfill.

Here husband comes, and not alone.
	Two gentlemen, and strangers too;
My heart sinks down like lead or stone
	As husband whispers: Lunch for two.
No bread, no meat, and I so tired.
	But still I'll do the best I can;
The hasty meal is soon prepared,
	Dispatched and they are off again.

More accidents and incidents
	The freighted hours for me brought on,
And with my utmost diligence
	Not all my tasks at night are done
I dread to-morrows's treadmill round,
	The dull, distasteful toil it brings;
Why must I delve so near the ground?
	I long to soar on fairy wings.

I almost thought my lot was hard,
	Because the things I'd like to do
Are out of reach, my plans are marred,
[Column 2]
	And fainter grow in distance blue
The outlines of my favorite schemes
	Obscured by clouds of household care.
So dull and irksome—Nay, I dream!
	'Tis for these babies pure and fair.

With brighter thoughts and lighter heart,
	I list my darlings' evening prayer;
I think, and tears unbidden start,
	Of when death claimed one jewel rare.
I kiss and bless and lay them down—
	In innocence and peace to sleep;
If they remain I'll never frown
	Though household cares roll fathoms deep.

I'm glad and more than satisfied
	While they are happy, hale and sweet,
Though to their wants my hands are tied
	And busy serving them my feet.
Leave wider fields for those whose homes
	Are not with household jewels set;
While I before the Heavenly Throne
	Give thanks that mine are spared me yet.
								LU DALTON.
St. George, Aug. 1880.


[Column 1]
REPROOF.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	To reprove well and wisely has ever seemed
to me one of the most desirable attainments.
It is a most disagreeable office, and yet at
times a most necessary one; it is desirable to
use language that shall soften instead of hard-
ening the offender; it is also good to command
the voice, that its tones may be persuasive
rather than severe; the countenance also should
denote sorrow more than anger. The reproof
of a wise and virtuous person is ever a token
of love and care for our welfare, whether it
comes from relative, friend or employer, and
should be received with silent dignity. Some
are apt to look upon a reprover as an enemy,
or as unkindness, but this is for want of due
consideration, for if they speak for our good it
must benefit us; and all have the power to
make good come out of reproof. A candid,
noble mind will bear it without one feeling of
rebellion, though it may, and probably will,
sadden the spirit; but such a mind will reason,
meditate, and come to the conclusion it is in-
tended for good, and I will take care that good
shall come of it. Whatever was unjust in the 
reproof, the reprover must be responsible for;
but such a mind will at once see and will be
open to conviction and speedily be brought to
repentance and reformation, for such are ever
humble and teachable and though they may fall
into follies, or some wrong path, the reproof
of the kind and wise will quickly call them back
to duty and rectitude. I'd confess we have
been wrong is only saying we are wiser to-day
than we were yesterday.
	My sisters, let us learn to reprove kindly
and wisely, by the spirit of love, which is the
spirit of heaven. If we are very angry, let us
wait till we can command our feelings; for if
we speak then, there will be harm done instead
of good. I have seen women reprove in their 
families, among their children and servants,
with that mildness, yet with that dignity, that
force and determination, that every tongue was
silenced, every heart convinced, every soul
melted and repentant. Did they feel angry at
her reproof? No; the longer she talked and
reasoned with them the more they loved her,
and she stood in her household as a royal ma-
tron amongst them, and they deemed her "an

[Column 2]
angel in the way!" If ever I have envied, it
has been called out by such women; their dig-
nity of character, their self-controling power,
their abnegation of self. Oh, let us imitate
such models, for they are worthy. A passive
spirit is a sweet one, let it be embodied in
whom it may; not passive when it is our duty
to be energetic, but where we should honor
and obey. Not passive when our child is inso-
lent and disobedient; firmness then must be
aroused to put down rebellion and restore or-
der. But if children are taught from baby-
hood to be obedient to legal authority, they
will rarely rebel, and will not oblige a parent
to speak many times before they will obey.
When I see a disobedient child, I blush and
mourn for the mother, for I know there lies
the mischief. The Savior's description of one
in authority should be the model for the head
of a family: "I say to this one, come, and he
cometh, and to another, go, and he goeth, and
to my servant, do this, and he doeth it."
	The fundamental principle of a well ordered
family is obedience to the laws of that house;
and where this is in full force, little reproof
will be needed; and when it is given it will be
but the echo of our own heart and conscience,
and we at once bow beneath the rod and kiss
the hand that wields it. Oh, how mighty is
that being who walks in innocency before God!
Who, though conscious of many imperfections,
can say, with hand on heart and looking up-
ward, "I desire, my Father, to be thine, only
thine; I desire to be pure even in Thy sight.
Excelsior! is my motto, my war cry in the battle
of life."
Let us then be humble, not servile; meek, but
not abject; passive, but not inert; self-reliant,
yet thankful for assistance when needed. Let
us reprove as we would desire to be reproved,
remembering ever that "the wounds of a friend
are better than the kisses of an enemy;" and
many a one has been made a firm friend by
the sweet way in which their reproof has been
received, and the reprover has at once merged
into the consoler, the adviser, the benefactor
and the friend for life.
	Postscript—It is a positive fact that an obe-
dient spirit bears the ills of life much easier
than a refractory one. The yoke of daily life
does not gall the shoulders, but fits so good
that it is not felt scarcely; a French writer
says, "Man is a bundle of habits"—and good 
habits are much more agreeable than bad ones,
and have no taxes to pay for them—which is
a mighty consideration and recommend in these
days of universal taxation. A well-fitting
habit is also the most becoming dress to all.
Ladies, let us ever wear one!


The front of Pilgrim Hall, Plymouth, is
soon to be ornamented with a group of figures
in bas-relief, carved in wood, and representing
the landing, which will be placed upon the
pediment of the porch. A shallop with a
broken mast, containing bundles and two men,
is at the rock. One man sits holding an oar
and looking at an Indian, while the other is in
the bow of the boat, with one foot on the rocks,
with his hands clasped in that of an Indian,
who kneels and appears to welcome the new
comers. The group is about twenty-five feet in
length and very effective. It is presented by
Mr. Stickney, of Baltimore, designed by Henry
Mitchell, and carved by A. Lus, both of Bos-
ton.—Ex.


90	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 26th, A. S. Gilbert, keeper of the
Lord's storehouse, signed a letter to the gover-
nor, in connection with others, which was his
last public act; for he had been called to preach,
and he said he would rather die than go forth
and preach the gospel to the wicked Gentile
nations. The Lord took him at his word; he
was attacked with the cholera, and died about
the 29th. Brothers Erastus Rudd and Jesse
J. Smith, a cousin of the prophet, died at Bro.
Gilbert's about the same time.
	"While we were here, the brethren being in
want of some refreshments, Brother Luke
Johnson went to Brother ——— to get a fowl,
asking him for one to make a broth for Bro.
Eber Wilcox and others, but it was denied
him, Brother ——— saying, in a few days we
expect to return back to Jackson County, from
whence we were driven, and he should want
them. When Brother Johnson returned he
was so angry at ——— for refusing him he said:
"I have a great mind to take my rifle and go
back and shoot his horse." I told Luke never
mind, that such actions never fail to bring
their reward. Judge how we felt, after having
left the society of our beloved families, taking
our lives in our hands, and traveling about
one thousand miles through scenes of suffering
and sorrow, for the benefit of our brethren,
and after all to be denied a small fowl to make
a little broth for brethren in the agonies of
death. Such things never fail to bring their
reward; and it would be well for the Saints
never to turn away a brother who is penniless
and in want, or a stranger, lest they may one
day or other want a friend themselves.
	"I went to Liberty, to the house of Peter
Whitmer, which place I reached with difficulty,
being much afflicted with the disease that was
among us. I staid there until I started upon
my return home. I received great kindness
from them, and also from Sister Vienna Jaques,
who administered to my wants and also to my
brethren. May the Lord reward them for
their kindness. While I was here a council
was called, which I attended. The Church
was organized, a Presidency and High Council
chosen, and many were chosen to go to Kirt-
land to be endowed.
	"From that time the destroyer ceased, hav-
ing afflicted us about four days; sixty-eight
were attacked with the disease. Fourteen
members of Zion's Camp died, eighteen died
altogether; the remainder recovered, as we
found out an effectual remedy for this disease,
which was, by dipping the person afflicted into
cold water, or pouring it on him. Some of the
brethren, when they were seized, plunged them-
selves into the stream and obtained immediate
relief.	*	*	*	This led us to try the ex-
periment on others, and in every case it proved
highly beneficial and effectual where it was
taken in season. During our stay in Missouri,
Brother Joseph B. Noble was very sick, and
was taken care of by Elders Brigham and Jo-
seph Young at the house of Joel Sanford. It
was with great exertion that his life was pre-
served, and that by the application of cold
water, being drawn out of a well and poured
upon him daily and hourly. The sufferers in-
variably besought us to plunge them into pools
or springs of cold water, while their thirst for
the same was very great. While our fears
were it would be an injury to them, yet by the
blessing of Heaven it was the only means of
saving them that were saved from the cholera.
Brother Noble's life was yet despaired of, but
he was resolute, and nothing would satisfy him
but to return home. 	*	*
	"Brother Joseph received a revelation saying
that the Lord had accepted our offering, even
as he accepted that of Abraham; therefore, he

[Column 2]
had a great blessing laid up in store for us, and
an endowment for all; and those who had
families might return home, and those who had
no families should tarry until the Lord said
they should go.
	"I received an honorable discharge, in writ-
ing, from the hand of our General, Lyman
Wight.	*	*	*	Before we separated, the
money which had been put into the hands of
our paymaster, and had not been used, was
equally divided among the company; making
one dollar and sixteen cents each. The breth-
ren who had no money when we started from
Kirtland received an equal share with the rest.
	"June 30th I started for home, in company
with Lyman Sherman, Sylvester Smith, Alex-
ander Badlam, Harrison Burgess, Luke John-
son and Zera Cole, with Brother Sylvester
Smith's team, as I had disposed of mine.
About this time Brother Brigham Young started
with about the same number that was with me,
with James Foster's team. After proceeding
about three miles, we stopped and made ar-
rangements for traveling. They chose me to
be their captain, and all put their money into
my hands, whlch amounted to forty dollars.
From thence we proceeded until we came to
Brother Thomrs B. Marsh's; his wife gave us
some dinner, when we proceeded on our jour-ney. May the Lord bless her for it! We
crossed a branch of the Fishing River in a
scow, and when we were pnlling our wagon
out of it the scow was sinking. Here an ene-
my came and swore he would shoot us.	*	*
We pursued our journey until we came to the
Missouri River, which we crossed in a scow;
the current was so rapid that it carried us
down one mile. After we had crossed the
river and traveled about two miles. we came
into the village of Lexington, where we were
threatened some by our enemies, but the Lord
protected us. From thence we proceeded daily,
receiving no harm. We passed through the
town of St. Charles, which looked very gloomy,
as the cholera had nearly desolated the place.
After traveling about eight miles we came to
Jack's Ferry, on the Missouri, where we again
crossed the river. We then proceeded about
five miles, and stopped to take some refresh-
ments, when we were again accosted by one of
our enemies, who swore he would kill us that
night: we traveled about ten miles after sun-
set and camped in the woods. The Lord
again delivered us from the hands of our ene-
mies."
	"We proceeded on our journey daily, the
Lord blessing us with health and strength; the
weather was very hot, still we traveled from
thirty-five to forty miles a day, until about the
26th of July, when we arrived in Kirtland."
	It was Sunday when the news came to
Kirtland of the death of the brethren from
cholera, and the Saints were quietly dispersing
from afternoon meeting. I was with my
mother and Sister Eber Wilcox on the flat
opposite the Gilbert and Whitney store, when
the word came. The scene that followed no
pen can describe; the shrieks and cries of the
bereaved were heartrending, and made a vivid
and lasting impression upon my mind. We
accompanied Sister Wilcox to the house of
Bother Bond, where the night was spent in
sorrow and lamentation.
	"At this time the brethren were laboring
night and day building the house of the Lord.
Elder Rigdon, when addressing the brethren
upon the importance of building this house,
spake to the effect that we should use every
effort to accomplish this building by the time
appointed; if we did, the Lord would accept it
at our hands, and on it depends the salvation
of the Church, and also of the world. Look-
ing at the sufferings and poverty of the
Church, he frequently went upon the walls of
the building, both by night and day, and wept,
crying aloud to the Almighty to send means

[Column 3]
whereby we might accomplish the building.
After we returned from our journey to the
west, the whole Church united in this great
undertaking, and every man lent a helping
hand. Those who had not teams went to work
in the stone quarry and prepared the stones
for drawing to the house. The prophet being
our foreman, would put on his tow frock and
tow pantaloons and go into the quarry; the
Presidency, High Priests and Elders all alike
assisting. Those who had teams assisted in
drawing the stone; these all laboring one day
in the week, brought as many stones as sup-
plied the masons through the whole week.
We continued in this manner until the walls
of the house were reared.	*	*
	"In the winter of 1834-5 I attended the
Theological school established in Kirtland, in
which the lectures on Faith contained in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants originated.
A certain number were appointed to preach at
each meeting. On one occasion I was called
upon to speak on the principle of Faith. Sev-
eral brethren spoke before me and quoted
every passage mentioned in the Scriptures on
the subject; I referred to an original circum-
stance which took place in my family: My
wife, one day when going out to make a call,
gave my little daughter, Helen Mar, a charge
not to touch the dishes which she had left
standing on the table, as, if she broke any dur-
ing her absence she would give her a whipping
when she returned. While my wife was ab-
sent, my daughter broke a number by letting
the table leaf fall; and then she went out un-
der an apple tree and prayed that her moth-
er's heart might be softened, that when she re-
turned she might not whip her. Although
her mother was very punctual when she made
a promise to her children to fulfil it, yet when
she returned she had no disposition to chastise
the child. Afterwards the child told her
mother that she had prayed to God that she
might not whip her.
	"Joseph wept like a child on hearing this
simple narrative and its application, and said
it was well timed."

To be Continued.


EXPRESSION  OF THANKS

	Although on the wing  I must  pause  long
enough  to tender to  Gen. George  R. Maxwell
et. al.,  my  grateful thanks for the trouble  and
expense  to which  they  have lately  put  them-
selves for the sake of proving how strong is our 
position and how many friends  as  women and
voters we have.
	They could not have done us a greater favor
than thus to sound an alarm  and set our allies
to mustering, unless indeed, they had  actually
succeeded  in cutting  off  our  political  ears, in
which case the favor  would  have been  to the
Great Cause  of Woman's Equality  before   the
Law;  which  by  means  of  the  arrested  atten-
tion and  spmpathy  of  all  Christendom,  would
have been  advanced many years.
	And  I  cannot  suppress  a  little wicked  sat-
isfaction in the fact that for once in the history
of the  World, men have found occasion to com-
plain  that  they are  not  fairly  and  equally
treated! that  discrimination  has  been  used in
favor of women  and  against  them!  Isn't this a
turning of tables unthought  of in  our wildest
dreams?Choir will please to sing,
"Which Kings and Prophets waited for,
But died without the sight."
	L. L. D.


Sow good  services;  sweet  rememberances
will grow from them.—Mme de Stael.

	THE Cincinnati Musical Festival Assoication
have offered  a  prize of $1,000  for  an  original
musical composition to be played at their festi-
val in 1882.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
(Continued.)
	In our last we referred to the suffering and
sickness upon the way in the journey to the
valley, Amid these scenes Sister Eliza was
like a ministering angel, carrying with her to
the bedside of the afflicted that peaceful spirit
which ever soothes and consoles, and the living
faith which encourages and renews spiritual
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in  those who were cast down; thus did
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in those who were cast down; thus did
she minister to many, ever patient, hopeful
and full of integrity, cheerful under the most
adverse circumstances and brave in the hour
of danger. Her words of comfort and sublime
prayers are remembered by many,whose hearts
overflow with gratitude for her spiritual help
in the hour of adversity.
	Towards the latter part of the journey the
Saints who were traveling westward began to
hear of the pioneers, and the discovery of the
Salt Lake Valley. On the 4th, of August
several of the Mormon Battalion returning to
Winter Quarters met the Pilgrim companies,
and joyful indeed was the surprise and greeting,
for they were husbands, brothers and sons of
women, who were in those companies. No pen
can describe the scene; in the heart of a great
uncultivated wild and barren plain, the meet-
ing of loved ones, who had been so long separ-
ated. Next came an express from the valley,
and soon after the main body of the pioneers
returning from their memorable pilgrimage.
At the Sweet Water river a feast was made in
honor of the meeting by Apostle John Taylor
(now President of the Church) which has
always been spoken of as "the royal feast;" it
was a time of general rejoicing, thanksgiving
and praise. The next day the pioneers met
Capt. J. M. Grant's company in which Sister
Eliza was traveling, and on this suggestive oc-
casion she addressed to President Young and
camp a poem, which was publish in full. Indeed
her pen was like that of a  ready  writer, and
her thoughts flowed in  poetical rhythm.  The
song  was  written  between the Platte
and Green Rivers.
"Hail! ye mighty men of Isreal,
Who the hiding place have found:
The Eternal God has bles! you—
You have stood on holy ground.
CHORUS.
Praise the Lord! we're glad to meet you!
Welcome, welcome on your way—
Yes, O yes, with songs we greet you,
Pioneers of  Latter-day.
A choice land of old appointed
For the house of Israel's rest,
You have found and consecrated—
Through your blessing 'twill be blest.
CHORUS. Praise the Lold &c.
Holy, free and unpolluted,
Will that land for us remain?
While the sacred laws of justice
There the Saints of God mantain.
CHORUS.
Go return to Winter Quarters—
Go in peace and safety too;
There the purest hearts are beating,
Warm with hopes of seeing you.
CHORUS.
We will onward to  the valley—
Speed your way—make haste and come,
That ere long with joy and gladness,
We may bid you WELCOME HOME.
CHORUS.
	On that night  when  the  pioneers were en-
camped with Capt. Grant's company about fifty

[Column 2]
horses were stolen by the Indians. Bells were
cut and also lariats, and an arrow was picked
up; these were considered sure indications of
Indians. The trail was discovered and twenty
horsemen started out in pursuit of the missing
animals. They returned at night with five of
the horses the others were never recovered.
However they divided with each other and
fitted up as well as they could and proceeded
onward—the pioneers taking the homeward
route. The remainder of the way was tedious,
insufficiency of teams, weariness and the many
perplexities that are to be encountered in a long
journey over an unsettled country; sometimes
no feed for the poor, tired animals and some-
times no water, but God was with his people.
He did not forget them in their hour of trial
and they arrived safely in the valley early
in the month of October.
	President Young had arranged that Sister
Eliza should take up her abode with Mrs. Clara
D. Young, who had accompanied him in his
pioneer journey, therefore on her arrival she
left the family of Brother Pierce and has ever
since resided under Pres. Young's roof. The
first winter in the valley 1847 and 48, was
delightful, mild and  pleasant; the people were
able to procure the logs and build their houses,
plow, sow and prepare for spring wheat, go to
the canon  for  wood, and in fact, perform all
the labors necessary. Everything was done ex-
perimentally, but circumstances favored
them; and health prevailed. The houses were
built of logs and were  enclosed  in  form of a
fort, with all the  doors and  windows  looking
into the yard;  they were  covered  with  willows
and earth, and  were  nearly  flat-roofed, for it
seemed to  be the  impression  there  would be
little or no rain.  In one of these rustic  homes
Sister Eliza passed her  first year in the valley;
the climate seemed to agree with her, her health
was very much improved and her hands as well
as her brain  were constantly employed; her pen
was busy  also, and  many were  the  effusions
written at that time;  the  sisters  looked  up to
her for comfort and sympathy, with  the great-
est reverence  knowing  that  she had  been  for
years associated with the Prophet  Joseph.
	Shortly after  the  Saints  numbering six
hundred, arrived in  the  valley, a tall  liberty
pole was erected, and the  flag which had been
preserved with the greatest care  was  flung to
the mountain   breeze.   Sister  Eliza  says she
gazed  upon it proudly, "and  from its summit
the stars  and stripes seemed to  float with even
more significance, if  possible, than  they  were
wont to do on Eastern  breezes." A feeling  of
independence  and  true spirit of liberty from
bondage and   oppression, pervaded her bosom,
she  had passed through  so much persecution,
that now, although an exile from the home of
her  forefathers, the boasted land of liberty, she
gloried in the  freedom  which this mountain re-
teat seemed  to offer the exiled Saints, and she
gave expression to her enthusiasm in verse.
"I love that flag.  When in my childish glee—
A prattling girl upon my grandsire's knee—
I heard him tell strange tales, with valor  rife,
How that same flag was bought with blood and life.
And his tall form seemed taller when he said,
Child for that flag thy grandsire fought and bled.
My young heart felt that every scar he wore,
Caused him to prize that banner more and more,
I caught the fire, and as in years I grew,
I loved that flag; I loved my country too.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
There came a time that I remember well—
Beneath the stars and stripes we could not dwell!
We had to flee; but in our hasty flight
We grasped the flag with more than mortal might;
And vowed although our foes should us bereave
Of all things else, the flag we would not leave.
We took the flag and journeying  to the West,
We wore its motto graven on each breast."
	[TO  BE  CONTINUED.]


A PLEASANT VISIT TO SPANISH
FORK.

	On Saturday morning, Oct. 28, in company
with two sisters, I left this city for the purpose
of visiting, by invitation, the Primary Mutual
Improvement Associations of Spanish Fork at
their annual meeting. The day was clear and
bright and all nature seemed smiling as we
stepped on board the U. S. Train. Soon we
were steaming through fields and over streams,
stopping at the different settlements, where we
saw many familiar faces. On our arrival at
Provo we were met by the President, Sister
Zina Y. Williams, and counselors, Sisters
Nancy Smoot and Mary Johns, of the P. M. I.
A. of Utah Stake. Sister Williams had an-
other engagement, but her counselors accom-
panied us on our journey.
	Upon our arrival at Spanish Fork we were
met by Bishop Snell and the President of the
P. M. I. A., Sister McLean. We were invited
to the residence of the President,where we par-
took of a sumptuous dinner, in company with
a goodly number of the brethren and sisters of
that flourishing town. After dinner Sister
Cornaby read a beautiful poem, composed by
her in honor of our visit, after which we pro-
ceeded to the meeting house, where we found
upwards of three hundred children, with their
parents awaiting our arrival. The house had
been nicely decorated with fancy work by the
children of the Association, for the occasion.
	The very best of order was observed by the
children during the exercises. It seemed al-
most incredible that so many, and such young
children could be so quiet and attentive. The
exercises were well rendered, and spoke well
for the president and her counselors. The an-
swers to questions were promptly and correctly
given by all. Particular mention should be
made of the singing by the small children,
which was a most enjoyable feature of the en-
tertainment. At the close of the exercises the
visitors spoke a few words of encouragement
to the children, urging them to attend regu-
larly their meetings, ever hearken to the coun-
sel of their president, and always observe the
same good order and attention as at that meet-
ing.
	Prizes were then distributed to the children
according to their attendance, which seemed to
give universal satisfaction; the same good order
prevailed during the awarding of the prizes.
After the close of the meeting we returned to
Sister Mc Lean's where refreshments were
served and the evening was spent in social con-
versation, singing and listening to more gems
from the gifted pen of Spanish Fork's Poetess.
Thus began a week of intellectual feasting.
Every house seemed open. Every table groaned
under the bounties of Utah's prolific soil.
Every sister's arms were open to welcome and
make our stay pleasant. When the time for
our return arrived, regrets were expressed by
all that we must separate, and all wafted a
"God bless you" after us as the train bore us
homeward.
	Thus ended one of the most pleasant times,
in one of the most pleasant places, and among
the most pleasant brethren and sisters, that we
had ever spent, one long to be remembered.
Friends and acquaintances formed never to be
forgotten; and with my sisters, I pray God to
bless the Bishop, the President, the children,
the parents, and all who contributed to make
ours "a pleasant visit to Spanish Fork"
									L. B.


THE PLEASURE OF HOPE: When the body
is bowed with pain an intense longing for re-
lief brings hope. This may brighten the suffer-
ing but it does not cure. At a time like this
how welcome is such a friend as Warner's Safe
Kidney and Liver Cure, bringing home health
and happiness and the joys of a renewed life.


92	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE R. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
LACK OF SPIRITUALLY.

	This, the enlightened nineteenth century, is
termed, not inappropriately, the "age of reason."
Everything must be demonstrated positively, and
clearly elucidated by square and compass, or
some equally tangible method, or the world re-
jects it as false. Men have grown so exceedingly
wise and learned in science that without any
direct communication from heaven they are
able, in their own estimation, to settle all ques-
tions that may arise, or solve any problem, how-
ever difficult. This spirit seems to have impreg-
nated the minds of the majority of the human
family in all cl[-]sses of sociey, and crushed out
the spiritualily which existed in former times,
and which gives to men and women a sublimity
of character that lifts them into an atmosphere
of light and hope, that reaches into the future,
opening up the glories of the life beyond. The
cultivation of the spiritual sense or faculties
strengthens faith in God and in the efficacy of
prayer; and when fully developed in its intensity
opens up a channel of communication which
may be termed inspiration, or revelation; bring-
ing hidden things to light, and piercing the
darkness of the tomb. The inspired writer, Job,
says, "Who by his reasoning can find out God?"
Spirituality is refining; wherever you find this
faculty highly developed you also find a corres-
pondingly high order of thought and aspirations.
	The desire to obtain riches and the wealth of
the world crushes out, or keeps in subjection,
this higher sense, this divinity, which should
predominate over the grosser elements of poor
human nature. It is conceded that woman's
nature is more susceptible to spiritual impres-
sions and the growth and culture of
these finer faculties than that of man,
that women possess a greater degree of the ele-
ments of character that tend heavenward that
lead to the worship of a Supreme Being. This
is absolutely proven by facts and figures such as
the world require. In sorrow and trouble woman
in most instances will cleave to religion, to pray-
er believing and trusting in God's power to bear
her up in the hour of trial and carry her safely
through the deep waters of affliction. How is it
with men? Statistical records tell us most men
seek to drown their sorrow in the poisonous
bowl, or rush madly into self-destruction. Grant-
ing this to be the case and that the rapid spread of
materialism is to be dreaded as leading to irrev-
erence of all that is holy, to unbelief in a Deity
and all that has been for ages held sacred by the
religious world, then there is good evidence that
the greater spiritual progress would be gained
through the higher elevation of woman, the
broadening of her sphere of duties and respon-
sibilities in all the departments of life.
The love that is so pure, and so self-sacrificing,
so strong in woman, reveals the exalted tone of

[Column 2]her true nature. The Savior must have consid-
ered mother love the strongest affection, for He
uses it to illustrate the divine love of the Father
of mankind for his children. "Love," the Sa-
vior said, "is of God, for God is love."
	If anything can be done to arrest the progress
of the spirit of unbelief and infidelity, which
seems to have fallen like a dark cloud upon the
the earth, men and women should exert their
utmost influence and their aid to accomplish it.
Even among the Saints who profess to have
come out from the world,this insinuating, seduc-
ing spirit is creeping in wherever a loophole or
an impregnable place can be found. Too much
pains cannot be taken to promote the growth of
faith and a love of spiritual gifts and principles
and guard every avenue that would lead to
doubt, or unbelief, as cautiously and carefully as
though they led to the most dark and fearful
chasm, and such indeed it is death, to all that
is inspiring and elevating to human character.
The child should have these spiritual impres-
sions so engraven upon its mind and heart in its
earliest and tenderest years, that they may
grow with its growth, and increase with its
strength, giving spiritual force to the elements
of character that will produce a high order of in-
telligence, and superior excellence of attain-
ment. That will grasp after the things that
pertain to a more exalted life, and thus elevate
humanity. Mothers this is your work, to thus
form and mold the infant mind. God makes
the soul, you give it the bias and impressions;
stamp it with a character that is noble and
pure, strive to eradicate selfishness and impur-
ity of whatever name or nature. Be honest
with yourself, with your own heart and draw
near to God in prayer and He will help you in
the work which is before you, the mission given
you, the great opening of a mighty realm of ac-
tion which will exalt you and yours and crown
your labors with eternal life.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. RANDALL has opened a boarding
department in connection with her select school,
in Morgan College Building. For particulars
apply to M. E. Randall, College Building, 14th
Ward, Salt Lake City.

	TRANSLATE the sense of Scripture into your
lives, and expound the Word of God by your
work. Interpret it by your feet and teach it by
your fingers. That is, let your workings and
your walkings be Scripture exposition, as living
epistles read and known of all men.

	WE had a very pleasant call from John A.
Blake, Member of Parliament, House of Com-
mons, and his wife Mrs. Adelaide M. Blake.
They manifested much interest in the Mormon
question, politically and socially as well as religi-
ously. Mrs. Blake was anxious to gather all the
information she could as subject matter for a
book she intends publishing after her return
home.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D.
Young left this city Monday morning, Novem-
ber 8th, by the Utah Southern Train enroute
for St. George. They will visit some of the set-
tlements by the way; expect to meet with the
Relief Societies Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
Associations at Fillmore, Scipio, Beaver and
other places, where it is practicable to do so.
We sincerely wish them a pleasant journey and
much joy in their interesting labors.

	THE "Juvenile Instructor" of the present
month is certainly an interesting number. On
the first page is a picture of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple as it will be when completed. The article
upon Temples is very good. The second wood-

[Column 2]
cut is an "Eastern Money-Lender," and gives
the child a good idea of the oriental manner of
transacting business at that period. Every home
in the Territory should have a copy of this use-
ful magazine in it, for the children. The music
is always good, and helps the little ones along in
that branch of instruction.

	A GRAND Concert was given in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Monday evening, by Zion's
Musical Society. The singers and performers
were mostly amateurs, and of course one must
remember they are new beginners in criticising
their efforts. The cultivation of music is refin-
ing and elevating, and as there is much musical
ability which needs developing among the youth,
we hope that there will be every avenue open
for them to receive instruction,and perfect them-
selves in this pleasing and inspirational science;
and that due praise and encouragement may be
awarded them, instead of severe criticism, in
their attempts to appear before the public.

	WITH the last company of Saints from Liver-
pool, who arrived in this city Nov. 11, were sev-
eral Elders returning from their missions; among
them Elder John Nicholson, who has been ab-
sent more than two years. While in England
Bro. Nicholson was engaged in editing the Mil-
lennial Star, which he did in a very able
manner. Bro. Nicholson has also published
some interesting tracts in the interest of the
Church, setting forth some of the principles in a
clear and forcible manner. These tracts have
been widely distributed, and no doubt sown
much good seed in the hearts of honest men
and women. In addition to his literary work
he has labored in the ministry whenever it was
expedient for him, attending Conferences and
meetings in various parts of England and Scot-
land. We are pleased to see our brother again,
and cordially join with his many true and warm-
hearted friends in welcoming him back again to
his mountain home and the bosom of his family.

	"A String of Pearls," is the happy title of a
new book for children, just out, published at the
"Juvenile Instructor" office, and is the secondbook of what is termed the "Faith Promoting
Series" of books, suitable to place in the hands
of the children of the Latter-day Saints, to en-
courage them in the faith of the Gospel, and
stimulate them to similar good works. To show
them that the gifts, blessings and powers of the
Church of Jesus Christ are the same now as in
former days, when Jesus was upon the earth.
We heartily recommend this neat little book to
the little folks, and hope they will peruse it with
pleasure and benefit. The first two chapters
are "Among the Poncas," a tribe of Indians in
Western Iowa, and are exceedingly interesting;
it is the personal experience of one of our good
brethren, and every word is true; children, there
is no fiction about it. The next part is entitled
"Anecdotes of Elder Grant," by an able and
entertaining writer, which cannot fail to make
a good impression; "Missionary Incidents, Jour-
ney Across the Plains," by President John Tay-
lor; then follows "Story of a Hat," "Cases of
Miraculous Healing," and other subjects of equal
significance are treated upon; all being personal
experiences of the Elders. Now, if we could be
permitted to offer a suggestion, we should say
that these books are more especially suitable
for boys, although girls may be greatly benefit-
ted by reading them; yet they will not be so at-
tractive for them as something of a more wo-
manly style. There are many women whose
lives are full of rich personal experience, testi-
monies of the power of God in healing, and
thrilling incidents that, were they written up in
a pleasing style and published, would be produc-
tive of great good no doubt. It is just as essen-
tlat that the little girls have faith in God and in


the principles of the Gospel as the little boys.
They are to be the future wives and mothers;
the foundation of faith, virtue, integrity and
honor needs to be securely laid in their hearts,
that they may do their proportion of the impor-
tant work which must necessarily devolve upon
the coming race, now growing up in these val-
leys.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿93


REPORTS WANTED.

	All the Relief Societies, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations who are engaged in laying
up grain against a day of famine, are requested
to forward full reports of the amount stored, also
what proportion has been gleaned, and if lent
out (according to President Taylor's counsel at
the April Conference) and not returned, what
receipts are held as security by the society, or
committee, in order that a correct estimate may
be made, before the end of the year, of the quan-
tity of grain which has been stored since the
first commencement of this benevolent enter-
prise. The sisters should never for a moment
forget, that this wheat is a donation, and that
those who have charge of it are responsible for
its safe keeping.
	Wherever granaries have been built, state
definitely what are the dimensions, also the ma-
terial and cost of the building, and how it has
been done, whether by one society or more, or
the Stake. If not completed, state particulars.
Forward these reports to this office as soon as
practicable.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		President Central Grain Committee.
			ELIZABETH HOWARD,
							Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A.—Will the secretaries of these
associations of Salt Lake Stake each send, as
soon as convenient, a complete statistical and
financial report of her respective association,
from its organization up to the present time, to
EXPONENT Office.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
						Stake Secretary.


GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF
SOCIETY SECRETARIES.

	Hereafter Stake Secretaries will only require
semi annual reports, which should be furnished
them as early as the 5th of September and
March, to enable Stake Secretaries to prepare
and forward their reports to Central Secretary
by the 15th, as she is required to give her report
at President Taylor's office ten days prior to
General Conferences. These instructions are
designed for organized Stakes in all the world.
Times of making reports may be varied to suit
the circumstances of branches in foreign coun-
tries and on the Islands.

	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Central Secretary.
By order of Relief Society President.
Salt Lake City, November, 1880.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, of old age in Centerville, Davis Co.,
Mary Ann Harris, wife of John J. Harris
daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Rushmer
born September 25, 1798, in the Parish of Free-
thorpe, County of Norfolk, England; was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints by Elder Thomas Smith, of Wor-
cestershire, being the first member in the Nor-
wich Conference, on the 26th day of April, 1847.
Emigrated to Utah on the 19th day of January,
arrived in Salt Lake City, October 10th the same
year, and stayed in Salt Lake City until the
Move of 1858, then went with her family to
Payson, and returned to Salt Lake City the fall


of the same year. A short time after moved
with her family to Centreville, Davis Co., where
she resided until the day of her death. Died
Sept. 11, 1880, aged 81 years, 11 months and 17
days. She passed away in peace, without a
struggle.—[COM.
	Deseret News and Millennial Star please copy.


[Column 1]
SUGGESTIVE DAYS.

	These are the days suggestive of sentiment,
of thoughtfulness and reflection days full of
poetical meaning. The gay livery of nature,
the brightness amd glory of summer has left
us for a little season; the flowers are gone, save
here and there a few of a harder kind, chrys-
anthemums and dahlias; the verdure that cov-
ered the hill and plain is now only brown and
bare, and the dry leaves of the summer foliage
rustle under our feet at every step and awaken
melancholy or sober feelings that suggest the
decay of nature and the rude approach of cold,
stern winter.
	This is the season for nutting in those coun-
tries which abound in woods; happy groups of
boys and girls with stout shoes and strong
baskets, ramble over the hills and among the
trees, joyous and blithe, while the merry
laughter rings along the forest path and echoes
back through the brown old woods, breaking
into soft gentle ripples as it dies away along the
hills. The handsome partridges and gay
plumed pheasants flit about half frightened at
the noisy troop of young people, trying to hide
themselves in the almost leafless shrubbery.
A few poor little birds are demurely perched
on the bare branches of the trees, as thoughmeditating where to go for a green leaf and a
little sunshine. The poet, or the sentimental
writer finds plenty of subjects for his pen at
this season, as well as in the gushing spring-
time.
	The autumn leaves have lost their beautiful,
glowing tints; the frost has withered them, and
the gorgeous coloring died out, and only the
sober gray and brown, colors that always wear
well, and are suited to all weathers remain.
There are useful lessons to be learned from
the death of the flowers, the falling leaves, the
bare autumn fields; for nature, our great
mother has done her work kindly and well;
and the precious seeds are scattered, and germs
are nurtured in her tender bosom that will
spring into new life again at the approach of
the gentle maiden Spring.
	Autumnal days are retrospective; involun-
tarily our thoughts go backward: pinched by
the cold, and pierced by sharp winds, we recall
the sweet memory of summer hours, the land-
scape bare and cheerless reminds us of the lux-
urious beanty and richness of the season but
just past, when the earth itself seemed a garden
of loveliness fresh from the hand of the Great
Creator. How Nature mourns and sighs as it
were,and the echo of the sweet but solemn music
finds response in our human hearts, a tender
sympathy exists, which is stirred to its inner
fonntain, which we feel intensely although we
may not have the power of utterance to clearly
express and define it.

And is there in our hearts no sad regrets,
	No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget,
	Or glean and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves?

	Yes memory calls up a host of recollections
as a parting requiem to the beauties of the
fields and forests, that have died out along the
mountain and over the plain. We know not
if we shall see the earth robed in beauty again,
with the same dear friends around us, the
same happy faces beaming kindly upon us, but
we do know that the principles of eternal life
remain, that whether we live or die there is a
land of light and glory and perpetual loveli-

[Column 2]
ness, where flowers never fade, or warm hearts
grow cold, and that in that shining and beauti-
ful land, now dwell some of those whose lot
was [-]nce cast with ours; who saw the summer
fade along the shadowy hills, and heard the
weird rustle of the falling leaves, and wondered
as we do now at the picture and the melanch-
oly music of the sighing breeze and ere the
Spring had blushed into bloom,were gone from
earth, and their faces no more seen among the
living.
								AUNT EM.


DARE  TO  DO  RIGHT.

	I have just perused the beautiful little song
with the above title, and as I think how ap-
propriate it is for free and bold young Ameri-
cans, my mind wanders back to other countries
and governments less fortunate. Monarchs,
magistrates, priests and nations pass before my
memory's eye, as in a panorama, with their 
record of sinful pride, vanity, implacable ha-
tred, and insatiable  thirst for wealth  and  hon-
ors,  on  the  part  of  rulers, and the abject pov-
erty, ignorance and cowardice of the masses.
	Sad, very  sad  is  the  future.  So  much  so,
that I turn  from  it with  the  heavy, sorrowful
feeling which all who love their fellow-creatures
experience,  when  they  witness  their  downfall
without  being  able  to  help  them. Oh, that
those monarchs had been taught in their youth
to  do  right!  That  their  courtiers,  senators
and   priests  had   been  taught  to  dare  to  do
right! How much misery it would have spared
the  human  family. Then  love,  justice  and
mercy would  have  superceded  hatred, oppres-
sion  and  cruelty, and  intelligence  and  thrift
would have been the  happy  lot  of  the  nations
—both  drawing upon  themselves  the blessings
instead  of  the  wrath  of  the  Almighty.
	I see Rome—the grand city built upon seven
hills, the  cradle  of  noble  warriors  and  law-
makers, in  whose  portals  falsehood,  cowardice
and   even  self-indulgence  were  once  held  as
crimes—what is she  now?  A den of iniduity.
She  has  flattered her rulers into  splendor and
revelry, and they have crushed her people into
the dust.  Bigotry  and  tyrrany walk  hand in
hand, for  the  ignorance  of  the masses is  their 
strongest  foothold.  No  negro  ever  was   in
worse bondage  than  the  Roman  people  have
been for centuries.
	The   Roman  Church,    self-called   "Chiesa
Catolica  Apostolica  Romana,"  as late as 1847,
(more or less)  reigned Church and State, nomi-
nally, only the  Romau Empire;  but in reality,
over  all  Italy,  Spain,  Portugal,  France  and
Austria,  whose  kings  and  emperors  dared
hardly  assert their souls to be their  own. In-
stance: The  Inquisition  of Spain,  Rome  and
Venice; the  persecutions  of  the  Waldenses in
Piedmont, and Huegenots in France, etc.
	But  a  brighter  day  has  dawned  for   them
also.  In 1847  or 1848,  after   the  close  of the
Austrio-Italian  war,  Victor Emmanuel, son of 
Charles  Albert, succeeding  his  father  to  the
Sardinian  throne,  shook  the  Papal  yoke  off,
freed  the  people, giving  them a Constitutional
government, liberty  of worship, and  liberty of
the  press.  He  dared to do right in the face of
priestly  persecution;  and  to  a  long anathema
of Pius the IX, which was published in all the
leading papers  of  Europe (for a scare) Victor
Emmanuel  made  this  beautiful  reply: "God
placed  this  people  under my care, to God alone
will I answer."
	Morgan City.	E. C. F.
	To be  Continued.


CALUMNY would soon starve and die of itself,
if nobody took it in and gave it lodgings.—
Leighton.


94	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The first Ladies Conference, consisting of the
Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations
for the Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion, was
held in Snowflake, September 25th, 1880.
Pres. Willmirth East presiding. After singing
and prayer, Sister East expressed her gratitude
and joy at meeting with the sisters in the capa-
city of a conference; realizing it to be the first
of the kind ever held in Arizona. Welcomed
all, and made a few encouraging remarks, after
which reports from the different organizations
throughout the Stake numbering in all, six
Relief Societies. and four Y. L, Associations,
(which were only effected one month before)
were read, showing them to be in a prosperous
condition. The condensed reports for Relief
Societies, gave a total of 186, officers and mem-
bers, and for Y. L. M. I. A., a total of 108,
officers and members.
	Owing to the recent organizations, our finan-
cial report was deemed scarcely worthy to be
noted. Quite an amount of gleaning has been
done by the sisters in the different branches,
which will be reported at our next conference.
During the meeting we were honored with a
visit from Elders Erastus Snow and Brigham
Young, of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
who were here from Utah, also Prest. Jesse N.
Smith of this Stake.
	Brother Snow expressed great pleasure at
finding the ladies' organizations so nearly com-
pleted; was earnest in his exhortations and
congratulations to the sisters upon this, their
commencement in a new country. Felt that
the Lord had blessed them abundantly in
their labors thus far, and would continue to do
so. The following officers being sustained by
the conference, were then blessed and set apart
to their different callings, by the Apostles, and
Stake authorities present. Mrs. Willmirth East
President of Relief Societies for Stake, Mrs.
Emma S. Smith, and Lois R. Hunt, her
Counselors; Ida F. Hunt, Stake President of Y.
L. M. I. Association, with Mrs. Nellie Smith,
and Miss Emma Larson, Counselors. A good
spirit prevailed throughout the conference,
which was adjourned indefinitely.
	Several numbers of the EXPONENT are taken
throughout the Stake, and they are indeed
welcome visitors, bringing us glad tidings and
words of consolation from the many dear ones
left behind in our homes. We do not wish to
be forgotten, and feel that though far away
we may still be of service in the great cause,
which is our earnest desire.
						IDA F. Hunt,
				Stake Sec'y Relief Society.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sevier Stake, held at Rich-
field October 24 and 25, 1880.
	Meeting called to order by Pres. Elizabeth
[-]ean. Singing. Prayer by Pres. H. K.
[-]aurber. Singing. The reports of the differ-
ent wards were read by the Secretary. After
which Sister E. R. S. Smith, by request, arose
and addressed the congregation Was pleased
to see a few of the brethren present, as it
showed that our interest in coming together
was mutual; and also, that they might correct
us if need be. Spoke on the subject of organ-
ization; said there were some societies which
women had a right to organize, such as the Y,
L. and Primary Associations, but they had no
right to organize a Relief Society; but they
could assist the priesthood in doing so. Said
if we were living up to our duties we were
helpmeets to the priesthood. Felt herself
highly honored in being numbered with the
sisters of the Relief Societies of this Church.
Urged us to be devoted and faithful to our
duties, and realize the great responsibility of
rearing the young, and not to spend our time

[Column 2]
in unnecessary labor, to the neglect of our
children in sending them to meeting; referred
to the growing infidelity in our midst, and
thought we should keep the good continually
before them, that it might get the precedence
of evil. Spoke of the great pleasure she ex-
perienced in meeting with the children, of
their improvement, and of the importance of
their being punctual, and setting the example
to the children to be on time. Wished to im-
press on the minds of the sisters to commence
their meetings at the time appointed.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of meeting with the Saints in peace;
had attended the first organization in the days
of Joseph, where he had instructed the Society
to adopt the use of parliamentary rules.
Thought we should teach the children not to
use tea, coffee, tobacco, whiskey, nor to lie,
steal nor swear; and by so doing they would
become great and good. Urged us to observe
the Sabbath day. Prayed that we might not
go into apostacy, but that we might have a
good time during Conference, aud that the
blessings of the Lord would rest upon Israel.
	Sister Eliza explained that she had been
given a mission to assist the priesthood in or-
ganizing the Relief Societies; hence, some had
conceived the idea that she organized.
	Pres. Thurber spoke of the quiet, peaceful
spirit which always prevailed at the sisters'
meetings, and of the good influence they ex-
erted, and of the universal liberty and freedom
enjoyed by the Saints in the Kingdom of God.
	After some good and instructive remarks by
Sister Bean, Conference adjourned until two
p. m. Siuging and benediction.
	2 p. m. Meeting called to order by Pres.
Bean. After the usual opening exercises, the
presidents of the different wards gave a verbal
report of the Societies. They reported the
Societies to be prospering, and as a general
thing the sisters were willing to do all in their
power to aid in advancing the work of the
kingdom.
	Pres. Bean encouraged the sisters to do bet-
ter in the future, and to live humble, be prayer-
ful and alive to their duties.
	Sister Eliza gave the Secretaries some in-
structions in regard to keeping the books, &c.
Spoke of the benefit and beauty of children
being taught to work, and those who were
were the ones that generally made their mark
in the world and become useful members of
society and the kingdom of God.
	Sister Bathsheba thought we were all labor-
ing in a school which embraced every princi-
ple of the Gospel, and hoped we would study
those principles thoroughly. Advised us to
adopt the plan of ruling our children by love
and kindness, and by gaining their esteem and
confidence we would be enabled to have a much
greater influence.
	Sister Spencer felt thankful for and much
pleased with the visit of the sisters from Salt
Lake, and had enjoyed the meetings very
much, and esteemed it a great privilege to be
numbered with this people.
	Sister Thurber felt desirous of responding to
every call made upon her, and realized the
benefit and blessings to be derived from com-
ing to meeting; Bore her testimony to the
truth of what had been said.
	Sister Ruth Heywood said she had been a
member of this Church for thirty years, and
could bear her testimony that she had never
regretted it. Spoke of the sublimity of the
principles of honesty and truth. Felt thank-
ful for the wise counsel and instruction we had
received, and for the organization of the Pri-
mary Association. Exhorted all to live so
that we may gain a celestial glory.
	Bishop Horne, by the request of Pres. Bean,
made some excellent remarks; referred to the
timidity of the sisters in arising to speak; en-
couraged them to overcome it, and remember

[Column 3]
that they were talking to the Saints. Urged
the sisters to be punctual and regular in at-
tending meeting.
	Bishop Poulsen said there was a pleasure in
doing our duty that only a Saint can feel.
Commended the faithfulness and diligence of
the sisters in the societies, nnd encouraged,
them to continue in doing good. and keep the
Spirit of God, for without the spirit of our
calling we could not do much.
	Sister Eliza said there was a deficiency in
the Stake organization, there being no Trea-
surer. Sister Maria Horne was presented and
sustained to fill that office.
	Meeting appointed for the presidents of the
societies at 6:30 at Sister Thurber's. Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by Bro.
Ence.
	Saturday, 10 a. m. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Sister Eliza greeted the
assembly with a pleasant good morning, and
asked each and every one to lift their hearts in
prayer to God, that we might have His Holy
Spirit to be with us through the remainder of
this Conference, as this would be the last meet-
ing for the sisters. Spoke with feeling upon
the importance of a teacher's calling; encour-
aged them to obtain the Spirit of the Lord
when visiting the sisters, that they might be
enabled to comfort the sorrowing, strengthen
the weak, and become Saviors in Zion. Coun-
seled us to be charitable to each other and
help one another to overcome. Spoke of plural
marriage and her feelings when she first heard
it; how she had obtained the victory over
them, and how she felt now. Referred to the
time when the prophet first received the revela-
tion and the effect it had. Rejoiced in the
useful lives of the many good sisters in this
Church, and in the glorious reward they would
obtain by their faithfulness. Instructed them
in regard to washing, anointing and adminis-
tering to each other.
	Sister Bathsheba bore her testimony to the
truth and divinity of plural marriage, of its
refining and elevating influence, and the re-
ward if lived right.
	Sister Bean bore her testimony to the truth
of the same. Related some of her experience
in trying to live plural marriage, and the tes-
timonies of the Spirit to her and its comforting
influence.
	After a few good remarks by Brothers Bean
and Thurber, the Conference adjourned until
Jan 1st, 1881. Choir sang "This is my com-
mandment." Benediction by Bro. Thurber.

			ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres't.
			CATHERINE A. HUNT, Sec'y.


QUILTS.

		Salt Lake City, Oct. 29th, 1880.

SISTER E. B. WELLS:

	In passing the Twelfth Ward Assembly
Rooms yesterday, I was accosted by the Presi-
dent of the Ladies Relief Society and invited
in. I found quite a number of ladies present,
working on two quilts. Finding that they re-
quired a needle threader, they petitioned me to
become a candidate for the office. The quilts
I believe were for the Temple hands, or some
other such worthy object.
	I thought if the Relief Societies of each
Ward of this Stake would do the same for like
purposes, there would be seventy quilts for
seventy men now engaged on the Temple. If
every Stake in this Temple District would
follow suit could not the families of the two
hundred Temple hands be supplied,and assist in
making their families comfortable and happy.
How many Relief Societies will engage to do
this?								R. C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿ 95


[Column 1]
THE FRUITS OF OUR LABOR.

READ AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF Y. L. M. I.
A., 11 WARD.

	It is now nine years since we began the task
of remodeling ourselves—since we commenced
to realize the existence of our spiritual beings
—that life was not given us that we might eat,
sleep, make money and die, but we began to
learn the necesity of cultivating the mind, ad-
ministering to the needs of an immortal
soul and training the heart in the ways of
obedience to God, and the light of inspiration.
We caught a glimpse of a higher and more
noble object of living.
	Much has been done, but the field of labor
seems to be but just opened. How many of
the little girls who, years ago flocked to the
feast of their minds and souls, weekly prepared
for them in our little meetings are now
happy wives (notwithstanding the fact that a
large number entered the order of celestial
marriage) and are devoted mothers, all the
better qualified to discharge the holy duties of
motherhood and consequently are benefactors
to society.
	From our ranks have gone to new fields of
labor, and will still go, women whose names
will be honored as far as the sound of the Gos-
pel can reach. The seeds of their success and
honor were planted when they made their first
feeble attempt to speak in an organized capaci-
ty, and were cradled by a succession of untiring
efforts, struggling hand to hand with the powers
of darkness and the evil they were enabled to
see in themselves. And they triumphed to a
certain extent, by fasting and mighty prayer,
by singing and praising God, and count hours
as only moments?
	We scarcely stop to think seriously upon any
subject but fashion. Many of our aspirations
reach no further than the feather that floats over
our heads. Our eyes see little but the failings
of each other and our ears are open to scandal
and prejudice, while our lips are but the servants
of our idle giddy brain. We are too easily satis-
fied with ourselves and our labors. While the
great work of life rolls on constantly calling for
earnest, busy laborers in the cause of humanity,
we, in our wild mania after pleasure, rush blind-
folded past every avenue of doing good, and every
wide open door of improvement, while our
hungry, starved spiritual natures must stand
aside and wait the time when they will be al-
lowed to plead their just cause without being
forever silenced by the harsh, unfeeling voice,
of our own selfish natures. Now let us stop in
this soul and body destroying course, and listen
to the reasoning that will keep us in the ways
of peace, honor and everlasting life.
	Oh! that we the daughters of Zion would
claim our privilege in leading out in all that
is pure and refining God requires this at our
hands. Let us cultivate more true modesty
and less prudery. More sincere sisterly res-
pect and charity for each other and indulge in
less flattery, and let our daily intercourse at
home and abroad be characteristic of pure
nobility of soul. We can overcome our rough,
uncouth ways, use only chaste and elegant lang-
uage, and always manifest a respectful consid-
eration for the feelings and opinions of others.
Thus fortified we can trust ourselves in the
company of the cultured without a book of
etiquette in our pockets.
	Let us seek for that guide which would pre-
serve unsullied a spotless reputation and prevent
us from associating with the rude and wicked.
Let us take pride in maintaining the principles
of truth that shall stand when nations now
prosperous have gone to decay, fearing no rid-
icule, dreading naught but the punishment of
our offended Creator. Let us not cut our-
selves short of an inheritance with our
Heavenly Father by folly and disobedience.

[Column 2]God requires of us all that we are able to do,
and in the end our hearts will swell with ever-
lasting joy and gratitude, surpassing all mortal
comprehension.
						LILLIE FREEZE.
	Salt Lake City Oct. 18, 1880.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO ST. GEORGE.

	I left home August 15; traveled by rail to Mil-
ford, from thence to Fort Johnson by coach; I
was then so exhausted I was obliged to stop for
a few days. I took private conveyance to Cedar
City; stopped a few days at Bishop Lunt's, who
took me on to Leeds, where I hired a boy to con-
vey me to St. George. My expenses have not
been less than one hundred dollars.
	I commenced working in the Temple October
8th; I officiated for many of my dead friends,
and was baptized for my health in that beautiful
Font, from which I derived great benefit.
	As I was about starting from home, some of
my friends said to me, "There will be Temples
done soon nearer home; why not wait?" Said I,
"I am here now, I have no lease of my life." I
thought of the days of Nauvoo; how gladly we
would have worked in the Temple, but we were
hindered by our enemies. I do not know how
much Satan may stir them up again. My
friends thought it a very great undertaking for
me to travel over such a rough country, and so
it was; but I knew faith without works was dead,
it would never redeem my dead friends, and the
thought of meeting them when I had not ex-
erted myself to embrace the first possible oppor-
tunity was very unpleasant; I felt that a know-
ledge of having done my duty would be much
the best. I felt that my dead were urging me
on. I employed others to assist me, and left
some work for my friends to do for me.
	The redemption of our dead should occupy a
large space in the hearts of those who are per-
mitted to come forth on the earth in this the
dispensation of the fulness of times. Do we be-
lieve that our dead friends are in prison, and
cannot extricate themselves without our aid?
We must then go through those initiating ordi-
nances, before they can be released from their
prison house. Do we believe this, and yet are
indifferent with regard to these things? The
only place on earth where we can do this work
is in the St. George Temple.
	While I was in St. George I rode about the
city with my nephew, George D. E. Smith, and
Sister Augusta Smith. We visited the quarry,
where the rock was taken from for that beauti-
ful edifice, the Temple. As we rode on I looked,
I gazed, I admired the grandeur of the scenery
which surrounded us. Said I, "The Lord has
made this place on purpose for a Temple, 'Where
the wicked shall cease from troubling, and the
weary can be at rest;' and where the Saints
could be permitted to build their Temple and go
in and out in peace." How long this will last
we know not. I think it best for us to lose no
time, but improve every opportunity to work
while we have peace. Do we realize the impor-
tance of these things? I fear not.
	I visited Brother John L. Smith's family, and
enjoyed myself spendidly, for I could look around
and see samples of the ancient order, when the
Saints all had common things; that is, when
they all had the workmanship of their own
hands. For there were picture frames, bed-
steads, bureau, chairs, lounge, what-nots and
brackets, all the workmanship of their own
hands; and their ornaments were specimens
from out the earth, and their trimmings of ferns,
flowers and moss from the mountains. I really
thought their example worthy of imitation.
	I have had a great desire to understand the
United Order in its true light, and how the
Saints could have all things common among
them, and yet have order. One night after I
got home from the Temple, sleep seemed to
have fled from me; I was rehearsing over that
Scripture, "The Saints had all things common
among them. I wished to know how this could
be, and yet be order among them. These words
thrilled through my senses: The Saints all had
common things; they were not puffed up in
pride one above another, some sitting on im-
ported stuffed chairs while others must sit on
wooden stools. No indeed; there were no poor
among them, and because of their union and
industry they became exceedingly rich. Then
some began to put on gold, and silks, and fine-
twined linen, and to be puffed up in pride one
above another; then they very soon strayed
from the right path, and set up churches of

[Column 2]
their own, and went into all manner of wicked-
ness. Hence, the necessity of the United Order.
							LUCY M. SMITH.

	P. S. My heart is full of blessings for those
who work in the Temple, and I pray God to
bless them a thousand fold.			L. M. S.
	Salt Lake City, October 25, 1880.


MEETING AT SPANISH FORK.

	The Primary Association of this place held its
second annual meeting Saturday, October 23.
The President, Mrs. Mary Ann McLean, had in-
vited Sisters Louie Felt, Mary A. Freeze and
Clara Conrad, from Salt Lake City, with Pres.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors,Miss Nancy
Smoot and Mary John, from Provo, who, with
the exception of Sister Williams, who was un-
avoidably detained, were all present, and ex-
pressed the greatest pleasure and gratification
at the reception they met, and at the cordial and
hearty welcome they received. Sister McLean
and her mother had prepared a sumptuous din-
ner, to which many of her friends had been in-
vited to meet our sisters before named; among
these were Bishop George D. Snell and wife.
At the dinner table some verses of welcome
were read, written for the occasion by Hannah
Cornaby, at the request of Sister M. A. McLean.
(We publish the first and last verses:)

"We welcome you to Spanish Fork,
	With a welcome warm and true;
And heartfelt is the greeting
	We now extend to you.
'Tis very pleasant thus to meet,
	Amid life's busy throng,
With those who, like ourselves, desire
	To help God's work along.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"We trust your little visit here
	To you and us may prove
A happy interchange of thought,
	Of friendship and of love;
That you may take back to your homes
	Some kindly thought from here;
That we may hold your memory sweet,
	Our interview most dear."

	After dinner our party went to the meeting
house, which had been very tastefully decorated
with flowers and very charming autumn foliage,
also some beautiful specimens of children's
fancy work and quilts, and fruit and vegetables,
products of the boys' labor.
	The children assembled at two p. m., with
beaming, happy faces; many of the parents and
friends of the little ones were present. It was
really wonderful to see the promptness with
which the children went through the various
parts assigned them. One essay, on Truth, read
by Miss Mary Swenson, was excellent, and
called forth remarks of approbation from the
visitors. A duet, sung by Master Andrew an[-]
Miss Margaret Morgan, was admirable, also a
song by Miss Lizzie Hitchens, who was accom-
panied by her father on the violin. Questions
on the organization of the Church and the first
principles of the Gospel were answered very
promptly by the little ones. The Lord's prayer
and verses on the duty of man were given in
concert,besides various other exercises,performed
in a manner which reflected much credit on
their president and her assistants.
	Mrs. Louie Felt addressed the meeting, prais-
ing and encouraging the little ones; engaging
their attention by her pleasing and lovable
manner.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze, in her happy and interest-
ing style, riveted the attention of young and
old, while words calculated to do much good fell
from her lips.
	Miss Nancy Smoot, though suffering from a
severe cold, very cheerfully responded to a re-
quest to address the children, which was done in
a very humble and childlike spirit, telling of her
great happiness in being present on this occa-
sion. Expressed her inability to describe the
joy and pleasure she felt while listening to the
exercises of the children; gave some good coun-
sel and prayed that the blessing of God might
rest on the little ones.
	Miss Mary J. John followed with some suita-
ble remarks, very modest and simply sweet,
which from one so young were exceedingly
pleasing.
	Miss Priscilla Lewis, Secretary of the Temple
Fund, read the names of the children who had


contributed since last January, making a sum
total of $9.80, in sums ranging from one egg to
sixty cents. Some very pretty cards, as rewards
of merit, were presented to the larger children,
while smaller ones were given to every child
present. Our Association numbers 235 mem-
bers. The second annual meeting will be a time
long to be remembered by the happy little ones.
	Our city friends stayed several days in Span-
ish Fork attending meetings, visiting friends
and doing good. We wish such visitors would
come often.			HANNAH CORNABY.


96	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	I often think that I would like to mingle my
voice with the rest of my sisters, in regard to
the work in which we are all engaged; we are
somewhat isolated from the main body of the
Church. We are trying to serve the Lord, I be-
lieve. We were joined yesterday by a company
of our brethren and sisters from Sanpete, Utah,
which will help very much to strengthen us
here. Our town is growing very fast; we have
a Relief Society here, also Young Men's and
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, but we are just beginning; I hope they
will prove a great success. The people here
seem to be alive to their duties, and are inter-
ested in the good work. The Gospel is begin-
ning to spread among the Mexicans, who seem
to be a good-hearted people, but they have a
great deal of tradition to overcome. I think
that we can do about as much by example here
as we can by preaching. Not wishing to intrude,
I will close, ever wishing success to the EXPO-
NENT.				SEMANTHA T. BOICE.
	Manassa, Colorado, Oct. 25, 1880.


On the evening of October the 10th, Prof.
Swift. astronomer of the Rochester Observatory
N. Y. discovered a large comet.

	"The fact was noted in Associated Press dis-
patches, but some important and interesting
details which could not be telegraphed are here-
with given. The new celestial visitor is in the
Constellation of Pegasus, right ascension, 21
hours, 30 minutes, declination north 17 degrees,
30 minutes. Its rate of motion is very slow,
being in a north westerly direction, so that it is
approaching the sun. It has a very strong con-
densation on one side of the centre, in additon
to a star-like nucleus, which indicates that it
is throwing off an extended tail. From the fact
of its extraordinary size, we are warranted in
presuming that it will be very brilliant, and the
additional fact that it is coming almost directly
toward the earth, gives good promise that it
will be one of the most remarkable comets of
the present century. This is the fifth comet
which Prof. Swift has discovered, and the in-
creased facilities which Mr. W. H. Warner, the
popular and wealthy medicine man, has given
him, by erecting a magnificent observatory for
his benefit, promises much more for the future.
There is a possibility that further developments
may prove this to be the great comet of 1812,
which is being constantly expected, in which
event astronomers will have an unusual oppor-
tunity to test the spectroscope for the first time
upon these eccentric bodies, and ascertain cer-
tainly what they are."


A PLEASANT MANNER.—It is a pleasure to
oblige really agreeable people.Some unhappy men
are so organized that it,is only with difficulty
they can even force the appearance of politeness.
Without intending it their manner is repellant,
and if they have a fair share of combativeness,
antagonistic to such an extent as to make their
society unsought and disagreeable. They receive
favors ungraciously, and grant them in such a
manner as makes the recipient regret having
asked them. But the naturally agreeable per-
son both accepts and confers a favor in a manner
delightful to witness.


MY life was saved by Warner's Safe Kidney
and Liver Cure.—E. B. Lakely, Selma, Ala.
	A HAPPY RESTORATION.—I can truly say
that I owe my present existence and happy res-
toration to the hopes and joys of life, to the use
of Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, and I
say to every one suffering from any manner of
kidney, liver, and urinary trouble, "Use this
remedy and recover."		W. E. SANFORD.
	Holly, N. Y., Feb. 25, 1880.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE following extract from an Indiana
woman's letter to a friend and published in full
in Boston, Woman's Journal explains itself.
	George W. Julian spoke here to an immense
audience. The old expressions, "beautifully
infernal," "delightfully satanic," which I have
again and again heard him apply to Democrats
in days of yore, sounded very familiar as they
fell from his lips. But the application, now
how different! To-day they are used against
Republican leaders, and to tickle Democratic
ears. Well do I remember when "he would
hang and hang liberally" these same Dem-
ocratic friends who now applaud his every
utterance.
	Oh, dear! what a queer world this is, any-
way! You never know what your nearest
friend will do next. And I will only reiterate
in conclusion that I am disgusted and sick.
	One thing I always said I would not do, was
to live with a Democrat. Certainly I never
would have married one. Now comes the con-
undrum—when you marry a Republican, and
he turns to a Democrat what can you do?
				Loyally yours,
								B. J. M.


THE EARTHQUAKE: London, 11,—The losses
by the earthquake in Agram, on Tuesday, are
estimated at 3,000,000 florin, without reckoning
the damage to churches. Reports of havoc by
the earthquake have been received at Agram
from the whole surrounding country.
	Agram, 11.—Fresh earthquakes threw down
many houses, causing a fearful panic.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
 threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
[-]EST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also; full and desirable [--]nes, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be foud in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Contitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, Between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 386, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes. Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent of the PROVO WOLLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX. 541.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 9.                   SALT  LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  DECEMBER  1, 1880.          NO. 13.


TO THE SPIRIT OF POESY.
Say, where hast thou wandered, sweet spirit?
	I've missed thee for ever so long;
Thine absence and frown did I merit
	That I've waited in vain for they song?
Did I wrong thee when, leaning beside me,
	I slighted thy voice in mine ear?
Did I grieve thee in that I denied thee
	My homage when last thou wert near!

Nay! take it not so, for thou knowest
	In my heart there is none like to thee,
That I'm doubly alone when thou goest,
	Withdrawing they pleasure from me.
Tis pity enough to be weary
	With duties that crowed the day;
Think how lonely the evening, and dreary,
	When I find thou hast flitted away!

Through each homely and  practical duty
	Thou knowest  impatient I haste,
To spend in the spell of they beauty
	The moments too precious to waste.
Ah, surely thou wilt not forsake me!
	Mine eyelids are weary for sleep;
If I rest me awhile wilt thou wake me,
	Thy visit and promise to keep?

Forget not how happy we've wandered
	Through scenes still to memory dear;
How thy whispers  of  hope  have I pondered,
	'Till their soothing has banished the tear.
And how shall I go on without thee?
	No scene, be it ever so rare,
But I'd miss thy sweet presence about me,
	Thy rapture and praises to share.

Nay, thou hast not  gone altogether-
	For hast thou not vowed, dearest friend,
Whatever the way or the weather,
	To keep by my side to the end?
I can but believe thou art near me,
	My trial to witness and test;
I entreat thee, again let me hear thee,
	I'll honor they slightest request.

Still silent?  I know now thou'rt hiding;
	'Twas thy presence I felt I am  sure.
Ah,  well;  if I merit thy chiding,
	Thy sternest I'll patient endure.
No answer?  Perhaps  'tis to tease me;
	'Twould relieve thee to chide me, if vexed;
I'd rather do penance, if it please thee,
	Than linger so sorely perplexed.
Let me sing!  perhaps music may move thee
	Of thy humor capricious to tire;
Thy favorite song soon shalt prove thee-
	Ah! where hast  thou  hidden my lyre?
No hand but thine own can have taken
	The harp that thou  gavest to me:
No other its music can waken,
	Unless they have helper in thee.

Return me thy gift, gentle spirit,
	No longer in  silence to bear,
But to use, and that they who shall hear it,
	Its heavenly worth may declare.
And leave me no more, I implore thee;
	Sing with me and teach me to sing,
Till the hearts  of the hearers before thee
	Their tributes  of homage shall bring.
			Augusta Joyce Crocheron
November 4, 1880.


COMMENDATION VERSUS CRITICISM.
			------------
	     BY HANNAH T. KING.
			----------
	Some persons object to  commendation, even
the briefest;  this must arise  not sufficiently
studying  the  human  character.  That  which
might be hurtful to  one person, is highly bene-
ficial and  encouraging to another;  some young
people make no progress  unless encouraged  by
judicious praise;  they are naturally so diffident
and  unaware  of  their  own worth and ability,
that they have  to  be  assured and  commended
into  attempting  anything above  mediocre;  all
judicious  praise  is  necessary to such  diseased
modesty, and will never injure, but inspire con-
fidence in themselves--without which  no  per-
son  can ever  shine  in  any department.  Self-
esteem  and  self-appreciation  every  one  ought
to understand and possess;  and  such  are  found
in  all  great  characters;  they  simply "know
themselves"--they have honestly read, weighed
and  measured  themselves,  and  their  past  at-
tainment is  a  guarantee of their future.  Cir-
cumstances,  of  course,  bring  out  different
phases  of  character,  but  every  individuality
has its  own bias, its  propelling power, its "bal-
ance wheel," that act as  a  lever to  accomplish
its wishes and designs, and  by long exercise at
last forms the mighty mind, the strong charac-
ter, the  indomitable will, the wonderful endur-
ance--in short, men and women in all the per-
fection that is  allowed  to  a  probation. Yes,
let us give the commendation that is due, let us
encourage each other, not  chill, and sneer, and
depress, till  all  energy and  ambition is wrung
out of a character, until every faculty becomes
neutral, and the original strength  and  beauty
is  marred,  or  perhaps destroyed.
	There are  characters who will  work  them-
selves  out  of  all  this  wonted  depression, but
they are the exception, the Titans of humanity.
The masse succumb and become warped by the 
cold and  injudicious  treatment they receive in
their youthful training.  Teachers need  teach-
ing very often;  for indeed, teaching  the young
mind  is  a  mighty science, and  very  few  are
equal to  the task.  Hence, we  often  see  self-
educated  men  and women  the peeres of  those
who have  spent their youth  in  seminaries  and
colleges.  Their  learning  is  all  derived from
books, whereas the other  is aquired by actual
experience, and such knowledge is power.
	Now, a  few  words  on  criticism.  If  it  re-
quires  a  delicate  tact  to  praise  well  at  the
proper  time  and  season, it most  assuredly re-
quires  a  Johnsonian  understanding,  discrimi-
nation  and  comprehension  to  criticise  justly.
The  critics  of  the  day  are, in  general, a con-
temptible genus;  they pander to  a  clique  that
pays  well--probably  have  no  other ability.
An honest  author  has  little  mercy  at their
hands, or a chance of being justly weighed and
measured;  they  ignore  truth, and  exalt  and
eulogize twaddle.  Just  censure  and  criticism
are  needed  by  all writers, and when bestowed
by a wise and  judicious censor  and  mentor, is
purifying  and  exalting;  and,  thank  Heaven!
there are such upon the earth at all times; but
they are  the  exceptions.  A  critic  should be,
first, a scholar of large heart and broad brain--
nothing narrow, or cynical;  well read;  not sec-
tarian, but  entirely cosmopolitan;  with  a clear
judgment  of  what is correct, and  what  is not,
never looking  through  green  or  blue  specta-
cles;  no  prejudice  must  exist--justice  must
hold her balance even in the counsel of which
she  should  always be  one;  he  should  have a
keen insight  into  character and all its indica-
tions;  never  judge all  by one  common  stand-
ard, certainly  not!  but  comprehend  "the  very
age  and body of the  times, its  form and pres-
sure," and its bearings, upon character, etc., etc.;
especially the etceteras!
	In every-day  associations we  hear ourselves
criticised;  the  very  praise  of  some  people is
annoying, and their  censure amounts  to a bur-
lesque!  Whether from  spleen  or  ignorance  is
not quite visible, but they will  name  some  in-
ferior  thing  that  your  pen dashed off without
scarcely the knowledge of your brain, exclaim-
ing decidedly, and  with a sinister  look  of the
eye:  "The best thing you ever wrote!"  All, or
nearly all, sweeping assertions are false;  and a
person who looks  at  their  words  before  they
speak never make them.  A real  lady or  gen-
tlemen  never  make  such  assertions,  for  in
mixed companies they are  sometimes  very of-
fensive, and show great want  of tact, to speak
in  the  mildest  form.  Those who  do  it in ig-
norance, or  merely as an  echo, must  be  par-
doned,  as  we  pardon  unthinking  children
whose  language  is  that  of  the  parrot. But
men and women  of  heart, and  brain, and ex-
perience, that by such have built  up a character,
should  not  talk  nonsense  on  matters  where
good  sense, judicious  praise,  or  kind and wise
censured only should be exercised.
	Let us  all go  into  school for  a  short time,
and there learn lessons that will improve us in
many ways.  Let  us  there  learn  the  art of
praising judiciously, and  censuring  wisely and
justly, that our criticisms may carry with them
a healing balm, that, if true, may do us good,
and, if unjust, will even then be received with
equanimity.


LETTER TO  AUNT  EM.

DEAR  EDITOR EXPONENT:  I wish  to  express
to you the pleasure I have  enjoyed in  reading
the "Pen sketch  of an Illustrious Woman," in
your paper and I believe it has been shared by
nearly  all your readers.  Even those not of our
faith, must feel  admiration  and  reverence  for
the  lofty  character  of  one  whom  they  have
known little of, save as the "Mormon poetess."
	Among our own people Sister Eliza is looked
up to  with  reverence and  love  second  to  no
other  women.  Hundreds  have  perhaps  met
her but once. in her sacred  office among wom-
en;  but have parted from her  presence with a
feeling that can never be erased  while memory
lasts.  It has  been  known in a  general  way,
that "Sister Eliza,"  endured an  experience in
the most trying  period  of  our  people's history;
but how  few  knew  her intimately; and  how
could others venture to intrude upon the sacred
privacy  of her past;  and  by these, will be par-
ticularly appreciated the sketch giving so many
incidents that reveal the gentle patience, heroic
fortitude, and  devotional nature  of one  called
to so exalted a  position.  I  have  taught  my
children  that  even  the  glory  and  power  of
Queen  Victoria's  Empire, is  but  dim  beside
that belonging to our 'elect lady;' that she as a
Latter-day Saint, stands higher  in the estima-
tion of our Father;  that  her  crown  and  glory
will be imperishable, and for eternity.  I often
look upon  her and try to imagine how she will
look with that immortal crown, how great then
will be her power.  This pen  sketch has drawn
her nearer to us;  we  feel that she  can  realize
all phases of our trials, comprehend all  condi-
tions of our lives, all our efforts;  and I for one,
thank the writer of the 'Pen sketch of an Illus-
trious Woman.'
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Nov. 20, 1880


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	I remember  the  circumstance  which my
father refers to, of my disobedience, or careless-
ness, and my deep repentance.  I was then but
a little child, and  this was almost the first sad
lesson  which  I  remember  of  learning  by  ex-
perience.  I was playing  under  the table, and
hardly  realized what  I  was  doing  until  the
leaf fell  with  the  dishes, when  I  was  horror-
stricken.  My  brother,  who  was  older  than
myself, solemnly, though  needlessly,  reminded
me  of  what  I  might  expect.    I had  been
taught  that  there  was  a higher  power, and I
went  and  cried  to  God  to  forgive me and to
soften my mother’s heart, that she  might  not
punish me; and that simple  prayer was heard
and  answered,  which  greatly  increased  my
faith in Him.
	I often think, could we  always be obedient,
or even willing to repent and humble ourselves
like  a  little  child, how much less  sorrow and
suffering. we would  have  in  this  life;  but how
prone we  are  to wander from  the  path which
is marked  out by a kind and  merciful Father.
“Experience is a hard, but a profitable school-
master.”
	I am often  reminded of some of my father’s
sayings and  comparisons which, he was  accus-
tomed to use  when preaching on  the  stand, or
in the  chimney corner to  his family or friends
who  might happen  to  be visiting  them.  The
following will no doubt sound familiar to many
more  beside  myself: “We are  all  sons  and
daughters  of God, and  He desires to save and
exalt us;  but He  has  a  rod prepared  for  the
disobedient and rebellious, and the farther we
go from  him  the more keenly we will feel the
lash, and  the  end  of it  will  cut  the  deepest;
but  the  nearer we are to Him, the less it will
hurt us.  And  for  this  reason I want to keep
up  as  near  to  Him  as possible.” Often  he
would turn to me with  a  sly twinkle and say.
“Here’s Helen, she had to  be  whipt into obe-
dience;” and  I  always  admitted  it, saying:
“Yes; whom  He loveth He chasteneth;” when
he would  burst  out  into  one  of  his peculiar
laughs.
	According to  my father’s record, the  14th
day of  February, 1835, was the day appointed
for  choosing  the Twelve  Apostles;  it  was  far
from his expectation  that he would  be  one of
the number.  He says:
	“Sunday morning,  April  5.  The  Twelve
had  not  all  as  yet  been  together, and  as the
time  drew near  that  we  should  travel  to the
East, we appointed this day to  bear  our  testi-
mony  unto  our  brethren  and  friends.  We
were all assembled together, with the exception
of Brother  Orson Pratt. who had not yet been
with  us.  At  the  time  we  were  praying and
wishing  for  his  arrival,  while  opening  the
meeting, he  entered the house, and we rejoiced
at  his  presence, and  thanked  the  Lord for it.
He  was  then  ordained, and  we  proceeded  to
speak  according to our ages.  This day  Broth-
ers Thomas B. Marsh, David W. Patten, Brig-
ham  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball  spoke.
Sunday,  12th, Brothers  Orson  Hyde, William
E.  McLellen,  Luke  Johnson  and  Parley  P.
Pratt spoke.	Sunday, 19th, Brothers William
Smith,  Orson  Pratt,  John  F.  Boynton  and
Lyman E. Johnson spoke, closing the testimony
of the Twelve  Apostles to the people in Kirt-
land at that time.  Sunday, 26th, we  received
our charge from Joseph Smith the Prophet.”
	The following is a sketch  of the first mission-
taken by  the  Twelve  Apostles.  My  father
says: “May 3d  we bade our brethren farewell,
and on the  morning of the 4th we started and
proceeded to  Fairport, where we  arrived pre-
cisely  at  six o’clock. A  boat  was  there, as
Brother  Joseph  had  predicted,  on  which  we
embarked for Dunkirk, where we arrived the
[second column]
same day,  at  four o’clock in  the  afternoon.
The next morning we got together and divided
off  two  by two.  Brother William  Smith  and
myself  went  to Casadagua, about twelve miles
from  Fredonia,  and  put  up  at  Harry More-
house’s. Held  two  meetings,  giving  them a
fair proclamation  of the Gospel and  the Book
of  Mormon,  and  there  was  no  opposition.
From thence  we went  to  Westfield, where we
met the remainder of our quorum, and on Sat-
urday, the 9th, we  met in Conference with the
Elders of this branch  of the Church, and also
those at the little branch at Savonia, who were
called upon by Thomas B. Marsh, our  presid-
ing  Elder, to  represent  to  us  the standing of
the brethren.  We  had  public  preaching  on
Sunday, and  continued  our  council  on  Mon-
day;  we  had  a  good  time, and thirteen were
baptized.  I  started  from  Westfield  on  Tues-
day, the 12th, in company with Elder John F.
Boynton, to  preach  our  way through  to  the
Freedan Conference.  We passed through Lodi
and  put  up  at  Brother Murdock’s; my  feet
were so  blistered  I  could  not wear my boots,
nor proceed without.
	“We arrived at Freedan,Cataraugus County,
and assembled on  the  22d  of  May in  Confer-
ence.  From hence I traveled in company with
Elder O. Hyde to  Pike Hollow, where resided
many  of  my wife’s relatives, appointed a meet-
ing  and  preached  twice,  baptized  three; and
the Lord was with us.  We then proceeded to
the town  of Mendon, the  place  of  my  former
residence; we  preached  twice, many  came  out
to hear.  On Monday we went  to Squire Rog-
ers’, where Elder Fulton, a Baptist priest, came
to  see  us, who treated  us very abruptly, deny-
ing the spirit  of  prophecy and the gifts  of the
Gospel; he  called  us  false  prophets,  and  re-
jecting  our  testimony  he  advised  us  to go
home.
	“We declared unto  him that  we should not
go  home,  but  should  go  forth  preaching the
Gospel, and  no  power should  stay us;  for the
Lord  had  committed  unto  us  a  dispensation,
and wo unto us  if  we preached not the Gospel
of Christ.  I told  him  if  he  did  not repent of
his sins, and be  baptized  for  the  remission of
them, he would  be  damned;  which  made him
mad.
	“We then passed on until we came to a pure
stream  of  water, and  there  cleansed  our  feet
bearing  testimony  against  him,  as  the Lord
commanded.
	June 6th  met  our  brethren,  the  Twelve
Apostles, in  Conference at Lyonstown, Wayne
County. It was my turn to preside, as we had
been  appointed  to  preside  according  to  our
ages, by the Prophet, and  the Lord blessed us.
	“June 8th I  started  with  Bro. Luke  John-
son  for  Pillow  Point, preaching  on  the  way.
In  the  town  of  Rose  we  were  cordially  re-
ceived, and bore  our  testimony to  the  people.
May the Lord  bless them!	In Hewton, about
twelve miles west  of  Oswego,  we  could find no
entertainment, but  were  rejected  from  twelve
houses;  the inmates were all Methodists.  May
the Lord reward them according to their works.
About twelve o’clock at night we put up at an
Inn, and retired  without any supper, as we had
only  one  shilling, just enough to pay our lodg-
ing.  The next morning we arose and traveled
six  miles  before  we  could  get  any  breakfast,
and  came to a magistrate by the name  of Els-
worth,  who  gave  out  an  appointment  for  a
meeting on Wednesday, at 6 p m.;  We had a
house  full.  Next  day  they  wanted  another
meeting, and we  preached again, and some be-
lieved.  When we left there  our host and  his
family bade us God speed, and gave us money;
and David Elsworth’s wife washed and mended
our clothes.	We could not have been treated
with  more kindness in  our father’s house;  we
blessed  them  in  the  name  of the  Lord,  and
went on  our way  rejoicing, whiie they wept at
[third column]
our departure.  About one year after this  the
whole family embraced the Gospel.
	"While at Sackett’s Harbor, I  received a
letter  from my wife informing me of  the birth
of  my  son  Heber  Parley,  on  the  occasion  of
which Brother P. P. Pratt composed a poem.
		To be Continued.


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	On Tuesday morning, October 26, about sev-
enty persons assembled at the residence of Sis-
ter Phebe Brown Fife, in recognition of their
affection and respect for her. The company
consisted of the Relief Society of the Third
Ward, Ogden City, and a few of her particular
friends,brethren and sisters. After congratula-
tions,and a hearty welcome expressed by our re-
spected sister, the guests sat down to a bounti-
ful repast; after which songs were sung, an ad-
dress was read by its author, and remarks
were then made by the brethren and a few
sisters, treating on the many good qualities of
our sister, asking God to keep her in his care.
We then adjourned, feeling a few hours were
pleasantly and profitably spent.

THE ADDRESS.

	An address to Sister Phobe Brown Fife,
written by Sister Lucretia B. Farr in behalf
of the Relief Society of the Third Ward, pre-
vious to her departure to the Southern country.
Dear Sister—We, as a Relief Society, in a
weak way, wish to show our appreciation of
your great goodness as a member of our so-
ciety, as well as all other good qualities that
we realize you are endowed with. Words fail
to express the deep regret we feel in parting
with you; we would it were otherwise, but as
duty calls we must subscribe, trusting all
things are for good. We shall miss you in our
clrcle, for we know you have been an active
worker with us, never shrinking from any
duty called on to perform, kind to the poor,
ever ready to relieve the distressed, in sickness
and death none could excel. And as we now
realize that we must separate, we all, with one
accord, say, may God bless you, may peace be
with you, may his spirit ever be around you to
comfort you; if dark clouds surround you,
may He ever be with you to assist you, and
may poverty and want never stare you in the
face, but on the contrary, may plenty crown
your labors, and eventually may this sacrifice
prove a blessing to yourself, your companion,
your children, and all who are intimately con-
nected with you, and may we be consoled by
this one thought, that our loss may prove your
great gain; and although separated so many
miles away, may we not forget each other, our
our religion nor our God; and if we never
meet again on earth, may we so live that we
may meet in heaven, where parting is never
known, is the sincere wish of your sisters.

We meet in this lone vale of tears,
	But only meet to part;
Then why should friendship's sacred cord
	Entwine around the heart?

Say why should kindred souls ere meet,
	And not together dwell?
Why cast we but a transient gaze
	On those we love so well?

But yet we say, forget us not,
	Though here no longer seen;
Though forest tall, and prairies wide,
	And waters roll between.

Though few and fleeting are the hours
	Together we have known,
Yet still we say, remember us
	Before our Father's throne.

				DINAH M. WHITE, Pres't.
				LUCRETIA B. FARR, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


THE SILVER WEDDING.

Twenty-five years, you say, since the wedding,
When you launched forth your bark on life's stream,
With hearts filled with love, hope and union—
Oh! the time it has passed like a dream.

The sweet and the bitter you've tasted,
Over roses and thorns you have trod;
But each thorn is a star in the crown you will wear
When you reach the celestial abode.

Some barter for gold and for silver
Their wisdom, their honor, their truth;
But you have been true to that promise
You made in your earlier youth.

Spring has passed, and the summer is ended,
And the autumn is hovering nigh:
Oh! gather the golden sheaves of love,
Garner safe for the winter's supply.

In gold, silver, rubies and diamonds
You may glitter from youth to old age;
But in sparkling treasures of wisdom
You will make far the brightest page.

Friends meet and extend kindly greetings—
May the pure bonds of friendship never
Be forgotten on earth; and in heaven
May we clasp hands and live on forever.

								LUCY A. CLARK.

	These lines were written on the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary of the wedding of Bro. Edward
and Sister Elizabeth Stevenson, Oct. 28, 1880.
A silver wedding reception was given at their
residence in the 14th Ward; a large number
of guests assembled, congratulations were of-
fered and a sumptuous repast partaken of.
Afterwards remarks were made, suitable to the
occasion by Elder Stevenson, followed by
Apostle W. Woodruff, Coun. D. H. Wells,
Elder J. Horne and other brethren. A de-
licious wedding cake and other refreshments
were served; there were songs and music, and
the party enjoyed themselves heartily. Many
choice and elegant silver presents were made
to the worthy couple, and all went "merry as a
marriage bell."


DARE TO DO RIGHT.
			   -----------
	To the inhabitants  of  America,  who  enjoy
the blessed right of doing as they please,so long
as  they  do  not  infringe upon another  man's 
rights, it may be hard to  believe, at first, that
the Catholic Priests hold such  power  over the
people anywhere else.  One  of  the many  rea-
sons for this  the Catholics firm belief that his
sins will not be remitted in heaven, unless they
are remitted by the Priest, on earth;  and  that
nothing but blind obedience  to the priestcraft,
will secure his salvation.  Add to that spiritual
sway, the fact that the Priest can (in proportion
to his degree)  hold  out to the people honors and
lucrative  position on one hand, and destitution
or even  death  on  the  other;  and  you  will  only
need  to  read-the  lives  of the  Popes  and their
Cardinals to draw a true estimate of the bond-
age  of  the  Italian  people  for  centuries.  A
people once so  proud and fair!
	Thirty-six years ago, it was a common thing to
hear of Jewish and Protestant  children being
abducted in broad  daylight, to be thrown into
Monasteries,  and  there  incarcerated  for  life.
The perpetraters of these cruelties would obtain
the absolution of their sins for saving a heretic's
soul. Were there none courageous and united
enough to rebel?  Yes  in many  instances, but
they were unsuccessful.
	The inhabitants of the  valleys  of  the Alps,
known as the  Waldenses, are  the  descendants
of  a  faction, who  having  dissented  from the
Roman Church, were persecuted, and driven to
the Alps;  in to the crags  and caves  of which
mountains they were  pursued, hemmed in  and
tortured most barbarously.  Those who succeeded
to escape, fled through the pass of St. Bernard,
into  France, and  there  remained  until  death
removed their pursuers.
	Returning to Italy, they settled in the valleys
which had been drenched  with their ancestors'
blood;  and their children to-day, can recite the
story of  their  persecutions,  as  well  as their
catechism.
	The Province  embracing  those  Valleys, is
the  province  of  Pinerolo.  Their  principal
towns are:  Pinerolo,  Luzerna,  Torre, San Se-
condo, San Giovanni besides many small  settle-
ments on bleak and almost barren heights.  The
climate in most of those towns is much  like the
climate of  Utah;  differing  according  to their
proximity to the  highest  mountains.  In  most
places, they raise maize, rye, potatoes,  waln uts
chesnuts and grapes,  on slopes facing the South.
In business transactions, places  of worship and
schools the  French  language  is  spoken and
taught; but privately they speak a dialect called
Patois (Patwah,)  a mixture  of  French and 
Piedmontese.
	The Waldenses are hardy  industrious  and
frugal, but in some localities somewhat degener-
ated in stature and intelligence.
	After the  battle  of  Waterloo, in which
Colonel C.  Beckwith  lost a  limb, and  almost
his life;  the gentleman as soon as convalescent,
determined to  travel  in  France,  Switzerland
and Italy; he  visited  the Waldenses  and be-
coming interested in them, settled among them,
and spent his fortune  in  building schools and
churches in their midst.  Mr.  Beckwith also
aided many efficient scholars  of  both sexes, in
obtaining seats in Colleges  and Universities of
Switzerland and  Prussia.  Up  to  1847,  the
Waldenses or indeed any other so called  here-
tic, could  not  own houses or lands, in their  own 
names, (except in their own province)  nor
could their dead be burried only  by  the road
side.  Their young men were drafted  to serve
in the army but not to be promoted;  nor could
they enjoy  any  civil  rights  any more  than a
felon. 
	Words fail to portray the joy and enthusiasm
that filled every bosom (excpeting the  priest-
craft)  in  the kingdom of Piedmont, when  Vic-
tor Emmanuel granted his  people a  Constitu-
tional government, liberty of press  and liberty
of worship, emancipating  the Jews  and  Wal-
denses and granted to all the same rights.
	A whole week was  spent in national festivit-
ies, especially  in  the  Capital  where  the  long
despised Valdese was  sought  and feasted;  and
the shouts  of  Viva  il Re  and Viva  I  Valdesi
echod  through  the streets  and  halls  from
morn  till  night.  Every  year on the  17th of
February the Anniversary  of  the  Emancipa-
tion, these festivities are repeated with as much
enthusiasm  as  the  Americans  celebrate  the
Fourth  of July.  Long  processions  of the Un-
ion  of  all  trades  headed by  the  National
Guards  and  two  immense  chariots, one con-
taining a life size Statue representing the God-
dess  of Liberty,  the  other  a  printing press,
make their way through  the  principal  streets
and squares and up to the Royal  Palace where
their demonstrations of love  and gratitude  for
the King, would  be deafening.
	Victor Emmanuel was not satisfied with free-
ing his people in Piedmont, Savoy and Sardinia;
but later on succeeded in freeing the Lombardies
the Roman  Empire or  States and the  Sicilies
from the Austrian and Papal Yoke.
	Few Kings have accomplished as much  good
in a reign  of about 30 years (more or less;) and
although he had his  faults,  which  were  always
magnified by bigoted and narrow minded men,
I trust that his name in the Eternal Records, is
on the list of the  truly  great ones, who in this
life have dared to do right.
						E.C.F.
	Morgan Nov. 21.


A NORTH Adams inventor has devised a plan
for lighting Hoosac Tunnel by electricity.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		ST. GEORGE NOV. 10, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: Before leaving St. George I
thought I would drop a line to inform you of
my probable return home after an absence of
two months. I expect to start for Milford to-
day I have had the satisfaction of working in
the Temple for several days in behalf of our
dead, and have had a delightful visit and time
of refreshing with my dear sister, relatives and
friends of this much talked of City.
	Yesterday was the anniversary of the birth-
day of Pres't. Erastus Snow and we were the
participants of a most agreeable and interest-
ing party on the occasion, at his residence,
where his wives and sons and daughters had
prepared a sumptuous entertainment, inviting
a number of friends including Pres't. Angus
M. Cannon and company, who are on a visit to
this place, also Mrs. Tate from Toole, probably
in all, family and guests, numbering eighty
persons.
	The evening was spent in pleasing converse
and reunion of old associations, together with
vocal and instrumental music rendered by
members of his interesting family.
	I should not omit to mention the perform-
ance of a Juvenile brass band outside which,
considering their extreme youth, was very
good and promises, by perseverance to become
proficient.
	When the guests were about to take their de-
parture Pres't. Snow closed with a heart-felt
prayer. With best wishes for your continued
prosperity. As ever,
				Yours truly,
						M. A. P. HYDE.


THE VENERABLE LUCRETIA MOGT.

	This estimable and lovely woman departed
this life November 11,in the city of Philadelphia,
Pa. Her maiden name was Lucretia Coffin and
she was born in Nantucket on the 3d, of Janu-
ary 1793: She was a member of the society of
Friends, and a firm advocate of their peace
principles; she was a strong abolitionist, work-
ing actively and earnestly for the emancipation
of the colored race. She married James Mott
in Philidelphia in 1811. It is stated that in
her twenty-sixth year she began to preach.
The care of a family for a few years hindered
her from active work in other directions but
subsequently she traveled through seveaal
states preaching against the crime of slavery
and the duty of abstaining from the proceeds
of slave labors.
	She was delegate to the world's Anti Slavery
Convention held in London in 1840, but the
right of a woman to a seat as a delegate was
denied and she was excluded from taking part
in the assembly, but was received with courtesy
and great kindness. Mrs. M. was one of the
leading spirits at the famous Seneca Falls
Woman's Rights Convention in 1848 and has
labored faithfully for woman suffrage ever
since. From persons intimately acquainted
with this excellent lady we have heard much
of her nobility of character, her sweet and an-
gelic spirit, her charming and attractive man-
ner, her eloquent and pleading voice and her
persuasive language. She passed away peace-
fully and has gone to her rest; but her name
will be held in honorable remembrance, for
good works are an imperishable inheritance.
								E. B. W.


MISS ANNA  DICKINSON, has  read  her  new
play, "Aurelian,"  before  a  Philadelphia audi-
ence, and the  Press, of that  city, said  she had
"a  most cordial  reception,  and the closest at-
tention, broken  only by  applause,  was given
to her play."--W. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
___________________________________________
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
--------------------------------------
	EMMELINE B. WELLS. 		Editor
--------------------------------------------------------------
	Published semi-monthly,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time, $2.50; per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office,  Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
SALT LAKE  CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1880.


UTAH  AND  HER  DELEGATE TO CON-
			GRESS.
			----------
	Hon. George Q. Cannon left this city Tuesday
morning, Nov. 30,  for  Washington, D.C., that
he might arrive in the Capital and be present at
the opening  of  the  session  of  Congress, which
event will transpire Monday, Dec. 6.  President
Cannon  has been duly elected, and  is  undoubt-
edly the choice  of  the people, for  delegate from
Utah, and  really represents the true  interests of 
all  citizens  of  this  Territory.  Women as well
as men  have  had a voice  in  his  election, not-
withstanding  the  efforts  made to hinder them,
and have cast their votes for him.  Bro. Cannon
is well  acquainted with the needs of the  people
who reside here, and has  ever  acted  honorably
and wisely  in behalf  of  each  and  all, that  they
might enjoy and exercise the privileges to which
loyal  citizens are entitlted. The  spirit and feel-
ing of  the outside party who have come and set-
tled in  Utah,  and  their  manner  towards the
"Mormon" people is such  that those who would
maintain their rights and privileges are legitimate
proprietors of the country they have  sought out
and  made  desirable,  are  compelled to  act upon
the defensive, which  is  always  disagreeable to
those who are lovers of peace and good order.
	Many threats  have  been  made  in  regard to
the future action of the government with respect
to Utah  and  the "Mormon" people, but judging
from  the wonderful mainfestations of the power
of God  in  the  past,  in  the  protection  of  his
Saints, we  can  but  feel  hopeful  for the future.
Whatever dark  clouds  seem  now impending,
will be  scattered and blown away, and a bright
and  smiling  sky will  illuminate  the  transient
cloudiness  of  the  atmosphere,  and  all  will  be
well; Utah will  become a flourishing  and pros-
perous Territory,  and  the  eyes  of  the  great
American  nation will  look  with  astonishment
upon  the  wonderful  success  that  is  but  just
dawning behind the dusky horizon.  The Saints
have  nothing  to  fear, for  all  things will work
together for their good.  Like Daniel the prophet,
their trust is in God and none  else.  Men  may
revile  and  persecute, and women too, but  they
cannot  stay  the  hand of the Lord, which has
been set in the last days to gather out and re-
deem a people, who will hearken and obey the
voice of the Good Shepherd.
	Pres. Cannon goes to his labors in the halls of
Congress with the faith, the confidence and the
united prayers of this people. He is strengthe-
ened on every hand by  unseen  forces.  There
are thousands of fervent  petitions  offered  up to
heaven in his behalf, in  the homes and sanctua-
ries of  the  Saints.  The  little children; in their
simple, earnest  faith, pray  for  his  success, and
God  hears  the  prayers  of  the  pure, innocent
children.
	With all the  other  qualifications  for successwith which  Pres. Cannon  is  endowed, he  is a
strong advocate for equal  political privileges and
justice for woman in all the various departments
and  vocations of life.  This fact endears him to
the  hearts of  thousands who  are anxiously look-
ing forward with  hopefulness to the  time when
woman may at least vote and have a voice in all
questions that concern her "life, liberty and the 
pursuit  of  happiness."  Success  to  Delegate
Cannon.  We wish  him a prosperous journey, a
safe  arrival, and may he be  able to  transact all
business pertaining  to the interests  of the  Terri-
tory to his complete satisfaction, and that of his
constituents.
	There is a glorious future for Utah and although
it is  considered a  very  insignificant  position to
represent this Territory in the august national as-
semblies, who knows, but the least may yet be the
greatest in strength and power?  There are many
reasons why Utah is  likely  to  become popular.
The serious questions of social life that are agitat-
ing the mind of  men  and  women  of thought
and reflection  are  being  practically dealt  with
here, and women of ability  and intelligence are
taking an active part in the drama which is now
an enigma and puzzle, but which will eventually
resolve itself into a key  to unravel  some  of  the
intricate  problems of human  life which  are per-
plexing in the minds and  absorbing  the  interests
of scientists and philanthropsits. Marvel not at
the  assertion. Is it more  unlikely  than  that
the whole world  is  becoming  more or less con-
vinced that his continent  was  once  inhabited
by  a civilized and  enlightened  race  who  were
highly  cultivated  in the arts  and  sciences but
dwindled away and the land left  desolate.  And
yet  when  Joseph  Smith  by  revelation  and
through the power of God proclaimed these facts
backed  up  by  the  testimony  of  the  veritable
records of that identical race of people, the idea
was hooted at and its advocates held  up to ridi-
cule and  scorn  even  persecutions  heaped
upon them in consequence.
	We may be and  perhaps  are digressing  from
the subject, but nevertheless Utah has a promis-
ing future of which her people  yet will be justly
proud,  and she may shine anon, with brilliancy
in the magnificant galaxy of the States.


HOME AFFAIRS. 	
				---------
	WE see by the local  papers that Mrs. Hannah
T.  Cornaby of Spanish  Fork,  well  known  as a
writer of  verse, is about to publish her poems.

	PRESIDENTS and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
wishing  to  obtain  instruction in regard to mat-
ters which pertain to these Associations from the
President of  the  Central organization, should
address Mrs. E. S. Taylors, Post  Office  Box  629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

	THE Secretaries of the several branches of the 
Y. L. M. I. A.  in  this  Stake  of  Zion, are  re-
quested  to forward full statistical and financial
reports from  the  date  of their  organization to
October 6. 1880, to  Mrs. Augusta  Joyce  Croch-
eron, Box  419, S. L. City, that  she  may furnish
a  complete  and  accurate  Stake  report for the
central organization.
 WE have  on  hand reports from several meet-
ings,  and  also  minutes  of  the  organization of
branches of the  Primary Associations, and a re-
port of a Relief Society, organized at Bluff  City,
San Juan, all of  which we shall  publish as soon
as practicable.

	NOTICE: The Secretaries  of  the  Primary  As-
sociations  of  Salt  Lake  Stake,  are  requested to
send  in  their  reports,  before  the  17th, for the 
Semi-Annual Conference.  Address: Mrs. Ellen
Clawson, care of H. B. Clawson, Salt Lake City.
			MRS. VILATE  YOUNG, Secretary.

	THE Conference  of  the  Relief Societies,  Y
L. M. I. A. and  Primary  Associations  of Salt
Lake Stake,  will  be  held  in  the  Fourteenth
Ward  Assembly  Rooms, Friday and Saturday,
the 17th and 18th insts.  Secretaries of these or-
ganizations will  please  take  notice and send in
reports  at  as  early  a  date  as  possible.  It is
hoped each branch of the several Societies in the
country, will  have  a  representative, as  this is
the Annual Meeting of the  Relief Societies.

	WE had  the pleasure  of  attending the Quar-
terly Conference  of the Relief Societies of Utah
County, which was held Friday, Nov. 27, in the 
Provo  Meeting  House,  Counselor  Mary John
presiding. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary of  
presiding board,  and  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Howard,
Secretary  of Salt  Lake  Stake  R. S., were both
present. The reports  of  the presidents were ex-
cellent, and  the  sisters from  Salt Lake each in
turn addressed the meeting.  Mrs. Mary John,
Mrs. Lucy W.  Kimball,  and  Bishop  Johnson
also made very suitable remarks.

	SISTER E. R. Snow  Smith,  President  of all
the organizations  of  Relief  Societies,  and  her
Counselor, Zina D. Young, are at present in St.
George. They arrived  there  on the  evening of
November 19, after having  organized a Primary
Association at Washington  the  same  day. On
the following Tuesday, Nov. 23, they  expected
to re-organize the Y. L. M. I. A. at Washington;
Wednesday to  organize the  children's Primary
in the  Fourth  Ward, St. George, and  Thursday
to  meet  with  the  Relief Society in the  Third
Ward  St. George.  On  the  journey down these
sisters visited  Scipio, Holden, Fillmore, Meadow
City, Kanosh, Beaver and  Parowan; at each of
these places held meetings with the sisteres, and
in some places organized Primary Associations.

	ON Tuesday, Nov. 23,  the  Primary  Associa-
tion  of  South  Cottonwood  held  their  annual
meeting,  and  celebrated  the  occasion  with  a
party and a fair, or bazar, of the children's own
work.  Various useful  and  ornamental  articles
were  on  exhibition.  Some  of them were very
neat, and even elegant, and  all were creditable.
Among the  most  noticeable things  in  the  fair
was a large  wreath  of  flowers  made  of kernels
of  corn,  beans,  wheat,  rice,  &c.,  arranged to
represent  different kinds  of  flowers,  and then
varnished. The first  impression  on  looking  at
the wreath  is that it is made of shells, so closely
do the flowers resemeble shell  work  that we
see so much of--It was made  by a Miss.  A boy
of 16 years of age  exhibited a  number  of  speci-
mens  in  scroll-work  consisting  of brackets,
towel-rack, picture-frames  &c. Wool-flowers,
mottoes, card-receivers, tidies,  quilts, hair-work,
small  wooden  harrows  and  rakes  and also a
miniature pair of doubtetrees, all made by little
children.  Mrs.  Martha  G.  Young,  the  Presi-
dent of the Association has  been  specially ener-
getic and remarkablly patient, and perservering.
She certainly has done well and we must  add
excelled  Her example is  worthy of  imitation
by others engaged in the same  interests.  Sev-
rel ladies from the city were  invited  to  attend
the  meeting  and  entertainment  but  circum-
stances prevented any of them attending except
Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson,  who  addressed  the
children in a happy and instructive manner.  A
good  spirit  pervaded  the,  assembly.  Bishop
Rawlins and Elder Wm. G. Young were present
and many of the parents  of  the chlidren, and
visitors from other wards.

	THE circular published below  explains itself,
and therefore needs no particular comment; but
as a friend of the author, we are placed that she
has  decided  to  publish her poems in book form.
They will  be  one  more  interesting addition to
the home  libraries of the young people, Mor-


mon  history  and  Mormon  poetry  will  yet  be
sought after by the outside world.  It will  pos-
sess  originality and  contain  truth—two recom-
mendations.  There are no people anywhere who
have more subject and  material for  poetry than
the  Latter-day  Saints.   There  are  not  books
enough published;  the  people need a greater va-
riety.   Then by all means let us encourage these
home enterprises.
	CIRCULAR.

To the Presidents of  Relief Societies and Young
	Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of
	the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ   of   Latter-day
	Saints.
	DEAR SISTERS:—I wish  to publish a volume of
my poems, some  of  which  you  have read in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, but being unable to do so
unassisted, I would respectfully ask you to can-
vas in your meetings for subscribers.  The  book
will   be   4 3/4  inches wide, and 7 inches  long, con-
taining  about 275 pages, printed in large type on
tinted  paper, with  portrait.  Cloth  covers, one
dollar  and  a  half;  morrocco  covers,  one  dollar
and  seventy-five  cents.  Covers  handsomely
gilded.  If  subscribers  will  forward  one  dollar
each  towards  paying  the  publishers,  the  re-
mainder  can  be  paid  when the books are ready,
which will  be  announced  through  the press.  I
will  pay  postage  on  the books.  The book will
contain many pieces too long for newspaper use;
religious, domestic, sentimental and  humorous.
Hoping, dear  sisters, to soon hear from you, as
I would  like  to  have the books  in press  before
Christmas,
I remain, your co-laborer in the Gospel,
AUGUSTA  JOYCE  CROCHERON.
P. S.—Send in clubs, by registered letter.
Address,
MRS.  AUGUSTA  JOYCE CROCHERON,
P. O. Box 419,  Salt Lake City, Utah.
We endorse the above.
E. R. Snow,	Bathsheba  W. Smith,
Z. D. Young,	Elmina S. Taylor,
Emmeline B. Wells,	M. I. Horne,
Phebe W. Woodruff,	Mary A. Freeze.
Salt Lake City,  Nov. 27, 1880.

	OBITUARY.

	As a token  of  respect, we record the death of
Sister Sarah Ann Taylor,  wife  of Jabez Taylor,
and daughter  of  John and Hannah Ellis, born in
Sussex, England,  August  2d,  1847,  aged  thirty-
three years and two months.   Departed this life
October  2d, 1880, in  the  11th  Ward, Salt  Lake
City.  Deceased  leaves  a husband and  four  chil
dren, and a  host  of  friends,  who  have  cause  to
remember  her  as  a  faithful  wife,  a  devoted
mother, a  good  neighbor, and a true  Latter-day
Saint.  She was a member of the  Relief Society
and  Y. L. M. I. A., and  has  left  an  example
worthy of imitation, and  has  passed from death
unto life eternal.—Com.

	DIED, at Alpine,  Utah  Co.,  Nov.  9, of inflam-
mation of  the lungs, Ernest Albert, son of David
E. and Caroline Adams, aged seven months and
ten days.  He was  a  fine,  promising boy.  Bro.
Adams,  the father, is in Arizona,  and has never
seen  his  boy, which  seems quite sad,  "but the
Lord  giveth, and  the  Lord  taketh  away," and
those who trust in  Him  have  strength  given
them  to endure all trials and sorrows.
	M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

GREEN BANK, LANCASTER CO.,
					Oct. 25, 1880.

MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL:

	Dear Sister—We have arrived at my sisters
here in old Lancaster Co.; I will now try to fulfil

[Column 2]
my promise to you. We are well, and have had
a pleasant trip, most of the time we have had
good weather, we have not met with any acci-
dent, for which we feel to thank our Heavenly
Father. We went over to Southern Kansas to
see the Bishop's brother, Mr. James Weiler; we
had a good visit and had the pleasure of seeing
that beautiful country. If it would rain, so that
the people could raise their crops, Kingman
County would soon be filled with settlers; but
the crops have failed for two years, and the
farmers are becoming discouraged. While visit-
ing in Kingman, we met with a Presbyterian
minister's wife, who appeared very anxious to
learn something about our faith and doctrines.
We lost no time, but made the best use of every
moment trying to tell her the truth. She had
read Ann Eliza's book, and wanted to know of
me what kind of a woman she was, and of course
I told her the truth as far as I knew, and I be-
lieve it had a very good impression. We left
one of Brother Morgan's pamphlets with her.
Ann Eliza's book is in a great many places
where we have been, and people read it, and
there is nothing within reach to contradict her
statements. We have had that book to fight all
the way through. I met with a blind woman
in Congress, Ohio, that was a young girl when I
was a girl. I had not seen her before since I
joined the Church. She told me that she had
never heard one word spoken in favor of the
Mormon people until that day. In other places
where we have been they are so wrapt up in
their minister and possessions, that I cannot see,
when they do not have time nor a desire to hear
the truth, how any one is to blame if they do
not hear it when they have an opportunity. I
heard a Methodist minister say a man may be a
saved man and not know it; he talked about the
kingdom of God in their hearts. It seemed to
me almost impossible that intelligent people
could sit and spend their time listening to such
nonsense. Take the mass of the people that we
have conversed with, they do not seem to under-
stand what they are in this world for, only to
eat and drink, and work and get rich. The la-
dies inquire of me how the ladies do in polyga-
my; one lady asked me, "When a man has
three or four wives, if one of them should die,
would the others go to the funeral?" All such
foolish questions, at least they seem foolish to
me; indeed, the blindness of this generation on
things pertaining to our future existence, has
never appeared to me so plain as it has on
this trip.
	Our friends have all been glad to see us come,
and seem sorry to have us go away. The Bishop
has talked and borne a faithful testimony to his
brothers and sisters; what good it will do re-
mains to be seen in the future.
	This has been a year of plenty in Indiana,
Ohio and Pennsylvania. As a general thing
they have raised good crops, and there has been
plenty of all kinds of fruit. As we traveled
through Ohio, everything did look beautiful; the
trees in the woods had been touched with frost,
and the leaves were every tint and hue. How I
did enjoy looking at the beauties of nature. I
have always enjoyed this beautiful world, but I
had not seen the woods at this season of the
year for so many years, that I enjoyed it very
much.
	I see by the papers that our folks have sent us,
that you had a splended Conference; I know the
Saints enjoyed it very much. If any one wants
to know how to appreciate the society of the
Saints in Utah let them take a trip of two or
three months off amongst their outside friends.
	I must tell you how politics are going on,
the political party strife is increasing every day.
I was at a Democratic meeting in Rousburg,
Ohio; the speakers talked about the Republican
party and Garfield and pictured things out in
such a light that a disinterested person would
set them all down as black legs and scoundrels;
then I was at a Republican meeting where they
out did the Democrats in slang and low mean
language, the whole thing is pointing towards a
war. I told one gentleman that I talked with,
my opinion was they might possibly have blood-
shed before they got through. He said he was
very much afraid of that; he seemed to feel quite
bad about the matter. The ladies think (a great
many of them) that they ought to be allowed to
vote, many of them are in favor of the Prohibi-
tion Candidates, others think if they were per-
mited to vote they would pull one anothers hair
at the polls, and that would make matters
worse. I told them they were not as good
women then as we were in Utah: for we go to
vote and go home again and never have any
trouble over it.
						ELIZABETH WEILER.


THE BOOK OF MORMON.

	The Book of Mormon is a history of the
former inhabitants of this continent, and from it
we learn that the Lord has brought people three
distinct times to live upon it, the first was the
Jaredites, they came from the Tower of Babel,
then the people of Lehi, who left Jerusalem in
the commencement of the first year of the reign
of Zedekiah King of Judah, afterwards the peo-
ple of Zarahemla came from Jerusalem, at the
time that Zedekiah King of Judah was carried
away captive into Babylon. They were discov-
ered by a company of Nephites, they united and
Mosiah was afterwards their King.
	The Book of Mormon contains enough evi-
dence within its own pages to satisfy any one of
its divine authority, many prophecies which it
contains have been fulfilled, while many remain
to be yet fulfilled. On page 234; we find that if
the Nephites rebelled against God they would be
destroyed from off the face of the earth, which
they eventually were. In the second Book of
Nephi we have a prophecy of Joseph, the son of
Jacob who was carried into Egypt. He said
that the seer that the Lord would raise up, should
bring forth the word of the Lord, meaning the
Book of Mormon, unto his seed, that is the Lam-
anites, that his name should be Joseph, and
that it should also be the name of his father, the
"word" was brought forth by Joseph Smith Jun.
In the Book of Alma we read that the plates
should be presented by the hand of the Lord,
until they should go forth unto every nation, the
Book of Mormon was translated from a part of
those plates, and more is to be revealed in due
time.
	Nephi the son of Lehi knew that the Messiah
would visit the Jews in Jerusalem in 600 years
after he Nephi had left Jeursalem, also that he
would visit the people on this continent which
visit is recorded as having taken place at the ap-
pointed time among the Nephites. In the New
Testament we read that Jesus told his disciples
that he had other sheep he would visit. Also
the new star that should appear on this contin-
ent and the night which should be as light as
day, as a sign that he came into the world was
fulfilled, having been prophesied of many years
before. Nephi says, "It shall come to pass that
the Lord will bring forth unto you the words of
a book; and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered, the book shall be deliv-
ered to a man and he shall deliver the words to
another also it shall be hid from eyes of the
world, save three witnesses, the one to whom it
should be delivered, and a few according to the
will of God, those who are conversant with the
coming forth of the Book of Mormon will readily
see the truth of these predictions, also of showing
a copy of the characters to Prof. Anthon which
has been written about by I, believe; Elder Orson
Pratt. Nephi saw in a vision that Jesus should
be baptized beyond Jordan and also a prophet
that should prepare the way before him, mean-
ing John the Baptist, he beheld the sick healed
by him, and that the Messiah should be lifted
up on a cross. All this Nephi saw over 600 years
before it came to pass, also that the Lamanites
would become a dark and loathsome people.
	A volume might be written of prophecy ful-
filled and much is written that pertains to the
future which we may consistently infer will be
also, for it is as much an inspired work as the
Bible with the advantage of being translated
correctly.
							ANN FELLOWS.
	First Ward, Ggden City.


THE NEW TREATMENT FOR CANCER.

	THE London medical journal called the Lan-
cet, an authority amongst the professions, pub-
lishes a paper by Professor John Clay,of Queen's
College, on a new method of treating that ter-
rible disease, cancer, which has carried off so
many victims even under the most skillful
treatment.
	Professor Clay's treatment dispenses entirely
with the use of the knife. Perhaps this state-
ment will provoke a smile from surgeons of the
old school of practice, as they generally look up-
on those who pretend to the discovery of nost-
rums for the cure of cancer by drugs and plasters,
as quacks and impostors. But they may change
their minds after hearing what is certified to by
a professor of obstetrics in an English hospital,
and published in so respectable a paper as the
Lancet.
	The new remedy is Chian (or Cyprus) turpen-
tine, administered internally, the maximum
dose being twenty-five grains daily. Ordinary


turpentine, or Venice or Strasburg turpentine,
will not answer the purpose. Dr. Clay uses it
in combination with sulphur, as he found by re-
peated and varied experiments with other sub-
stances that the Chian turpentine acted with
uniform benefit in this combination.
	He describes as follows the first case in which,
after long study of the subject, he attempted the
use of the new remedy, on a woman who was
taken to the hospital afflicted with cirrhous can-
cer of the cervix and body of the uterus.
	"Hemorrhage was excessive, pain of the back
and abdomen agonizing, and cancerous cachexia-
well marked. The patient evedently had not a
long time to live. In such a case it appeared to
be justifiable to attempt to relieve the sufferings
of the patient, even if the remedy should produce
unfavorable symptoms, or should prove of no
avail. I therefore prescribed Chian terpentine,
six grains; flowers of sulphur, four grains; to be
made in two pills, to be taken every four hours.
No opiates were prescribed or lotion used. No
change was to be made in her diet or occupation.
On the fourth day after taking the medicine, the
patient reported herself greatly relieved from
pain, and was in better spirits, but she com-
plained of a large amount of discharge. It was
feared that she referred to a discharge of a san-
gineous nature. On examination, however, the
vagina was found to be filled with dirty-white
secretion, so tenacious as to be capable of being
pulled out rope-like, and this although she had
syringed herself three hours previously."
	After continuing the medicine 12 weeks with
excellent effects, the patient suddenly went
away without leaving any particulars by which
the final result could be learned. In his next
case—a woman 31 years of age—the cancer was
entirely removed in about five weeks. Several
other cases are reported of the complete cure of
cancers in different parts of the body. In some
instances the turpentine in the form of pills
could not be disgested, and the manager of the
hospital dispensary prepared:
	"An ethereal solution of Chian turpentine by
dissolving 1 oz. of the turpentine in 2 oz. of pure
sulphuric ether (anaesthetic). The ether dis-
solved the turpentine instantly. Of this solutoin,
½ oz ; solution of tragacanth, 4 oz.: syrup, 1 oz.;
flowers of sulphur,.40 grains; water to 16 oz.; 1
oz. three times daily."
	The following remarks of Dr. Clay will explain
his theory of the action of the turpentine in dis-
solving the tumor, and giving permanent relief
in a disease considered by many to be incurable.
	"The turpentine appears to act upon the per-
iphery of the growth with great vigor, causing
the speedy disappearance of what is usualy
termed the cancerous infiltration, and thereby
arresting the further development of the tumor.
It produces equally efficient results on the whole
mass, seemingly destroying its vitality,but more
slowly. It appears to disolve all the cancer cells,
leaving the vessel to become subsequently atro-
phied, and the firmer structure to gradually gain
a comparatively normal condition.
	It is a most efficient anodyne, causing an en-
tire cessation of pain in a few days, and far
more effectually than any sedative that I have
ever given. In the cases I have described no
sedative was employed in any instance, although
some cases where great pain had existed previ-
ously to commencing the treatment, large doses
had been given. Whether this arrest of pain
arises from the death of the tumor, or, as my
son suggests, is due to there being no longer ir-
ritati[-]n of the sentient nerves (in consequence of
tension being withdrawn by the removal of the
cells), the fact is the same."
	The discoverer of this method of assuaging
pain and eradicating either of the many ills that
flesh is heir to, and who makes his knowledge
known, is a public benefactor, worthy of public
reward.—Deseret News.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R.  S.,  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A.   AND  PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO NOV. 8, 1880.
	The Conference for the Y. M., and Y. L. M.
I. Associations  of  the   First  District of  Utah
Stake was held at Payson,Saturday,October 30,
1880.
	President M. H. Hardy, Sister  Helen  Alex-
ander,  their  Counselors  and  Stake Secretary
were  present.   A  business   meeting  for   the
officers was called  at 2 p.  m.   Satisfactory re-
ports were  given  in  from  Payson, Santaquin,

[Column 2]
Goshen, Salem,  Benjamin  and Spring  Lake,
these settlements  forming  that  District.   Bro.
Hardy referred them to the  instructions  given
by Brother  Woodruff at the last Conference re-
specting  the  Improvement   Associations,  he
also   presented   a   suggestive    programme
for   the   consideration  and   adoption   of  the
Societies throughout the  Stake, that they may
all work uniformily.
	The December number of the "Contributor"
will contain the programme  in full.
	Miss Alexander encouraged the adoption  of 
the instructions given by  Brother Hardy; as far
as practicable among the  Young Ladies.
	At a general  meeting  held  in  the  evening,
short and appropriate  addresses were delivered
by Brother A. O. Smoot Jr. and G. M. Brown,
also Sisters Alexander and Williams.
	The Spirit of  God burned  in  the  bosom  of
each individual present  and  illuminated  their 
faces.  They all  departed  with a  renewed de-
termination  to  engage  more  earnestly in  the
work  of  Improvement  amongst  the  youth  of
Zion.  
	TEENIE SMOOT,  Stake Sec'y.

	Synopsis of The Eighth Quarterly Conference
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion  held  in
Provo Meeting House;  August 27th 1880,
	Present on the stand  President Margaret T.
Smoot  and  Counselor  Mary  John,  Secretary
and  Corresponding  Secretary;  also  President
A.   O.  Smoot,   Bishops Paxman,   Tanner  and
Johnson.   Meeting opened  by  the usual  exer-
cises.  Minutes  of  former  meeting  read  and 
accepted.   Reports  of  the  county  read,  also
the Primary reports.
	The Presidents of the different societies gave
verbal  reports of the  same, speaking in praise
of the  obedience and good  works of  those with
whom they were associated.   Sister  John coun-
seled the  sisters  in  regard  to   attending  their 
meetings for by so so doing  we will learn prin-
ciples to instil  into the  hearts of  our  children
etc.   Brother Tanner  said it was a satisfaction
to listen to the reports and see the interest that
is  taken  by the sisters  in  helping  the  poor.
Spoke of the propriety of always having a fund
on hand to help the poor etc.
	Afternoon  Session:  Opened  by  singing and
prayer;   Sister  Margaret  T.  Smoot  made  a
few remarks relative  to our position  and  pros-
pects;  said she  was  pleased  with  our  reports
would not say much as Sister Zina was with us
and we would like to hear from her.
	Sister Zina [--]id, I  hope  I  may  be  dictated
by the spirit  that  feeds  and  invigorates.  We
have started for  eternal  life.  Brother Joseph
said, the priesthood  would never be in  its full-
ness  without  this organization  of  the  sisters.
We  have  come  here   to-day to   feast on  the
word of God, let us be united we cannot divide
temporal and spiritual interests.   The Gentiles
fear our union more  than  any  thing else.  Let
us teach our children to  be  industrious;  bring
them up to industrious habits and  let us attend
to our political interests before  the  enemy gets
the upper  hand  of  us, as  they  have  done  in
some places.  We   have  only a  few  days to
work in and if we are faithful we are saved be-
ings.   Teach  your  daughters  that  it  is  the
noblest thing in this world  to bear the souls of
men.   This  kingdom is upward  and  onward.
This is the work of the Saints to help the Lord
to build  up the kingdom.  Some   of our sisters
who have a taste for it, should understand phy-
siology and  surgery a woman  is  more fit  in
many cases  to  attend  those  who  are  in  need
of a physician  for  such  work than   a   man.
There is plenty of work in the kingdom for all
and I am proud to be associated with the hand-
maidens of the  Lord.   May  the  Lord   enable
us to so live that we may gain eternal life.
	President  Smoot spoke  in  words  of  praise
and  encouragement  to the  sisters, said  what

[Column 3]
Sister Zina has said  covers  a  vast  amount of 
ground as much  perhaps  as is  needed for  you
to-day, there  is a  great  responsibility  resting
upon  you  as well  as   the  men;  the  training
and planting in the human mind the principles
of eternal life  and  every  virtue.   Some  think
we have too many organizations, I do not think
so.   I think  the sisters  as a  rule are more ob-
servant of their organizations than the men—I
enjoyed my visit  very much to  the  Sandwich
Islands,  they  are  a  good  people  there.   The
sisters of the  Relief  Society  gave  me  a  feast
before I left and sent love to all   the  sisters  of
the Relief Societies in  the  valley.   May   God
bless and  prosper  you  that  through  you  the
work of the kingdom may be promoted.
	Bro. Paxman made some very good remarks
spoke of  the  braiding  school that  he  visited
when on his mission where  little children from
4 to 8 years of age  were  braiding straw;  some
braiding as  high  as  twenty  yards  a  day;  ex-
horted the  sisters  to give   our children some
trade and teach them to be industrious  Sisters
let us be encouraged there is a  bright prospect
ahead, God will give the  kingdom  to us  pro-
vided we are faithful, the Spirit of God is with
us here to-day.
	Sister John said it has  been thought  best to
appoint a president for a Stake organization for
the  Primary  Association,  accordingly  Sister
Zina  Y.  Williams  was  chosen  for  that  office;
Sisters Nancy Smoot and  Mary  J. John  were
chosen as her Counselors.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams  said,  if the  Priest-
hood think I am capable of filling that place,I
will try by the help of God to do so.
	Sister Zina D. Young hoped  the time would
come when we should  have the  spirit of  testi-
mony.   Moved we  adjourned  this  meeting for
three months.
	Benediction by,   Bro. Paxman.
	The  Statistical and Financial reports  are as
follows:
	Number  of  members, 2005;  teachers,  314;
meetings  held  110:  average attendance  629;
church  papers  taken  314;  WOMAN'S  EXPON-
ENT,  104;
	Total receipts    $501,97;  total  disburements,
391,53;  to needy  331, 44;  temple 26,40;  build-
ings, 112,65;  home  industries 23,25: missionary
41,05;  books, 7,25;  silk 4,00;  sundry  disburse-
ments,15,45;  cash  on hand 195,55;  property on
hand $5,864,07;  wheat on hand 673, bush.
	C. DANIELS Sec'y.

	Special meeting of the Kanosh ReliefSociety
(Willard  County)  Nov.   12th, 1880.  Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D.  Young  visited  us
to-day  on  their  way  to  St. George,  and  we
gladly announced a meeting  so that the breth-
ren and sisters could  have  the  opportunity  of
listening to these  noble sisters.  Our  meeting
room was filled.  The meeting  was  called  to
order by President Adelia A. Kimball and op-
ened with singing and prayer.
	Sister Kimball expressed  her pleasure at re-
ceiving a visit from Sister  Snow and   Young,
and hoped they would be blessed in their labors,
and then introduced Sister Zina  D.  Young  to
the meeting.
	Sister Young  made an eloquent and earnest
appeal to all present, said our  Relief  Societies
are a power  for  good  amongst  us.  They  are
not only intended as a relief  to  the  poor,  but
also a relief to the Bishops.  The teachers  of
the Relief Societies  should  be  filled  with  the
Spirit of God.   Said there seemed to be a lack
of faith  amongst  us;  but she  had  never  seen
greater  manifestations  of  the  healing  power
than of late;  felt that the Latter-day Saints did
not  appreciate  the  blessings  of  God  as  they
ought.  The blessings of the sealing ordinances
were not appreciated—the Prophet Joseph was
chastened before  he accepted  the  law  of  Cel-
estial  Marriage.   An  Angel appeared  to  him


and threatened that God would take the priest-
hood from him,  unless he established that prin-
ciple on  the earth.  Said  the 'Relief Societies
were designed  to increase  love and  sympathy
among the  sisters, was pleased  to hear  that a
Primary  Association  had  been  organized in
Kanosh, It was one of the most important or-
ganizations.  The youth of Zion were  thirsting
for knowledge;  counseled  obedience  to the
priesthood. Urged  the  sisters  to  plant  out
mulberry  trees so that  employment  might  be
found for our children and others which would
be profitable,  and  enable the people to become
self-sustaining.
	Sister E. R. Snow said she was pleased to meet
the sisters of Kanosh.  Sixteen years had elap-
sed since she  had  passed  through  the  settle-
ment before, was  encouraged by  the  presence
of the brethren.  Our interests are both in the 
kingdom of God and  cannot  be divided, the
Gospel of Christ is designed to unite our labors.
Anything that is  calculated  to disunite comes
of evil.  The Relief Societies  are organizod as
a strong help to the  priesthood.  All  our tal-
ents, time  and energies should  be  devoted to
the kingdom  of God.  At the time of  our bap-
tism we covenanted to be his, but our profession
don't amount  to  much.  We  must  keep  our
Covenants.  We often speak  of having obeyed
the Gospel, that will require all our time in this
life and very  probably  will  have to  be  com-
pleted in eternity.  It  will  not answer for  us
to live part of God and  part  for  the world.
We need to work  out  our  own  salvation.  A
mother's first duty is at home with her children,
but how can a mother retain the Spirit of God
unless she avails herself  of  the opportunity of
obtaining  those  refreshing, enlightening inful-
ences which can only be obtained by attending
meetings in the Lord's house.
	Our Relief  Societies  were  organized by  re-
velation.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith stated
that they were not only to relieve the poor and
assist the bishops but to save souls.
	The organization is so  constituted as to  be
self-governing.  Every  good  Latter-day Saint
sister  should  be  an  active  member  thereof.
When  the  societies  were  first  organized  the
sisters crowded to the meetings, but now  many
have to be coaxed to attend.  They seem ignor-
ant of the  importance  of the work.  We  need
mutual  assistance and  can  only  obtain  it by
meeting  together.  Our  children  have been
neglected in the past and many have grown up
infidels.  Their minds have been charged with
knowledge  and  their  mental  capacities have
been crowded to the exlusion of spiritual life.
It requires  the  physical,  mental,  moral and
spiritual equally  developed  to  make  a  good
saint.  Said she would  give  the  sisters a sure
key to  success,  "Never shirk a duty!  Never!."
If small duties  are  neglected  the  light  of the
spirit withdraws.  We  need constant training.
There's not  many  of us  have as much faith as
the  2000  Nephite  boys  going  to  battle  who
"knew they would not be slain."  Our children
who  leave  this  life  in chilhood are sure of
the Celestial  Kingdom.  How can  we be sure
of it?  Only by knowing that  we are doing good
and keeping the  commandments of God. has
God given you ability sister?  It should be used
for the good of others.  We  are  responsible to
God for our talents.  The members of our soci-
eties should  be  united and  not  yield  to  fault-
finding.  When  visiting,  the  teachers should
administer to  the  sick  and was and  anoint
them also  confirm  these  blessings  upon  them
by the laying  on  of  hands.  We  need  to be
filled with the  Spirit of God.  If we put  our
trust in  God  and  earnestly  contend  for  faith
we shall receive it.  The Lord says  he will be
enquired of.  A formal  prayer  is  not  always
necessary  but  faith  must  be  exercised. The
Lord wants us to  be in earnest.  We need the
Spirit of God to guide  us in all our household
affairs.  Our position as Mothers in Israel is as
much higher than the  women of the  world as
heaven is above the earth.  We  should  be full  of
kindness  and love.  Our  labors here  are  ap-
preciated above.  A record is kept, and we can
never lose our reward.
	The Relief Societies  commenced  their work
without capital;  with  a  few  rags  and  a  little
patchwork  and  by  perseverance  have  made
their own capital.
	In 1876 when called upon  for a report to be
sent to the Centennial, the Secretaries had dis-
bursed between $93,  and $94,000.  Since then
the  branches  have  increased  and  the  mem-
bers  multiplied.  There  are  now  about  300
branches.  Some in the  Islands of  the Sea, in
Australia,, Europe and elsewhere.  All are en-
gaged in a good work and  their  labors are  re-
corded;  concluded by  exhorting  the Saints so
to live as to secure all  the  blessings of the Ce-
lestial Kingdom.
	Sister A.  Woodard said  that it was a  great
pleasure to her to hear  the sisters  speak  such
encouraging words.  It was 26  years since she
first spoke with Sister E, R. Snow in Salt Lake
City after crossing the  plains  and in the hour
of her bereavement when she spoke such words
of comfort and consolation  that it did her soul
good and she could  never  forget it;  urged the
sisters to obey  the  counsel  given  and  prayed
that God would bless  the sisters.
	After a few remarks from  Bro. H. Christen-
sen, this  most  enjoyable  meeting  was  closed
with singing and prayer.
					R. GODDARD, Clerk.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


[Column 1]
﻿JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

	It was in the spring of 1847 that Jesse
Burns and his family, consisting of a wife and
one child, started across the plains to the then
uninhabitated portion of the Rocky Moun-
tains known as the Great American Desert.
So much has been recorded of that remarkable
journey, that it is scarcely worth while to des-
cribe it. That it was an undertaking almost
unparalelled in history, can, I think, be safely
accorded. How many men left their work-
shops, their desks and counting houses, to
drive ox teams, who had never yoked a pair of
cattle in their lives? and the ludicrous mis-
takes made in their management were laugha-
ble or pitiable, as the case might be.
	Jesse was a mechanic, and knew little of
labors outside of his workshop, where he com-
manded first-class wages, providing comfort-
ably for his family. This breaking up of
home life and ties was a great blow to him, and
to his delicate wife, who had been tenderly
reared, and knew nothing of poverty or hard-
ship. Their nice little home, where they had
lived so happily, and which they had taken
such pleasure in building and adorning, was
sold for a trifle; their household furniture
went, here a little and there a little, until all
was disposed of: The outfit for their journey
was packed in the wagons, and they bade a
sorrowful farewell to their home, around which
clustered so many fond memories, and crossed
the Mississippi River, preparatory to organiz-
ing for the journey. After staying there a few
days Burns concluded, instead of waiting for
the main camp, to take his family and travel
down into Missouri, where he might find work
for the winter. Accordingly, in company with
another family, consisting of a man named
Chadwick, his wife and four children, he trav-
eled on untill they came to a creek called the
Fabby, forty miles from Nauvoo. After camp-
ing a few days, detained by the sickness of his
friend's wife, who had a little daughter born

[Column 2]
there, his wife, whose delicate frame was worn
with hardship and anxiety, was prostrated by a
lingering fever, which detained them six
weeks. Jesse, with the assistance of a woman
he had taken to assist his wife on the journey,
nursed them through the best he could; for,
although in a farming district, with people
living near by, no one offered to aid the poor
little band of sufferers.
	Minnie, their only child, was nine years old.
To her the journey, so fraught with pain and
sorrow to others, was something of a fairy
dream. The green fields and the noisy brook,
the trees where the nuts fell, for it was autumn
then, the saucy squirrels that perked their tails
over their backs, and watched them from their
leafy perches as they played among the trees,
were quite as careless of the future as them-
selves; the silvery fish that glided about in the
sparkling waters, and the birds that caroled in
the trees, were every day a new source of de-
light to those little thoughtless children, who
had spent all their lives within the limits of
a city.
	They were obliged to travel on as soon as
possible, for winter was coming on and no pro-
visions were being made for it. They moved
on slowly, stopping sometimes to rest the sick
ones, for the children had contracted fever and
ague while camping at the Fabby, and to do a
few days' work as opportunity offered.
	At length they reached St. Joseph, late in
the fall, where Jesse and his friend found work
through the winter. Soon after arriving there
the poor little baby, suffering from hardship
and exposure, sickened and died. In the spring
Jesse Burns and his family joined the camp at
Winter Quarters. Chadwick, having a larger
family and not being able to procure a suitable
ontfit, stayed at St. Joseph. Mary Burns was
an energetic and persevering woman, a patient
and devoted wife. Though feeble in body,
and ofttimes heartsick and weary, she proved
herself equal to every emergency. She left
her assistant at Winter Quarters, for they were
going to a distant country, they hardly yet
knew where, and could have no supplies except
what they carried with them, until such times
as crops could be raised; therefore they must
not be burdened with unnecessary expenses. 
Accordingly, a small boy was taken to assist
with the teams, and they started on. After
traveling a few hundred miles the boy grew
homesick, and meeting his brother going back
with the pioneers, he begged to go too. 
	Jesse thought it would throw too much hard-
ship on his wife to let the teamster go, as he
could only drive one team himself, and if the
boy went back she would be obliged to drive
the other; but she said, let him go; the team
was an anxiety to her anyway, as she conld
not trust him with it alone; she would manage
very well. During the rest of the journey she
drove the team, yoked and unyoked the oxen,
in addition to her culinary and family cares. 
This may seem an exaggeration, when it is
taken into consideration that she was a woman
of education and refinement, delicately reared,
and previous to her journey accustomed to
keep an assistant in her household labors, but
I can answer that it is no exaggeration, that
my narrative is strictly true. 
	The valley was at length reached, the jour-
ney over, and then came the struggle for the
necessaries of life. First, there must be shelter
made for the winter, and wood provided. There
being plenty of timber in the mountains, the
houses were built mostly of logs; but as the
weary cattle were hardly fit for such laborious
work, many built their cabins of adobies, or
sun-dried brick, after the Mexican or Califor-
nian style. The houses were covered with
poles and willows; over which was thrown dirt
to the depth of a foot or more; it was several
years before shingles were made for building
purposes. This rude covering served very well


except in hard storms, when the people were
deluged with muddy water. Dishes were set,
umbrellas spread, and every available means
used for protection, but many a merry joke
passed around when the weather cleared and
the bedding was spread out to dry.	Jesse
Burns, in company with another man, made a
saw pit and split logs, and sawed lumber for
others, and, as soon as he had sufficient mate-
rial, built himself a house; but owing to the
primitive manner of sawing, it was late in De-
cember before he had a shelter for his family.
The houses were all built in a fort, or a hollow
square, formed by joining the houses in lines.
Mary's cabin was built of sawed logs, and al-
though it had neither floor nor ceiling, she felt
that she was supremely blessed in having a shel-
ter from the cold storms of winter. It is said
that God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
They felt to realize the truth of this, for the
weather being unusually mild,the stock was en-
abled to live on the range; otherwise they must
have perished,for owing to their late arrival the
people could not possibly provide hay for the
winter. Men worked in the canons through
the winter, notwithstanding the severe storms
and hardships of a mountain climate caused
much suffering to those who were reared in a
milder country. For they came from the
sunny South, ns well as from the Granite hills
of New Hampshire, also from European coun-
tries, where many of them knew nothing of
outdoor labor.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORE TALK.
		    ---
	FROM HOMESPUN.
		   ------
	Dear, dear!  how  busy  I've  been  since  you
were  here  before.  I  have  had  little  or  no
time to think of anything else but cans, catsup,
preserves and  pickles.  The  girls  were  here
the other day, and I  gave  them  quite a bit of 
my  mind  about  what  kind  of  husbands to
look out  for.  I  don't  suppose  above  one or
two will ever think of it again, but  it  may do
some  good--Quien  Sabe?  I do wish I might
help  some  of  them to avoid  the quicksands of
married  life.  I  am  real  glad  you  brought
Fanny along, for  I  want to  say a word or two
to her.  How soon do you  and Alec expect to
be  married?  A  month?  Now, my  girl, you
have a bridge  of  one  month between  you and
the great Unknown beyond.  There are  many
wise, good things written  about this sometimes
painful, sometimes beautiful  thing, called mar-
riage;  but come, lay  your head in my lap, and
let me tell you a few things with my lips.  They
will speak with  so  much  more  force than has-
tily-read  written  words.  You  love  him, dear,
don't you?  How anxious  you are to reach the
first cycle in your wedded life with as much of
the sweet passion of love as now possesses you,
are  you not?  I  won't tell  you  how carefully
you must guard  your love, but rather  tell you
how to cherish it.  When  you are  newly wed-
ded, many little things will be unnoticed by you
that  will  afterwards  be  very  pregnant  of re-
sults.  The first, and, I think, most  important
of  all  things  is,  avoid  looseness  in  talk, in
 thoughts, in deeds.  Oh, Fanny, your womanly
modesty is  your own bright  jewel;  never let  it
slip from you.  The old adage  about  familiar-
ity breeding  contempt is more applicable here
than anywhere else.  Let your married life be
as pure,  as  sacred,  as  precious  as  when you
first thrilled beneath  your  lover's  kiss.  Be
true to your womanly instincts.  You may not
be blessed, as  I  am,  with  a  husband  who  has
been carefully reared by a modest, pure mother;
but  at  least  you  can  inspire  a  feeling of re-
spect in the breast of him you  love, which re-
spect is the chit of the love you prize.  If you
commence  by  allowing  yourself  gradually to
become selfish, goodby  to  your peace. it's no
use saying love is unselfish.  Human nature is
selfish.  And  you'll  find  out,  if  you  are not
careful, that  your wishes and Alec's will clash
sometimes, and  perhaps  cause  a  jar.  At  first
it is no  sacrifice to give up your way;  nor  will
it ever be if you do not allow yourself  to make
it one.  Remember, dear, in proportion as you
seek  the  comfort  of  your  husband, so  will he
strive to  make  your  life one  of  peace.  Many
wives  think  that  in  simply  performing house
hold duties  their  part  is  performed.  Humor
him!  That's it, my dear, humor him. If you
find Alec has any little peculiarity  of habit or
character, don't  first  think  of it  sulkily, then
grumble about it.  Love  him, and pet him, as
your mother loved and petted you.  There is a
spice of the mother in every true woman's love
for  her  husband.  On  the  other  hand,  don't 
begin  anything  you  can't  carry  out. Don't
do your  work and his chores, and call yourself
a devoted wife for it.  Devoted  fiddlesticks!
I've no  patience with women who carry water,
wood,  etc.;  yes,  even  chop  wood,  water  the
garden, do  all the  lifting, tugging  and tinker-
ing  around the house.  Alec will do anything
for you when  first  married;  never let him slip
out  of  the  habit  of  doing  your  little  chores.
If he  isn't  thoughtful  of  you  before you have
children, he never will be after.  Remember this.
And wo unto  you  when, with  baby  in arms,
and two or  three at your knee, you  drag your-
self around to do all and more than your share.
Be  thoughtful  of  your  husband,  and  if  he  is
not  so  of  you, teach  him  with  gentleness and 
kindness to perform  those  little  acts  of  home
courtesy  that  so  cheer  and  brighten  married
life.  Time to go home?  Well, come when you
can.  Will I tell  you  about how  to make the
fanccy trifles  I  have  here?  O  yes, some  day,
perhaps.   Goodby.
SALOAME.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEE THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE TOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, [54].


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights  of  the  Women  of Zion,  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women of all Nations.

Vol. 9.		SALT LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  DECEMBER 15,1880.		No. 14.


A CHRISTMAS CAROL FOR 1880.

See the shepherds while they keep—
	Watch, at midnight's sacred hour,
From their drowsy vigils leap,
	Roused by a resistless power. 

Lo! the clouds are o'er them riven,
	Gleams the sky with glory's blaze!
Nearer come the hosts of Heaven,
	While the watchers wondering gaze.

Speechless, rapt in admiration—
	List the while the Angels tell—
That "The Christ" the World's salvation?
	Deigns indeed with men to dwell.

List, they to the wondrous story
	On that holy Christmas morn
That "the Prince of Peace" and glory—
	Was in Bethlehem's Manger born.

Heavenly legions swell the praises
	Of "The Child Emmanuel."
"Glory unto God the Highest,"
	"Peace on earth to men good will."

Is it not a holy Anthem?
	Fitting for the Saints to sing?
Generous wishes let us chant them,
	E'en as praises to our King.

Let us say "A Merry Christmas,"
	From our hearts to friend and foe,
Heavenly hosts will thus assist us—
	Pride and hate to over throw.

Narrow feelings, let them perish;
	Christ's own law of love fulfill;
Let us nobly strive to cherish—
	Unto all the WORLD good will.

				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


CHRISTMAS  GREETINGS  AND  REMI-
NISCENCES.
EDITOR  EXPONENT:
 Dear Friend and Sister—“AMerrie Christ-
mas and  a  Happy New Year!” to  you.  These
have been  household words for so many centu-
ries, that I would not alter or  change them for
any new-fangled  version  that  could be given
to them.  What a fund of life, and health, and
hilarity, have  they  caused in the households of
-the world, as one came bounding into  the halls
of rejoicing, when  it  was fashionable  to speak
the feelings of  the heart without form or pref-
ace, and each one was  eager to be  the  first  to
offer the eternal greeting that precedes the day
of  universal rejoicing. “Peace on  earth, and
good will  to men” was  the  universal  text.
What  unlocking  of  hearts ! What  beautiful
freedom,  what  rejoicing, what  blessed gather-
ings of dispersed households! “All the family
meet  at Christmas,” was  the  tale  all  had  to
tell.  Boys and girls “broke up” school for the
Christmas holid[-]ys, and  oh!  the joy of going to
the station in  a  crowd  to receive  the  young
brain workers, who had been away six months;
even  the porter and the  dignitaries  of  the sta-
tion caught the  enthusiasm, and  threw  open
the doors  of  the  cars with a smile  of welcome
as the young travelers rushed forth, and seemed
to  enjoy the  hugs  and  kisses  of brothers and
sisters and cousins almost as much  as  the re-
cipients themselves--so contagious is happiness!
 Christmas  eve was  all fun  and frolic, every
rooffi decorated  with “ivy green” ‘and- the
Christmas holly, with  its  beautiful scarlet ber-
ries; and them from  a  large  bunch  of  ever-
greens in the centre of the ceiling was the mys-
terious mistletoe bough, half sacred, half secu-
lar, peeping out as if afraid of being seen;  but
that was  for  the  coming ball—no notice was
taken of that to-night.  But there was a table
set with monster plum  cakes, nuts, apples, and
above  all  the  snap-dragons!  The  room  now
was  darkened, and  these  being prepared were
ignited, and  then  commenced the grand fun of
the evening--snatching the burning fruit from
the  smoking dish—and every face  having  a
purple and cadaverous hue!
 Then on  Christmas  day morning  all  were
awakened by a lovely peel of  merry bells, ush-
ering  in  this  most  notable  day.  All  rushed
from  their beds  and quickly descended to  the
breakfast  table, where  sat  father  and mother
ready  to  receive  their  loved  children;  every
heart  was  light,  every  face  wore  a  smile  of
happiness and satisfaction.
 And so a week, and  often more, was passed
in  an interchange of the “sweet amenities” of
life. Nor were the sacred duties  of that time
ever  omitted;  rich  and  poor  remembered the
holy institutions  of  that  day,  and religiously
observed them;  and the rich ever spread tables
for the poor  on  that day, and  they enjoyed to-
gether the temporal  and  the spiritual.  Every
prison  throughout  the  country  had  its  rich
Christmas fare spread out upon it.  Surely the
Great  Father  looked  on  the  rejoicing  of  his
earthly  family, and  blest  the  good  and  pure
with  an  especial  blessing  on  that world-
renowned day!
 My mind  has run off  into  other  days  and
other scenes, and almost carried me away;  cer-
tainly away from what I sat down to do—which
was to write a letter to you, my dear friend and
sister, to give you the greetings  of  my heart at
this time.  Close  up  that  desk,  lock  up  that
office, and  retire to a place where you can take
a rest—a Christmas  holiday;  for  surely  you
have  earned one. You  have worked  for  the
public, and the public will  gladly wait on you,
till  you  are again ready to put on the harness.
May  health  of  body  and  strength  of  mind
long, long be yours, till  you shall lie down like
a shock of corn, fully ripe, reposing for a brief
period in the sleep  of death, and then awaken
in  the very  presence chamber of  your  Father,
your God and  mine, and the God  and  Father
of  all  the  good  of  all  ages  and generations,
since the world  began.  I - finish as I began—
“A Merrie Christmas and a Happy New Year”
to you and all yours.
HANNAH  T. KING.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.

	COLONEL T. W. Higginson will deliver the
oration on the 28th of December at Union
Hall upon the occasion of the 250th anniver-
sary of the settlement of Cambridge. The poem
will be furnished by Oliver Wendell Holmes.
—W. J.

	LOUISA ALCOTT says that when women are
the advisers, the lords of creation don't take
the advice till they have persuaded themselves
that it is just what they had intended to do;
then they act upon it, and if it succeeds they
give the weaker vessel half the credit of it; if
it fails, they generally give her the whole.
Louisa is unmarried,— W. W.

[Column 2]
	ON Monday Nov. 29, Wendell Phillips was
sixty-nine years of age. The Woman's Jour-
nal says he spent the day at home and received
numerous calls from his friends, receiving many
floral tributes, and from his Irish admirers a
beautiful floral harp.

	"WHAT," asks a correspondent in Iowa,
"will stand out more prominently in the his-
tory of the year 1880 than the fact that
40,000,000 free people chose for themselves a
ruler?" To this the Woman's Journal would
answer, that in history the prominent fact of
this election will be, that out of forty millions
of people, one-half, viz., all the women, were
denied the right and the chance to vote at all,
and that, too, after such service in the war as
allies of the party in power, as no other allies
ever gave. These women are now the politi-
cal peers of Jeff Davis. This is the fact that
will stand out most prominent in history.—Ex.

	AT the Woman's Suffrage Convention held
at Worcester, Mass., Oct. 20, in celebration of
the thirtieth anniversary of the first Suffrage
Convention held in New England, Col. Hig-
ginson offered the following resolution:

	Resolved, That this Convention presents its:
greetings to its venerable early leader and
friend, Lucretia Mott, whose life, in its rounded
perfection as wife, mother, preacher and re-
former, is the prophecy of the future of wo-
man. The large liberty which the Society of
Friends has always given to women has been
justified in her example; have we not the right
to believe that the larger measure of freedom
to church and state we are here to claim will
be alike blessed to all American women?—Ex.

	SAYS Mr. Whittier to an Inter-Ocean re-
porter, "The society of the future must be acted
on more directly by women than that of the
past. In the bringing out of the sensibilities,
they must take a leading part. Woman Suf-
frage I regard as an inevitable thing and a good
thing. Women in public life will bring it up
more than it will bring them down. There
will be considerable floundering before society
would become completely adapted to the
change, but after it shall be fairly accomplished
and in working order, the work of society will
go on without any deterioration, and with a
gain in purity of motive and unselfishness of
law-makers and administrators. I fear its ef-
fect in large cities, where bad women will come
forward. Women are so intense that bad
women will be worse in public life than bad
men. But the difficulty is in the nature of
the city.—Ex.

	A GRAND ratification meeting was held by
the women of Oregon Nov. 21, at Salem in
Reed's Opera House. Many hundreds were
present. Also members of the Legislature who
had voted for the amendment. Music on the
violin and piano were the opening exercises,
after which stirring speeches were made by
Mrs. Duniway,and Mrs. Loughray. Mrs. Duni-
way's centennial poem was rendered by Mrs.
L. M. Lowe and Misses Olive and Julia
Chamberlain gave a song. A number of let-
ters were read and speeches were made by Ex.
Gov. Gibbs and Hon. John Minto. When the
Governor concluded his remarks upon equal
rights he "asked those to rise who favored the
amendment, and the audience rose enmasse
amid great enthusiasm." Good for Oregon.


106	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
TALK.

	And so you don't believe in Primaries.
That's a calamity! Why? Because there is
a great sweep of precious light of this same
Primary Window, which you are so persistently
standing aside from. You think Mutuals are
enough, do you? Well now, my dear, do you
know, between you and me and the EXPONENT,
I would rather see every Mutual die out, than
to see these Primaries fail. If you live fifty
years longer, you will see the force of my last
assertion.
	I have seen men who wait and wait and
procrastinate the planting of trees and vines
from year to year, until when they are old and
weary they can do nothing about the matter
but mourn over lost opportunity, and look out
on a garden of weeds. They neglected to
"take Time by the forelock." And yet, you
don't believe in the Primary?
	I have seen some who never knew how to
start a fire. They would lay a bit of paper,
then a stick of wood, put the match to paper,
and grumble because it wouldn't burn." You
and I don't do that way. We lay the paper,
then some tiny, tiny bits of wood, then larger
kindling wood, then pile up our sticks, and
finally we throw on the logs and sit in the
blaze of our beautiful fire. Just so some peo-
ple expect with one mission, after a life of
dead emptiness, to kindle up a warm blaze that
will last through life. Once in a great while
its done; but much oftener the flame flares up
and then fades and dies mournfully out. The
kindling wood isn't there to support the logs.
And yet, you don't believe in Primaries.
	I have known ignorant painters who try to
paint a picture by laying a daub here, a blot
there, and call it something. But the artist
finds it easy to paint the big rock, the open
sky, the leafy tree. 'Tis the stamen of the
flower, the faint ray of light from the half-
opened casement, the fine web of lace at the
lady's throat, that proclaims him master. A
few strokes don't make a picture; 'tis the mi-
nutest details faithfully followed. And yet
you don't believe in the Primaries?
	You send your children to Sunday School?
That's good. But find me three men out of
three hundred that understand enough of hu-
man nature to feed the mind of childhood in-
telligently. I have long thought a woman far
more suitable to conduct a Sunday School.
Instinct teaches her, if she will but allow it to
sway her, how to administer food, both mental
and moral, to the undeveloped hungry mind.
These Primaries will plant out the shoots of
the tree of Knowledge, graft in the buds of
Faith and Sobriety, and train the vine of In-
telligence round the Rod of Iron. They will
lay the tiny sticks one upon another, week by
week, until in the time thereof the flame of
Opportunity will curl and lap in and around
the kindling wood—up—up—the logs are
reached, warmed and heat up until they light
with a glorious blaze all who are within their
reach, and we sit in the heavenly warmth with
joy and rejoicing.
	And you think the Primaries are of no use?
I am sorry, sorry for you. Just alter your
mind, comb your babies' hair, wash their dear
little eyes out and bundle them off to the Pri-
mary. Never mind if Johnnie has a hole in
his pants—mend it to-morrow; better a bare
knee than a bare mind.
	You may polish their faces and keep them as
clean as new tins, spend your time in clothing
and tidying them up, and leave their poor little
minds destitute of any covering. I have seen
well-dressed, clean-faced little people with their
minds shivering with neglect, exposed to the
scorching rays of Vulgarity, pierced by the
bitter winds of Untruth, foul with the slums
of street slang, and freezing with the ice of In-

[Column 2]
fidelity. How my heart yearns over such for-
saken outcasts from sweet intelligence!
	Shall you send your chickies to the Pri-
mary?
							HOMESPUN.


EDUCATION  AND  OCCUPATION.

	MRS.  EDITOR:—No  subject, with  regard  to
helping  the  unfortunate ones  of  the  earth, is
so impressed  upon  my mind as that of provid-
ing  education  and  occupation.   I  cannot  ex-
press  the  gratified  feelings  with  which I con-
template  the work  of  improvement among our
children and young people;  nor the admiration
with  which  I  regard  those  ladies  who  are so
vigorously  prosecuting this good and great for-
ward movement in our community.
	I have been much engaged  in  the  care of
children  during  my  life. Experience  has
taught  me that in a child's  education one item
is  important—that  man  is  required to render
to  the  world  a  compensation, for  all  that he
consumes  at  least, even though he do  only eat
and drink and die.  But if he would aspire to
anything  more  beyond  this, he  must  become
useful in his sphere in proportion to his aspira-
tion  to  place  himself  in  positions where  men
will be delighted to honor him.
	Idleness, aimless and listless, without  a  pur-
pose  to  accomplish any good thing, inevitably
leads  to  ruin.   Idleness  among  the  healthy
poor  ought  to  be  regarded  as  a  crime  in the
eye  of  the  law, if  provision  is  made  for the
employment of these healthy poor.   But if no
provision  is  made  to  furnish  profitable work
for  such  as  by any cause or circumstance fail
to be  able to plan for themselves business that
will give them a living, then  there is  a  crimi-
nal  neglect  on  the  part  of  such  as have  the
power  to  supply  such  amounts  of land, such
workshops  of  every sort, such broad  and  com-
petent  furnishings, as shall  enable every man,
woman  and  child  who has health to become a
producer  as  well  as  a  consumer.   Anything
less than this is demoralizing  in  its  tendency;
it leads to little else than  a  condition  akin  to
robbery.  The  one  who  eats  the  bread  not
earned by the sweat of his own brow, eats that
which was earned  by the sweat of his neigh-
bor's  brow,  which  leaves him  his  neighbor's
debtor.  How  can  this  be  prevented?  Very
simply.  Romulus  and  Solomon  knew  how.
Let every one have work to do by a systematic
arrangement  of  lands  and  tenements—educa-
tional provision, artistic  and  literary, carrying
with them all necessary preparations for  thor-
ough  business  and  social  benefits.   Let  all
these be provided and placed under the care of 
such  persons  as  are  capable  of  directing  the
needed  labor,  and  how  great  a  deliverance
would be wrought out.
	What if a few  wealthy men  should  appro-
priate  all  they  had  to  furnish  work  for  the
poor, how many  years would pass  before those
who had thus loved their poor neighbors would
in  wealth  outweigh  the  richest  nabob  in  the
land?  Were  there a little village like this in
every county in Utah, the Relief Societies, the
Bishops, and all that go abroad to gather dona-
tions for the poor, would be relieved from more
than  one-half  their work, and  have  the  satis-
faction of  clearing our streets of  indigent poor,
and  planting honor ond usefulness in the room
of  vice  and  degradation.   Also,  they  would
have double  time  to  nurse  the  sick,  visit the
widow  in  her  afflictions,  and  seek  after  the
wayward  and  forsaken.
	Yours truly,
	M. J. C.


THE Baroness Burdett-Coutts has expended
more than $500,000 in ameliorating the condi-
tion of the poor and deserving fishermen of the
United Kingdom.


PAROWAN RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

MEETINGS AND REORGANIZATION.

	The Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies composing the Parowan Stake of Zion
was held in the Parowan meeting house Nov.
13th. Quite a number of the brethren being
present. Verbal reports were given by the. re-
presentatives of the different branch societies
and organizations in the Stake showing a general
desire in both old and young to increase in know-
ledge and good works. Many of the sisters ad-
dressed the congregation exhorting one another
to diligence and perseverance in the work of God,
bearing testimony to the truth of the principle
of a pluraltiy of wives. President Dame, Bishop
Arthur and several of the brethren addressed
the sisters, said they were proud to see them
stand forth andso valiantly uphold the principles
of truth. Counseled them to seek the spirit of
God and its guidance in ail their undertakings.
Conference was adjourned to be held in Cedar
City on the 13th day of Febuary next.
	November 16th: The sisters of Cedar City
were highlypleased by a call from our beloved
Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D.Youug, who held
meeting in the evening, imparting to all much
good instruction. Counseled mothers to have
a watchful care over their little ones, to strive
above all to instil into their tender hearts prin-
ciples of truth and virtue. Spoke on the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage advising all never to
speak lightly of this holy order. Referred to
the necessity of home industries, encouraged the
sisters to persevere in their endeavors at silk
culture. Urged upon them the neccessity ot
attending their meetings and donating to the
poor. The meeting was considered by all pre-ent
to be a feast of good things and we humbly
thank our beloved sisters for their good instruc-
tion; praying the Lord to bless them and pre-
serve them in their labor of love.
	Dec. 6th,a reorganization, of the Young Ladies
M. I. A., was effected and he following young
ladies elected as officers. Caroline Keturah
Arthur, President; Sarah Ann Hig[-]ee, Julia
Ann Neilson Counselors; Ellen E., L. Jones,
Secretary: Sarah Ann Jones Ast. Sec’y., Louisa
Leigh, Treasurer. They were all set apart to
their various offices by the presiding brethren.
The former officers who have labored diligently
since the first organization five years ago, who
were at that time young girls, now have families
to attend to, therefore they are honorably 're-
leased with the blessings and good wishes of the
brethren and sisters for their faithfulness and
humility. May prosperity attend all associations
formed for the benefit, of God's people old afad
young is the prayerof your sister in the Gospel.
			J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor., Sec'y.


GLAD OF IT.

	The EXPONENT of October 1st, came duly
to hand, filled with indignation at the attempt
that was being made to disfranchise the women
of Utah. The vocabulary of the English lan-
guage has no words with meaning sufficient to
express our indignation at the low, mean, con-
temptible act; and, furthermore, we, as Ameri-
can citizens, intend to proclaim against such
unjust proceedings. Did we say citizens? or
are we allowed that title? What are we then?
The mothers, of men and boys whom we shall
teach to honor the Constitution of our country,
and claim the rights it guarantees to them, and
rally around the dear old flag and save it from
dishonor when perilous times shall come. We
are glad that this encroachment upon the fran-
chise of women was instigated, as it will have
a tendency to cause investigation. Do the
Patriots all sleep? God forbid! If so, let the
cry of liberty reverberate from shore to shore,
until they, shall be awakened to the situation
of our once happy Republican Government,
ere it be broken in pieces as a potter’s vessel.
Ever praying for the triumph of the oppressed,
							W. EAST.


THE ladies of the Philadelphia Flower Mis-
sion, now closed for the season,have distributed
since May 10th, 10,855 bouquets, 1001 cases of
fruit, and books,text cards and papers to about
300 cases.—W. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 107


TWILIGHT MUSINGS.

All the high-way grows dim in the twilight,
	And people pass on to and fro,
Little ones soothed into quiet,
	Have started for dream-land I know.
I would follow and ramble there with them
	Had I but the power to go.

'Tis an hour since sunset has faded,
	I gaze through the tremulous air,
Far away to the beautiful temple,
	And long, Oh, I long to be there!
With glad glorified spirits to worship,
	Ever free from sorrow and care.

O, there I shall throw off earth garments,
	Soiled, travel-worn wrinkled and old,
To be clothed in white purified raiment,
	Exceeding in lustre fine gold.
And my soul shall rejoice wflh the angels
	The King in His beauty behold.

Here I stretch out my hands through the darknes
	Far over the silence of night,
And my heart cries throughout the dim twilight
	For forms that have vanished from sight.
And I read precious names on the marble,
	Through tears that are blinding the light.

Between me and that glorious City,
	Rise darkly the graves of my dead;
Veiling over the bright gate of glory,
	Through which the storm-driven have fled.
And in weakness I mourn for ties riven,
	Though sad tears, THEY never more shed.

Yet I watch through the dim evening's twilight,
	And list to the wild breakers roar,
Mark the swift flowing tide of the river,
	That sends back the weird, "nevermore,"
And I sigh for a glimpse of that Country,
	Away on the "Evergreen Shore."

							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Atchison, Kansas.


THE DISTANT SHORE.

'Tis a struggle a gasp and a leap beyond,
	To the distant and unknown shore
Where we'll meet our friends who have passed the veil,
	Meet those who have gone before.

We'll have trod the path that the aged have trod.
	The youth and the infant form
We'll have traveled the road that all must tread.
	The ignorant great and small.

Do we think as we tread the path of life
	That our journey may soon be o'er?
That we'll meet with those that have passed the veil,
	With those who have gone before?
										ANN FELLOWS,


[Column 1]
HOLIDAY PICTURES.

	They hang around the walls of every home-
stead, they are part and parcel of the orna-
mentation of the "old house at home." We
can shut our eyes and trace with artistic skill
the graceful outlines, the sweet, soft touches,
and fancy echoes the silvery music of the gentle
voices that thrilled with tremulous emotion,
when the tender greetings were exchanged and
the good-by died away in the distance. Mem-
ory paints one sublime and glorious picture
which haunts me constantly at the holiday
season.
	An old house brown with age on which the
storms of half a century have beat relentlessly,
surrounded with trees and shrubbery now al-
most leafless,and wide old-fashioned doors that
open into broad and spacious rooms, where all
is light and warm and cheerful. Blazing fire[-]
on the hearth of the shapeless pine-knots that
glow and reflect all sorts of curious shadows on
the walls and polished furniture; some middle-
aged people are standing there; I see it is the
father and mother, with some other relatives,
and one very old gentleman is telling a tale,

[Column 2]
the others are eagerly listening; it is of a battle
in which he fought. Oh, I hear him say "I
wore a handsome uniform, for I was Major you
know." And now here comes a troop of children;
they all rush up to kiss grandpa, and he is
nearly buried in the evergreens and hemlock
boughs with which they are loaded, and al-
though the long room seemed decorated before
with scarlet berries and evergreens, yet the
girls and boys go over it again, festooning more
and more, until it seems indeed a woodland
scene. One sleigh after another drives up to the
door, the merry bells jingling and tinkling in
the sharp frosty air, warm greetings,hearty wel-
comes are interchanged, and happiness beams
upon every face. Sadness and gloom are
banished, all is cheerful and bright, and the
children's glad voices at play echo through
and through, from room to room, and from
garret to cellar. Can any one ever forget a
picture like this, where all was love and gentle-
ness, the mother like a ministering angel, over
all, both old and young, presiding in her home
with the dignity and grace of a queen. I see
her now as she was then, tall and majestic in
figure; her dress is heavy grey pongee,she has on
a snowy white apron, and a small magnificent
crape shawl covers her beautiful shoulders; on
her neck she wears a string of large,gold beads;
her brown auburn hair is abundant, wavy and
glossy, there is no tinge of gray; it is coiled up
and fastened at the back with a very high tor-
toise-shell comb. In our day she would be
designated at once, from her outward appear-
ance, as being a strong-minded woman. How
proud she is of her ten boys and girls; and
indeed, one might think she has reason to be,
for they are all bright and intelligent. She
talks to them, hear what she says: "I wonder
will we all meet again at the old home; how
good Our Heavenly Father is!" but we will not
listen longer for I see a tear in her eye and she
never likes us to see her weeping.
	I need not tell you what the New England
dinner was, nor of the wonderful queer-
patterned old, old china, with which the table
was adorned, or the hearty relish with which
the feast was partaken, and the merry jokes
that flew from lip to lip; but in the evening,
when all sat round the blazing, glowing pine-
knot fire, and each one told a tale or sang a
song, a sort of presentiment came over the
mother, and though she tried hard to suppress
it, the smile faded from out her dark blue eyes
and the big tear drops one by one fell on her
tired hands. She would not give expression
to her thoughts, lest a sadness should pervade
all assembled there, but the influence was felt,
and she knew then, that they would never all
meet again in one unbroken circle.
	Have you patience gentle reader to hear
more? It may be that you have a brighter holi-
day picture, in your own home, and if you
have, cherish it and enjoy it, for such a home-
life is a foretaste of heaven.
	Years have passed by, and those who sat side
by side at one hearth-stone, went one by one
out into the world, and entered into life's great
battle—yet that noble mother's teachings
lingered in their hearts, and through its devel-
opment they were self-helpful and self-denying
—but each one's life was different. Her loving
memory is still deeply engraven upon their
hearts.
	The mother, in the prime of her life, worn
out with trial and hardship, brought about
through persecution for her religious faith,
sleeps in a nameless grave on the lone prairie.
	And so you see the picture has brightness in
it, and rifts of sunshine, but darker shadings to
complete it, and make it true to life.
								AUNT EM.


IT is said that the students  of  Cornell  Uni-
versity  have almost  entirely  abandoned  the
practice of smoking.


LUCRETIA  MOTT.

	The  Press  and   the  Pulpit  of  the  country
gave, the most ample, cordial and well-deserved
testimony to  the  personal  excellence  of  Mrs.
Mott,  to  her  superior  intellectual  ability, to
her   moral  courage, to the  statesmanlike quali-
ties, and to  the  decisive part she  took  in shap-
ing and  carrying forward great national  move-
ments, while at the  same  time  she  maintained
the  most  beautiful  home life.   Her death was
a national  loss,  and  was so regarded.
	But the  question  forces  itself;  If it  was  so-
praiseworthy that  Mrs. Mott  shrank from no
peril to free the  slaves, that she stood with the
first advocates  of  equal rights for women, with
the friends of free thought in  religion, and  of
temperance  and  peace,  how  can  those  who
praise  Mrs. Mott  justify their  own  failure  to
follow  her  example,  or,  still  worse,  how  can
they justify their opposition to these movements
so cherished by Mrs. Mott?
	For more than thirty  years she asked for the 
right  of  citizenship for women.   But she  died
a disfranchised  subject.   What possible  praise
of  this dear  saint can hide so shameful  a  fact,
or  relieve  the  hollow  sound  of  eulogy  from
those whose  deeds  do not support  their words?
	The  Brooklyn  Eagle  proposes  that  women
build Mrs. Mott  a  monument.   But  would  it
not be more  suitable that  men who now praise
Mrs  Mott,  who  have  not  helped,  but  rather
hindered, her  great  claim for  equal  rights for
women,  should  build  her  a  monument  tall
enough  to  have inscribed on it her great heroic,
and  her  sweet  womanly  qualities;  and  below
these  let  it  be  written:  "This  monument  is
dedicated  with  reverent  tenderness  to  the
memory  of  Lucretia  Mott, by  repentant  men
who failed to  support her claim  for  justice  to
her sex, and  who  let her die held by law to the 
political  level  of  felons  and  idiots,  but  who
now, by this token, pledge their best endeavors
to   establish  for  women  the  claim  to  equal
rights which she never ceased to make!"
	Surely the  highest tribute that can  be  paid
to  Mrs.  Mott  is  to  carry out  the  idea to the
support  of  which  she gave her life.
	One  after  another, women  who  are great as
philanthropists, great as statesmen, great as re-
formers, pass  away.   Sarah  Grimke, Angelina
Weld, L. Maria Child and Lucretia Mott, each
helped  to  mold the  age  in  which  they lived.
Their virtues are extolled when  they are dead.
But  the  great  objects  to  which  they devoted
time, strength, money and life, are left unaided
by the  majority  of  those who  are  foremost to
sound their praises.   It may be to the credit of
such  persons that they are  able  to  appreciate
the worth  and  work  of  these  women.  But it
will  add nothing to  their own credit that they
refuse  to  aid,  or  are  indifferent  to the  claims
for  justice  to women  and  equal  rights  for  all
which  Mrs. Mott  upheld,  and  on  account  of
which all  hearts are  now drawn with  grateful
reverence to her memory.  Why  will they not
take  up  the  work  that  fell  from  her  hands
only when  life  itself  ceased, and  thus  aid  in
carrying it forward where she longed and strove
to have it go?	L. S.
—Woman's  Journal.


"FOREFATHERS' Day" will be celebrated in
Plymouth this year with an old-fashioned an-
niversary. Gov. Long, ex-Gov. Rice, Presi-
dent Eliot and Rev. Dr. McKenzie have been
invited to speak, and J. T. Fields to contribute
a peem.—Ex.

	DIED.—On Nantucket Island, Nov. 8, Mrs.
Emmeline Coffin, aged 76 years and 6 months.
She was the wife of Capt. Geo. W. Coffin, and
for, fifty years the stepmother of Rev. Phebe
A. Hannaford, who paid a beautiful tribute at
the funeral to her excellence, and also, at the
same time, to their honored relative, Lucretia
Mott.—Ex.


108	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	THE BLESSINGS OF  CHRISTMAS.

"Would'st thou from sorrow find a sweet relief,
Or is  thy heart opprest with woe untold?
Balm would'st thou gather for corroding grief?
Pour blessings round thee  like a shower of gold.

	"Christmas  comes  but once a year," is a com-
mon saying.  It  is  often  quoted  when  one  has
performed some generous act, or given himself a
holiday, or when  some  unusual  liberality  is  in-
dulged  in.   Well, Christmas  comes  but  once a
year, to  be sure, but  that  once  brings  joy  and
gladness   to  thousands, and  there  are more good
deeds  done on  Christmas day, or Christmas eve
perchance, than  at  any other  time  in  all  the
year.  Thank the  Lord  for  Christmas!   There
are many reasons why it should  be the best day,
when the best deeds should be enacted. The
Son  of  God, the  Savior  of  the world, was born,
as we suppose, on that eventful day.  It is meet
that all should celebrate it with good deeds, such
as He performed, and such as He and the angels
might recognize and record.  We read that Je-
sus,  our  Master,  went  about  doing  good;  then
should not those who profess to be his followers
imitate his example, and  go  about doing good,
dispensing the bounties which a kind Providence
has vouchsafed  to them  in  rich  abundance, to
the  poor  and  unfortunate, and  thus  show their 
appreciation  of  the life and character  of  the Sa-
vior,  their  elder  brother.  If  on  all  other  days
they are cold and hard, yea, even pitiless, it does
seem that on this day of days, a spark of that di-
vine love, which  every  human  soul  possesses,
must glow and warm the bosom, and cause it to 
overflow  with  kindness  and  love  which  will
manifest itself in living deeds of genuine benevo-
lence.  The  poor are remembered, the destitute
are  clothed,  the  sick  are  visited, the  sorrowing 
are  comforted, the aged rejoice, the children are
made happy, and no wonder it is designated "A
Merry Christmas!"  The family which has been
scattered  are  gathered  to  the  homestead  at
Christmas time, and exchange tender greetings.
Then the feasting, the music and the joyousness
begin.   All  exert  themselves  to  the  utmost
that  happiness  may be  the  result; and  is not
this  in  itself  beautiful?   Even  the  family  re-
unions at the Christmas time are sufficient,were
there nothing else, to fasten it firmly as a day of 
rejoicing, in  the  hearts  of  those  who love their 
friends.
Is there any picture more  pleasant to look up-
on than the  beaming  faces  of  a  happy family,
seated around  the  Christmas hearth, the bright
fire lighting up each countenance, and the merry
jest and witty repartee going  the  round  of  the
assembled circle;  the children in the background
on  tiptoe  with  the  excitement  of  new  toys,
games and amusements; music, songs and tales
of "auld  lang syne" fill  up  each precious  fast-
flitting moment.  These are some of the Christ-

[Column 2]
mas blessings  that come to  the fortunate  ones.
And if  the poor  are not forgotten, then there is
a consciousness of duty performed that is sure to
bring  sweet  peace  to  the  soul.    "It  is   more
blessed to give  than  to  receive" are indeed pre-
cious  words.  The  reward  immediately  waits
upon deeds of kindness and mercy, pouring heal-
ing balm into the aching human heart;  or if the
heart has no regrets, no sorrows, even then there
is a blessing in  doing a generous  act  towards  a
fellow being in need—"a peace that passeth  un-
derstanding."
	Hang up the children's stocking by all means.
It may seem a simple  thing,  but  it  affords infi-
nite pleasure to the little folks, and it is one  of
the reminiscences which they carry with  them
through life.  They never  forget  the  happiness
of Christmas morn, when on awaking from their 
rosy  slumbers  and  fanciful  dreams  of  Santa
Claus and his wonderful costume  and  turnout,
they rushed wildly for the stocking, to see what
dainties or toys  he had left  them  in  his  frolic-
some  journey o'er hill and dale.  How often  in
after  life do these  tender  memories  of  Christ-
mas  and  home  soften  the hearts  of men and
women  towards the destitute and  forlorn  little
creatures, who, through poverty and  misfortune
or untoward circumstances, have not the joys of 
childhood's home life, that so refine and beautify
the soul and prepare it for the larger and broader
plane of usefulness in after years.
	Peace and good will to all  mankind  has  ever
been the motto of the anniversary of His  birth,
who came "to bring  good  tidings  of  great  joy
which shall be to all people."  And while feast-
ing  and rejoicing with glad hearts and  cheerful
countenances, we should  not forget the  grandly
glorious  mission  of  the  advent  of  the  Son  of
which each returning Christmas  brings  to  the
household, they should be taught  to  honor  the
day and  reverence  the  name  of  Jesus, and the 
story of his birth should be as familiar as house-
hold words.  Yes, they should  sing  and  tell this
wonderful story.

Sing the sweet and touching story
Of  the babe in Bethl'em born;
How the morning star with glory
Lighted that auspicious morn.

What  more  beautiful  and  tender
Than  the blessed Savior's  birth?
Cradled in a lowly manger,
Was the King of all the earth.

	Of  all  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  whose
experiences  have  been  in  many  instances so
cruel and hard, and whose principles are of such
an exalted  nature, should  abound  in  heavenly
charity, which  remembers the unfortunate and
seeks out and administers to the poor and needy.
There are many who do this, and they  are  un
tiring  in  their  efforts to  reform the erring and
comfort and relieve the destitute, the widow and
orphan, but  the  blessed  Christmas should open
the hearts of all, even the  thoughtless  and  in-
different.
	There  are  many dear  old  ladies who have no
loving hands  to  caress them, or stroke their sil-
very hair, no one to anticipate  their wishes and
bring  them  little  elegancies  or luxuries at the
Christmas  time, and  they were once young and
perhaps  beautiful:  they  too  have  had  all  the
comforts  of  home,  and  may  have  been  sur-
rounded with affluence, but  time  has  changed
all this, and their  loved ones  are  laid  away, or
are in  other  lands,  which  they have left for the
Gospel's  sake;  they  are  in  need  of  sympathy
and tenderness.  Do not forget them.  You who
have  so  many  pretty  things, give  them a nice
handkerchief, a pair of gloves, a pretty ruffle, a
piece of soft lace for the neck—they wore deli-
cate laces in  the "long ago"—a bright  ribbon or
necktie  to  cheer  their sober  faces;  they are too

[Column 3]
old to hang up  their  stockings, and  too  keenly
sensitive  to  ask  favors, though they would fall
like the  fragrant  dew upon  the  wilted  flower.
Such gentle deeds  of holy  charity, and  kindly
words, and sunny smiles will never be forgotten;
the  angels  will  record  them  above, and  they
will call down  the  blessings  of heaven  in  rich
showers  upon  all  who  thus  minister  to  their 
fellow-creatures, and will prove both to the doer
and the recipient a true Christmas blessing.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MARY Goff is authorized to act as agent for
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT in Almy, Wyoming.

	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious Woman, which
has been omitted in the two last numbers, will
be continued in our next.

	SISTERS Presendia L. Kimball and Elizabeth
Howard attended the Sisters' Stake Conference
held at Grantsville on the 11th and 12th inst.

	WE have received from Sister S. M. Kimball,
Secretary central board R. S., an interesting ac-
count of Relief Society work in England, which
we shall publish in 1st of January number.
Also a report of Beaver Stake Conference.

	WE have been favored with two or three pleas-
ant calls from Dr. Albert J. Leffingwell, of Brook-
lyn, N. Y., who is here to study the "Mormon"
question, or people, for journalistic purposes. He
seems honest and free from prejudice, and we
trust he will at least speak truthfully in writing
anything concerning Utah and her people.

	ON Friday, NOV. 7, a number of ladies and
gentlemen, friends of Dr. Romania Pratt, met
at her residence in the 12th Ward to surprise her
eldest son, Parley P. Pratt, Jun., on the twenty-
first anniversary of his birth. The evening was
very pleasantly spent in social intercourse, mu-
sic, and congratulatory speeches from President
A. M. Cannon, J. P. Freeze, Dr. Ellen B. Fer-
guson and other guests.

	THE Annual Conference of the Relief Socie-
ties of Salt Lake Stake will be held on the 17th
of December in the Council House, instead of
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms as pub-
lished heretofore, and the Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations on the
18th of December at the same place. The room
will be comfortably warmed, and although the
weather is cold, it is hoped there will be a good
representation from all the several branches of
each of these organizations. Reports should be
sent in as early as possible, so that each Secre-
tary may prepare herself, that there may be no
hindrance, as there is always a desire to hear in-
struction from those who preside over these
societies. A very cordial invitation is ex-
tended to the brethren to attend, and especially
Bishops, who are of course interested in Relief
Society work.

	OUR readers will be pleased to hear of the visit
of Sisters Eliza R. and Zina D. in Southern
Utah. In 1st December number we gave a few
items of their journey, and told you of their ar-
rival in St. George on the 19th of November.
From a letter written by "Aunt Zina," dated
Nov. 25 and 26, we have the proceedings of a week
in that city of the Temple. Monday, 22d, spent in
preparing records, etc., called on Sister Artemissa
Snow, who, though in feeble health, is the same
genial, pleasant, patient Saint as in former days;
and also called on Susa Gates, who has a beautiful
baby girl two weeks old. 23d. The sisters, ac-
companied by Sisters Minerva Snow and E. S.
Ivins, went to Washington (not D. C.), Utah,
stayed over night and organized a Primary; they
had "a very interesting time," and everywhere
they find faithful workers in the cause of salva-


tion. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, were
each day in the Temple. Also organized a Pri-
mary in the 4th Ward, St. George, with eighty-
seven members, Mrs. Julia H. Ivins President.
Saturday,127th, went to Santa Clara, meeting at
10a.m. with the Relief Society; at 2 p.m. met
with the children, and organized a Primary As-
sociation of fifty members, and returned to Sis-
ter Minerva’s at St. George.
	Later on, from Sister Eliza R. “We went to
Pine Valley on Friday last (Dec 3.). The
morning was delightful, and the beautifully
variegated mountain scenery, like a panorama
constantly changing, was sublimely amusing as
we passed on over rugged rocks and through
canon and dell, with ever and anon a healthy
jolt, all of which were accredited for my especial
benefit,” The sisters arrived at their destina-
tion just in time to escape a snow storm, the
wind blowing fiercely, while they “were en-
sconced before a blazing fire.” The next day
they met with the Relief Society in the fore-
noon, and organized the children in the after-
noon, and had a general meeting in the evening.
“Next day went to Pinto; held meetings at half
past two and six p. m., and organized the chil-
dren next morning. Then went to Hebron, 
held.meeting at six. Next morning organized
the children, and drove to Hamblin That eve-
ning assisted the brethren to organize a Relief
Society. The next day went back to St. George."
	By these few items from letters, it will be
seen that these good sisters are helping to pro-
mote the interests of Zion in Southern Utah—
sowing good seed, that will bear rich fruit in
years to come. They have no leisure there more
than here, every moment, save what is needful
for sleep, is employed in some noble work to
benefit and bless: May their precious lives be
preserved, and their days of usefulness pro-
longed, and the record of their good deeds live
forever.

	By cordial invitation of Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards, we attended the Stake Conference of the 
Relief Societies of Weber Co., held on Thurs-
day, Dec. 9, in the Ogden Tabernacle. The re-
ports, written and verbal, were excellent, and
the spirit of the meeting encouraging. Prest.
Peery and Coun. Herrick were present in the
forenoon, and the former addressed the sisters
for a short time. The presence of the Bishops
and brethren from the wards and settlements
must be a great support and strength to Sister
Richards. On Friday, the 10th, the Conference
of Y. L. M. I A. was held at the same place,
and on Saturday, 11 th, the Primary Associa-
tions held their Stake .Conference.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 109


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	On Wednesday, Nov. 8, a number of ladies,
friends of Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron, met
at her house in the 18th Ward, for the purpose
of expressing their respect and regard for her,
and their appreciation of her labors as Secretary
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
After an interval of pleasant conversation, mu-
sic, &c., the ladies sat down with Sister Croche-
ron’s family to a bountiful repast; after which
Sister Mary A. Freeze, President of the Y.L.
M.I.A. of Salt Lake Stake, presented to Sister
Crocheron, in the name of the sisters present
and others who were unable to attend, a hand-
some winter shawl, accompanying the gift with
a few well chosen and happy remarks, bearing
testimony to Sister Crocheron’s faithfulness in
her official capacity, and her usefulness in the
Church and in society.
	Sister Crocheron, who was still more surprised
than she had been at the invasion of her home,
replied with much feeling and after a mutual


interchange of good wishes the meeting ad-
journed, all declaring that they had spent a few
hours pleasantly and profitably.
						E. B. FERGUSON.


﻿OBITUARY.

	DIED, of asthma, November 14, 1880, at St.
David, Pima Co., Arizona, Melissa Jane Mer-
rill, daughter of P. C. and Cyrena Dustin Mer-
rill. Deceased was born in Kanesville, Potta-
wattamie Co., Iowa, Sept. 10, 1848. She was a
loving daughter, a kind friend and a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She leaves a father and
mother, brothers and sisters, and numerou
friends to mourn her loss. She was a very grea
sufferer,yet anxious to live to do good. She was
Treasurer in our Relief Society for nearly four
years, until she was obliged to resign on account
of her failing strength. She was one of the very
best women I ever knew. One of the very few
who have no enemies. All who knew her loved
her. Amiable, patient and gentle to all, it is in
sorrow I try to write these few lines. Miss Mer-
rill never saw a well day for over twenty years.
She was the daughter of the President of our
Relief Society, and we deeply sympathize with
the bereaved mother and relatives of our dear
sister who has gone. She rests in peace, where
there is no more pain nor sorrow, but the re-
membrance of her virtues will live in our hearts
while time shall last.
							MARIA MCRAE.

	Sister Phebe Wise, who died Oct. 29, 1880, of
consumption, in Farmington, Davis Co., had
been an invalid for a number of years, but her
sufferings did not prevent her from rejoicing in
her religion and bearing testimony of the same
with her latest breath. Deceased was the wife
of Thomas Wise, and the daughter of William
and Sarah Hatton, and was born at Brails, War-
wickshire, England, June 9, 1816, and was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1849, at Birmingham.
Emigrated from London to Utah in 1865, moved
to Farmington Oct. 29 of the same year. She
has been a faithful member of the Relief Socie-
ty, also a faithful wife and mother. We send
these few lines for publication, to show our re-
spect for her and her family, and to express, in
our feeble way, the sincere regret of the Presi-
dent, Mrs. O. Leonard, and all the officers and
members of the Relief Society with which she
was connected.
					AURELIA S. ROGERS.


TOO RELIGIOUS.
	How often do we hear the  remark such a per-
son  is  too  religous.  We  immediately  ask  in
what respect?  Well, they are very tenacious up-
on some point  of doctrine and neglect others of
more importance.  Well then it  is an  inconsist-
ent kind  of  religion;  not  genuine,  if  it  was  it
would be called  the  true  religion.  Now,  who
ever heard of a man  becoming  too  rich?  Well,
you say those who do not  make a  proper use of
it would  be  better  with  less. We will admit
this  to be true;  but is  the fault  in  the  gold  or
the person who posesses it? We are called Latter-
day Saints.  Now,  when  we  measure  ourselves
by the pattern who comes up to  the mark in its
fullest sense?  Are we not in more  danger of be-
ing weighed  in  the balance and found wanting?
Ibis is  where  the  greatest  danger  lies.   Aud
again should you make the remark  in  the  pre-
sence of children or those who have not sufficient
intelligence to know that you are speaking iron-
ically;  how soon do  they feel to say, "you  shall
not find that kind of fault with me.  No I would
prefer Messrs. Moody  and Sankey's religion, be-
cause it is so easy to come to Christ and be saved."
And our Father wishes his children to be happy.
Certainly He does and  intends  they shall  be if
they keep his covenants.  Their  religion is good
as far as it goes.  It is an  excellent work, much


like that of Moses. The Apostle Paul says that
the law of Moses was a schoolmaster to bring us
to Christ. But when brought there is there no-
thing to do? Yes, before you can enter the King-
dom you must repent and be baptised. This
was what He commanded the Apostles to preach
and then teach them to observe all things what-
soever I have commanded them. And what
are they? You will find them in the 5th 6th,
and 7th,chapters of St. Mathew, Christ’s Sermon
on the Mount. This is the highest law. It
must be people of intelligence who can appreci-
ate its rules.
	People of small minds will do best in the first
school. For instance if a man steals your coat
you must give him your cloak also. Well, says
the small mind “I have made much by stealing
I will try it again and by so doing heap up
wealth.” He has not intelligence enough to be
ashamed. Accordingly is not fit for the higher
grade of education. He cannot enter the king-
dom of our Father unless he repents and forsakes
his sin. When this is done and he begins to
keep the higher law, he will have more intelli-
gence given as he studies its principles; for our
Father is the head or fountain of all intelligence:
And He gives to whom He will. Who ever kept
those laws and did not feel blessed with greater
light and joy and peace and intelligence? If we
can keep them all we shall be heirs and joint
heirs with Jesus Christ. If we keep a few we
are blessed in proportion. Then do not be afraid
of becoming too religious; rather fear that it is
not genuine and drop an idle word which will
spring up a bitter weed, or that we are like the
fruit which at present has grown to a good size,
but at the core we find a worm.
 Now for the sake of our young people let us be
wise, and teach sound doctrine both by precept
and example There are some rigid rules to
observe, such as self-denial,but we gain strength
every effort we make. Also light and intellig-
ence upon the subject we are studying to solve.
Besides dignity of character because we are bet-
ter acquainted with self, and our own strength.
So much so that we will not fail to ask help from
the fountain, of our Father in heaven who never
fails on his part when it is for our best good.
Then do not fear becoming too religious, but
rather fear that we do not come up to the pat-
tern, bince we have the name of Latter-day
Saint.
M. E. KIMBALL.
-Nov. 20th, 1880.


A STRANGER'S SENTIMENTS.

	Madam, I am not one of your brethren but
when I tell you I am interested in all the efforts
made by any church or people, to help such as
want help, that I do not discriminate against
Mormons any more than Catholics, or any other
church or people,I think you will not refuse space
in your columns for a few plain spoken thoughts.
Now you see I have been noticing that Relief
Society of yours and I like your philanthropic
arrangements, I like the Catholic Sisters too, but
I am not going to say anything about them they
have a good time to what you do, their church
has not had such a hard time in the world of
late, and can do a great deal to help their women
along in a good work.
	But here is what I've been thinking—suppose
some of your rich men were to join and buy a
lot of land put it in a condition to be tenanted
and worked by a little neighborhood of folks that
are now in the market place idle, because like
that other man we read of in the Bible no man
hires them—Now if these rich men would put a
few work-shops with good foremen there too, a
school-house that children might be cared for
and all that—would it not help your society
wonderfully in looking after the poor. There,
you say to a woman who was a straw-braider,you
can go now and get work. To the lady that
makes nice little ornaments, flowers of all kinds
&c., there is work. The men who own this place
will pay you. The little girls can knit,sew rags,
make tidies and boys can help in the shops;
learn trades, work on the farms—instead of
being round the streets in idleness and becom-
ing schooled in the vicious ways of the wicked.
Magistrates, policemen, lawyers and jails cost
money. It costs more money to take care of a
practised rascal than it would take to furnish
schooling and work for a boy, and in nine cases
out of ten, the idle street boy becomes a scamp
to be provided for by taxation. I just know that
if your rich men would establish such a little
town, if it was needed in every County in Utah,
that there would be money as well as mercy in
it. I don't beleive in giving so much charity to


folks that are able to work. The sick; the little
folks and helpless, are the ones for you relief
ladies to look after, and I say you ought to have
a hospital and a good one too, where friendless
deserted women and other sick people, might be
provided for and you not have to run all over the
conntry to take care of them. I hope you'll
take this as I mean it, in real good will.
							GEORGE PIATT.


﻿		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SERICULTURE.

 Report  of  the Silk Association  of Box  Elder
Stake.  The Silk Association of Box  Elder Stake
was  organized  June 10, 1879, with the following
officers:   President,  Mary Stark;  Counselors,  S.
L.  Booth  and  Mary  E.  Snow,  Secretaries, Eu-
genia Pierce and Lydia May Snow.   During the
past year we have raised one hundred and forty-
five (145)  pounds  of  cocoons,  one  hundred  and
four (104) pounds of  which have been sold to the
Central  Silk  Association  at  Salt  Lake City, for
which we  received two  hundred  and  eight dol-
lars ($208).  We  have  five  mulberry  groves  of
two acres each, four of which are in the different
wards of Brigham  City, and one  in Three  Mile
Creek Ward.
LYDIA  MAY  SNOW.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Jesse was industrious and made his family
comfortable as fast as possible. During the
fall several small detachments of the Mormon
Battalion came into the valley. They were
disbanded at San Diego, and left to find their 
way back to their friends as best they could;
footsore and weary, ragged and starving, they
made their way to Salt Lake, while others of
their company stayed in California, or returned
by way of Sante Fe to join their friends at
Winter Quarters. The people at Salt Lake
had no surplus provisions, and at once placed
themselves on half rations, that they might di-
vide with their famishing brethren. It was a
time that tried men's souls, and some, like An-
nanias and Sapphira, were tempted to conceal
their substance, for self-preservation is the first
law of nature, and the saying is perhaps never
more fully realized than under such circum-
stances. All the cattle that could be spared
were killed for meat, the hides, feet and en-
trails were cleaned and eaten. The bones which
were thrown out were crushed and gnawed by
the children, who could not get sufficient to
supply their growing appetites. The Battalion
boys, as they were called, suffered most, for
many of them had no families to share with
them, and although they were not allowed to
starve, their wants could not be fully sup-
plied, and their attenuated forms and hollow
cheeks bore witness to suffering that will never
be forgotten, even though they live to more
than the ordinary age of man. The people
were blessed with health and strength, and it
was several years before disease or death be-
came prevalent among them.
	In the spring, land was ploughed and crops
put in, but with what result they could hardly
anticipate; for the Indians said that no rain
fell in the summer, ahd the country was
parched and dry. A mountaineer, who had
lived twenty years in the country, said he had
tried repeatedly to raise corn or wheat, and it
would not grow in this climate. He would
pay one thousand dollars for the first bushel of
corn raised in the valley. The corn ripened,
and the wheat also, but the thousand dollars
never came. The crickets did though, and
ate the crops so fast that there was a prospect
of losing the whole. The people turned out
en masse, and fought them almost night and
day, killing them by bushels; but all their ef-

[Column 2]
forts seemed to no purpose. The crickets were
horrid looking creatures, such as the people
had never seen before; with bodies as large as
a young mouse, long legs and unwieldy move-
ments, something between a run and a jump.
The ground was black with them, and wher-
ever they went all vegetation disappeared as
though a fire had passed over it. The loss of
their crops would entail great suffering and
probable starvation upon the entire people, as
supplies could not possibly have been brought
from the East or the West in time to save
them, and such scant subsistence as the abor-
igines procured would have hardly sufficed
the white man, their diet being chiefly berries,
sunflower seeds, dried crickets, fish and a little
game. They fasted and prayed, prayed with
an earnestness born of despair, and a faith
strengthened by God's past mercies. A few
days later, myriads of birds were seen in the
air; whirling around for a while, they settled
in the fields of grain and commenced a raid on
the crickets, eating as long as they could.
They would drink and then throw them up,
then eat again, until the crickets were all gone,
and then flew away. The birds proved to be
sea gulls; and as they were not in the habit of
migrating to this country, their coming was
considered a special dispensation of Providence
in behalf of the little band of exiles; and
truly their thanksgiving was due, when, at
harvest, they made a feast, and raising a liberty
pole, floated from its top the dear old flag of
the Union, and adorned it with sheaves of
wheat, oats and barley. A bowery was made,
under which long tables were spread with the
best the country afforded, and every person
was bountifully supplied; after which the day
was spent with music and dancing.
	While Jesse was at work on a grist-mill that
was being built, the scaffolding gave way, pre-
cipitating him sixteen feet, breaking some of
his ribs and injuring him badly. When he
wss carried home Mary was very much fright-
ened, but it was a comfort to know that his in-
juries were not fatal. She nursed him tenderly,
always self-denying and thoughtful of the com-
fort of others, she was a friend and guide to
him in those hours of darkness and suffering.
When he was again able to walk, he often went
with his little girl to the garden, where they
would busy themselves with such tasks as their
small strength could accomplish. He was fond
of his child, and she, in turn, dearly loved her
father. She often sat for hours watching him
as he worked, for he was a carpenter by trade,
and wished she was a boy, so she could be a
carpenter, too. Sometimes she ventured to try
her skill, which generally brought her trouble.
In the fall a tiny baby came to them; a mar-
vel of pink and white, so soft and tender.
Minnie was never tired of looking at it, or
working for it. It was the first baby in their
home since her recollection, and it was her
own, her very own little baby sister. In fact,
the advent of baby Nettie brought much plea-
sure to all; the heart is cold and hard indeed
that does not warm at the appealing helpless-
ness of infancy.
	Jesse's crops were entirely destroyed by the
crickets, his long illness kept him from em-
ployment, aud another winter was near. The
fall emigration came in, expecting to find pro-
visions raised here, which they would have
done had not the crickets made such havoc;
but there not being sufficient grain raised to
supply the demand, before another harvest
many were suffering. Roots and herbs were
gathered, the cattle needed for labor were
killed, and every available means resorted to
for subsistance. Those who had plenty di-
vided with their less fortunate brethren, but
there was still much suffering and discourage-
ment. Jesse worked hard, but he was not
strong, and the lack of suitable nourishment
and home comforts wore on his constitution.
The constant discouragements, the hopelessness

[Column 3]
of their situation, the helpless ones dependent
on him for support, weighed down his spirits,
and he felt many times that if it were possible
he would order things otherwise; but the horse,
when tied to the treadmill, must keep stepping
on, on, no stopping, no turning back. A train
of circumstances had placed him where he
was, and there could be no stopping, just a
weary pressing on. A thousand miles from
civilization, across a barren Indian country, it
was not possible to return. He could feel to
sympathize with the Israelites, when they
longed for the leeks and onions, but he must
struggle on, struggle for existence, for the dear
ones in his care—for the wife, drooping be-
neath her burdens, the little ones that might
never know the advantages of education, or
the delicacies and refinements of life. What
were the future prospects? The crops, owing
to the difficult mode of irrigation, and the la-
bor it cost to water them from the mountain
streams, must necessarily be small, even if the
crickets did not return. Their half-starved
Indian neighbors made constant demands on
them for food, giving no labor in return. Their
idea was that the white man had taken their
hunting grounds and must feed them. A little
band in the heart of the Rocky Mountains,
where there was nothing to induce people to
come with means for improvement, who would
seek them out, or give them succor? Hard,
rough labor wore out their clothing very fast,
and how was it to be replaced? A few more
years and they would have to dress like the
Indians. What chance had they to build cities,
when everything had to be transported over
the plains with ox teams, a distance of thir-
teen hundred miles? Those were dark days,
and it took strong faith or childish simplicity
to make them otherwise. There was so much
to suffer, so much to fear, and so little to
brighten or encourage, that it was no wonder
if his heart failed, or his faith grew weak.
Mary bore her trials with fortitude, but who
shall say she did not sometimes feel the dark-
ness of despair hovering about her? She had
left loving hearts and warm friends, father,
mother, brothers and sisters, who felt that she
was buried in a living grave; and she almost
felt, sometimes, as though she was, or would
be literally buried when the snow fell so deep
and fast, day and night, without cessation, that
it threatened to bury their little cabin in the
mountains, where they then lived alone, except
for a few lumbermen; for Jesse was building a
saw mill that winter, and they were isolated
even from their few fellow-sufferers in exile.

To be continued.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
The sisters of Sanpete Stake held their
Quarterly Conference at Ephraim City Nov.
21, 1880. There were present on the stand
Pres. Wilford Woodruff, Pres. Teasdale of
Juab Stake, Pres. Petersen of this Stake and
Counselor, Henry Beal. Also others of the
local priesthood. After the reading of the
reports and verbal reports from presidents
of Relief Societies Pres. Hyde addressed the
congregation, upon the fulfillment of prophecy
and spoke of how fast the work of God seemed
to be progressing. Sister Wareham Pres. of
the Stake Silk Association, urged the sisters to
be energetic in promoting silk culture. Stated
that there had been about 14 pounds of silk
raised in the stake during the last season.
Sister Phebe Woodruff, of Salt Lake City,
spoke most comforting and encouraging to the
sisters; and to the mothers, she said her heart
was especialy drawn out, in view of the great
responsibility resting upon them, that of bear-
ing the souls of men; spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth in this genera-


[Column 1]

tion, to assist in carrying out the great designs
of the Almighty; said it is highly necessary
that mothers cultivate meek, kind and passive
dispositions; that their children may inherit
the same traits of character. Mothers hardly
realize the importance of this their great mis-
sion, with the thousand and one other things
they have to attend to and worry them. But
sisters be noble and walk above the frivolous
trials of life and govern your families with
kindness and reason; and then ask God to for-
give the rest and when we get through our
trials will be our brightest jewels. And when
you have raised up families in the right way
prepared to be useful in the Church of God
rest assured you have performed a great mis-
sion.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke of the Patriarchal law
of marriage. Told the sisters never to be found
fighting against it if they did not enter into it
themselves. Spoke of government saying, we
were violating the law, but if we should re-
nounce this law it would be all the same as
long as we acknowledged modern revelations.
And there is no other law under heaven, by
which men can be exalted to thrones, powers,
principalities and the Godhead, save this law,
No man has a claim on a wife or chilld, or a
family position, or to the increase of seed with-
out this law. He said the sisters were a host
in Israel,and blessed them in the name of Jesus
Christ.
	Pres. Petersen and Teasdale poured out their
heartfelt thanks and blessings for the sisters.
	Sister Sarah Petersen was chosen as Coun-
selor to Pres. Hyde in place of Sister Anna
Larsen who was called to go with her husband
to Castle Valley.
	Sister Phebe Maiben was chosen as general
Supt., of the P. A., of Sanpete. I would like
to state that the total disbursements of last
quarter was $61,399,34; there must have been
a mistake in the print for it was printed, $399,
34, only.
	Singing, Benediction, and Conference was
adjourned until Feb. 21, 1881.
	P. S. Dear Editor—Pres. Hyde has re-
turned from her visit to St. George and the
temple, with a rich flow of the spirit of God, to
enable her to strengthen the sisters as she
travels among them, exhorting them to dili-
gence in every duty devolving upon them.
	The sisters of this place (Spring City) were
so pleased with her return, and anxious to re-
ceive of her influence they made a surprise
party, after which they held meeting all enjoy-
ing the excellent instructions and strong
testimonies of our beloved Pres. Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde.
	Sister Frantzen. Pres. of the Relief Society
in this place takes special pains to fill her re-
sponsible position as a mother to the sisters.
Hoping you will find room in your excellent
paper for this, and wishing you continual
success and joy in your most beneficial labor.
	I remain your sister in the Covenant,
		FANNY KOFFORD, Cor., Sec'y.

	Synopsis of the twelfth annual report of
Wellsville, Cache Co., at the meeting held
July 12, 1880. Total receipts, $157,06. Dis-
bursements: sundries, $17,61; to needy, $57,73;
Temple, $58,78. Cash and merchandis  on
hand, $91,08. Shares in Co-operative Institu-
tions, $124,45.
	Pres. E. Whiton made a few opening re-
marks; some of our brethren being present,
she gave the meeting into their hands.
	Coun. Evan Owens expressed his satisfac-
tion; was pleased with the united spirit that
existed among the sisters, and exhorted them
to be faithful in well doing.
	Brothers R. Baxter, R. Leatham, J. Wood-
ard and T. Howell being present, felt that our
societies were calculated to do a great amount
of good; showed the importance of the sisters

[Column 2]

living up to their privileges, and exhorted
them to be one with the priesthood, setting an
example before our children worthy of imita-
tion.
	Pres. Whiton made a few closing remarks,
exhorting us to be faithful in carrying out the
instructions which had been given. Singing,
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction
by Elder R. Leatham.
		SUSANNAH E. LLOYD, Sec'y.
		MARTHA A. LLOYD, Ass't Sec'y.

	The Santaquin Relief Society held their
twelfth annual meeting on Thursday, Nov. 4,
1880. Singing, prayer, etc. The report for
the year and the annual reports of the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary Association and Silk
Association were read. Pres. Stickney as usual
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters upon
the importance of the early training of their
children and sustaining the Primary and
Young Ladies Associations.
	Bishop Halliday addressed the sisters for a
short time. His remarks were calculated to
encourage us to be diligent and persevere in
the good work in which we delight, &c.
	Brother Johnathan Wolstenhulme followed
with some very encouraging and appropriate
remarks, blest the sisters in ministering to the
wants of the needy, &c.
	Counselor E. Broadbent bore testimony to
the truth of the work. The Spirit of the
Lord was in our midst. We had an excellent
time; many more of the sisters were desirous
to speak, but time would not permit.
	Praying God to bless all those who labor for
the welfare of Zion,
	ELIZABETH J. STICKNEY, Pres't.
	ANN J. STICKNEY, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 111


LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY  HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

"I  made  a  statement  to  the  brethren  like
this:  I have three chiidren now, and  have  not
seen one of them.  This was  a great puzzle to
them until I unraveled it--one of them  I  had
not seen.
"At  Pillow  Point  we  separated,  Brigham
Young, Lyman  E. Johnson  and  Orson Pratt
and myself took a steamboat and landed at St.
Albans.  *    *  The same day we  passed into
Sheldon,  the  place  of  my nativity, and  where
I  lived  until  I  was  upwards of nine  years of
age.  We  stayed  that  night  with  one  of  my
youthful  playmates.  In the  morning Brother
Pratt  left  me, and  I  continued  there  visiting
the people and declaring to them my testimony
of the Gospel and the Book of Mormon, and
on the  Sabbath following, I, for the first  time,
had  an  appointment  to  preach, being without
a comrade, and   there  I  publicly  declared to
them, my  testimony.  On  Tuesday  following I
went to  Bakersfield, to  one  of  my aunts--my
mother's  sister.  Remained there  a  few  days,
declaring the  truth to them as  t[-]e Lord gave
me  utterance.  My  friends  belie[-]ed  my  testi-
mony, and  acknowledged  the  truth  of it, but
did not obey the ordinance.
	"I started for St. Johnsbury, and took a by-
path  across the Green  Mountains. The first
of these I ascended six miles, and then passed
through the core  of the mountain.  The rocks
on  one  side  for  about  a mile were  very high
and perpendicular;  on the  other side not quite
so high.  The two  main  ranges  of  the Green
Mountains were  each  ten  miles across, without
an inhabitant,  and  nothing  but  a  wilderness
country  densely  covered  with  timber, I had
no  company but  wild  animals  and screeching
owls.  When I arrived in St. Johnsbury I met
my brethren in council  on the 17th  of  July, in
a  barn  belonging  to  a  Mr. Snow, In  this
neighborhood  the  Snow,  Farr,  Badger  and
Bingham  families  received  the Gospel.  Here
we  had  a  good  time, and a large  concourse of
people, attended, who were addressed by Elders
P. P.  Pratt  and  Wm. E. McLellen;  several
were baptized.  From thence we separated and
in different directions.  I went alone down the
Connecticut River into New Hampshire, to the
town  of  New Lisbon;  preached four times and
baptized  one.  The  Lord  was  with me and
blessed  me with His Spirit and gave me utter-
ance.
 "From thence I went  down the  Connecticut
River, passing through  Hanover, and  came to
Plainfield,  where  I  had  connections  residing,
and  where  my  mother  was  born  and brought
up.  Stayed  there  a  few  days  and visited my
relatives,  teaching  the  Gospel  from  house  to
house.   I  found  considerable  opposition, even
among  my  own  kindred.    From  thence   I
passed  through  Claremont,  a  fine, flourishing
town  on the Merrimack River.     *        *        *
I also passed  through  the  towns  of  Nashua
and  Lowel.  Having  traveled  much  on  foot,
my feet  were  exceedingly sore, and  I was un-
der the  necessity of taking stage for Bradford;
where I  met  in  Conference  with eight of the
Twelve Apostles on  the  7th  of  August.  The
Lord  was  merciful  with  us, and  some  were
added to the Church.
 "From thence I went to Boston, in company
with Elders T. B. Marsh and B. Young.  *   *
Two or three public  meetings were held by us,
several  were  believing  and  some baptized.-
Each of us received a snit  of  clothes from Sis-
ters  Fanny Brewer, Polly  Voce  and other sis-
ters in Boston.
 "From  thence  we  returned  through  Brad-
ford  and  came  to  Dover,  where we  staid two
nights.  There  was  a  great  excitement  in
Dover to see the Mormon Apostles.  Brother
Jeremiah  Wiley obtained  permission  to  show
us  through  one  of  the  large  factories in that
town;  we  were  shown  through  every  depart-
ment, from where the bales  of raw cotton were
taken in, to the place where the bales of prints
were  taken  out  of  the  factory;  and  such was
the  desire  to  see  us, that  as  we  entered  each
department  all  the  men and'women stopped,
work to gaze at us.
 "In company with  B.  Young, D. W. Patten
and T. B. Marsh, I went to Saco,  Maine.  Here
we  met  in  Conference  and  instructed the
brethren. as  the Lord gave  us utterance;  some
were  baptized,  and  many  others  were  believ-
ing.  We preached in several towns, and there
seemed to be an effectual door open.
	“From Saco  we  proceeded  to Farmington;
Maine, where  we  held  our  last Conference for
the year 1835.  We had  a  good  time, for  the
Lord  was  with  us, as  He  had  been in all our
councils.  We had now completed  our mission
and the object for which we were sent, viz., the
laying  before the  different  branches  of  the
Church the subjects  mentioned in the Book of
Covenants, Sec. 98, par. 10.
	“According to  this  revelation,  there were
wisemen appointed  in  all  these  Conferences
that we  held;  each  Conference  appointing  its
own. We also laid before them the importance
of this  thing,  and  of  building  the  House of
the Lord  in  Kirtland, and  of  publishing  the
word  of  God to the  nations  of the  earth, and
we feel as though  our skirts were clear of thei[-]
blood, for we had done as the Lord commanded.
There were but a few instances of the command-
ment  having  been  observed by those to whom
it was  given, and the non-compliance of it was
a  principal  cause  of the  Saints  being  driven
from  Jackson  County, Missouri, as  had  been
foretold  of  the  Lord by His prophet.


"We then met in council and agreed to re-
turn to Kirtland. We appointed the day and
hour when we should meet upon the steamboat
wharf at Buffalo. Here we were a thousand
miles from Kirtland, and pretty much without
money. During this mission the Lord had
made Himself manifest in healing the sick,
casting out devils, &c., and manifested his
miraculous power under our administration.
	"August 31. This, morning we started for
home.
	"Sept. 3. I arrived at the house of Brother
J. H. Hale, in Dover, and stayed one day.
Elder P. P. Pratt preached. I left my brethren
at this place, and taking stage arrived same
day at Concord, N. H. I understood an Abo-
litionist named Davis was going to deliver a
lecture at the Court House. I went with the
other stage passengers to hear his principles.
After waiting some time for the gentleman,
instead of seeing his person, as we anticipated,
we beheld an uproar among the people, and
our ears were saluted with the howls of three
or four hundred demons in human shape, who
were in search of the Abolitionist; and not
finding him in the State House, nor streets,
they commenced demolishing a building and
searching others. After a little while the
peace officers prevailed on them to desist.
	"They then prepared an effigy, which they
carried through the streets on a rail for some
time; then forming an assembly before the
State House, had an oration delivered on the
subject and burned the effigy, while the men of
the city dared not to open their mouths, or say
aught to them. They then went to a place
where they had three pieces of cannon, which
they continued firing until daylight. This
was a night of peculiar feeling; reflecting up-
on the night when my Brethren were driven
from their homes in Jackson County, Missouri,
by a similar mob; and also considering that
the time might come when I might fall into
the hands of a like band of ruffians. My cry
to the Lord was, save the man from the hands
of these foul monsters. There was such an
uproar in the city next morning that it took
five men to hold the horses while the passen-
gers got into the stage. This man was one of
the first lecturers on Abolitionism in that
country, which was then very unpopular.
	"Sept. 6, I left Concord, came by stage to
Lebanon, and walked to Plainfield, where I
tarried two days with my cousin, Charles
Spaulding, (at the house where my mother
was born and reared) from whom I received a
legacy of seven dollars, bequeathed by my
aunt, Speedy Spaulding, who had died a short
time before; she had left a similar sum to each
of my mother’s children. By this means I
was enabled to pursue my journey."
	Before returning to Kirtland, my father
spent a few days visiting his friends in Men-
don, and two sisters, one living in Canandai-
gua, and another in Byron, State of New
York; then took stage for Buffalo, riding all
night, where, he says, "I arrived just one hour
previous to the time appointed to meet my
brethren; I found all of them waiting my ar-
rival. We went on board the Steamer United
States, and proceeded as far as Dunkirk, where
she struck a rock and sprung a le[-]k; she made
her way for Erie, where she arrived with diffi-
culty, but we were under the necessity of run-
ning upon a sand bar to save the boat from
sinking. There we tarried on the boat twenty-
four hours, when another boat came along and
wo moved on to it, and in a few hours arrived
at Fairport. We hired two wagons, and ar-
rived at home on the 27th of September.
	"We found our families, friends and brethren
all enjoying health and prosperity, and we were
cordially received.
			To be Continued.


112	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SPANISH FORK, UTAH Co., Utah.
	Many of my friends have repeatedly ex-
pressed a desire to see the productions of my
pen in print; and believing it to be a duty, I
have consented, although with much diffidence,
to publish a small volume of poems and songs,
prefaced by a brief autobiography. I lay no
claim to poetic ability, but have written just as
I have been moved upon by the spirit of in-
spiration. The boot will contain upwards of
130 pages, bound in cloth, embossed cover, gilt
lettered, and the price will be one dollar. In
undertaking this enterprise, I sincerely solicit
the kind support and patronage of my friends.
			Very respectfully,
					HANNAH CORNABY.
	November, 1880.


I have suffered from kidney difficulty for the
past ten years, accompanied by nervous spasms.
Physicians gave me but temporary relief, but
after using three and one-half bottles of War-
ner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, my nervous
spasms were entirely relieved. My age is 77
years. I recommend the great remedy, to all
sufferering from nervous troubles.
						MRS. MARY REESE.
		Easton, pa.


[Column 1]
	AROUSING ITS READERS.—An alarm of fire at
midnight is a startling thing, but not half so
startling to many who hear it as would be the
sudden knowledge of their own dangerous phy-
sical condition. Thousands of thousands are
hurrying to their graves because they are care-
lessly indifferent to the insidious inroads of dis-
eass and the means of cure. It is the mission of
H. H. Warner & Co., with their Safe Kidney
and Liver Cure, to arouse men to a sense of their
danger and cure them.—Memphis Appeal.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE TOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE
P. O. BOX 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

			The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL.    9 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1881.							No. 15


A NEW PAGE.

Like a clean scroll of paper pure and white,
	Roll'd up blank before us, lies the Year so New;
Beware! my soul nor blot its surface bright,
	Fill out the page with efforts brave and true.

Of time and talent, husband well thy share -
	The records of the Ages God doth keep;
The recompense of all is surely fair -
	That even as we sow we yet shall reap.

Rightly begin, it needs not to appear-
	What heights, or depths of feeling shall be stirr'd
Within our souls throughout the coming year,
	What good shall be with-held, or what conferr'd.

To start with good resolves is always wise,
	Good resolutions, good results must bring;
E'en as refreshing fruits are realized -
From the sweet blossoms and the buds of Spring.

What if, of good intentions some are frail -
	And even blighted by the frosts of care -
Among the many some shall yet prevail,
	Some precious fruit our good resolves shall bear.

And this we know, we needs must seek God's guiding;
	Without it all our noblest plans are vain;
And little will we care for man's deriding,
	While to direct us God doth kindly deign.

We care not through time's misty veil to see -
	Whose shadowy folds, our future must conceal;
Sufficient for each day our strength shall be,
	"Sufficient for each day the needful ill."

And cheerfully we greet the Coming Year;
	No dire forebodings shall our thoughts engage;
Our  hope shall be to engrave a record clear,
	Worthy perusal on its bright new page.

						EMILY HILL/WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. CITY.


MEDITATIONS!
		BY HANNAH T. KING.
		  “The old year’s gone
		  And the new year’s come.”
	A  happy new year to all our readers; yes a
happy new year to all!  And especially to the
poor, the sick and the afflicted; may the new
year open upon them with a brighter, warmer
phase; Father of mercies and God of all, com-
fort;   "the earth is thine and the fullness there-
of,” wilt thou not turn and overturn affairs, in
the revolving year, that a portion of prosperity
may fall on them; that health may be restored
to the sick, prosperity to those long  struggling
with adverse circumstances, poverty and adver-
sity; peace and happiness, or resignation  to the
mourner, and the bereaved.  Send down thy
light and thy truth into every heart that is
honest and desiring to possess it, that each may
be warmed, invigorated, and fertilized by the
invigorating, life-giving power, and principles
of the same; may health and peace, and the
comforts of life be in  the dwellings of the
righteous in the habitations of the Saints of
Latter-days.
	The car of Time rolls on with noiseless ve-
locity, so that we cease to realize it.  We hail
a New Year, we welcome it, into our hearts, and 
into our homes; life appears to take on a  new
phase, our hopes run high; we build, we plant,
we sow we reap, we eat, drink and are  merry.
We marry and are given in marriage,  we take
journeys, we speculate, we get gain, and in a
short time we awake to the fact that the  year
is old! is  passing away, and  behold another
takes its place; and so the sum of life runs up to

[next column]
its awful "Total." It is a time for serious re-
flection, for calling in our thoughts, for looking
over the ledger of daily life, for reviewing the
past, for new resolutions, for improvement, for
looking forward for what is ahead of us,  even
to the grand finale, when “man goeth to his long
home and the mourners go about the streets.”
	These thoughts need not make us sad; it is
only wisdom to familiarize the mind with the
inevitable, in whatever  shape or form it comes,
or is to come. If prosperity, we need some
preparation for it, that we may bear the re-
sponsibility it must bring with it, in a becom-
ing manner; for such have a stewardship to be
accounted for; yes, indeed, one that will surely
be required of them!  If it is poverty and
privation, affliction by sickness or bereave-
ment, for that too we need to be prepared, for
it is a severe school, and we need faith and
resignation, and submission—all are needed,
yet, though under a cloud, let us remember the
sun is still shining  behind  it.  One, who was a
tried being from infancy to the grave, "wrote
that sublime hymn “God moves in a mysteri-
ous way,” and told us, “The clouds ye so much
dread, are big with mercy." How sublime,
how sweet is confidence in God!  Ever let us
try to realize that He is our Father, that
though some of His lessons are very hard to
learn, yet, when learned they advance us to
the “high school,” intended for us, that these
rudimental lessons make us stronger, self-reli-
ant, more capable of endurance, and qualify us
for still higher “forms;” and enable us to walk
“alone with our God.” It is grand to reach
that point when “nothing can touch us far-
ther.” Must we die to attain that desideratum?
Yes, we must die to all diseased feeling, and
lay on the shelf some of our most beautiful,
most cherished feelings, which is as well, for
what can we do with them?—and go forward
in the path of life, common-sense, matter-of-
fact, business-of-life people. With such a tem-
perament not much can touch us!
 In reviewing the past year, I realize the
blessings of the Lord have been over  His peo-
ple, and his blessings descend on the just and
on the unjust.  The catalogue “the world”
exhibits amid these blessings is fearful; war-
fare, anarchy, rebellion, India deluged with the
blood of brave  European soldiers.  Verily
kingdoms are bought dear when they cost such
a price; besides widow’s groans and orphan’s
tears; and next railway horrors of which the
Tay bridge was the climax;earthquakes causing
whole cities to totter, volcanoes throwing out
rivers of burning lava,long and broad,desolat-
ing the country for miles, fires depopulating
whole districts, with their desolating conse-
quences to the inhabitants, and loss  of life;
plagues sweeping off a rising generation in a
few short months.  We, too, have not escaped
here—we have seen our infant population cut
down by a fearful scourge,  nearly whole fami-
lies, and in some cases all taken, and left the
hearth, of home desolate  indeed!  All this
makes a fearful  catalogue; but alas! the half is
not told.  Has there been no balance sheet to
this dark  page of a  year’s history? Yes—bles-
sings without number. The light of heaven still
shines upon us in all its vivifying glory; the sil-
ver moon on still marshals over the azure sphere
in her benign splendor, the stars shine out in
all their twinkling, panting, breathing voices,
saying, here we are, worship us  not, but  wor-
ship Him who placed  us as lamps in the blue,
ether, for, your benefit.  Peace  and plenty
have reigned in our hemisphere, the  peace of
God  has  been with us, and had bound up the
bruised  and broken hearts of the bereaved.
Do we ponder on these things?  Do we lay
them to heart and endeavor to show forth our
gratitude to the Great Giver by walking  con-
sistently  before Him and before  our fellow
creatures?
						 	Dec. 31,1880.
	Here as I write, my  mind  runs back in its
reflections to other days and  other years, when
I ever made a  point of spending  the last honr
of the old year alone, and devoted it  to reflec-
tion;and made such—palpable in notes to each
of the members of my beloved family; thus em-
ployed, I witnessed the departure of the old
year, and the advent of the new; such for years
was my custom, and I find the old habit fitting
close upon me at this present  sitting.  Times 
have changed, I am alone, quite alone - all are 
away. Even at this remote distance of time,
and distance of earthly space; and the mighty
Atlantic rolling between all the  past, I shut
my eyes—I listen and I can hear those thrill-
ing chimes of bells—still can I call up the-
time, the hour, the association of feelings and
ideas with all the vividness of actual presence;
memory, that wonderful gift, is awake, she
opens her cells, long closed, and from them is- 
sue the spirits of that day, and hour, and the
time of old. We hear their voices, the voices
of the young and happy; they come  in our
dreams, but “they are pale in the tomb, in the
winter house," we have bent the red eye over
them, their voices remain in our ears, but we
shall see them no more on earth. These were
ministering spirits of our own flesh and blood,
and made at that time the starlight of our life,
but they, like the year that is past, they too
have passed into eternity, they are with the
blessed of all ages, in the habitation of the just,
made perfect, and with God, the Great Father
of the universal family.
	Hush! Imagination  is busy with me!  I hear
those lovely bells, they have all been raised
ready for the advent peal, and now they ring
out with at first a firing salute, and then float
off into the most joyous music, that at  this still
hour speaks trumpet-tongued to the souls of the
listeners, and each interprets  their language to
the whisperings of their own souls.  It is a 
moment of deep, intense excitement-felt but
never spoken.  The year is  past; it is 1881.  
	Again we say  happy new year to all our,
readers—yes, to the whole human family! May
the enlightening influence of the Spirit of God
move upon this terrestrial planet.  Let us say
with one of old, “Let us fall into the hands, of
God,” but save us from the hands of ourene-
mies.


SUNDAY, Nov. 20, 1880, memorial services
were held in Brooklyn, N. Y. Sermon by 
John W. Chadwick, for Lucretia Mott and
Lydia Maria Child; giving a synopsis of their
life and works, and paying a grateful tribute to
their honored memory.
	SISTERS Eliza and Zina are still in South-
ern Utah, traveling in the settlements, holding
meetings, and organizing the children, etc.
To-day they go to Leeds, from there up the
river as far as Rockport, visiting towns and
settlements upon the way. They had intended
visiting Kanarra and Harmony, but the roads
are so damaged by the storms they will not be
able to do so at present. Had not decided about
returning home.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


LIFE  INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

 Among the many who take our  EXPONENT
and perchance  have  read  some  of my simple
but truthful sketches, there may  be those who-
wonder whether  it is my own  narrative or my
father’s that I am writing as I have copied con-
siderably from the latter. The history of those
who first embarked  in  this  cause  and  have
taken part  in  the great  work of the last  dis-
pensation seem so  closely  connected, and  our
interests have been so interwoven with one an-
other  that  I  feel  they  cannot  be separated.
When reading  the  Biographies  of  Brigham
Young, my father and others,it seems as though
I was reading my own  life, and I am sure that
there  are  many  who  will  enjoy  reading the
sketches  which have been  copied  from my
father’s journal. If I wander a little from those
earlier scenes and dwell for  a  moment  upon
the topics  of  to-day, I  hope to  be pardoned.
"Variety is the spice of life,"and where is there
a people who enjoy it more than the “Mormons.”
Life would  certainly  be  dull  without it.  I
should have  felt  somewhat  surprised  and dis-
appointed, in reading Prest. Hayes late message,
him. I not seen in it some new scheme gotten up
by our enemies to rob  and bring us into  bond-
age.  It is rather amusing than: otherwise, to,
witness the workings  of  those  hungry land
sharks who have been so long maneuvering and
watching with their greedy eyes for the chance
to swallow up the  rich  harvest  which  lays  so
temptingly before  them, for  it  has always  re-
sulted  in their  own  discomfiture.  I  see  no
cause  for  fear  if  we  only  keep  humble, for,
“Satan trembles when he sees
The weakest saint upon his knees.”
 We ought to consider it very encouraging to
have our enemies acknowledge that the political
power of the “Mormon sect, is increasing  and
extending steadily into other Territories and it
should  stimulate  us  to  greater  faithfulness.
Their continual  threats  remind me of a  little
circumstance which came under my notice.  A
little  bright  but mischevious girl  who  was
frequently told by her mother  that if she ever,
did so and so again, she would whip her within
an inch of her life, and such like expressions,
was one day doing  something which vexed her
mother, and again she repeated what had never
been carried into  effect, when  the child coolly
remarked "Oh that's what you say all the time."
<f0h that’s="" what="" you="" sayall="" the="" time.”="" it-is="" no="" wonder="" .that="" “mormonism”="" is="" a="" puzzle="" tb-the="" unbelieving="" world,which="" more="" they'="" try="" to="" solve="" intricate="" it="" becomes.="" we="" ought="" not="" feel="" angry="" at="" bur="" persecutors="" but="" pity;="" their="" ignorance,="" i="" would="" .="" like="" ask="" them,="" whoso="" fault="" that="" latter-day="" saints="" arehere="" in="" these="" territories?="" why="" were="" exiles="" frbm="" vie="" homes="" lovedi="" they="" just="" as="" dear="" us="" any="" other="" class="" of="" people1="" whose="" veins="" runs="" proud="" blood="" free-born="" american="" citizens,="" grandsires="" fought="" and="" bled="" for="" liberty="" which="" denied="" children="" by="" those="" whd="" projess="" loyalty="" have="" proven="" themselves="" traitors="" only="" tleir="" god,="" country?="" did="" sufferenough="" on="" long="" dreary="" journey="" exposed="" pitiless="" storms="" o="" winter,="" endur-,="" irig="" cold,="" hunger="" weariness="" forced="" much’="" time="" walk,being="" short="" ofteams="" “and="" un-="" prepared="" such="" journey,="" when="" en-="" camped="" night="" after="" shoveling="" sweeping="" away="" snow="" our="" beds="" laid="" upon="" frozen="" ground="" where="" many="" heart,="" though="" laden="" with="" sorrow="" was="" raised="" gratitude="" him="" who="" “careth="" sparrows="" feedeth="" young="" ravens="" cry,”="" deliverance="" from="" foes,="" had="" plundered="" robbed="" them="" times="" murdered="" their-loved="" ones,="" and.="" now="" driven="" across="" mis-="" sissipplriver="" .from="" graves="" dead,="" had.="" fallen="" victims-="" diseases="" brought="" previous="" mobbings="" drivings="" m="" missouri.="" there="" people="" so="" faithfully="" endure="" mormons="" terrible="" journey—they="" even="" rejoiced="" make="" air="" ring="" witli="" music,="" glorious="" songs="" zion="" composed"="" sung="" suit,="" different="" 'occasions="" .during,="" pilgrimage.="" noble="" kind-hearted="" friend,="" cok="" kane,="" best="" describes="" scene="" ourexpulsion="" nauvoo.="" he="" says,="" “the="" nauvoo="" its="" dependencies="" been="" numberd,="" year="" before,at="" over="" twenty="" thousand:="" they?="" “they="" last="" seen="" carry-="" ing="" mournful="" train="" sick="" wounded,="" halt="" blind,="" disappear="" behind="" western="" horizon,="" pursuing="" phantom="" another="" home.="" hardly="" thing="" else="" known="" them;="" asked="" curiosity,="" fate—what="" fortune.”="" yes,="" or="" cared="" about’the="" “mormons”="" if="" lord="" up="" few="" friends="" col.="" kane?="" five="" hundred="" men="" called="" united="" states,="" re-="" fused="" redress="" wrongs,="" go="" fight="" mexican="" war,="" readily="" responded="" call.="" ask—-who="" god-loving="" god-="" fearing="" patiently="" submitted="" all="" -wrongs="" inflicted="" them?="" thought="" settling="" this="" barren="" seemed="" a'god-forsaken="" country="" much="" abused="" scandalized="" people?="" never="" came="" isolated="" spot="" obtain="" gold="" silver="" precious="" ores,="" be-="" cause="" desired="" peace="" find="" place="" could="" enjoy="" religious="" “worship="" god="" according="" dictates="" own="" con-="" sciences.”="" hoped="" remain="" molested="" ourenemies,="" heartless="" fiends="" out="" perish="" having="" beloved="" prophet="" patriarch,="" willingly="" went="" lambs="" slaughter,="" save="" rest="" being,="" might="" say,="" butchered.="" gov.="" ford="" pledged="" faith="" state="" protection,="" sequelprored="" how="" well="" kept="" his="" pledge.="" ask:="" iit="" anything="" strange="" willing="" retire="" world="" into="" deserts="" caves="" rocky="" mts.,="" rather="" than="" dwell="" among="" filled="" bitter="" hatred="" beginn-="" ing,and="" hunted="" down="" blood-="" hounds="" search="" prey?="" fore="" principle="" plurality="" wives="" published="" de-="" clare="" practice="" polygamy="" obnoxious,="" absurd="" sounds="" passed="" through="" scourgings="" beginning="" are="" calculated="" call="" membrances="" bury="" oblivion="" let="" us.="" charge="" against="" “mor-="" mons”="" an="" excuse.="" quite="" particular="" marriage="" question="" little="" liberal="" views="" think="" pious="" scruples="" trouble="" much,="" peculiar="" choose="" so.="" some="" husbands="" should="" marry="" provide="" the#="" offspring,="" cannot="" see="" business="" our-own.="" compulsion="" matter="" self-ap-="" pointed="" judges="" appear1="" every="" saint="" has="" her="" frecagancy,="" affects="" sensitive="" morals="" too:="" advise="" seek="" congenial="" clime="" part="" earth,="" will="" infringe="" rights="" others.="" life="" plural="" celestial="" order="" matrimony="" happier="" one="" live="" uncertainty="" jeopardy="" thousands="" women="" of-the.="" in,and="" suffer="" its'="" -1="" attendants="" evils.="" i-="" rejected-!="" 7-="" -="" v="" great="" reject="" rest;="" instead="" being="" degrading="" cal-="" culated="" purify,="" exalt="" human="" family;="" good="" virtuous="" portion="" gentile="" understand="" “"purity="" accept="" it,="" instead’of="" fighting="" it;="" because="" praptised="" acted="" silly="" way="" disgrace="" them-="" "="" selves,="" does="" prove="" impure;="" inore="" ,than="" .it="" proves="" whole="" mormonism="" be="" false,="" members="" corrupt="" become="" disaffected="" lost="" holy="" spirit,="" turned="" away.="" myself="" behalf="" my="" faithful="" sisters="" honored="" principle,="" say="" that,“we="" change,="" least="" all,="" changes="" bring="" us.”="" can="" fanatics="" please,="" thqt="" proved="" cour-="" age="" fortitude,="" aband-="" oned="" wq="" labored="" hard="" gather="" around="" ua="" valleys,="" again="" religion.="" feared="" nothing="" knew="" right,="" .the="" hands="" god.="" vacate="" apply="" torch="" houses,="" newly="" built="" furnished.="" lived="" mine="" year,="" too="" glad="" leave="" follow="" ..the="" whereverthey="" went.="" burned="" everything="" maiy="" beast="" subsist="" allow="" houses="" inhabited="" ourenemies.="" troops="" sent="" here="" less="" reckless="" mob,="" heard="" brags="" do="" mormons.="" cut="" dried="" made="" choice,="" mansions="" intending="" kill="" off="" divide="" daughters="" spoil="" take="" possession="" wealth,="" thinking="" break="" polygamic="" institution="" back="" cold="" ardor="" consider-="" ably="" cooled="" before="" reaching="" salt="" lake="" city.="" remember="" day="" tidings="" coming="" johnson’sarmy.="" enjoying="" grand="" jubilee="" big="" cot-="" tonwood="" honor="" entrance="" pioneers="" valley="" ten="" years="" day.="" bro.="" smoot="" judson="" stoddard,="" come="" states="" days;="" describe="" sensation="" created="" rode="" ourinidst="" andbioke="" news.="" fear,="" met="" death="" forms="" frightened="" puny="" arm="" flesh:="" besides="" entirely="" unprepared,for="" feeling="" crisis="" kind="" coming;="" said="" joseph,="" “judgements="" begin="" house="" lord,="" joseph="" also="" predicted="" wmuld="" ‘states="" deliver="" glory="" name.="" moment="" realized="" prediction="" fulfilled.="" spirit="" heroism="" sud-="" denly="" thrill="" bosom="" man,="" woman="" child,who="" inherited="" feel-="" independence="" patriotic="" sire="" kindling="" within="" breast="" war.="" done="" deserve="" felt="" freedom,="" under="" unlawful="" tyranny="" oppression="" slanderous="" falsehoods,="" wicked="" officials="" set="" afloat="" hide="" infamy.="" borne="" enough="" determined="" submit="" pur="" mountain="" home;="" equal="" emergency.="" taught="" cradles="" to;love="" revere="" constitution="" states;and="" stars="" stripes="" then:="" waring="" above="" hnd="" bands="" playing="" airs="" :="" fill="" en-<="" div="">It is no wonder that "Mormonism" is a puzzle
to the  unbelieving world,which the  more they
try to solve the more intricate it becomes.  We
ought not to feel  angry at  our persecutors but
pity their ignorance, but  I would like to  ask
them,  whose  fault  is it that  the  Latter-day
Saints are here in these Territories?  Why were
we exiles from the homes that we loved? Were they
not just as dear  to us  as to  any other class of people
in whose veins  runs  the proud  blood of
free-born American  citizens,  whose  grandsires
fought and bled for  the liberty which is denied
to their children  by  those who  profess  loyalty
but have proven themselves traitors not only to
their God,  but  to  their  country?  Did  we not
suffer enough on that  long and  dreary journey
exposed to the pitiless storms of winter, endur-
ing cold, hunger and weariness and forced much
of the time to walk, being short of teams and  un-
prepared  for  such  a  journey,  and  when en-
campled at night after  shoveling  and sweeping
away the snow our beds were laid upon the frozen
ground where many a heart, though laden with
sorrow was  raised  in  gratitude to  Him  who
"careth for the sparrows and feedeth the young
ravens when they cry,"  for  their deliverance
from their foes, who had plundered and robbed
them many times and had murdered their loved
ones, and now had driven them across the Mis-
sissippi river as  exiles  from  their  homes  and
the graves of their dead, who had fallen victims
[Next Column]
to diseases brought  on  by  previous  mobbings
and  drivings  in  Missouri.  Where  is there
a people who would so faithfully  endure  what
the Mormons did on that terrible journey--they
even rejoiced and would make the air ring with
music, and the glorious songs of Zion  composed
and sung to suit the different  occasions during
their pilgrimage.
	Our noble  and  kind-hearted  friend,  Col.
Kane, beset describes the scene of our expulsion
from Nauvoo. He  says,  "The  Mormons in
Nauvoo and its dependencies had been numbered,
the year before,at over twenty thousand. Where
were  they?  "They  had  last  been  seen  carry-
ing  in mournful train  their sick and wounded,
halt and blind, to disappear behind the western
horizon, pursuing the phantom  of another home.
Hardly any  thing else was known of them; and
people  asked  with  curiosity, what  had  been 
their fate-what their fortune."
	Yes, what would have been known  of  or
even  cared about the  "Mormons"  if the  Lord
had not raised up a few friends like Col. Kane?
	When five hundred  of our  young  men were
called for by the  United  States,  who  had  re-
fused to redress our wrongs, to go to fight in the 
Mexican  war,  they  readily  responded  to the
call.
	I ask-Who but a  God-loving  and  a  God-
fearing people would have  patiently submitted
to  all  the  wrongs  inflicted  upon  them?  And
who  would  have  thought  of  settling  in  this
barren and what seemed a God-forsaken country
but  this much abused and  scandalized  people?
We never came to this isolated  spot to  obtain
gold and silver and precious ores, but came be-
cause we desired peace and to find a place where
we could enjoy religious liberty and  "Worship
God according to the dictates  of our  own  con-
sciences."  Where  we  hoped  to  remain  un-
molested  by  our  enemies,  who  like  heartless
fiends had driven  us out to perish after having
murdered our beloved  Prophet  and  Patriarch,
who willingly went like lambs to the slaughter,
to save the  rest  of their people  from  being, I
might say, butchered. Gov. Ford  pledged the
faith of the  state  for  their protection, but  the
sequel proved how well he  kept his pledge.
	I would ask:  Is it  anything strange that  the
Latter-day Saints were  willing  to  retire  from
the world into  the  deserts or caves of the Rocky
Mts., rather than  dwell  among  those who had
been filled  with  bitter hatred from  the  beginn-
ing,and hunted them down like so many blood-
hounds in search  of  their prey? This  was be-
fore the  principle  of a  plurality  of  wives  had
been published to the world and when  they de-
clare that the  practice of Polygamy  is the only
thing in "Mormonism" that  is  obnoxious, how
absurd it  sounds  to  those  who  have  passed
through all the  scourgings from  the beginning
and they are  calculated  to  call  up  bitter  re-
membrances which  we  would  willingly  bury
in oblivion if they would let us.
	The charge of Polygamy  against  the "Mor-
mons" is only an excuse.  Were  we  not quite
so particular  on the marriage  question or only
a little  more  liberal in  our views I think  that
their  pious scruples  would  not trouble  them
much, but we are a peculiar people  and choose
to remain so. If some  of  us  are  willing that
our husbands  should  marry  more  wives  and
provide for them and their offspring, I cannot
see whose business it  is but  our-own. There is
no compulsion in  the  matter  as  our  self-ap-
pointed judges  would  make it  appear  Every
Latter-day Saint has his or her own free agancy,
if it affects  their  sensitive  morals  too  much I
would advise them  to  seek  homes  in  a  more
congenial clime in some other part of the  Earth,
where they will not  infringe  upon the rights of
others. A life in  the plural  or celestial order
of matrimony  is  a  much happier  one than  to
live  in  the  uncertainty  and  jeopardy that
thousands of the women of the world are in,and
suffer its attendant evils. If  I  rejected this
[Next Column]
great and noble principle I would reject all the
rest; instead  of its  being  degrading  it is cal-
culated to purify and exalt  the  human family;
and if the  good  and  virtuous  portion  of the
Gentile world  could  but  understand  it  in  its
purity they would accept it, instead of  fighting
against it; because  some  who  have practised it
have acted silly and in a way to disgrace them-
selves, that does not prove that the principle is
impure; any  more than  it  proves the
whole of Mormonism to be false, because  some
members are corrupt or have become disaffected
lost the Holy Spirit, and  turned away.
	For myself and in behalf of my faithful sisters
who  have  honored  this  principle, I  will say
that, "We seek no change, and least of all, such
changes  as  they  would  bring  us." They  can
call us fanatics if they  please, but I think that
we have  many times proved  to them  our  cour-
age and fortitude,  when we so willingly aband-
oned our  homes and  all that we had labored so
long and so hard to  gather around us in these
valleys, to become exiles again for our religion.
We feared nothing for we  knew  that we were
right, and that  we were  in the hands  of God.
We were willing to vacate and apply the torch
to our own  houses,  many  of  them were  newly
built and furnished.  I had  lived in  mine  but
one year, but  I was  only too  glad to  leave  it
and follow  the rest  wherever they  went.  We
would  have  burned  everything  that  man  or
beast could subsist upon  rather than  allow  our
houses to  be again  inhabited  by  our enemies.
Those troops who  were  sent here were nothing
less than a reckless mob, they had  been heard
to make  their brags what  they  would do with
the Mormons. They had  everything cut and
dried and had even made choice of the mansions
intending to kill off  the  men  and  divide their
wives and daughters as spoil and take possession
of  all their  wealth, thinking  to  break  up the
polygamic institution but after being kept back
in the cold for a time their ardor had  consider-
ably cooled  down  before  reaching  Salt  Lake
City. How well I remember  the day  that  the
tidings  came of the coming of  Johnson's army.
We were  enjoying a grand  jubilee  at Big Cot-
tonwood Lake  in  honor of the entrance of the 
Pioneers  into this valley ten  years previous to
that  day. Bro. Smoot  and Judson  Stoddard,
had come  through  from  the  states  in  twenty
days; I can hardly describe the sensation created
when they rode into  our midst  and broke the
news. It  was  not  fear,  for  the  Latter-day
Saints had  met death in  too many  forms to be
frightened  at  the  puny  arm of  flesh: besides
they were not entirely unprepared,for there had
been a feeling for a long time among the Saints
that there was a  crisis  of  some  kind  coming;
the Lord had said through the Prophet Joseph,
that "judgements  should  begin at the house of
the Lord,"  and Joseph had also predicted that
some day  they  would  see  the  United  States
come against them  in  war, and that  the  Lord
should deliver  them  and  bring  glory  to  his
name. At this  moment  we realized that this
predictions was  being  fulfilled.  Was  it  any
wonder  that the spirit of heroism should sud-
denly thrill  through the  bosom of every  man,
woman and child,who had inherited it and a feel-
ing of independence from  their  patriotic  sire
kindling within  every  breast  a feeling of war.
We  had done nothing to deserve it and we felt
that we would fight for our  freedom, before we
would again come under unlawful tyranny and
oppression brought  on  us  by  the  slanderous
falsehoods, which wicked and  corrupt officials
had set  afloat to hide their  own  infamy.  We
had borne enough  and were  determined never
to  submit  to  be  driven  from  our  mountain
home;  and we  felt that  we  were equal to the
emergency. We  had  been  taught  from  our
cradles to love and revere the constitution of the
United States,and the honored stars and stripes
were  then  waving  above is and  our bands
playing the patriotic  airs  which  fill  with en-


thusiam the hearts of every true-hearted
American.
	President Brigham Young afterwards said to
Capt. Van Vliet. "I want you to note the
signs of the times; you will see that God will
chastise this nation for trying to destroy both
the Indians and the Mormons. If the govern-
ment persists in sending an army to destroy us,
in the name of the Lord we will conquer them.
If they dare to force the issue, I shall not hold
the Indians by the wrist any longer, for white
men to shoot at them." Van Vliet said "If our
government pushes this matter to the extent
of making war upon you, I will withdraw from
the Army, for I will not have a hand in shed-
ing the blood of American citizens. Presi-
dent Young said "we shall trust in God." We
know how that expedition terminated and the
humiliation of the nation.
	We also know that the grace of our Heavenly
Father has sustained us and that He led us
to these valleys. It was our destiny and we
have not yet fulfilled it. We expect to remain
here just as long as He wills it and to build our
Temples and continue to enlarge our borders,
and our foes need not flatter themselves that
we will give up one of the principles of our re-
ligion. Those who are looking for this will be
sadly disappointed for their hopes will never
be realized.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALE.

	There were great expectations in the family
of the Lindsays, their daughter Mary was of
age, and it had been determined that she
should be married, and that to the man of her
choice. Her father, Joseph Lindsay, had mar-
ried to a lady of considerable culture, and of
some wealth, on the 5th of August, 1760, Miss
Augustina Smith, who was connected with one
of the first city families, had signed the con-
tract of marriage at the church of All Hal-
lows Staining, Mark Lane, in the city of Lon-
don. 
	The bridegroom carried on the business of a
surgeon and apothecary, in Bermondsey, on 
the Surrey side of the Thames, at London, and
he was generally called "Apothecary Lind-
sey," on account of his vocation. It was also
generally known that he was a Scotchman,
chiefly by his name and the traditions respect-
ing his forefathers, who from the general re-
port of the good people of Bermondsey, had
been remarkable for deeds of blood in the re-
mote ages, qualities which have distin-
guished the ancestors of other families besides
those of "Apothecary Lindsay."
	Now, Miss Mary, as before stated, was about
to be married, but in those days, as now, there
was truth in the adage, "the course of true
love never runs smooth," the lover, a promising,
young man died. This event had a tendency
to cast a shadow over the future of Mary Lind-
say, who had already contracted a habit ap-
proaching to that of melancholy; her three
brothers had died when she was young, they
were buried in the New Bermondsey church
yard, where their tiny graves were constantly
decorated with flowers and evergreens by the
fair hands of their lonely sister. Mary was a
beautiful girl and affectionate ss beautiful. In
after years she would tell of her sorrows at los-
ing her "pretty little brothers," and although
her young lover was not mentioned, and she
had ceased to weep, her lips trembled with
emotion. 
	Poor Mary Lindsay! It was well for you
that you were the patient, gentle being that
you were; in your experience the truth of the
sentiment was verified that:

[Column 2]

	"God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."
	It was a misfortune that "Apothecary Lind-
sey" had been brought into contact with city
men, wealthy citizens of London, and had seen
the advantages monied men possessed over
small tradesmen like himself, and he had si-
lently resolved to have his daughter married
to a wealthy city merchant. It is true, reasoned
the apothecary, that a clerk in holy orders
would be a good match, provided he had an
adequate income, but what would be the use of
the small dowry I can give with my girl to a 
poor curate, to assist in bringing up a family.
Now, this sum, although small, amounting to
only a few thousand pounds, added to the busi-
ness of a thriving city merchant, would do
something, and my beloved daughter would
have all the advantages of wealth and social
consideration in the highest city circles.
	Mr. William Unipod was just the man to
marry his daughter, he was a merchant of the
city of London, carrying on the business of a 
grocer, in Coleman Street, he had branch
houses at Waltham Abbey, Essex, at Edmon-
ton, Middlesex, and at other country places.
His wagons were constantly in motion convey-
ing goods to his various establishments.
Then, again, he was a member of the Dyers
Company, one of the "worshipful" city guilds,
dating from a great antiquity. It is true Mr.
Unipod was a widower, but his family was not
large, two sons and a daughter; but then there
was ample wealth, country residences for Mary
to dwell in whenever she chose to visit the
"other establishments," and it would be so de-
lightful to visit the dear Lindsays who were in 
the Church at Waltham Abbey and Edmon-
ton. As to Mary Lindsay, she was scarcely
consulted and cared little about the arrange-
ments that had been made, her heart had been 
given to another; her affections were in the
grave.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S WORK IN ST. GEORGE.

	We are at present enjoying, for the first
time for some years, a visit from our honored
and beloved sisters, E. R. Snow and Zina D.
Young, of your city, who have been for a few
weeks past in our midst, busily engaged in do-
ing good, benefitting both the living and dead
—laboring in the Temple for the latter, and
meeting with and instructing the former. They
have met with and organized into Primary
Associations the children of each of the four
wards of St. George. This is certainly a step
in the right direction, as those who have the
interest of the young at heart cannot but real-
ize and acknowledge, and these estimable sis-
ters, with their kind, pleasant ways, excellent
instructions, stories and anecdotes, told to the
children in such a simple and telling manner,
will be long remembered for good by the chil-
dren of Southern Utah, and I trust the in-
structions thus received will sink deep into
their hearts, making a lasting impression, that
it may spring up and bear good fruit in the 
years to come.
	Sisters Eliza and Zina certainly have the
spirit of their office and calling upon them, as
all must feel who come under the sound of
their voices, and I think their visit is truly ap-
preciated by many of the sisters. They met
with them in their regular monthly, joint
meeting on Fast day, and effected a Stake or-
ganization for the Primaries, with the follow-
ing named sisters as officers: Julia H. Ivins,
President; Mary Whitehead and Annie Wood-
bury, Counselors; Annie M. Romney, Secre-
tary, and Elizabeth P. Bentley, Treasurer. I
think they have made a very wise selection, as
these ladies are women of experience, ability
and enterprise (three great requisites for these
important positions), and who, moreover, have


considerable influence with the little folks. I
feel confident that under their able management,
together with the officers in the different wards,
that these meetings will prove of incalculable
benefit to both parents and children.
	Sisters Snow and Young met with the young
ladies yesterday, in their Quarterly Conference;
there was a good attendance, and all listened
with pleasure and gratitude to the good in-
structions which were imparted. The Relief
Societies meet in Conference to-day, when an-
other good time is anticipated.
	Sisters Eliza and Zina have not spent any
idle time, as they have visited the settlements
of Hebron, Fort Hamblin, Pinto, Pine Valley,
Santa Clara and Washington in the short time
they have been in this Stake. I believe the
sisters all join in a hearty "God bless them,"
and long may they live to do good.
	KATE.


MUSINGS.

	As I sit at home to-day, musing and listen-
ing to the prattle of the children, and hear
their expectations of Christmas, Santa Claus
and well filled stockings, and behold each
bright, happy face, it brings vividly to my
mind the days of my childhood, with other
Christmas times spent in the society of dear
parents and brothers and sisters at home.
	I say, God bless the happy children! let
them enjoy the pure and innocent pleasure of
this blessed holiday; and may God give each
mother wisdom to guide the steps of each little
child by that Holy Spirit which will keep
them in the path of truth, honesty and virtue,
from this happy Christmas on through every
stage of life, that they may become honorable
men and women and live to fulfil the measure
of their creation. Let faith grow and increase
in them with the growth of their bodies, so
they will be able to withstand all disease and
temptation that they may come in contact with
as they journey on through life.
	My mind still opens to the great importance
of parents reading and understanding the laws
of salvation given to us as Latter-day Saints,
to guide our every day life, so they may not go
on blind leading the blind, as it were, but
rather educate themselves, so that light may
fill their minds and shine forth in their homes,
that their children may see as they see and
imitate their good examples. What father
and mother do is perfection in the eyes of chil-
dren.
	As I still muse on, I see children less happy
than those close around me. Children who do
not enjoy the many comforts of home and love
of kind parents; some who are hungry and
scantily clothed, and I notice the eager and
wistful look on their faces as they gaze on the
many beautiful things, which money can pur-
chase to gladden the hearts of children on this
blessed Christmas. When I behold this con-
trast it makes me sad, for I would like to see
all happy together. I would say to all who
have comfortable homes and enjoy plenty, let
us not forget the poor on this coming Christ-
mas; rather let each one go, basket in hand
and help to gladden the hearts and homes of
those who are less fortunate, and not forget to
thank God, the Giver of all good, for the
peace and plenty we enjoy in this our blessed
Mountain Home.
	Oh, the merry, merry Christmas!
		How the children's voices ring;
	Oh, the merry, merry Christmas,
		Says the echo answering
			D. E. DUDLEY.
Clifton, Dec. 20, 1880.


Four things  belong  to  a  judge:  to hear
cautiously, to answer wisely,to consider soberly,
and to decide impartially.-Socrates.[---]


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELES, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00. Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates;  Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  month, $3.  00.  A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office,  Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
                     Salt Lake City Utah.
[---]
[---]
SALT LAKE  CITY, JANUARY 1,  1881.


[Column 1]

HAIL, THE GLAD NEW YEAR.

	FOR  all those whose paths lie in pleasant
places, the new year beams with light and glad-
ness. For the wretched, the sorrowing and the
unfortunate, it has no charms, but awakens
sadness. In this world there are times and sea-
sons set apart as it were for special rejoicing,
which help to fill to the brim the cup of human
happiness. One of these is the opening of the
New Year. When one casts away for the time
being, all the unhappy past, forgets all strifes
and differences, makes new resolves before hea-
ven and mankind, and revels as it were in the
luxury of a new phase of life. It is, as if a
new era were unfolding, in which all good were
possible and all evil banished. And, indeed,
it is apparently buried out of sight; and with un-
daunted courage one looks bravely forward to
the auspicious future, which fancy clothes in
rosy light, with only neutral shading, and re-
vels in the glorious days to come, which rise in
vision full of a peaceful calm. Without these sea-
sons of respite, these days of active restfulness,
life would indeed be naked and incomplete.
There are days that make recompense for years,
and hours so burdened with joy that the con-
sciousness of their rich fulness of enjoyment,out-
balances life's multiplicity of woes. Men and
women are like children at the beginning of
the new year; it is humanity's great holiday, in
which all join of every caste and creed. What
shall the new year be? Will it bring joy and
sunshine to the home and heart? How many
silently ponder and inwardly determine to make
greater efforts for those they love. Each new
year presents as it were a new book on which to
inscribe one's record. The first page, in many
instances is like the bright new book, filled with
good intentions, high resolves and buoyant as-
pirations, which hold out hopeful promise. By
and by one hindrance after another comes in
the way, and blots and blurs; and irregularities
in the precious record mar the beauty of the
pages; leaf after leaf is thus destroyed, until dis-
couraged and despondent, weary with repeated
failure,the spirits flag and carelessness and chron-
ic indifference usurp the place of the noble am-
bition to improve and excel.
	A new era is unfolding. This is no fable, no
idle tale; changes are taking place all around,
which mark the time as one of peculiar signifi-
cance. The world feels it perceptibly. Their
wise men like those of old, put their construc-
tions upon it, counsel together and decide the
planets are in conjunction, that is one cause, it
affects the earth, great sickness like scourges
will sweep over portions of the earth, and many
will fall victims to the powerful influences; these
are some of their conclusions. Like the unbe-
lievers in the days of Noah, they will not receive
the word of the Lord from his prophets, but find

[Column 2]

out a way of escape through the discoveries of
men of science. God works upon natural principles,
and what to men is marvelous, is no miracle
with Him, but He reveals himself to whomso-
ever He will. The Prophet Joseph and the pro-
phets of ancient days proclaimed the destruc-
tions that would come, when wickedness should
increase, and the earth become fully ripe in cor-
ruption. Is it not coming to pass all around
day by day? Who has eyes to see and sees it not,
or ears to hear and understands not? Over and
over again the predictions of the raging of
the elements and wars and rumors of
wars, earthquakes in divers places, thunderings,
lightnings, and winds have been prophesied of.
Have they not begun? When was there ever
such a record of shipwrecks and disasters by sea
and land? And yet men will reason and at-
tribute it to nature, acknowledging not God in
His own works, in whom is all intelligence.
Jesus preached faith—and Paul said faith is the
evidence of things not seen. "Without faith no
man can see God," says the Scripture; but with-
out faith no man acknowleges God.
	Is there anything important to do in the days
now dawning through the new year just born?
Undoubtedly there is. For all who have chosen
the path of duty—the morning of light and intel-
ligence has been ushered in, and this is only
another link in the great chain of destiny which
binds the eternal ages in one solid whole. The
work of salvation for the living and the dead
in its sublimity and grandeur rises up to view,
and the eternities beyond beckon onward, on-
ward all, who will listen to the promptings of
the Spirit of God, whose voice is in the whirl-
wind, and the echo in the caverns of the earth.
The gospel must be preached to all nations, kin-
dreds, tongues, and people; Zion must be re-
deemed, and the waste places made glad. Are
not these things being fulfilled in part? Where
are the helpers; those who are willing to submit
to the law of God, walking in the path of duty
and trusting in his divine assistance. Is there
work for all in the Gospel field? Even so. It
lies all around on every hand. Each day brings
sacrifices, temptations, and besetments, that
one may draw nearer to God for guidance. There
is safety in keeping God's commandments and
walking in his ordinances blameless. Stand not
idle, the field is ripe and the laborers are few.
How true this saying of the Savior, and how es-
pecially applicable to the Latter-day Saints at
the present time. How few seem to realize the
necessity of increased diligence and faithfulness,
and the injunction of the Savior, "Love ye one
another." This law of love is what will bind
the Saints stronger than bands of iron. The con-
necting of families, through the chain of the
holy priesthood, cementing hearts as well as
hands; verily the hearts of the children are be-
ing turned to the fathers, and the fathers to the
children. Let us hope that in this new year
many who now sit in darkness may be brought
into the glorious light of the gospel, and let each
one who has covenanted to serve God, strive to
make a bright and clean record of good deeds
faithfully performed; one which the angels will
rejoice to record in the archives of heaven.


ANNIVERSARY GATHERING.

	Thursday, December 23d ult. was the anniver-
sary of the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
one of the grandest, noblest men, who ever lived.
It was celebrated in the 16th Ward Assembly
Rooms, with a gathering of many of his old
friends and members of his family, and others
who revere his memory, as the leader of the 
last dispensation. A sumptuous supper was
given at the former residence of Bro. Shadrach
roundy (now deceased), a tried and staunch


friend of the Prophet. The following named
persons sat at the table: President John Taylor,
President Joseph F. Smith, Apostle Wilford
Woodruff, Patriarch John Smith, President
Elias Smith, Father Zera Cole, Bishops Fredrick
Kesler and Jared Roundy, President L. John
Nuttall, Elders Joseph C. Kingsbury, H. K. 
Whitney, Lorin Walker and Wilford Woodruff,
Jr. Ladies: Vienna Jacques, Phoebe Woodruff,
Patty Sessions, Presendia L. Kimball, Mercy
R. Thompson, Bathsheba W. Smith, Jane B. 
Taylor, Mary Ann Taylor, Emmeline B. Wells,
Helen M. Whitney, Mary C. Whitney, Sylvia
Lyon, J. S. Higby, Helen M. Smith, Sarah E. 
Smith, Mary J. Thompson, Eliza Kingsbury,
Emma J. Smith, Jane Kesler, Elizabeth Nut-
tall, Diana Reid, Lucy Smith, Elizabeth Davis,
Rosina Peck and Beulah Woodruff. 
	The party in the meeting-house commenced
at 7 o'clock. The hall was prettily decorated
for the occasion; the portrait of the Prophet
Joseph was hung above the speaker's 
stand. The assembly was called to order
by Bishop Kesler, and the choir sang,
"The morning breaks the shadows flee;" prayer.
was offered by Elder J. C. Kingsbury. Choir
sung, "Mortals awake with angels join," Sister
Presendia then made some pleasing remarks in 
which she referred to the Prophet having taught
her the principle of plural marriage. Joseph
Parry then read the Prophet's "Address to the
Green Mountain Boys." By special request
President John Taylor sang "The Seer," his 
voice ringing out clear and melodious. It brought
back to many present, tender recollections of the
past. This hymn was composed by President
Taylor and was often sung by him in days gone
by, and also by Elder John Kay, who was one
of the sweetest singers in all Israel. Mrs. E.
Davis next read "Two chapters of the Life of
President Joseph Smith," written in blank
verse, by Sister Eliza, Zion's renowned poetess.
Then came a grand march, dancing, etc., etc.
President Taylor made a brief, but feeling ad-
dress. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson read a poem com-
posed by Sister Eliza, and addressed to President
Taylor. President Woodruff made a short
speech, and Mrs. Davis read "The Prophet's 
Address to the Nauvoo Legion." President Jos.
F. Smith made a few appropriate remarks. Mrs. 
Davis brought in the birthday cake, she had pre-
pared, it was handsomely ornamented, and around
one of the pyramids, the words, "Joseph Smith, 
the Prophet, born Dec. 23, 1805." Before mid-
night, prayer was offered by Elder Mosiah
Hancock, and the company dispersed. The
party was an exceedingly happy and pleasant
one. Many old veterans were there and partici-
pated in the enjoyment. The committee may
congratulate themselves on its complete success.


ANNIVERSARY PARTY IN ST. GEORGE.

	By letter from Sister E. R. S. Smith, we
learn of the celebration of the birthday of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, in St. George. She
writes, "The people of St. George and some
from adjacent places, celebrated the birthday of
the Prophet. There was a good turn out under
the circumstances; the rain was falling and the
mud interminable. The exercises were im-
pressively interesting, and the time never can be
forgotten; also a gathering in the evening of as
many invited guests as could be seated in the
Hall in continuation of the celebration—speeches,
songs, sentiments, etc—a short intermission,
and George Noble, the first child born in plural
marriage was called to the stand and introduced
to the audience, and by request, made a short
and appropriate speech—all of the members of
Zion's Camp present, were called up, seven in 
number, including Sister Mary Gates. * Be-


fore we left, a little before ten, the benches in
the body of the hall were removed, and the
light fantastic toe tripped to the melodious
strains of stirring music. It is almost worse
than nothing for me to attempt to describe the
touching ceremonies of that interesting day and
evening. Your lively imagination may make up 
the deficiences." Sister Eliza and Zina, wives
of the Prophet Joseph, were seated on the
stand beside President McAllister, and both
responded to an urgent request to speak. Brother
Jacob Gates, master of ceremonies, interceded
with Sister Eliza to write something for the oc-
casion, which she did—although her time was 
so constantly employed that it seemed impossi-
ble. Susie Y. Gates read the article from the
stand—we have been promised a copy sometime.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COMING AND GOING.
	"So is Christmas coming," observed an in-
credulous person last July, in a vague sort of 
way, as though the reality of the expression was
very questionable. Nevertheless, Christmas has
come and gone once more, and now the bright
glad face of another New Year comes upon us.
	Yes, bright, and glad and happy is the wel-
come face of the year 1881; new now, but soon,
so very soon to be counted old; and then, almost
before we can think, with the past! It is a glad
and welcome time, for many reasons. The be-
ginning of the new year is the blessed time
when all strife and malice, all envyings, bicker-ings and jealousy should be laid aside. When
every one should determine to do more good and
less harm in the coming twelve months than in 
the year just closed. It is a time when all hearts
should overflow with gratitude to the Great
Giver of all good for the kindly care and bless-
ings He has bestowed upon His creatures during
the past year. 
	Especially should the Latter-day Saints sound
praises to the Lord this day for the providential
hand which has been over them. Has He not
wrought out for them a wonderful salvation in 
not permitting their enemies to gain power over
them, notwithstanding the various attempts
which have been made to bring about their
overthrow? Has He not poured out blessings of 
plenty upon His people in all necessary things?
And has He not touched the hearts of those who
have more than sufficient for themselves, so that
they have divided with their less fortunate
neighbors in a manner that is calculated to call
forth a continuance of his mercies? As a people,
surely we have great cause to rejoice in renewed
faith and trust and good determinations. And
who can not recall to mind nameless evidences
of individual blessings received from on high?
	There may be, nay, there are hearts who
mourn even at this blessed time. For each day
must be a time for sorrowing with some of
earth's inhabitants. Let us extend to all such,
appropriate greetings, heartfelt sympathies;
and like true children of our Father, mourn with
those who mourn, as well as rejoice with those
who rejoice.
	When an opportunity for doing good presents
itself, seize it quickly, let it not pass; for time
moves more and more rapidly as year after year
goes by. We shall have little enough time to 
make ready for the things which are coming
upon us. Let us be watchful and prayerful, and 
not be taken unawares. 				LULA.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE show windows have made an elaborate
display this year during the holidays. All the
varieties of children's toys and everything suit-
able and desirable for Christmas and New Year's
gifts could be obtained at reasonable prices. One

[Column 2]

might easily imagine the genius of fairy land
had paid Salt Lake a visit. The little folks have
certainly had an abundant supply this time.
	BIBLE ALMANAC, by J. H. Heman, prepared
for 1881, is a neat little work of 24 pages, price 15 
cents, printed at the Deseret News office. It is
a purely home production, and on that account
should be encouraged. It contains a passage
of Scripture for every day in the year, suitably
selected, besides many others easy for reference.
The preface is short and expressive, and it also
contains several well written essays, and the
usual amount of data concerning the sun, moon, 
eclipses, etc.
	THE HOME Dramatic Club have received
much applause and considerable praise for the
admirable acting in the play of "Pique," which
was selected for the holidays. The piece is par-
ticularly pleasing in all its appointments and
has been very attractive, and drawn good
houses four times in succession. It has been re-
marked by those who have seen the best actors 
in Europe and America that certain parts could
not be played better by experienced actors. Miss
Lottie Claridge as "Raitch" was a complete suc-
cess, also Hebe Wells as "Dymple," and J. D. 
Spencer as "Gill," Miss Nellie Colebrook as 
"Mable Renfrew" looked perfectly the fash-
ionable New York belle, and her hasty marriage 
and being ushered into a Puritanical, New
England home was true to the life. O.F. Whit-
ney as "Matthew Standish" the head of the
household was exceedingly natural. In fact all
did well and deserve due praise and encourage-
ment from the patrons of the drama. 
	WE are glad to announce to our little friends of 
the Primary Associations, that the Tune Book
to accompany the Children's Primary Hymn
Book, is printed and ready for distribution. It 
has been compiled by Sister Eliza R. Snow, who
has collected a number of familiar tunes and ar-
ranged them to appropriate hymns, while others
have had tunes written expressly for them. 
Our little friends will be glad to have a tune
book of their own, and we hope they will learn
the tunes, so that their primray meetings will
be full of joy and singing, for "out of the mouth of 
babes and sucklings, Thou hast perfected praise. 
The Tune Book is the same size as the Sunday
School Tune Book, is bound in cloth, with hand-
some vignette, contains 40 pages of music and
59 tunes. The price will be 40 cents each, and
copies can be purchased at the offices of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Deseret News and Juve-
nile Instructor. Orders from the country will
please remit five cents per copy for postage.
	E. B. F.
	SUNDAY, Dec. 26, was the 80th anniversary of
the birth of Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney, one
of the most illustrious women connected with
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
whose life has been as free from blemish as the
life of any woman who has lived in any age or
time. Several of the sisters called upon her at
the house of her daughter, in the 17th Ward,
where she has been residing for some time, un-
able to leave her room, though she is now free
from suffering, but weak and feeble in body.
The sisters held a meeting in her room which
was presided over by Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball. "Mother Whitney" is not well enough to
go anywhere to a meeting, and as she enjoys a
spiritual feast more than any other, it seemed to
be in keeping to celebrate her birthday in this
way. Each one present expressed themselves
in a few words of blessing, and many reminis-
ences were recalled by those who had been long
associated with her. She was bright and cheer-
ful and a heavenly spirit and peaceful influence
was over all. Her son-in-law, Elder Isaac
Groo; came in and read the poem addressed to

[Column 3]

her, which we publish, it conveys a very true
and beautiful idea of her estimable life and
character.

INSCRIBED TO

MRS. ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY,

ON HER 80TH BIRTH-DAY DEC. 26TH, 1880.

To one whose pure exalted mind,
With purity of life combined,
I now attune my artless lay,
On this recurring natal day.
To one whose days are marked with love,
As seraph from the realms above.
And all along her lengthened years,
Faith, Hope and Charity, appear,
And Friendship, Love and truth divine,
With purest sympathy combine.

Thousands by cruel fate distressed,
Her sympathetic heart hath blest,
Her words of consolation given,
Have fallen like the dews from heaven,
And made the restless soul repose,
As dew revives the drooping rose.
Unnumbered, bleeding hearts of grief,
Have found in them a calm relief,
And from her placid artless face,
Have found a balmy sweet solace.

How pure must be that loving heart, 
That can to sorrowing souls impart
A consolation and a charm,
That will affliction's sting disarm,
And pour into the aching breast,
The healing balm of peace and rest,
And fill the throbbing heart with cheer,
When hope, has fled and all is drear.

How rare 'mong mortals, 'tis to see
A being from all vices free.
Yet here is one whose years four score,
Are all with virtues written o'er.
A life without a sinful spot,
Without a blemish or a blot.

This dear one has with patience borne,
The persecutor's bitter scorn,
From ills and cares though often faint,
Yet all endured without complaint.
In cold adversity's dark day,
Her feet have kept the "Narrow way,"
In constancy that path she trod,
With true fidelity to God.
His recompense to this dear friend,
Is life, and bliss, without an end.

	ISAAC GROO.


OBITUARY. 

DIED in the 21st Ward, in Salt Lake City, of
pneumonia, Dr. William Ferguson, aged 79
years, 8 months and 16 days. 
   Dr. Ferguson was born at Dochfour House,
near Inverness, Scotland, March 11th, 1801. He
was educated at the University of Edinburgh,
where he took both the theological and medical
course, with a view of devoting his life to mis-
sionary work in India. Domestic afflictions
having prevented the consummation of this pur-
pose, he accepted the charge of a Congregational
Church in Oxfordshire, England. At the time
of the Anti-Corn-Law agitation, he threw him-
self heart and soul into the work of the League, 
and was the principal writer in the Anti-Bread-
Tax Circular published by the League. The re-
peal of the Corn Laws being accomplished, he
devoted himself to philanthropic efforts on behalf
of the down-trodden English peasantry, and was
so successful in ameliorating the condition of
thousands of them, that he was on more than
one occasion sent for by a committee of the
House of Commons, and a public testimonial was
presented to him as an acknowledgment of his
services to humanity. In 1860 he emigrated to 
America, and during the civil war edited a dem-
ocratic paper in Ohio with energy and fearless-
ness, in the face of mob rule and violence. In 1875
he embraced the gospel of the new and everlast-
ing covenant in Illinois through the preaching of


Elder John Morgan, and immediately emigrated
with his family to Utah, was baptized by Elder
A. F. MacDonald at St. George, and worked on
the Temple during his residence there. He re-
moved to Provo, and then to Salt Lake City,
where he resided until his decease. During the
last two years his mental faculties were much
impaired by old age and affliction, but he depart-
ed in the faith of the Gospel, and in peace with
all mankind.—[COM.

	DIED in Evanston, Wyoming, Nov. 12th, 1880,
of consumption, Mrs. Sarah Elliott Wade,
daughter of David and Margery Quick Elliott,
born at Ithaca, Tomkins County, New York, on
October 23d, 1826; she was the mother of thir-
teen children, nine of whom were living at the
time of her death, one having been killed on the
railroad since her death. She joined the Church
when very young, and shared in the persecu-
tions of the Saints in the early rise of the
Church; was personally acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph. At one time when Joseph
[-]mith was being tarred and feathered by a mob,
[-]child of hers was lying dead and she was
[-]bilged to keep it in her trunk unable to bury it
on account of the terrible persecutions of the
Saints at that time. She was a faithful member
of the Relief Society of this Ward, and held the
office of treasurer up to the time of her demise,
and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection
with the just. May she rest in peace.
	Miss S. MAUD BURTON,
	Sec. Relief Society, Evanston.

	DIED at Clifton, Oneida County, Idaho, Octo-
ber 11th, Lucinda Vanlooen, of old age. Deceased
was born at Loraine, Jefferson County, N. Y.,
August 12th, 1813; was baptized in Upper Cana-
da in 1833, and gathered with the Saints to
Kirtland, Ohio, in 1834, from thence to Illinois,
and emigrated to Utah in 1852. She died as she
lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint. She
leaves a husband, eight children, and a large
circle of friends to mourn her loss. She was a
member of our Relief Society.	D. E. D.

	Died at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, June 13,
of congestive chills, Margaret Williams. De-
ceased leaves a husband, eight children and a
host of friends, who have cause to remember her
as a faithful wife, a devoted mother, a good
neighbor and a true Latter-day Saint. She was
a member of our Relief Society, and had served
faithfully as secretary for several years, and set
an example worthy of imitation. She has pass-
ed from death unto life eternal.	D. E. D.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A.  AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.

RELIEF SOCIETY  BRANCH  REPORTS FROM
		ENGLAND

  We are favored  with  the  following  extract
from a letter recently received  by Sec'y. S. M.
Kimball from  Elder  T.  C.  Griggs, Islington,
London.   Our Conferance was held  last  Sun-
day  and  I  gathered  some  items  relative to
Relief Society work in this Conference. Prest.
S. Roskelly who  is very active in the  interest
of all that pertains to  the  advancement  of the
interest of the Kingdom of God, laid before the
ladies certain items of information and encour-
agement contained in your note which I assure
you were very acceptable.  From the reports pre-
sented to Pres. Roskelly  I  cull the following.
  There are three branches of the Relief Society
in this  Conference  to wit.  The  White Chapel
with a membership of ten ladies who have since
March 4th, 1879 to Sept. 29th, 1880, made 291
visits, collected in the same length of time £ 6,

[Column 2]
13, 9, all of which  they  have  distributed,  and
since their  organization  March 4th, 1879 they
have assisted thirty three (33)  persons  to  emi-
grate.  The  present  officers  are:  Pres., and
Treas, Elizabeth  Young,  First  Coun. Susan
Whitpin Second Coun. Susan Waterfall, Sec'y.
Eliza Farnes.
 The North London R. S. Branch was organ-
ized Feb. 1875, since which time to Sept. 30th,
1880, they have collected £29. 15, 8 1/4, and dis-
tributed £28. 15,0 leaving them with a balance
on hand of £1,0,8 1/4.  They have a membership
of  ten  ladies  energetic  and  liberal  affording
very acceptable  support  to the  branch  organ-
ization in many ways.  The present officers are:
Pres. Avis Cross. First Coun.  Frances Cornell,
Second  Coun.  Mrs.  Frankland  Sec.  Lovina
Cross, Treasurer  Angie Cross.
 The Lambeth  R.  S.  Branch  having  also a
membership of ten  ladies  was  organized Jan.
9th, 1877.  They are diligent in the good work
of  alleviating  the poor and  afflicted and com-
forting those that mourn:  They  have to Sept.
30th,  1880  collected  and  disbursed [pound sign]4,3,7 1/4
Their officers are Pres. Mrs. Beeching 1st. Coun.
Emily Ryan,  2nd, Coun. Emma  Brown, Sec.
Nellie Armitage, Treas. Jane Hills.
 These Societies  have many  difficulties to en-
counter,  the  members  are  scattered  over a
radius of some 12 to 15 miles in their enormous
city of more than  4,000,000,  inhabitants,  and
while they have their  own  burdens, cares  and
privations  to endure,yet withal find  time and
means to carry on the Society  work and  thus
comfort  and  bless  their  fellow beings.- God
bless them is my desire continually- I send as
an item of interest  the first minutes recorded
in the White-chapel Society branch record.
   Wednesday evening March 4th, 1874. This
branch was organized by Pres, R. T. Burton of 
the London Conference, assisted by the branch
Pres. Peter Romereil  and others of the Priest-
hood.  The nominations were carried by all the
members present  at the meeting.
  Elder Romerell  encouraged  the  sisters to
faithfully carry out the  duties  connected  with
the Society and a great amount  of good  would
be the  result.  Elder  R.  T.  Burton  followed
with good instructions  and  an  interesting  ac-
count of the Relief Society in his ward at home
in Zion.  The  teachers  received  by donations
the amount of six shillings and sixpence at the
close of the meeting.  Adjourned to next Wed-
nesday evening.  Benediction  by  Elder  R.  T.
Burton.
H. H.  EDENBORONGH, Sec'y.

  The annual  meeting  of  the  R. S.  Grass
Valley Ward was held in the Grove August the
3rd, 1880, Pres.Margereth Anderson, presiding.
There were  present,  of the  presidency  of the
Stake,  Brothers  A.  K.  Thurber.  W.  Seeg-
miller also  of the presiding  ladies of  the R. S.
of the Stake  Pres.,  E.  Bean  and  T.  Thurber
also of P.A., Pres. L. Heppler and  Lucy Bell,
and others of the leading  brethren  and sisters
of the Stake.  After the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer the annual  report was read by
the Sec'y., as follows:
 Statistical: Teachers,  11;  members,  61;
officers  and  members,  79;  meetings  held 24;
average attendance, 42:  WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
13. Financial:  On  hand  at  our  last annual
report, property  $55.  19  cents;  wheat,  21
bushels 28lbs., receipts  for  the  year, property,
$57. 57cts., made by labor, 53. 50c.  total $111.
07  cents.  Disbursed:  Manti  temple,  $16,55;
missionaries $1.50; home-industry 5.70; build-
ings. $13.80; poor and sick. 15.46; books and
stationary 4.15, total, 57.16; in  treasury pro-
perty $109.09; wheat 35 bushels 27 lbs.
  Sister E.  Bean  addressed  the  congregation
in  her  usual  instructive  and  pleasant way,
spoke of the duties resting upon the mothers in
the raising of their children and being one with

[Column 3]
our husbands and the necessity of every woman
having a testimony for herself.  Sister T. Thur-
ber  encouraged  home-industry  and  exhorted
the young to improve their  time in usefulness.
Bro. George Bean  gave a very  interesting ac-
count of the celebration of the 24th of July in
S. L. City; and spoke of the necessity of our be-
ing united  in  these  trying  times.  Sister L. 
Heppler spoke of the  mothers  needing  the
Spirit of God, to enable us to raise our children
in a right and acceptable way before God, said
we should teach  our boys  to  honor their call-
ings in the  priesthood.  She  loved to see our
HOMES  ornamented  with our own  handiwork
and thought  the  Lord  was  pleased with our
home-industry. Bro, A.  K.  Thurber  made
some  interesting and encouraging remarks,
said the sisters held the  priesthood  in  connec-
tion with their  husbands, and  had a right to
lay hands on  the  sick  and  bless  them in  the
name  of Jesus.  He thought the sisters kept a
better account of their business than the breth-
ren.
   An organization  of the  Burrville Relief So-
ciety was then effected by  their  own request.
Meeting was  adjourned  with  singing.  Ben-
ediction by Bishop J. H. Wright.
 After partaking  of a hearty dinner  in  the
grove we  enjoyed  ourselves in a  social party
there being a good floor in  the  bowery which
place was neatly ornamented with the home-in-
dustry  of the R. S., and Y. L. M. I. A., and the
Primary Associations of the Ward.  The  Spirit
of God was with  us  and  peace  and  harmony
prevailed and  all seemed to  enjoy  themselves
both young and old, and said it could not have
been better in the older settlements.
  We all feel  to thank our  Heavenly  Father
for the many blessings we enjoy, we also realize
that the EXPONENT is a valuable paper and is
a great help and  guide  to  us  in  our  diffesent
associations, and we wish it success that it may
be enlarged,and may grow and prosper and do
great good in Zion.
		    MARGERETH ANDERSON, Pres.
		    MARY JENSEN, Sec'y.

  The Relief  Society  Conference,  Salt  Lake
Stake, commenced in  the  Council  House, Fri-
day, Dec. 17, 1880, Mrs. M. Isabella  Horne  pre-
siding.  On the stand were  Mrs. Horne's Coun-
selors Mrs.  E.  S. Taylor  and S. M. Heywood,
also Mrs. S. M. Kimball,  Secretary Central or-
ganization R. S., Mrs. E. Howard, Stake  Secre-
tary R. S. and Mrs. B. W. Smith,  Treasurer R.
S., and Mrs. E. B.  Wells  editor  WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.  Meeting opened by stnging "Let Zion
in her beauty rise,"  prayer by  Mrs. E. Howard,
singing "Amid  scenes of confusion," etc.  Min-
utes of former conference were  read and accept-
ed.  Reports from most of the wards in the city
and the settlements in the country.
 Prest.Horne gave instructions about reports, and
said it was necessary  to  have  semi  annual re-
ports, to hand to the brethren  at the April and
October Conferences.  These  could be made out
for the Relief Society Conferences held in March
and September, which could then be prepared in
time  by  the  Stake  Secretary  to  hand to
the Secretary  of  the  first  presiding board.
  Mrs. Lucy B.  Young, who had  just returned
from a visit to the Eastern  States, occupied  the
remainder of the forenoon in giving an account
of her journey. She left Salt Lake City,July 21,
1880: previous to leaving her home in St. George.
President McAllister blest  her, and she had felt
the spirit and  power  of  his  blessing  rest upon
her during her  absence  from  the  valley.  She
visited her relatives and friends in various parts
of the State of New  York, all  of  whom received
her kindly, and  were  desirous of having her  re-
main longer.  She also visited Niagara Falls and
other  places  of  public  resort, and  spent  some-
time in New York City, Buffalo,  Rochester, Sy-
racuse, and other noted places.  Her  experience
in the world led  her  to  believe  that women of
ability, possessing  intelligence  and  a correct
knowledge of  the  principles  of  the  Ever-
lasting  Gospel,  might  do  much  in  re-
moving  the  prejudice  against  our  peo-
ple, were  they  sent out to travel  and lecture.
When it was known that  Mrs. Young was from
Utah, and was a plural wife  of President Brig-


[Column 1]
ham Young, everyone was curious to learn
something of the "Mormon" experience; in con-
versation she found that the most absurd ideas
prevail concerning this people. She was glad to
be among the Saints once more, and wished to
get home to St. George as soon as possible.
	Congregation sang "Praise to the man who
communed with Jehovah." Prayer by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	Afternoon meeting: Opened by singing "Re-
deemer of Israel;" prayer by Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant; sang "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet." Mrs. M. I. Horne, treasurer for the cen-
tral board of Relief Society, read her report. Al-
most every branch in the Salt Lake Stake had
contributed to the celebration on the 24th of
July last. Sister Horne then made some perti-
nent remarks upon present duties and referred to
the prophet Isaiah's saying, "Arouse yourselves,
O ye women of Zion, who are at ease."
	Counselor E. S. Taylor was the next
speaker, she alluded to her recent visit in the
East, and the opportunities she had of testifying
to the truth, and that, according to the promise
made her previous to going away, she had not
been confounded, but had always a word in due
season for every one who had inquired of her
concerning the Latter-day Saints, or their prin-
ciples. Mrs. E. B. Wells occupied a few minutes;
referred to the condition of the young people in
Zion, and the necessity of spiritual as well as
moral culture. Urged the sisters to assist in de-
veloping the better qualities of mind and heart
in the children and also to encourage habits of
industry and economy.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke upon the necessity
of studying to know the duties relating to the
positions occupied by the sisters. Thought each
one should try, and said none were to blame for
not understanding except those who did not try.
She often thought of one of Sister Eliza's re-
marks that people thought poetry flowed
through her, without any effort on her part,
but it was not so, she had to study and study
hard. The Lord gives the ability, but leaves
to us the labor and improvement. When she
was appointed secretary she had thought at
first, it only required her to take the minutes of
the meetings when Sister Eliza presided—now
she could see a great field opened before her view,
in which she was called to labor. She was au-
thorized to keep records of important events,
and that being authoritative, she thought they
would be recorded above,and felt anxious to have
them correct. Said to the sisters honor your
position and it will honor you. Sister Howard
wished the Secretaries to procure blanks, that all
the reports might be uniform in detail, to light-
en and simplify the labor of making up an aggre-
gate report for the Stake. Spoke of her pleasant
visit to the Ladies Conference at Grantsville and
said they were favored with the presence of
Apostle Lyman and President H. J. Grant.
The brass band at that place had honored
the sisters by a serenade on the Saturday after-
noon of the Conference. Sisters Rachel R.
Grant, Maria Carrington and Phebe Woodruff
each made suitable and edifying remarks, Sister
Woodruff relating some of the incidents of her
visit with President Woodruff to Sanpete and
Juab counties, where she had the opportunity of
addressing the Relief Society Conference of San-
pete Stake. At Nephi, President Teasdale had
given out an appointment for her; she went
alone in a snow storm, and found the meeting-
house filled with brethren and sisters. The Lord
certainly blest her with a rich abundance of His
Spirit.
	President M. I. Horne closed with appropriate
remarks, urging the sisters to put into practice
the good principles which had been spoken of.
Sung "Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.
Prayer by S. M. Kimball. Conference adjourn-
ed to the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday
morning, Dec. 18.
	On Saturday morning the Primary Conference
was held, Counselor Camilla Cobb presiding.
	Children sang from their Primary Hymn
Books "Now let us rejoice in the day of salva-
tion." Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne, singing
again "We thank thee O God for a prophet."
Minutes of previous Conference read and ac-
cepted. A few written and some verbal reports
were given. Counselor Miss Annie Davis read
a letter from the President, Mrs. Ellen C. S.
Clawson, advising the children who had work-
ing meetings to make warm comforters
instead of quilts to donate to the Temple. Also
notified them that it was her intention to get up
a fair to which all the different associations in
the Stake would be expected to contribute of the
work of the members. All sorts of fancy and
useful articles, etc., made by both boys and

[Column 2]
girls. Notices would be given in due time in re-
gard to its being held. Mrs. Cobb made some
excellent remarks adapted to the capacity of the
children, for which she possesses a very happy
faculty. Mrs. Horne made closing remarks and
proposed holding the fair in September, as that
would bring it near the semi-annual Conference
and give sufficient time to make it a success.
Sung "Praise God from whom." Benediction by
Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
	Afternoon meeting: Conference Y. L. M. I. A.
Dec. 18th, 1880, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding.
Sung, "Now Let us rejoice," prayer by Mrs. S.
M. Heywood, sung, "Come all ye sons of God,"
Minutes of previous conference omitted. Re-
ports from a very few of the wards were read.
The presidents of branch associations were
called upon to report verbally. The 7th, 10th,
11th, 15th, 17th, 19th and Sugar House Wards
were ably represented. Mrs. Hannah T. King
made some happy remarks, in which she spoke
of her having been recently called to occupy the
position of president Y. L. M I. A., in the 17th
Ward. Said it was a dfflcult matter to become
familiarized with new associates; she had sought
the Lord in prayer that he would turn the hearts
of the young ladies towards her. She believed
in a law which was in reality order, rather than
law. She was not an accomplished speaker and
felt it was a high and responsible position to fill,
to preside over and win the hearts of the young
ladies. She meant to keep very close to her
file leaders.
	President Freeze, in the course of her re-
marks observed that the editing of manuscript
papers was a great source of improvement,that it
called out talent which would otherwise never
have been known. She had heard articles read
in the Associations that were excellent. Let us
not shrink from speaking. There is nothing that
can so educate us as the promptings of the spirit
of God.
	Counselor ,Louie Felt said: I know the time
has come to study our religion and put away
light reading. We want to inform ourselves
and become intelligent, that we may be able to
dispense light and knowledge to those who are in
darkness.
	Counselor Clara Conrad, in her remarks, said
she wanted to live so that her influence would
do good, even though she spoke not a word.
Thought mothers should counsel their daughters
to attend their meetings, their everyday duties,
and especially secret prayer.
	President E. S. Taylor called upon the sisters
to make it a special subject of prayer that all ob-
stacles in the way of the progress of these asso-
ciations be removed. Exhorted the young la-
dies to renewed diligence, and made reference to
the prophecies concerning the great events
which are near at hand. Young ladies prepare
yourselves with Bible arguments, and be able to
give a reason for the hope that is within you;
and also strive for intellectual attainments, that
you may have a blending of spiritual and intel-
lectual intelligence. Let every president seek
to the Lord that she may know what to do.
	Counselor Mattie Horne, advised the observ-
ance of the Word of Wisdom, thought that by
observing of commandments we could obtain
blessings. Counseled the young ladies not to
marry outside the Church; said the royal heirs
of God should not marry outside his kingdom.
	President Horne made some appropriate clo-
sing remarks, expressing her deep interest in
the labors of the young ladies, and her great de-
sire for their advancement. Romania B. Pratt,
M. D., was elected Treasurer, Y. L. M. I. A.,
Salt Lake Stake, and each Branch Association
was requested to contribute fifty cents per an-
num, to defray incidental expenses. The Con-
ference was adjourned until March, 1881. A vote
was taken, and it was decided to hold the regu-
lar semi-monthly meeting on New Year's Day.
Sung Doxology. Benediction by Mrs. E. B.
Wells.

BEAVER STAKE.

	The Ladies Conference of Beaver Stake met
at Minersville, October 15th, 1880. President
Lucinda Howd, Sister Zabriskie, President of
the Relief Society of Minersville, with Counselors,
Coun. McDonough, Sister Sarah M. Dell, Sister
Lydia Blackburn and many active and useful
members of the Relief Societies were present.
A number of brethren met with the sisters,
among whom were Bishop McKnight, of Min-
ersville, and Brother William Robinson, of Bea-
ver. Meeting was called to order by President
Lucinda Howd. Sung, "O God our help in ages
past." Prayer by Brother John Ayers. Presi-
dent Howd spoke of the various and important

[Column 3]
duties which rested upon the daughters of Zion,
and made many other interesting remarks.
	Reports from the Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I,
A. and "Primaries," were read, which bore un-
mistakable evidence of the lively zeal realized
by the Saints of this section. Greenville and
Adamsville were not represented.
	Much good instruction was given during Con-
ference by Brothers Robinson, Ayers, Wood and
Bishop McKnight, and by Sisters Howd, Mac-
Donough, L. Skiner, Zabriskie, Dell, Blackburn
and others.
	Sister Gillis, President of the Primary Associ-
ation of Beaver, spoke very encouragingly of the
progress the children were making. She felt a
deep interest in their improvement. Sister
Goodwin, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Minersville was released from that position on
account of poor health. Toward the close of
Conference a few recitations and songs were
rendered by members of the Primary Associa-
tion.
	Adjourned till January 15, 1881.
					FLORA S. HILL, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 119


WOMEN ABOUT TO CAPTURE THE
FOURTH OF JULY, THE BIRTH-DAY
OF THE REPUBLIC.

	The various organizations of women are re-
quested to issue circulars to their auxiliaries all
over the country, asking that henceforth the
day of our National Independence be celebrated
in a fitting manner by the daughters of the
Pilgrims. Let the women in every school dis-
trict from Maine to Texas, from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, unite in this new departure.
Select at once the woman in your school dis-
trict or town who can best write and speak, fo[-]
the orator of the day, that she may have th[-]
intervening months for thorough preparation.
and thus honor herself and the occasion.. We
have listened to the rehearsal of man's achieve-
ments, and built statues to his memory for
one long century, now let us sing the praises of
the Pilgrim Mothers, and garner from the
leaves of the past, the glowing words and gen-
erous deeds of their daughters. Let us bring
to this "Harvest Home" for the first time in
our history an adequate record of woman's
work. With the Declaration of Independence
in one hand and the 16th Amendment to our
Constitution in the other, let the women of this
nation simultaneously declare their equal in-
terests and their equal rights in the great ex-
periment of a government by the people. As
under the genius of our free institutions the
rights of women are at last being recognized,
her thoughts should be lifted from a narrow
family selfishness into the high and holy chan-
nels of patriotism. On the threshold of the
second century of our national life, let woman
celebrate one watch-night of the republic, one
ante-natal hour of holy musings, councils, aspira-
tions set to the music of a peaceful chorus, with-
out the uncivilized clangor of booming cannon
that has hitherto distinguished the world's great
festivals. With soft music in shady groves let
the voice of woman now be heard, and let her
sons in silence learn her will.
	Let the 4th of July, 1881, usher in a new
day of peace and liberty to all.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON,
	ELIZABETH BOYNTON HARBERT;
	PHEBE W. COUSINS,
	MAY WRIGHT THOMPSON,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
	MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE.
	N. B.—As the above idea emanated from
the brain of Elizabeth Boynton Harbert, and
was first proposed by her in the Woman's Con-
gress just held in Boston, and as she occupies a
central position in the country, let all com-
munications on the subject be addressed to Mrs.
E. B. Harbert, Editor "Woman's Kingdom,"
care Iwter-Oceaa, Chicago, Ill.
	All editors friendly to this proposition are
respectfully requested to give place to the
above announcement in their columns.—N. C.
and B. B.


120	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE COMING MAN.

	The Academy of Music in Scranton Pa., was
thronged to overflowing to listen to Mrs.
Livermore's lecture on "The Coming Man."
Those who had heard this gifted lady's address
before last year's Institute, expected an intel-
lectual treat and they were not disappointed.
Combining in her own fair person and well bal-
anced mind a splendid specimen of the result of
that physical and mental training of which she
is the eloquent champion, Mrs. Livermore is
admirably fitted for the task of advancing
those bold but salutary theories of the elevation
of man, woman and child which are the result
of ripe observation. She predicted that the
coming man continuing in the path of progress,
would occupy a higher plane in all respects
than the man of to-day. The domain of
thought, the range of science, the home circle
would yield him greater treasures, and he
would not be the slave of as many vices. Mrs.
Livermore devoted a great part of her exceed-
ingly practical lecture to the subject of co-
operative housekeeping,and its advantages over
the purgatorial kitchens of to-day, where the
lives of women are wasted over the cook stove
and the wash-tub. She hailed as indications of
the better era a number of salutary signs in
nations and communities, and included mention
of the reformatories being established all over
the land for the salvation of every man and
woman. Her lecture was a strong plea for the
education of mind and body, and was listened
to with great favor.—Seranton Republicsn.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE introduce in this number a new story by
Avondale, which we think will prove exceeding-
ly interesting to our readers. "Pen Sketch of an
Illustrious Woman" is necessarily delayed
again. "Jesse Burns" will be continued in
our next- Be sure and read "Life Incidents"
in this issue.

	GEORGE ELIOT: Thursday, Dec. 23d, the
telegrams announced the death of the world-
renowned authoress, George Eliot, who died
suddenly in London, of congestive chill. Ma-
rian Evans, was her real name, she was the
daughter of an English clergyman, born in
Warwickshire, in 1820. No doubt she receiv-
ed a careful and thorough education in her
youth; however in her womanhood she pro-
duced some of the most powerful writings that
ever emanated from the brain of man or wo-
man. Men and critics alike pronounced her
famous. Her novels are not merely romance,
but contain true philosophy and a depth of
thought which characterize her as a sound rea-
soner and a woman of great strength of intel-
lect. As a writer of fiction she has carried off
the palm in the nineteenth century. For years
she has contributed to the Cornhil[-], and Black-
wood magazines, and for some years occupied
the position of joint editor to the Westminster.
This fact alone shows in what estimation her
talents as a writer were held. We know com-
paratively little of her private life, but through
her writings we believe she possessed an innate
purity of character, and we know that she en-
joyed the highest and grandest in-
tellectual gifts and capacities, and the
most extensive culture. We learned to love
her through her books, which touched the finest
feelings of the hnman soul and grasped as it
were the mysteries of the unknown which lie
shrouded in the heart of hearts. Famous
among her novels are Middle march, The Mill
on the Floss, Clerical Life, Daniel Drronda
and others equally good but perhaps the best
is Romola which was published when very
little was known of the author and it was un-
iversally believed was written by a man. We


regret her loss to the world of letters, and feel
as if a near dear and loving friend had gone
beyond. She was a woman of whom the world
may justly be proud.


OUIDA'S "HELD IN BONDAGE."—To the
Editor of the Times.—Sir,—I see that a novel
of mine is advertised as turned into a play at
the Olympic under M. Victorien Sardou's title
of Delilah.
	I shall be indebted if your courtesy will pre-
mit me to say that I know nothing of it, and to
renew in the strongest manner possible the pro-
test so constantly and so vainly made by all
novelists against the dramatic piracy of their
works as permitted by law. I am obediently
yours,							OUIDA.
	Scandicei, Nov. 8.

	THE National Woman's Suffrage Association
will hold its regular annual Convention in the
city of Washington D. C., on Tuesday and
Wednesday the 18th and 19th, of January
1881. The association will renew their inter-
cession with Congress for the recognition of
the right of woman to citizenship. Many able,
active and efficient workers for woman's ad-
vancement from various parts of the United
States are expected to take part in the proced-
ings of the Convention. Some of these noble
women connected with the N. W. S. A., have
been for many years laboring with pen and
tongue on the platform and through the press,
sacrificing self and the comforts of home life
that they might do good to their sex and bless
humanity; pleading that woman,the mother of
man might be endowed, by those to whom she
has given life, with such political and social
equality as shall more abundantly qualify her,
for her high and holy mission, to bear the
souls of men, and to be a helpmeet unto her
husband.


[Column 1]
15 Cents! 15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881!
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postpaid.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys; Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO,
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE TOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner: PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:— MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, [54].


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1881.	No. 16.


THE SAD MESSAGE.

	[Written after receiving the sad news of a dear broth-
er's death, and affectionately inscribed to my remaining
brothers and sisters.]

Yes, to me the message came,
	On a dreary winter's day,
Sent on lightning's wings of flame,
	From our Eastern hills away,
Startling throbbing heart anew,
	Turning all the visage pale,
As along each nerve it flew,
	With its sad and mournful tale.

Op'ning wide the gate of tears,
	Running riot through each vein,
With an anguished sense of fears,
	Wrung from out the soul with pain.
Spirit shrank affrighted back,
	As it viewed the broken chain;
Self-condemned upon the rack,
	Tortured with the "MIGHT HAVE BEEN."

Thought, like arrow from its bow,
	Bore me back to childhood's scenes,
Where, in the far long ago,
	We had roamed the meadows green,
Ere we learned of evil days,
	That the future held in store;
Ere we trod the world's rough maze,
	Through dark disappointment's door;

Ere the separation came
	Of our little household band,
When in plans of work or play,
	All united, heart and hand.
Dear familiar names of yore,
	Now I call adown the line,
Sloping towards the western shore
	Of the boundary of time.

*		*		*		*		*		*

Cannot faith, or holy prayer,
	Weld anew this broken chain?
Must we grope in dark despair,
	For the missing link in vain?
May we not with weeping find
	Key to this mysterious grace,
That gives sight unto the blind,
	Wipes sad tears from every face?

Where is he, who faint and slow,
	Searched through wilds the lost to save,
Bore earth's weary weight of woe,
	Rose triumphant o'er the grave?
Is the darkness so profound,
	Is the gulf so wide between,
That the way can ne'er be found
	To those heavenly pastures green?

Christ Thou tender Savior dear,
	If poor human hearts can bleed
With such yearning love and fear,
	For the soul's extremest need,
We cannot fathom the divine,
	Reaching round eternal zones,
God hath said, "all souls are mine,"
	Will not our Father save his own?

Chilly drops of winter's rain,
	Sighing winds sweep o'er the way,
Taking up the sad refrain
	Of our troubled hearts to-day.
Oh, for faith that [--]oks beyond,
	All this doubting fear and gloom;
Angels Hands to roll the st[---]
	Backward from the darkened tomb.
							L. M. HEWLINGS:
Atchison, Kansas, December, 1880.


ON Friday, the 21st inst., will be the anni-
versary of the birthday of President Eliza R.
S. Smith, known to the Latter-day Saints as
Zion's poetess.Sister Eliza will be 77 years of age.


[Column 1]
FAMILIARITY BREEDS CONTEMPT.

	Almost without exception allowance has to
be made for all sayings of a profane world; as
both its ideas and its language can but faintly
approach the expression of sublime truths.
Like the poet it can "lead you to the gate"
only, but you, yourself must make the effort to
get in. The Savior said "Do not throw pearls
before swine." Kind young reader of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT! I have a desire to talk a
little to you upon these sayings, and if I succeed
in getting your attention I may fortify you
against many an error; the victims of which
may never tell you of their bitter and regretful
sighs heaved in the silent night, where only
angels took notice.
	You know that your "familiarity" with your
kind,loving intimate friends,does not breed con-
tempt for you,in those friends; but on the con-
trary, you become more and more attached and
devoted to each other, as your friendship grows
older. But now let us see what this saying of
a profane world, "familiarity breeds contempt"
means. I do not purpose to introduce you to a
profane world, or make you acquainted with
its follies; but I will refer you to Matthew, 13th
Chapter, and ask you to read the last 5 verses,
in which you have the explanation. I will
take the liberty to add "He, the Savior,left be-
cause he would not throw pearls before swine."
	Now I will suppose, my young friends, that
you are qualified to move, even in the society
of the Savior; and, that your familiarity with
some person, should breed contempt, in that
person, for you. Suppose again, that your
grieved heart, trustingly appealed to me, I
would dare to say, without hearing the other
side: that person is not worthy of your friend-
ship; and I might say to you: "do not again
throw pearls before swine."
	Now think with me for a little while. An
attempt by anybody to degrade his neighbor, ab-
solutely reveals that that neighbor is better than
he or she who made such an attempt.
	You know the Savior said, that the measure
we give to others, shall again be measured un-
to us. Why? The "measure" that bred
contempt for you, was envy, attempting to put
you on a level with that which is below you,to
degrade you. How will then the judgment
(measure) revert back upon the offender? His
attempt "enviously" to degrade you on purpose
to exalt himself thwarted his designs, re-
vealing what he wanted to conceal: his own
inferiority.
	Do you see now how I dare to be so decisive
a judge as above?
	It is well your heart is full of love and sym-
pathy, but beware of that spongy softness, that
is afraid of calling a thing by its right name.
You cannot preserve your heart, pure, if you
tolerate sin! The Lord does not do it; and
He wants us to be like him in order to obtain
of his glory. Be careful therefore who you
take into your friendship. Ask your mother
or your teacher to tell you instances of your
suffering sisters who threw their pearls before
swine; and who in disgrace, dishonored, turned
back upon the road strewn with tears and re-
gret; to regain (at least partly) what they had
lost, through being entangled in bad company.
	I am sure that if we are fortunate enough, to
meet and associate with our beloved Queen-
Mother Eve, we will have an esteem and love
for her, that words but faintly can express.
With such feelings let us think a little more,

[Column 2]
over what happened in the Garden of Eden;
at the same time a dmitting that we know
neither the extent nor intensity of the tempta-
tion to which she was exposed; neither can we
measure her strength or ability to resist; but
by reading the 5 first verses of Chapter 3
Genesis, we have the whole story told in sub-
lime clearness and simplicity. Lucifer, the
most cunning Master Liar, who drew a third
part of his brethren into rebellion against God,
and made them believe that he (Lucifer) was
the superior of the two; this very monster ap-
peared before Mother Eve in the Garden of
Eden; "imitating" all the affability he recol-
lected having seen in the Mansions of Glory;
for if possible to elude aversion, and fascinate
Eve, so she should not be able to discern the
fraud.
	His first effort was concealment. Why? be-
cause he wanted to lie and deceive; for what
purpose? To prejudice Eve against God. Lu-
cifer did know,that good people cannot at once
be brought to accept sin; therefore, falsehood
and truths had to be mixed,(as in 5th verse) to
warp the mind from good to evil, by prejudice:
the tactical, infernal introduction to ruin and
death.
	In the 5 mentioned verses in the 3rd Ch.
Genesis, we see then how the fall was inaugur-
ated in the Garden of Eden, disadjusting the
minds of men, by prejudice against God,
brought about by a professional liar for the
object of concealing evil; which admitted
reveals consciousness of wilful sin. Through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the "desire" to con-
ceal, is the very thing which reveals it, to the 
Children of Light. If as in the Garden of
Eden,Lucifer conquers, then darkness reigns;
and where darkness is exposed to light, pre-
judice is overcome.
	Whether then, as in the Garden of Eden,
or as in the case above, if "throwing pearls be-
fore swine" is not studiously avoided, the same
evils will be at work, prejudice and envy. It
is sin versus innocence; and wherever you go,
where these two factors exist, it is the same
process over again, as in the Garden of Eden.
It is for the Saints to learn this lesson; the
Lord will not destroy our agency but we have
to shun evil and choose good.
	HERMITA.


A DAILY SACRIFICE.
	It is written that to obey is better than
sacrifice, which is all very true where properly
applied; but in the experience of life, we learn
there is a daily sacrifice to be made in order to
accomplish the great life-labor all came here
to perform, that we might reconcile the will of
fellow men to the noble reclaiming designs of
the Creator.
	It is plain to the understanding of a reflect-
ing mind that through ignorance, superstition
and false education,many of the human family
sustain a great loss, and unless we search dil-
igently and learn the cause that produces the
effect, the evil cannot be removed, neither can
man be placed on a more sure basis of success,
for ignorance is the progenitor of failure.
And I believe there is no better way to obtain
this knowledge than to study the laws of na-
ture, which are the laws of God, and acquaint
ourselves with the main principles that will
redound to the elevation and happiness of
present and future generations. I do not con-
demn all the traditions and teachings extant


in the world, for  there  are  many  noble  and
saving principles, that it would be well for the
children of  Zion  to  profit  by;  for  all  good
cometh of God.  And  we should  imitate  the
wise busy bee, that culls sweet from every flow-
er, and as she fills her  house with  richness, so
we should store our minds with understanding,
for knowledge is power;  and  it  requires  great
will, power  and force of  character, to  control
and subdue our fallen  nature and  obtain self-
government, which is the key to proper family
government.
	It is contrary to the laws  of  nature for par-
ents to bring their children under  orderly  and
proper control, when they  themselves  will not
submit to the order and will  of God,  and  the
dictation of their own better judgement.
	Order cannot be brought  out of chaos, or it
is hard to do so.  Often is the remark made by
persons,  when  sorrow  or  trouble  overtakes
them,  I have  done the best I  know how un-
der the circumstances. True, yet often-times in
searching  further  we  find a want  of proper
tuition, or a neglect to  inform the mid of the
most important  principles pertaining  to our
own organism, or what the course to pursue to
enhance life which must be  learned  and lived
up to, in our  every  day  lives,  before  we  can
accomplish  much  towards  reclaiming  the
human family  from their  degenerate  and fal-
len condition.  In this  there is a sacrifice to be
made, for fallen nature  revolts  at  the  idea  of
being put as an offering, on the altar, of which
Christ is the chief  corner  stone, crowned with
the  Golden Rule, that  is  "to do unto  others
as you would that  they  should do unto you,"
for the carnal mind is at enmity with God. See
Romans viii, 7.  How necessary  then that the
children of Zion, be  taught,  or obtain,  a pro-
per understanding of the  nature  and  the  de-
signs of God in their existence on the earth, and
that they  were not  granted  a  probationary
state to waste their time with the follies and fash-
ions of the world to the exclusion of a  higher
and more noble aim in life, but leading pure and
virtuous  lives, that  they  may lawfully  fulfill
the first great  command  of God, for it  is  this
blending  together  of  the  elements  of  nature
and the spirit, that constitutes the noblest work
of God, the soul of  Man, each being  endowed
with an  immaculate  germ  pertaining  to  the
Deity, having the privilege of acting upon their
own agency, whether  they  cultivate  it or not.
Parents should  understand  and  teach their
children true  principles, for many  sin  ignor-
antly, not realizing their  true  relationship to
each other and to God!
	It is written  that  great  things  will  be  ex-
pected at the hands of  the fathers.  See revel-
ation in the Book of Doctrine  and  Covenants.
This revelation was  given  in  the early rise of
the Church, and if so much  was to be required
at the hands of parents who were gathered out
of  the  different  denominations  of  that  day,
traditionated as they must have been, in  the
prejudices of the  world,  how much more will
be required at the hands of those who have had
the privilege of  obtaining  greater  knowledge
and a better  understanding  of the  principles
and designs  of  God, just entering in the  great
drama of life, clothed  with  the Holy  Priest-
hood of God, having been born natural heirs to
the same, untramelled with the dogmas of men.
But I fear that  there  are  some  that  make  a
stumbling  block  of  offence of those  who  not-
withstanding their  preconceived ideas, have as-
sisted to lay the foundation, in this the last
dispensation, of the  principles of regeneration,
which leads to life  everlasting  and a fulness of
glory, and  are allowing themselves to run into
skepticism, and the unbelief of the generality of
mankind, claiming  the  weakness  of  others
as  as  excuse  for thier own  neglect  and follies.
	This should  not  be,  for the  Lord  will not
justify any one  in  this course,  except the  ac-
cuser can  and will do better than the accused.
See revelation Book of Doctrine and Covenants.
Our first parents  had the  fortitude to sacrifice
their own happified condition, to open the door
to knowledge, that future posterity might have
the opportunity to gain eternal lives in a higher
and more exalted  state of  existence,  by their
adhering to  faith  and  good  works.  And
evil of a necessity came into the world, that all
might act upon their own agency to choose good
or evil and through love of  gain  and honor of
men,yielded themselves to the enticings of that
wicked  one,  choosing  darkness  rather  than
light, until they have become what they are at
the present day, full of selfishness, doubt and in-
sincerity-until the whole  world  is  burthened
with sins of the most revolting character which are
being winked  at  by many  standing as  it
were at the  head  of  our  own  so-called  great
and enlightened Republic- while virtue hides
her face  in shame  and  justice stands aghast
shorn of his power to execute equity and judg-
ment.  Truly when the wicked rule the people
mourn.  It is evident that such  a state  of evil
cannot always  exist, there must be  a reform,
and this change cannot be brought about with-
out sacrificing false theories and traditions, for
pure  and wholesome  principles,  and  educat-
ing the mind by example as well as precept, to
a higher standard  of virtue  than  is generally
required to form  a  respectable  society.  This
being the case, how necessary for the  youth  of
our  people  to  become  well  skilled  in  both
mental  and  physical  accomplishments  and
vigilant  in  regard  to  duties, both  sons  and
daughters, that they may  not only make  good
citizens, but better  fathers  and  mothers, than
it were possible for  their  parents  to be, underthe circumstances.  I  believe there is  a  far
greater and more responsible meaning in the ap-
pellations husband and father, wife and mother,
than  is generally understood, that  unless both
possess the requisite qualifications to honorably
and truly fill so noble  and  responsible a posi-
tion,  it is a mockery,  a farce  in  the  sight  of
God.  It is written in 2nd. Corinthians, be ye
not unequally yoked together with unbelievers,
for what fellowship hath righteousness with un-
righteousness,  and what connection hath  light
with  darkness.  This  is  good  counsel, and a
very true explanation, and we should look well
to our ways, lest we be  numbered with the un-
believers.  I fear a great  many that profess to
be  Latter-day Saints  will  be counted  among
that  number,  if we  are  to  be  judged by  our
works.  It may be asked, how are we to choose
thus wisely? I know of no  better  way than  to
ask God to enlighten your  understanding, and
study the grand "Book of Nature" and become
familiar with her laws, then govern yourselves
accordingly, complying  with the principles of
everlasting laws, by sacrificing in our every day
lives our degenerate  propensities  and  desires,
and all else that is detrimental to the advance-
ment of future posterity;  then let  us  not  stand
in our own light, by yielding to the fickle fancies
of a moment, regardless of a more noble object in
life.  Learn  each  other's true character,princi-
ples, tastes  and  habits, and  see whether they
compare favorably  with your own true nature,
and the laws of God.  Be firm and true to your
better  judgment, and  listen  to  the  guardian
voice of nature, who is  ever  striving to  instil
in  the hearts  of her  children, her immutable
laws-laws that  cannot  be  broken  with im-
punity  without  condign punishment  to  the
transgressor, and that is not all, the evil is sure
to be transmitted in a greater degree, to future
posterity. Much depends on parents, in regard
to  coming  society,  of  which  our  children
are the germ, that  is  to be  instructed by  ex-
ample as well as precept, how to  wisely  and
judiciously implant life-giving and life-preserv-
ing laws both for  body and mind, that  it may
never be erased from the tablets of their hearts.
In perusing  the inexhaustible pages of "Nature's
Book,"  I find  written there, this  divine  asser-
tion,  that  "What  manner of see ye sow, that
shall ye also  reap  again.  Ye  cannot gather
grapes of thorns, or figs  of thistles,"  justly and
wisely showing it does  not all  depend on  the
soil as regards  the kind and quntity of  fruit
produced, and I earnestly  believe if one fourth
of the time and means expended to improve the
animal creation were as earnestly and zealously
disbursed  with  the  same  view,  to  morally
educate our young  people (and old as well) and
raise them to a higher state of humanity, there
would be less cause for sorrow and regret and it
would be taking a step in  the  right direction,
preparing to the ushering in of the Great Day of
the Lord.
	Then let us be alive  to our  duties  and  wil-
ling to offer our daily  sacrifice that we may be
accounted wise stewards in the House of God.
						N.A.C.


122	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	All at once a cry arose that electrified the peo-
ple, and rang from ocean to ocean, from Lake
Superior to the Gulf of Mexico. It was gold!
gold! It had been found on the coast of Cali-
fornia in such quantities that the whole coun-
try felt the thrill of excitement. The mechanic
left his work shop, the farmer his plough, the
gambler his den, the speculator left his stocks
and bonds, and all rushed, pell mell, for the
gold fields. Jesse too caught the fever; why
should he not have gold too? It was not for his
own comfort, he told himself, but for his wife
and little ones, not for aggrandizement nor
worldly honor, but for comfort and happiness.
Give me not riches, the prophet said, lest I
grow proud and deny Thee, nor poverty lest I
grow covetous and steal. So Jesse felt that he
did not wish to be a rich man, only to gain a
competence, and comforts for his old age, and
it all seemed so easy when he could dig it up
out of the ground in great yellow nuggets and
scales of yellow gold. How many comforts it
would bring for his darling Mary, how much
might be done for his sweet children! A little
gold would do all this, and he had only to
dig it out of the ground. There was much to
overcome before he could do all this, but his
will was strong and he could endure much with
such an object in view. With a mind full of
bright anticipations he provided for his family
the best he could in so short a time, and joined
the company that was starting for the Eldorado
—the land of bright dreams and bitter dis-
appointment, of gold and of crime, of sunshine
and shadows.
	He kissed his wife and children goodbye and
started; Mary watched him out of sight, then
embracing her children she turned into her
cabin to sit down and cry. She was not of a
sanguine temperament. She was always ready
for an emergency, and made the best of present
opportunities, but had no very bright anticipa-
tions for the future. She favored Jesse's idea
of building a sawmill, for she knew that lumber
would be a staple article, and in good demand;
if emigration continued and good crops were
raised they might succeed in making a com-
fortable home. But this dream of gold was a
far-off thing, the chasing of a phantom, some-
thing too bright for reality. Jesse was gone,
her husband, her protector; she was alone now
with her little helpless children, in that lone
cabin in the woods; with the wild beasts around
her, and the hiss of the serpent in her path;
alone in her helplessness and her poverty, with
no kind voice to cheer-her, no strong hand to


protect her. The men working at the mill, or
passing the cabin with their teams, relieved
the monotony of the day, but when night came,
and the stars shone down,so cold and so far off,
and the wolf howled, and the night owl hooted,
she kindled a fire, more for protection than use
although the evenings are chilly in the cañons,
and drawing her little ones around the hearth,
with baby on her knee and Minnie by her side,
she told her tales of the past, or anticipations
of the future, to amuse or interest the child.
She had no supernatural terrors, but the agony
of these long, lonely nights can scarcely be
described. Her cabin was not strong enough
to proctect her from beasts of prey if they should
attack her, and huge rattlesnakes often crept
through the floor, in a friendly way, but their
calls were far from being agreeable. Their
small stock of provisions diminished, and no
way seemed to open for more; their meal was
measured and the rations grew less daily, until
all was gone and there was nothing but dried
squash and the milk of their two cows, which,
owing to the severity of flies, was frequently
bloody. They had no meat, and the roots and
weeds were all strange and for aught they
knew were poisonous. So the weeks passed
by and hunger was added to their other dis-
comforts, relieved now and then by a little
provisions from the settlement. About harvest
time the lumber men left the cañon to attend
their crops and they were about to be left en-
tirely alone in that fearful lonely place fifteen
miles from town. Mary could not endure it
any longer; she felt the torture of fear and
loneliness was more than her mind could bear.
Although she had no home to go to,she insisted
on being moved to town, where she could at
least have human companionship. Accord-
ingly her little all, her children and house-
hold treasures were taken to the settlement.
There were no houses to rent there, and her
things were unloaded in a friend's door-yard
until a cabin could be built for her. Notwith-
standing the unpleasantness of her situation
she felt it a great pleasure to enjoy once more
the society of her own sex. To mingle with
her friends once more seemed to lessen the pain
of seperation, and distract her thoughts some-
what from constant anxiety about Jesse, from
whom, as yet, she had received no intelligence.
He had gone so far, and among such a mixed
multitude, and there were so many dangers and
hardships to contend with! She had never
been separated from him before; and it seemed
so far away over those dreary mountains, and
the time so long. If she could just see past
those rocky walls that seemed to shut her in,
so far from civilization, like a prison whose
doors might never be opened to give her again
the fresh, free air of her native land! If she
had not believed in the Gospel and trusted
implicitly in God she must indeed have suc-
cumbed to the terrible ordeal.
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 123


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.

	Great was the satisfaction of Apothecary
Lindsay when he found his daughter was se-
curely sheltered from poverty, by her being
married, as he fondly hoped, to a wealthy mer-
chant, and numerous were the congratulations
he received when the announcement was made
in the Court Magazine as follows:
	Married: At Coleman Street, in the city of
London, Mr. Wm. Unipod, merchant grocer of
that place, to Miss Mary Lindsay, only daugh-
ter of Joseph Lindsay, apothecary, of Ber-
mondsey, in the county of Surrey.

[Column 2]
	Mr. Lindsay had traveled much, and he had
become possessed of considerable information
relating to the history of his ancestors, by rea-
son of his father, Mr. Rector Lindsay, having
kept records of such transactions in olden
times. And Mr. Apothecary Lindsay thought
that one of the principal causes of poverty
and decay in families was that of imprudent
marriages. That gentleman did not perhaps
look at the final results that were brought
about to others, so much as the present incon-
venience to himself caused by loss of real es-
tate and personal property. As to the adapta-
tion of human beings to each other, beings who
were to be companions, the moral fitness of
things in relation to marriage, this was seldom
thought of in those days; as the saying is,
"Matrimony" was too often "a matter of
money."
	One of the many legends which had made a
profound impression upon the mind of Mr.
Lindsay was that of a daughter of the house
of Dunrod, of which he was himself a descend-
ant, and as the story is rather a long one, it
will be well, perhaps, to make it a separate
article.

THE DAUGHTER OF DUNROD.

	Lillias was the daughter of the Rev. Wil-
liam Dunrod, of the famous city of Edinburgh.
She was named after her grandmother, Lillias
Maxwell, of the house of Herries, and she pos-
sessed many of the mental and moral qualities
of that amiable lady. Miss Lillias had been
liberally educated, and, although her parents
were not rich, they were in comfortable cir-
cumstances. It was naturally hoped that an
advantageous alliance would be made for Lil-
lias, with some one of at least equal wealth
and social standing. The family of Dunrod
was an ancient one, claiming direct descent
from Sir James Lindsay, the friend and com-
panion of Robert Bruce. It is true, the ancient
patrimony of the family had dwindled into
insignificance, the estates settled on them by
Bruce and the early Stuarts, for services ren-
dered at a time when success was too frequently
the guage of merit in human transactions, these
estates had passed away. So recently as in
1610 the Mains of Kilbride, near Glasgow,
had been alienated; subsequently the lands
and castle of Dunrod, and other estates, had
passed away from the family. As to property,
it was a subject that caused no anxiety to Miss
Lillias Dunrod, and when her grandmother
told her of the former opulence of her fathers,
and of the probability that she would marry
well in consequence of her family connections,
such considerations did not trouble Miss
Lillias.
	It so happened that that young lady had al-
ready settled the question of marriage to her
entire satisfaction. A young gentleman of
Dufton, in Westmoreland, appeared to her to be
the most suitable man in the world for a hus-
band. His name was plain John Phesdo; he
was a descendant of the former laird of Phesdo.
He was also related to the Dunrod family.
All this was well enough as far as it went, but
he was poor, and the father of Lillias for this
reason did not think the match a desirable one.
In vain did Miss Lillias try to reason out the
matter with her father, by showing that it was
no fault of John's that he was poor. If the fault
rested with any one, it was with the grand-
father of John, who had lost his estate by his
own imprudence. How far Miss Lillias was
correct in her conclusions it is not very easy to
say at this distance of time, as the manuscript
only states as follows: "The laird of Phesdo
had many followers; they were out with the
men of the Falconer family with hawks, at
Montrose. A quarrel arose between the fol-
lowers of Phesdo and those of Falconer, in the
midst of which a baillie came in and tried, to
quell the tumult. While the riot continued,

[Column 3]
John of Phesdo came among them with a
drawn sword, and cut off the baillie's arm.
For this offense the baillie took advantage of
law, and Phesdo forfeited his estate. The es-
tate is now in the Falconer family." This was
written in 1689.
	Now the way in which Miss Lillias had read
history led her to believe that the act of the
laird of Phesdo was not nearly so malicious or
sanguinary as that of some of her own ances-
tors who had been rewarded for such deeds.
Besides this, she argued, John Phesdo is not to
blame for an act done by his grandfather.
Much more would have been said if her father
would have listened to it; and finally, as Miss
Lillias could not obtain the parental consent,
she determined to be married without, and
John Phesdo and Lillias Dunrod became one,
living together very happily for many years;
although comparatively poor. This was the
"imprudent marriage" that had determined
Mr. Apothecary Lindsay to see that his daugh-
ter was married to a wealthy merchant; we
shall see how he succeeded—time is a great re-
vealer of secrets. It may be there is something
more to live for than gold and silver; it may
be that marriage is for a higher purpose than
mere selfish gratification. Possibly we are liv-
ing links, connecting the present and future
with the past, the spiritual and the temporal,
the things of time with those of eternity.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have  often  thought I should like to show
my  appreciation  of  your  valuable  paper  by
adding  a  few lines to  its  columns, could you
spare me  space.  Every  number  to  me is be-
coming more full of interest.  I sincerely hope
my sisters will continue to exert their efforts in
preparing food for our minds.  I feel that it is
our duty to  try to improve each other.  There
are some among us who have had but a limited
education,  consequently it is more difficult for
them  to  express thoughts and ideas, either by
voice  or by pen  and  paper, and such need en-
couragement, as  has  been  observed by  one of
our sisters in an article  entitled "Commenda-
tion  versus  Criticism," while  others  who have
been more fotunate can  get  along  better.  I
feel thankful that our young folks have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth the talents that
are  now in obscurity among this people.  I be-
lieve  if  the  majority  of  us  were  not  so  timid
and  so  afraid  of  criticism, we  could do  more
in this work.  I hope  to see the day when  the
Latter-day  Saints  will  excel  all  other  people
in  both  prose  and  poetry.  I know if our de-
sires are pure the Spirit of the Lord will assist
us.  Let  us  endeavor  to have  books that will
be both amusing  and instructive to the young,
that they may have no desire to read the trash
of the  world.  I  join  my sisters  in  thanking
the author of a "Pen  Sketch  of an Illustrious
Woman,"  and  pray that  we may  all prove our-
selves worthy  of  a celestial crown  with her in
the kingdom of our God.  I think if we could
only  realize the glory that is in  store for those
who  do  right, we should not feel life so weari-
some nor would duty seem a task.
 I hope, dear  editor, you will  continue your
labor, for  our  benefit.  I wish  you  a  Happy
New Year, and success to the EXPONENT,
M. A. PINGREE.
Ogden City, Jan. 2, 1881.


THE old clothes that we wear no longer; may
give comfort and confidence to a man  in  naked
destitution.  The truths  that are so familiar to
us that we never think  about  them may raise
the  utterly ignorant to a sense of their human
brotherhood.--Hamerton.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1881.


ONLY  A WOMAN’S OPINION.

Every woman likes to  have her say  and espe-
cially  every woman editor  whether her  opinion
be worth much or little.
It is useless perhaps  to repeat in the columns
of the EXPONENT what is now  so well known
<ortheejcptjnet whait="" is="" now="" so="" well="" knowni="" sand="" widely="" -circulated="" concerning="" the="" certificate;="" bnofi="" election="" for;="" utah’s,="" .delegate="" .to="" congress.="" in(="" ithe="" great="" hnd="" far-seeing="" wisdom="" of="" present'="" governor="" of'the="" territory,="" said="" certificate="" was="" issued="" in="" favor="" allen="" g.="" campbell,="" minority="" candidate,="" for-="" whom="" 1,357="" votes="" were="" polled="" a'territory="" lpq,ooq="" inhabitants,and="" where="" 18,-="" '568="" cast="" for="" delegate="" the!="" -ff(,people’s="" .party,="" hpn.="" george="" q.="" cannon.="" i="" how;="" v(riargo,a="" .class,="" people.pf="" utah,="" does="" .mr.i="" .campbell="" represent?="" a="" very="" small="" proportion.,="" fwhat="" interest="" has="" he="" common="" with="" ,peo-'="" r-iple.="" “who="" have="" settled="" whose="" .bone="" and="" ni="" sinew="" muscle="" brain="" have,="" developed="" this="-" barren="" waste="" country="" which="" had="" erst="" been="" rejected="" by="" bravest="" mountaineers,as="" notin-!="" ;="" thatiitable="" white="" men?="" what="" doeshe="" know="" ’the="" needs="" people="" who="" toiled,="" are.="" '.'still="" honorably="" toiling="" to="" build="" up="" improve="" 'the="" country,="" furnish="" labor="" working="" 0class,="" establish="" promote="" educational="" "interests="" alj;="" jmr.="" campbell="" may="" be="" "'qualified="" position="" were,="" conversant="" -witl="" their="" needs,="" but="" y.'haye'ciibseh="" themselves,="" vsiiall="" according="" law="" land.="" government="" people,="" such="" as="" ijnited="" states="" constitution="" guarantees="" 'ail="" citizens,it="" seems="" complete="" bprlesque="" mockery="" jaw="" and,="" justice="" perpetrate="" an="" 'act="" practised="" .upon="" majority="" citizens="" utah="" instance="" issuance="" -,;="" gov.="" murray.="" t'does="" mot="" seem="" possible="" that="" act="" can="" meet="" the.="" approval="" those="" sit="" power="" highest="" ri="" judicial,="" court="" nation.="" if="" how="" blind="" (limust="" wisdom,="" warped="" preju-="" -;'diced!their="" judgment.="" we="" will="" not="" believe="" -="" u="" sanction="" free="" gov-="" ernment,="" extends="" liberty="" ail="" worship="" 1="" god="" dictates="" own="" con-="" sciences.="" without="" taking="" any="" special="" points="" '!="" 'in’question="" space="" desire="" or="" ability,="" only="" say,="" it="" js="" persecution="" religion,="" jet="" say="" j="" nay.j'="" "mormon”="" would="" .been="" otherwise.="" shame="" on="" weep="" over="" wrongs="" persecutions="" waldensesahd="" pilgrim="" fathers="" yet="" pursue="" deatlaliose="" age="" i.-tipae,="" chance="" difier="" materially="" opinion="" sentiment="" doctrine="" from="" them.="" there="" one="" consolation="" the'.latter-day="" saints="" -i="" aud="" should="" give="" them="" implicit="" ifaith'and="" confidence,="" this,="" “in="" l.o'lv.v="" .'vi—.!="" .="" nf-'h'ut'="" :<="" div="">and widely circulated converning the certificate
of election for Utah's  delegate  to  Congress.  In
the great and far-seeing wisdom  of the present
Governor of  the Territory, said  certificate  was
issued in favor of Allen G. Campbell,the minority
candidate, for  whom  1,357  votes were polled in
a Territory of 150,000  inhabitants,and where 18,-
568   votes  were  cast  for  the delegate of the
People's Party, Hon.  George Q. Cannon.  How
large  a  class  of  the  people of  Utah  does  Mr.
Campbell represent?  A  very small proportion.
What interest has he in common  with the  peo-
ple who have  settled  Utah,  whose  bone  and
sinew and muscle and brain have developed this
barren waste  of  country  which  had  erst  been
rejected by the bravest mountaineers, as not in-
habitable by white men? What does he know of
the needs of the people who have  toiled and are
still honorably toiling  to build up  and  improve
the  country,  furnish  labor  for  the  working
class, and  establish  and  promote  educational
interests  for  all;  Mr.  Campbell  may  be well
qualified for  the  position  were  he conversant
with the people and  their  needs, but the people
have chosen for themselves, who their delegate
shall be according  to the  law of the land.  In a
government for and  by  the  people, such as  the
United  States  Constitution  guarantees to  all
citizens,  it  seems  a  complete  burlesque  and
mockery of law and justice to perpetrate such an
act as has  been  practised  upon  the  majority
citizens of Utah in the stance of the issuance
of certificate of election by Gov. Murray.  It does
not  seem  possible that such an act can meet the
approval of those who sit in power in the highest
judicial court  of the  nation.  If  so  how  blind
must be their wisdom,  how warped  and  preju-
diced  their judgment.  But we will not believe
such an act can have the sanction of a free gov-
ernment, that extends  liberty to  all to worship
God according to the dictates  of their own con-
sciences.  Without taking up any special points
in questions as we have not the  space if we  had
the desire or ability,  we  have only  this to say,
it is persecution  for  religion, let  who will say,
Nay.  Had it been any but a "Mormon" people
it would have been otherwise.  Shame on  those
who weep over the wrongs  and  persecutions  of
the  Waldenses and the Pilgrim Fathers and yet
pursue to the death those in  their  own age and
time, who chance to differ materially in opinion
and sentiment on points of doctrine from  them.
There is one consolation for the Latter-day Saints
and it is one which should  give them implicit
faith and confidence, it is this, that  "In God we


trust." He has delivered his people many times
in the darkest hours, from the most complicated
perplexities and snares of their enemies,and yet
the Saints should ever bear in mind that
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."


A BEAUTIFUL BOY.

	We take great pleasure in announcing the
birth of a beautiful boy, which auspicious event
transpired at three o'clock Tuesday morning, the
4th inst., the happy parents being Mr. John Q. and
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon. On Tuesday the 11th,at
twelve o'clock m., the babe was blessed, Pres. D.
H. Wells (the grandfather) officiating, and the
boy was named George Quayle Cannon, after his
grandfather on the paternal side; the virtues of
both these noble men and excellencies may he
emulate in his future life. Our readers will no
doubt join us in congratulations to the parents,
and good wishes for the little one just ushered
into life. Mrs. Cannon was formerly connected
with the editorial department of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and since her marriage has been an
occasional contributor to its columns.

ANOTHER BOY.

	Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton, formerly Miss
Horne, who was for some years business mana-
ger of the EXPONENT, is the second time the
happy mother of a fine boy, born Dec. 29, 1880.
The boy is called Raymond. We sincerely con-
gratulate Mr. and Mrs. Clayton on the happy
event, and trust he may live to do them honor.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 THE Relief Society blanks  are now ready and
for sale at the office of the Deseret News.  Tune
books  which  have been  prepared to accompany
the Children's Primary Hymn Books are for sale
at  this  office.
 THE Relief Society of  the  Fourteenth  Ward,
under  the  efficient  management of a  commit-
tee of ladies,  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Chairman
Committee, gave  a  social  party  on  Thursday
evening, Jan. 13, which was  in  every respect a
complete success.
	TRIP UP  THE  RIO VIRGIN.-On New Year's
Day Sisters Eliza  and  Zina  and  Mrs. Minerva
Snow started  on a missionary  trip  up  the  Rio
Virgin.  They  visited  Harrisburg,  Leeds,  To-
querville, Virgin  City. Duncan's  Retreat, Graf-
ton,  Rockville  and  Shonesburg.  In  each  of
these  they organized a Primary  Association; in
Rockville  assisted the  Bishop  in  re-organizing
the R.S., and  in  Toquerville  the R.S. and Y.
L. M. I. A.  In all, the sisters held fifteen meet-
ing.  "The Spirit  of  the  Lord was manifest, and
on several occasions copiously poured out."
	We gratefully acknowledge  the  kind  invita-
tion  extended us to attend a social  party given
in  the  15th  Ward Assembly Rooms  on Thurs-
day  evening, Dec. 30, 1880, and  sincerely  regret
we  were  prevented  from  attending.  We  also
see  upon  our  table  an  invitation to attend the
anniversary  gathering  of the  Y. L. M. I. A. of 
the  17th  Ward, which will  be held  at the resi-
dence  of  Mrs. Maria Y.  Dougall, on  Tuesday,
the 18th inst., and  hope to be there to enjoy the
good spirit and  feeling  that universally prevails
among the young ladies in their associations.
 WE welcome  gladly  among  our  exchanges
"The Bear Lake  Democrat"  published in Paris
Idaho, which comes fresh with northern news and
also contains many sharp and  spicy articles, cal-
culated to amuse  and edify the  eager and  fas-
tidious public.  Under  the  able  management of
the humorous J.C.R., and his eminent co-labor-
er J.H.H., we  think the  people of Bear Lake
County will  have a fair and  honorable news-
paper  representation,  of  which  in  times  past
they must have  felt the need.  We are glad to
see enterprises of this kind  started and  trust it
will prove a successful undertaking to all parties
concerned.
 THE Home Dramatic  Club  have  won  fresh
laurels by the performance of the two last  plays
"Pique" and  the  "Banker's  Daughter."  Both
these plays  were  good  and  as well  rendered as
could possibly be expected  of amatuers. Indeed
many encomiums of praise have  been  bestowed
upon some of the actors by  critics who have had
the  best opportunites of seeing the finest actors,
upon the stage in the  very  best theatres.  One
thing is certain the talent is  here and it may be
developed, if the people will patronize home pro-
duction, and not run  wild after  something from
abroad, paying out money, to be carried away in-
stead of  placing it  in the hands  of the  young,
rising artists here, and  thereby  building up the
profession at home.
 THE Quarterly  Conference  of  this  Stake  of
Zion  was  held in the Salt  Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday and  Sunday, Jan. 8th  and  9th.  The
meeting on Saturday morning was occupied with
the reports and transaction  of  business pertain-
ing  to the Stake affairs.  In the afternoon, after
some  special business matters had been disposed
of,  Pres. John  Taylor  addressed  the  people  on
the  subject  of  tithing, explaining  clearly  what
the Lord had  said by revelation to  the Prophet
Joseph, and  the  system  adopted  by  President
Brigham Young.
	Sunday the  meetings  were  crowded  to  over-
flowing, many could  not  obtain  standing room
in the Hall, and were compelled to return home.
Pres. John  Taylor  and  Pres. A.M. Cannon oc-
cupied the  morning session.  In  the  afternoon
Apostle  Wilford  Woodruff,  Pres.  Joseph  F.
Smith and Apostle John Henry Smith addressed
the congregation.  Many excellent  things were
spoken during  the  Conference, and the Spirit of
God seemed  to  prevail in  power  during all the
services.  The music was grand, and all seemed
inspired to perservere in the  work  of God's king-
dom.  The  closing  anthem by the choir, "Glory
to  God," was  sublimely rendered.  Conference
adjourned sine die.
 A PETITION has  been  presented to the Mayor
and City  Council  of  this  city, asking  that the
traffic in liquor be restrained.  The petition sets
forth  some  plain  facts, and suggests, "that the
City Charter authorizes the City Council  by or-
dinance  to  regulate  the  sale  of intoxicating
liquors, and  to  regulate,  restrain,  suppress  or
prohibit  billiards, pin  alleys  and  other  games,
etc.,  etc."  The petitition was signed  by John
Sharp and  7,797 others, and urges the honorable
body to take from the table the petition presented
in  1876, signed by more than  six  thousand resi-
dents of this city, for the suppression of the sale
of intoxicating  liquors.  That  some  immediate
and effective steps should be taken in this direc-
tion must be apparent to every man and woman
who take notes of  what  is passing  before their
very eyes.  That  this suggestion  to  the  Mayor
and Council is none  too soon  is also  apparent.
In Utah  County  there are some rigid measures
enforced  against violators of  liquor  ordinances.
In Spanish Fork one seller was fined sixty dollars
and  costs.  In  Springville  another  was  fined
ninety-nine dollars and costs for similar offences.


REST.

	DIED, in Springfield, Mass., Dec. 3, 1880,
James Woodward, in his 57th year. Deceased
was born in Petersham, Mass., Feb. 14, 1824.
He leaves a loving wife, who deeply mourns his
loss, and many brothers and sisters to whom he


was affectionately endeared. On the silver plate
of his coffin was engraved the one simple word,
REST. His funeral services were held at his
residence Dec. 6. He was buried beside his
children, who had all died in infancy.
	The poem published on the first page was
written on the occasion of his death by his sister
and mine, and is more expressive, perhaps, than
anything I could have written. Farewell, my
dear brother, until we shall meet again.

					EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


"GOD KNEW THE BEST."

	"Then be content, poor heart!
God's plans, like lilies,  pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."
	These expressive  lines were a favorite  quota-
tion  of  the  lady who forms  the  subject of this
memoir.  Young, beautiful and tenderly beloved,
and yet she has gone-gone when her life seemed
most  complete, in the rich fulness  of the crown
of holy  motherhood; gone  from  earthly vision,
passed  over  the  "river  of  life,"  to  the other
shore-the unknown.  Lovely,  innocent  and
good, the angels came and wafted her pure spirit
away  from  earth,  where, freed  from  pain  and
sorrow, and all the weariness and hindrances of
mortal  life, she  might develop  those  higher at-
tributes of the soul  that  were  imprisoned here.
	Mrs. Fannie Adele Cole, nee McBride, beloved
wife  of  Frank  Cole,  Esq., of this city, departed
this life early in the afternoon of Friday, Jan. 7,
1881.  On  the  18th  of December  last she gave
birth to a fine, healthy boy, and was apparently
convalescent, when, from  some  unknown cause
she took cold, a chill followed, and subsequently
she passed  peacefully away in a calm  and  tran-
quil sleep.
	Mrs. Cole was, in the best sense  of the word,
a superior woman.  She had  been carefully edu-
cated,  and  possessed  that  innate  refinement
which  gives  sublimity  to  womanly  character;
added to this were  the  charms  of rare  culture,
gentleness and  genuine kindness.  Of generous
impulses,  she  was  constantly  planning for the
happiness of her husband and friends, forgetful
of self in those she loved.  She delighted in the
beauties  of  nature, and  reveled in works of art.
Of  a  poetic  temperament and  decidedly artistic
tastes, she was ever  striving to improve the tal-
ents  with  which  she was  most  generously en-
dowed.  She was  a  model  housekeeper, and her
home was a place of beauty, adorned with paint-
ings, embroidery  and  elegant  trifles, the work-
manship of her own hands.  She was intellec-
tually gifted  and  had  devoted much time to lit-
erary pursuits, having written for the press from
early  girlhood.  It  was  perhaps  owing  to  her
sympathy with  those  engaged in  literary work
that our acquaintance  first  commenced  several
years  ago, which  ultimately  ripened  into a sub-
lime friendship.  She will ever be  like  a  bright
picture in  my memory.  A  leaf has dropped out
of  my life-history  whereon  was  written  many
tender things-the story  of  our friendship-a
beautiful leaf, silver edged and violet-tinted, 
whose fragrance still remains, sweet as the per-
fume of  June roses.  "God  knew the best."
	The poem  published  below  was  recited,  by
Mrs. Cole's request, at her funeral.
AUNT  EM.
THE  CITY  OF  THE LIVING.
			-------
In a long-vanished age, whose varied story
	No record has to-day---
So long ago expired its  grief  and glory---
	There flourished, far away,

In a broad realm,  whose  beauty passed all measure,
	A city fair and wide,
Wherein the dwellers lived in peace and pleasure,
	And never any died.
Disease and pain and death, those stern marauders
	Which mar our world's fair face,
Never encroached upon the pleasant borders
	Of that bright dwelling place.
No fear of parting, and no dread of dying
	Could ever enter there;
No mourning for the lost,  no anguished crying,
	Made any face less fair.
Without the city wall death reigued as ever,
	And graves rose side by side;
Within, the dwellers laughed at his endeavor,
	And never any died!
O happiest of all earth's favored places!
	O bliss, to dwell therein-
To live in the sweet light of loving faces,
	And fear no grave between!
To feel no death-damp gathering cold and colder,
	Disputing life's  warm truth;
To  live on, never lonelier or older-
	Radiant in deathless youth!
And hurrying from the world's remotest quarters;
	A tide of pilgrims flowed,
Across broad plains,  and  over  mighty waters,
	To find that blessed abode,
Where never death should come between and sever
	Them from their loved part;
Where they might work, and will, and live forever,
	Still holding heart to heart.
And so they lived in happiness and pleasure,
	And grew in power and pride,
And did great deeds, and laid up store of treasure,
	And never any died!
And many years rolled on, and saw them striving
	With unabated breath;
And other years still found and left them living,
	And gave no hope of death.
Yet listen, hapless soul, whom angels pity,
	Craving a boon like this-
Mark how the dwellers in the wondrous city
	Grew weary of  their bliss.
One and another, who had been concealing
	The pain  of  life's long thrall,
Forsook their pleasant places, and came stealing
	Outside the city wall,
Craving, with wish that brooked no more denying-
	So long had it been crossed-
The blessed possibility  of dring-
	The treasure they had lost!
Daily the current  of rest seeking mortals
	Swelled to a broader tide,
Till none were left within the city's portals,
	And graves grew green  outside.
Would it be worth the having  or the giving,
	The boon  of endless breath?
Ah, for the weariness that comes of living,
	There is no cure  but death!
Ours  were, indeed,  a fate deserving pity,
	Were that sweet rest denied;
And few, methinks,  would care to find the city
	Where never any died!


IN MEMORY OF—

	George W.	Dunford, son of George and Eliza
Snow Dunford. died in Salt Lake City Dec. 13,
1880, at ten minutes to five o’clock a. m. Little
George was born Jan. 1, 1878, being nearly three
years old at the time he died. He was an ex-
ceedingly interesting child, was very large for
his age, and his physical as well as mental de-
velopment was quite remarkable. Sister Eliza
R. Snow, in a letter to the mother (her niece),
said: “It did not surprise me as much when I
was informed that the dear, precious jewel had
departed, as it would have done had I not real-
ized that the dear little George always seemed
too good for earth. That mighty, noble spirit
was too much to be long encased in a mortal
casket. It must be great comfort to you that
God has blest you with such a beautiful, noble
child, and that by faithfulness to the Gospel you
can secure it, and receive it again as you laid it
down, full of intelligence. That child is sure of


a celestial glory; had it lived it might have been
contaminated, now it has secured its eternal ex-
altation." Other comforting remarks followed,
and the poem which we publish below, from the
gifted pen of Zion's Poetess. We also extend
our sympathies to the bereaved parents, for we
too have sorrowed, and know how to appreciate
the tears which flow when we are called to part
with those whose affections are entwined around
our hearts, but remember this, "God knoweth
best."

OUR LITTLE GEORGE.

George has been our darling baby,
	Then he grew our darling boy;
He was lovely, loved and loving,
	Mother's pride and father's joy,

O how short his earthly mission!
	To the courts of endless day,
From a world of sin and sorrow,
	Little George is called away.

He has gone where love and beauty
	Blend with music's richest swells;
George is now her loving brother,
	Where his sister Georgie dwells.

						E. R. SNOW SMITH.


PLEASANT PARTY.

	A pleasant  surprise  party was gotten up on
Thursday, Dec. 16, by some of the sisters of the
Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, in honor of the
70th anniversary of our  much  esteemed Sister
Melvina  Snow's birthday.  The  party was held
at the residence of her  daughter, Mrs. De Long,
with whom she was invited to dine, in order to
make the surprise complete.  On arriving  there
she was  greatly suprised to find a room  full  of
warm friends to greet her, numbering more than
thirty  persons, who  sat  down  to a table  spread
with  a  variety  of  good  things.  Among  the
guests  were  Bishop  E.  D.  Woolley,  Judge  Z.
Snow,  Brother  Millen  Atwood,  and  Willard
Snow, son of Sister M. Snow, with their  wives,
and quite a number  of  the  sisters who had been
acquainted for many years  with  our worthy sis-
ter, most  of  whom  made  a  few  remarks  after
dinner.  Mrs.  Rachel  Grant,  President  of the
Relief Society, spoke of the faithfulness of Sister
Snow  as  a  Teacher  in  the  Society.  All  ex-
pressed  their  appreciation  of her  good  qualities,
tendering  heartily  their  congratulations,  with
many  good  wishes  of happy  returns  of  these
celebrations, her  son expressing his  great  plea-
sure  at  the  kindly feeling  manifested  towards
his  aged  mother.  Judge  Snow also referred to
Sister Melvina, as  being  acquainted  with  her
from  childhood, and  as  a  neighbor  and school-
mate, speaking  in  the  highest terms of her in-
tegrity  and  devotion  to  her  religion.  Brother
Atwood also spoke of the worthiness and exem-
plary life  of Sister  Snow, having  lived  a  near
neighbor  to her  for  many years.  The time was
spent  most  agreeably,  the  Bishop  being  well
pleased with the gathering, and left his blessing.
The company  retired  at  an  early  hour,  feeling
well  paid  that  they had  made her heart happy
in her old age.
				E. H. GODDARD.


The  most  touching  legend  in  Mr. Edwin
Arnold’s "Light  of Asia,” is the parable of Kisa
Gotami and her dead child.  Competent scholars
had said that the poem was a faithful  presenta-
tion of the legendary life and  teachings  of  Bud-
dha.  But there was  at first  much  unanswered
inquiry as to the source of the above legend, and
some credited it to Mr. Arnold’s own powers of
invention.  A  young Sanskrit scholar,  Mr. J
H,  Thomson,  at  the  University  of Kiel, has
found  the original  legend  in  the  MS.  of  Bud-
dhaghosa,  in  the  library at Copenhagen.  His
translation and notes obtained for him the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy. EX.


126	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The Twelve Apostles, when receiving their
charge from President Oliver Cowdery previous
to starting on their first mission to the Eastern
States, were warned of the great difficulties
which they would meet with in visiting all the
nations of the earth, they would need wisdom in
a ten-fold proportion to what they had ever had
for they would have to combat all the prejudices
of all nations; they were to preach this Gospel
to every nation, and should they in the least de-
gree come short of their duty, great would be
their condemnation, for the greater the calling
the greater the transgression, he therefore
warned them to cultivate great humility, for
he knew the pride of the human heart, and to
beware lest the flatterers of the world should lift
them up, and to beware lest their affections
should be captivated by worldly objects and to
let their ministry be first, and remember that
the souls of men were committed to their charge
telling them that if they would mind their call-
ing they should always prosper. With regard
to superiority he said, "The ancient Apostles
sought to be great, but brethren, lest the seeds
of discord be sown in matter understand the
voice of the spirit on this occasion. God does not
love you better or more than others. You are to
contend for the faith once delivered to the Saints.
Jacob you know wrestled until he obtained.
It was by fervent prayer and diligent search that
you have obtained the testimony that you are now
able to bear. You are as one. You are equal in
bearing the Keys of the Kingdom to all nations.
You are called to preach the Gospel of the Son of
God to the nations of the earth. It is the will of
your Heavenly Father that you proclaim his
Gospel to the ends of the earth, and the Islands
of the sea. Be zealous to save souls. The soul
of one man is as precious as the soul of another.
You are to bear this message to those who con-
sider themselves wise, and such may persecute
you, they may seek your life. The adversary
has always sought the life of the servants of God.
You are therefore to be prepared at all times to
make a sacrifice of your lives, should God require
it in the advancement and building up of his
cause. Murmur not at God. Be always prayer
ful, be always watchful. You will bear with
me while I relieve the feelings of my heart.
We shall not see another day like this.	*	*	*
You will see the time when you will desire to see
such a day as this and you will not see it.
	"Every heart wishes you peace and prosperity,
but the scenes with you will inevitably change.
Let no man take your bishopric,and beware that
you lose not your crowns. It will require your
whole souls. It will require courage like E-
noch's. The time is near when you will be in the
midst of congregations, who will gnash their
teeth upon you. This Gospel must roll and will
roll till it fills the whole earth. Did I say con-
gregations would gnash upon you? Yea I say na-
tions will gnash upon you. You will be consid-
dered the worst of men. Be not discouraged at
this, when God pours out his Spirit the enemy
will rage, but, God, remember is on your right
hand and on your left. A man though he may
be considered the worst, has joy who is conscious
that he pleases God. The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this has
been the case ever since the days of righteous
Abel. The same opposition has been manifested
 wherever men came forward to publish the Gos-
pel. The time is coming when you will be the
worst by many and by some the best of men.
The time is coming when you will be perfectly
familiar with the things of God. This testimony
will make those who do not believe your testi-
mony seek your lives. But there are whole na-
tions who will receive your testimony. They
will call you good men. Be not lifted up when
you are called good men. Remember you are
young men, and you shall be spared, I include
the other three. Bear them in mind in your
prayers, carry their cares to a throne of grace.
Although they are not present,yet you and they
are equal. This appointment is calculated to
create an affection in you, for each other,
stronger than death. Your lives shall be in great
jeopardy, but the promise of God is that you
shall be delivered.	*	*	*	The day is coming
when the work of God must be done. Israel
shall be gathered. The seed of Jacob shall be
gathered from their long dispersion. There will be
a feast to Israel, the elect of God. It is a sorrowful
tale but the Gospel must be preached and his
(God's) ministers be rejected, but where can
Israel be found and not receive your testimony

[Column 2]
and not rejoice? No where. The prophicies are
full of great things that are to take place in the
last days. After the Elect is gathered out,
destruction shall come on the inhabitations of the
earth. All nations shall feel the wrath of God,
after they have been warned by the Saints of the
Most High. If you will not warn them others
will, and you will lose your crowns. You must
prepare your minds to bid a long farewell to
Kirtland even till the great day come. You
will see what you never expected to see. You
will need the mind of Enoch or Elijah and the
faith of the Brother of Jared. You must be pre-
pared to walk by faith, however appalling the
prospect to human view. You, and each of you,
should feel the force of the imperious mandate,
Son go labor in my vineyard, and cheerfully re-
cieve what comes, but in the end you will stand
while others will fall. You have read in the
revelation concerning ordination. Beware how
you ordain, for all are not like this nation. They
will willingly receive the ordinances at your
hand to put you out of the way. There will be
times when nothing but the Angels of God can
deliver you out of their hand. We appeal to
your intelligence. We appeal to your under-
standings that we have so far discharged our
duty to you. We consider it one of the greatest
condescensions of our Heavenly Father in point-
ing you out to us. You will be stewards over
the ministry. We have work to do that no other
man can do. You must proclaim the Gospel in
its simplicity and purity, and we commend you
to God and the word of his grace,	*	*	*
	"We now expect you to be faithful to fulfill in all
things and permit me to repeat all nations have
a claim on you. You are bound together as the
three witinesses were—You notwithstanding can
part and meet, and meet to part again till your
heads are silvered o'er with gray."
	After the Twelve returned from their mission
East they had a council with the first Presidency
in the house of the Lord where, my father says,
we laid our grievances before them concerning
some things which had transpired during our
mission. Viz., that Dr. Warren Cowdery and
others having used an undue influence over
the first Presidency through Oliver Cowdery and
others, they had suspended "Orson Hyde and
William E. McLellen accusing them, with the
Twelve, of not preaching the gathering to Zion,
or of gathering means to purchase lands in Zion,
when they were at Freedom, which was proved
to be a false accusation."
	"All things were reconciled to our minds, we
had a joyful season and one long to be remem-
bered by us: We continued together a day and
night."
	I will here remark that every individual who
had used an influence against the Twelve on
their mission, have apostatized and gone out of
the Church, and this should remain as an ever-
lasting warning to all others. In those days
there was a continual itching in certain individ-
uals to destroy the union existing between the
Twelve and the first Presidency and the union
in the first Presidency, which thing they did at
last effect.	*	*	*	"Oliver Cowdery, Warren
Cowdery, Jared Carter, Frederic G. Williams
and six of the Twelve became disaffected, turned
against Joseph and those of the Twelve who sus-
tained him, calling them hard names for sustain-
ing Joseph."
	"From the time that the reconcilation took
place between the first Presidency and the
Twelve, a reformation commenced in the
Church, most of the Elders and male members
felt to confess their sins. Those meetings of
humiliation repentance and confessing of sins
were truly the beginning of good days to us,and
they continued through the endowment."


TOOELE  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CON-
FERENCE.
Minutes  of  the  Quarterly  Conference  of  the
Relief Society  of  Tooele  Stake, held  at Grants-
ville  December  11  and  12, 1880, Mrs. Mary  A.
Hunter  presiding.  Singing, “Arise, O  glorious
Zion."  Prayer by Bro. Anderson.  Singing by
the  choir.  Reports  read.  Sister Presendia L.
Kimball, of Salt  Lake  City, then addressed the
meeting-  It  was a great  many years now since
the Relief Society was  organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and  that it had been a great blessing to
many  of  the  sick  and  destitute.  Spoke  of her
many years’ practical experience in plural mar-
riage;  she Joyed her sisters, with whom  she  had
been associated, in  a  family capacity.  Advised
the sisters to take good dare of  their  children,
give  them  good counsel and  never drive the
from home: teach  them  purity and honesty, and
to observe good  hours, and set  them  a  good ex-
ample.  Exhorted the sisters to be kind to those
who  need comfort; bless  those  to  whom  they
ministered in temporal things;
 Sister Elizabeth  Howard,  Salt  Lake  City,
spoke  upon  the  parable  of the ten virgins, five
wise  and  five foolish; exhorted  the sisters  to
imitate the example of the  wise  virgins, who
had oil in  their  lamps.  Alluded  to  the love of
[-]ress and the extravagance which was prevalent
among  the  Saints  at  the  present time;  said it
was not good  to dress little girls  like little pup-
pets.  Closed  with  remarks  upon  the Word of
Wisdom.  Bro.  Anderson  testified  to  the  truth
of the sisters'  remarks,  and  encouraged  all  to
persevere in the work they were doing to benefit
each other and build up Zion. Adjourned  until
2 p.m. Singing.  Benediction by Bro. McBride.
Afternoon session.  Devoted  to  Primary  As-
sociations.  After the usual exercises, Sister Hale
asked  the children  some questions, which were
very  promptly  answered.  The  children  were
very orderly.  Mrs. E. Howard gave them some
excellent instructions  on  good  behavior,  obe-
dience  to  parents, and honor to  the  priesthood
of God.  Told  them  to  try  and  remember  all
that was taught  them  in  their  meetings, pray
night and morning, and always speak the truth.
Instructed them to pray regularly fer the authori-
ties  of  the  Church, and for President George Q.
Cannon, that  he  might have  power given him
in Congress to be  preserved from the snares set
for him, and ward off all evil from the Saints.
Mrs.  Kimball  addressed  the  children  for  a
short time; told, them to be kind to aged people.
Entreated the little boys not to smoke tobacco or
drink whiskey, or  use profane language, but  to
keep  their  bodies  pure,  and  to  pray  to their
Father in  heaven  night  and  morning.  Told
them to be kind to all dumb animals, never treat
them cruelly.  If they would observe what was
taught  them  they  would  become  intelligent,
great  and  powerful.  Adjourned  after  singing
and prayer.
The  evening was  occupied  by Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference, Sisters  Kimball and Howard giving
good instruction.  Counseled the young ladies to
cultivate the  higher qualities  of  their  natures,
and not associate with those who are not seeking
to serve  God, but use all the influent possible
for  improvement, mental  and  spiritual  culture,
and  not  speak  lightly  of  plural  marriage, but
sustain  it  and  teach it in their  meetings; said
the  principle  was  elevating  and  ennobling.
Read all good books, fill their minds with  useful
knowledge, for  they could  take  that with  them
when they went behind the vail.
Sunday morning the ladies  attended the  Sun-
day  School, and  Sisters  Kimball  and  Howard
each made a short and appropriate address.
	Sunday afternoon.  The  Sacrament  was  ad-
ministered, and  then  the  sisters were called up-
on  to  speak.  Sister  Kimball  spoke  upon  obe-
dience, the  redemption  of  the  dead, the  duties
which  pertained  to  the  practical  work Which
must be done for those who had not received the
Gospel here in the flesh.  Said the Saints should
be  faithful  to  their  covenants  made  in  holy
places, true  to  their integrity, and their God.
Sister Howard remarked  that every  good  wo-
man ought to have her name enrolled in the Re-
lief Society;  every mother should set in exam-
ple before  her  children of  truthfulness  and hon
esty; we should live so as to have the confidence
of each  other,  and  not  let  pride  get  into  our
hearts.  We are tried  in  many ways.  Spoke of
Abraham’s trial  of  offering  up  his Son Isaac.
enjoined  obedience  to  the  priesthood;  thought
we ought to  encourage homemade, clothes  and
home manufactures of all kinds.
President H. J.  Grant  said he was  pleased to
have the sisters from Salt Lake City visit them:
felt he could endorse all they had said.  He had
always been acquainted with, the Relief Society
work; knew it was the, mothers who  formed the
characters  of their  children;  realized  these  or-
ganizations were a great help to the Bishops.
Apostle  F. M. Lyman  gave  a  description of
the Goose  Creek country, and related some inci-
dents of  his travels with Apostle Erastus Snow.
Said  the company in "which they traveled, con-
sisting of fourteen or fifteen  persons, always at-
tended  regularly  to prayers, asking the  Lord to
preserve  them,  etc.  Spoke  of  the  kind  and
obliging conduct of a young boy who was with
them, how  he  admired  his  manner;  he  could
not help making mention of his good conduct.
Bishop E. Hunter  said  he  hoped they would
recollect  and  put  in  practice  all that had been
said to them, etc.
Pres. Grant  made a few closing  remarks, and


the Conference was adjourned until the middle
of March, to be held in Tooele City, Singing.
Benediction by Bro. John Rich.
P. S. On Saturday the brass  band was in at-
tendance at the Conference, and inspired the
people with sweet music. The band is under
the leadership of Prof. James Ballitt.
ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S., Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS
	     UTAH STAKE

   Minutes of the Ninth Quarterly Meeting  of 
Relief Society, held in  Provo Meeting  House,
Nov. 27th 1880,  Our  President  Sister  Mar-
garet  T.  Smoot  being absent  on  account of
sickness, the  meeting  was  presided  over  by
Counselor  Mary  John.  A  number  of the
brethren were also present.  Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters E. B. Wells, S.M. Kimball,
and  Sister  E.  Howard.  Minutes  of  former
Conference read  and approved.  The reading
of the reports  of  the  quarter  were omitted  in
order to give time to hear from our visitors.
  The Presidents of the different wards  of the
city, and  societies throughout  the county, gave
verbal  reports,  all  bearing  testimony  to  the
faithfulness of the  few who  attended their So-
ciety  meetings  regularly.  Sister  Kimball
made some very instructive remarks relative to
the Relief Societies, gave  some  instructions to 
Secretaries. Said she  thought it  would have
been  pleasant to  have  had a  record  of  past
events to  have  read  at our  Jubilee, and pro-
posed to have a box with important items and
events and photographs etc., to be opened by her
successors,  and if any Society wishes  they  can
forward items  to her to  be deposited therein.
  Sister E.B. Wells said, I  think  the  sisters
of Utah County are improving in various ways.
Spoke of  the  Relief  Societies as  a  means  of 
educating the sisters  they  also  make us better
acquainted with  one  another.  Thought  the
WOMAN'S  EXPONENT, had  been  the means of
doing much good at home and abroad. Spoke
in reference to the  Primary Hymn  Books and
Tune Book for the children, thought they were
well adapted for the use  of the little folks and
would be a great blessing to  them.  Meeting
adjourned until half past 2.
   Afternoon session:  After  the  the usual ex-
ercises of singing and prayer Sister John called
on  the  sisters  that  wished to speak.  Sister
Johnson bore her testimony to the truth of this 
Gospel. L.W. Kimball made a few  remarks
in behalf  of the  young  mothers who  were at
home attending  to  their  families  of  young
children, moved  that they  be counted  among
the faithful  few, and although she considered
it their duty to attend meetings whenever they
could, she  knew  there were times  when  they
could  not  possibly  leave  their  little  ones; at
least such  had  been  her  experience.  Sister
Kimball  spoke  in  praise  of  the  silk  hand-
kerchiefs  that  were  on  exhibition;  thought
great praise was due Sisters Sanders, Smoot and
Beebe for their energy  and perseverance in
the manufacture of the some.
   Sister S.M. Kimball said, in regard to Sister
L. Kimball's  remarks,  "the  mothers are  ex-
cusable on common occasions, but  they should
attend  their  meetings  that  their  minds  may
expand and enlarge that they may  increase in
knowledge and  may  truly become helpmeets.
Sister Howard said, the Relief Societies are do-
ing a vast  amount of  good, it is  the mothers
that form the characters of their  children, let
them  take  time  to  improve  their  minds, let
them  read  good books,  let  them  read  the
news papers  and  inform themselves as to how
the Lord is  working  with the  nations in these
last days.  Let  us bring  up our young  people
to good habits and inculcate principles of truth
and  virtue  let  us  teach  them  to  read  good
books,  It says in the  Book of Covenants that
virtue  cleaves  to  virtue  and  knowledge  to
knowledge, let us give them  good  advise and
then we will clear  our skirts;  let  us  put down
the spirit  of infidelity that  is  growing among
our young people.  I wish  also to  say a  word
in  favor  of  plural  marriage  it  is  elevating,
purifying and ennobling, it rests on the mothers
to inculcate  it in the  hearts of their  children
let them not  forget  that  it  is yet extant  and
the  principle  emanated  from  God.  I  am
thankful to God for a  practical  religion, even
in our daily duties we can  ask God to give us
strength  to do everything in a right and proper
manner that  the  Lord  may  love to  dwell in
our habitations, teach  our  children  to  attend
their prayers and to  respect us and respect the
rights of others.
 Sister E.B. Wells  spoke  a short  time on
various subjects  pertaining  to  our  salvation.
Of the  spirit  of infidelity  that  was  gaining
ground in the world and the lack of spirituality
and faith.  Said  she  had  witnessed a  great
many  manifestations  of the power  of  God  in
healing the sick.  We read  that  the  glory  of
God is intelligence.  I  feel that we need more
knowledge than we have and should read more
good books and inform  ourselves,  continued
giving  good instructions, to young mothers in
their several  duties  etc. Sister  Booth from
Alpine asked the  question, how  long should a
child stay in the  Primary  Association? Sister
S.M. Kimball  replied  keep  them  as  long  as
you  can.  Sister  John  made  a  few  remarks
saying, for the good  instructions  that we have
received I feel to rejoice, I am pleased with our
reports.  I feel  to  be  one with  my  sisters, I
know this is the work  of God.  Bishop  John-
son spoke words of  encouragement and praise
thought we did not lose  anything  by going to
meeting, do not let  Satan  tempt  you  to  stay
away but  tell  the  tempter  to get thee behind
me Satan.  Spoke of the  great help the Relief
Society of his ward had  been  to him in caring
for the poor, etc. Sister H.A. Beebe spoke in
favor  of  the  silk  organization,  also  bore  her
testimony to the truth and signified  her  deter-
mination to continue faithful, invited all to at-
tend silk meeting in the evening  and find out
what was being done.  It was motioned  that the
Conference  be  adjourned  for  three  months.
Singing,  "The  Spirit  of God."  Benediction
by Bro. Powell.
		MRS. CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.

				HUNTSVILLE

 Huntsville Relief Society is partly composed
of Scandinavians, who we must say are hand
and heart in building up the kingdom of God.
Ready  at  any  call,  at  any  time, no  matter
what  the  work--spinning,  gleaning,  raising
flax, making  carpets, quilts, &c.  We have a
variety of home industries;  we  also  raise  our
own  wool, which  is  converted  into  stockings
with the greatest economy.
   With the kind help of the brethren we have
been  able  to  raise some grain  at times, which
has  proved  of  great  benefit  in  helping to re-
lieve the poor.  I think the sisters are as good
financiers as the Lord wants when  directed in
the proper spirit, for they are ever ready to be
directed  by  the  PRIESTHOOD  of  God.  We
have a granary, built by the Society, which at
present has in  its bins  one hundred bushels of
wheat, and considerable lent out.
  Our sisters,  many  of  them,  are  clothed  in
the winter with the work of their  own  hands,
and  they carry with  them  as  good a spirit as
though  they  had  all  the  paltry  fashions  of
Babylon  heaped  upon  them;  in  fact,  we  are
troubled but very little with the outside fash-
ions,  and  no outside  influences  to  draw  the
hearts of our children from the Gospel; though
a little rough at  times,  their  hearts  are  not
mixed with traditions which their parents havehad to contend with.  When they go out, they
generally mix  with  brethren  and  sisters, who
study to improve the morals of their neighbor's 
children  as  their own.  How  grateful parents
should  feel  to those who  study  how to improve
the future prospects of the rising generation.
  We have a  Young  Ladies' association in a
healthy condition,  with  Sister  Mary  Moselle
Halls as President, daughter of our late Relief
Society  President, Sister  Mary  J. Hammond.
She is a young lady of great integrity, follow-
ing in the footsteps of  her dear mother's exam-
ple, who  never  shrank  from  any  duty, until
death relieved  her  from  earthly  toil.  Her
memory will ever live, and  also  her counsel, in
the hearts of many.
 We are  very  thankful  to  have  a Primary
Association;  we  can already see the  benefit of
that  spiritual  education  which  all  need  to
make  good  fathers and mothers.  Truly it was
the  Spirit  of  God  that  inspired  the Primary
organization.
  We do  not wish  to  impose  upon your time
and space, but pray God  to  bless  you  and all
the sisters of the Relief  Societies who take any
active part in the  cause of truth and virtue.
				ELIZA A.  TRACY, Pres't.
				EMMA BURROWS, Sec'y.


PRAYER.

Y. L. M. I. A. 11TH WARD.

	Dear Sisters:—Having been requested to
write a short article, I will now try to frame a
few remarks upon prayer. I think this is a
very important part of our religion, which we
should never fail to perform. We know by
attending to our prayers we are greatly blessed;
for by thus doing we not only show to our
Heavenly Father that we remember Him, but
also our gratitude for His many blessings,
which He so continually showers down upon
us. He gives us all that we have, and in Him
we move and have our being. Knowing, then,
that we are receiving everything that is good
from the Lord all the days of our life, how
great should be our thanks, and sincere our
adorations! Morning and night should we
bow the knee in humility and reverence to
Him that made us.
	Our Savior has commanded us to watch and
pray, lest we enter into temptation. I think
Satan is pleased when we forget our prayers,
for he knows he is getting an influence over
us, if he can persuade us to shirk that duty;
and sometimes he tries to make us believe that
we have not time to perform that sacred duty.
If he succeeds, then we know we are by thus
doing not only disobeying a law of God, but
we are losing a portion of His Holy Spirit, and
He is displeased with us. God has said if we
draw nigh unto Him He will draw nigh unto
us. This we cannot do without prayer.
	James the Apostle tells us that the prayer of
faith shall save the sick; and there are many
instances in the Bible and Book of Mormon
which show us what wonderful deeds were ac-
complished through attending to this holy
duty. Not only in the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon are we assured of the power of prayer,
but to-day we know of the efficacy of faith
and prayer combined. Through faith and
prayer the sick are restored to health, miracles
are performed, and we are delivered from the
hands of our enemies, who are seeking our de-
struction on every side; and I think if it were
not for the prayers that are continually going
up to God, we should not have thus been pre-
served, and the deserts would not blossom as
the rose." Utah would have remained barren
and uncultivated.
	When the Lord sent Isaiah to King Heze-
kiah, to tell him to put his house in order, be-
cause he should die, we read he turned his face


to the wall and prayed and wept; and before
Isaiah had gone into the middle court, the
word of the Lord came unto him, saying,
"Turn again, and tell Hezekiah thus saith the
Lord, I have heard thy prayers, I have seen
thy tears, behold, I will heal thee, and I will
add unto thy days fifteen years." Although
God had told King Hezekiah he should die,
yet through his prayers He had compassion up-
on him and listened to his entreaties for life.
So we see God hearkens to prayer and is
moved by it. We are told He is the same yes-
terday, to-day and forever; and if He listened
to Hezek[-]ah, He will hearken to our prayers,
if we walk before Him in truth and righteous-
ness.
	Through supplication to the Almighty the
dead have been raised, the clouds witheld
their rain for the space of three years, armies
were destroyed, and Samson was avenged upon
the Philistines, when he was brought before
them for sport. Thus we can tell what can be
accomplished through earnest prayer; and the
whisperings of God's Holy Spirit tell us how
necessary it is for us to pray at all times.
When Jesus was upon this earth, although He
was infallible, yet He prayed to His Father.
Then if it were needful for the Lord Jesus to
pray, how much more so is it for us, who are
sinful and liable to err at all times. I think
we should not only pray for the blessings of
God for ourselves, but for all those who are
connected with us in the Church of God; es-
pecially for those who are holding responsible
positions, and who are placed over us, because
they undertake to do a mighty work, and it
is a great task which they have to perform,
and I am sure by praying for them we help
to strengthen them, and thus they are made
more suited to their duties. This is why
they so continually ask us to give them our
faith and prayers. Paul and Peter, when
writing to the Saints, entreat them to pray for
all men, and especially for them who are of
the household of faith. "And for me," says
Paul, "that utterance may be given unto me,
that I may open my mouth boldly, to make
known the mystery of the Gospel." If those
good men required the prayers of the Saints, I
think it is requisite and right for us to pray
for the Apostles and Saints of to-day; and I
feel sure they need our prayers and that they
would like us to pray for them. These words
ofttimes pass through my mind: "The prayer
of a righteous man availeth much." Then I,
for one, would solicit the prayers of all good
men and women. And I pray God that I
may so live that my prayers for them will also
prevail with God and avail them much.
							EMILY BATT.
	S. L. City.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SURPRISE PATRY.

	On Saturday morning, Jan. 1st, about fifty
persons, including the teachers of the R. S.
and some of the brethren, assembled at the
residence of our beloved President, Sister C.
Liljenquist, on the occasion of her 59th birth-
day. After congratulations, we sat down and
partook of a bounteous repast; after which
Counselor Stephens presented Sister Liljenquist
with a small present, as a token of the affection
of her sisters. Pres. Liljenquist responded
with a few remarks, saying it was a great sur-
prise to her, and, thanking the sisters for this
token of their respect; prayed that she might
always merit the same. The Secretary read an
address composed for the occasion by D. Os-
born, also a suitable poem by H. Peterson;
speeches were made by Bishop Liljenquist,
Brothers Rose and Christiansen. After spend-
ing a few hours very pleasantly, we adjourned
with the blessings of our Bishop and Presi-
dent.


I will just add that we are trying to live our
religion and help roll on the mighty work we
are-engaged in. Each one feels to do her utmost
to help build our Temples and hasten the time
that we wiil be permitted to do a work to re-
deem our dead. We have also done a great
deal to assist the poor. According to the
counsel of our honored Bishop, we have do-
nated thirty-three bushels of wheat to some of
our poor, inasmuch as it was a year of jubilee,
that they might rejoice in being permitted to
live in Zion and partake of its blessings.
		Your sister and co-laborer,
					N. M. NIELSEN, Sec'y.


THE words of Jehovah are holy in His pre-
cepts, just in His laws, gracious in His prom-
ises,significant in His institutions, true in His
narrations, and infallible in His predictions!—
Bishop Horne.

	IT has been decided by the General Commit-
tee of the King's College Lectures to ladies to
take preliminary steps for the foundation of a
permanent college for the higher education of
women, under the management of an associa-
tion to be formed in accordance with the Com-
panies Act, and continuing to work in union
with the staff of King's College. The attend-
ance at the classes, which now include nearly
all branches of academic education, has been
very large, and mantained with little variation
during the last three years, the number of en-
tries still averaging upwards of 500 in each
term. It is therefore proposed to establish the
institution on the basis of a regular corporation.
A public meeting will be held with that object
in the ensuing autumn, and it is hoped that
suitable premises for the college will be built
or purchased this year, in or near Kensington
where the classes are now conducted.


[Column 1]
15 Cents!	15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postpaid.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria,and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celbrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF CALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns, 	 Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 9	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1881.	No. 17.


OUR OWN ELIZA SNOW.
BY EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Written in commemoration of the seventy seventh
anniversary of the birthday of Pres. Eliza R. Snow
Smith, and read at the celebration given in honor to her
in Ogden Jan. 21, 1881.
Cheerfully we pay a tribute
That to life long worth we owe:
Thus we celebrate the birthday–
Of our own Eliza Snow.
Zealous, wise, unflinching ever,
In the cause of truth and right,
Heaven has blest her true endeavor,
Zion's Daughters to unite.
By the holy priesthood chosen,
O'er her sisters to preside,
Sister Snow's appointed mission
Has a long felt want supplied.
Who can estimate the harvest,
That from precious seeds have grown
Through the length and breadth of Zion
By her faithful daughters sown!
Nor confined to Zion's borders,
Shall the bounteous blessings be,
Scattered seeds the winds have waited,
Unto lands beyond the Sea.
Seeds of worth– that now unnoticed,
Trodden down shall yet expand–
Silently shall grow and flourish,
Bearing fruit in every land.
Bearing fruit for Eve's fair daughters,
Who so long have kissed the sod,
Freedom's fruit that yet shall lift them,
To the plane approved by God.
Zion's sons their work are doing,
Zion's daughters much have done,
Never will their tasks be finished,
Till the cause of Right is won.
Earnest men, and faithful women,
Tried and proven as by fire;
Who have braved the world's opinion,
And the rabble's murderous ire;
Earnest men, and faithful women,
Dauntless as a phalanx strong,
Will (by angel hosts assisted)
Still oppose the Right to Wrong.
In the coming generations–
Hearts shall with approval glow,
Of their faith, who claim such women,
As our own Eliza Snow!
Years we trust will yet be added,
To her past ripe seventy-seven:
And for this the heart felt wishes,
Of her friends ascend to Heaven.
Cheerfully we pay the tribute,
That to life long worth we owe
Thus we celebrate the birth-day
Of our own Eliza Snow.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR 
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.
	Before the "honeymoon" had passed away, a
visit to the country was projected by Mr. Wil-
liam Unipod for his newly married bride; the
father of that gentleman lived in Rutlandshire,
one of the midland counties of England,
Traveling in those days was something serious,
and the means of transit were slow. A visit
to the Black Swan, in Holborn, from which
hostlery sundry conveyances started regularly,

[Column 2]
made known the fact that on "every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday those persons who
wanted to go to Stamford could do so by stage
coach, at which place they would arrive in two
days (if God permits), and return the same;"
also that "passengers could be booked at the
Black Swan, in Holborn, London, or at the
Black Swan in Stamford- 14 lbs weight al-
lowed with each person, 3d per pound extra."
And as Stamford was the nearest town to con-
veniently reach "Whittam on the hill," which
could be done by post chaise, it was decided to
secure inside places by the said stage coach, for
which the very respectable sum of two guineas
was accordingly paid, "as a guarantee that
Mr. and Mrs. Unipod would be passengers on
the day bargained for, or forfeit the money."
This was in 1792.
	Whittam on the hill was reached in safety,
without any other than the ordinary tribula-
tions of traveling in those still perilous times.
	There is something charming in country life
in England, especially to those who have been
for a long time pent up in a crowded city like
London. The home of Mr. Henry Unipod,
farmer and grazier, was certainly a comfortable
one; beneath its ample roof it contained almost
everything one could need to make home happy.
Cosiness and cleanliness vied with each other
to make every part of this abode delightful.
It was impossible to tell which to admire the
most, the perfect order preserved in the estab-
lishment, or the thorough cheerfulness of those
who made such order possible—all were happy.
At daylight the farm hands met in the large
hall adjacent to the parlor, the table spread
with chines of bacon, smoking hot vegetables,
and brown bread; pies of an enormous size,
containing pork and peas, onions and apples,
in a solidified mass of jelly, seasoned in the
most agreeable manner. "Black jacks," or
jugs full of foaming homemade beer, and
pitchers of the whitest kind of earthen ware,
filled with sparkling water fresh from the
spring. No tea or coffee for the farm hands
was allowed, and such things as spirituous
liquors were never seen. 
	Morning meal over, away went the men to
their work, carrying with them a lunch of hard
bread and harder cheese, with a keg of beer,
to refresh themselves at midday. Home again
at four o'clock; the evening meal was partaken
of, consisting of roast meat, fowls and pastry,
that had been left from the parlor dinner-table.
	Where the cooking was done no one could
scarcely tell, except that at sundry times a spit
was turning before the fire of the kitchen
range, a duty that was performed by a "turn-
spit" dog, with his feet admirably turned out-
wards to perform the duties of his calling, who
knew when he was wanted, and presented him-
self to do his turn on the wheel.
	As to Farmer Unipod, he was also up with
the lark, and after taking a "bite" with the men,
he would go round the farm and return to
breakfast at six o'clock, when the family met
and partook of an ample meal, the ladies only
indulging in tea.
	By this time the milking had been done, the
cows turned out in the meadows. The ladies
would see to the "rennet" for curdling the
"meal" of milk for cheese-making. Any clean-
ing that had to be done was then attended to.
The cheese curd was broken up, strained and
put into suitable presses. Then scalding and
rinsing of tubs was attended to, so as to be
ready for to-morrow. Then the red brick floor

[Column 3]
was cleaned till it was bright as a cherry. The
farm work for the women was then done for
the day, and they were seen knitting, sewing
and spinning for the evening.
	As to the "parlor folks," they were attended
to by a maid servant, whose duty it was to
have meals prepared in the kitchen, and to
wait upon the household, she having the keys
of sundry closets and rooms, as butteries,
cheeserooms, and receptacles for hams, pickles,
preserves and groceries, for domestic consump-
tion. The parlor life at Farmer Unipod's was
pleasant in the extreme. They were on visit-
ing terms with the gentry, intimately ac-
quainted with the vicar and his lady, and the 
curate never passed the door without calling
in to retail the news of the day and take "just
one glass of Mr. Unipod's famous ale." Mr.
Unipod himself was a genial gentleman, who 
had made money by stock raising; he had some
of the finest meadows in the county, kept good
horses, of which he was a most excellent judge;
he had good shooting and fishing on his farm,
was liberal to the poor, and a regular attend-
ant at church. Such a man could not be other
than respected in the neighborhood. And
when it was known that "Master William," the
eldest son of the worthy farmer, had brought
down his young wife from London, everybody
was anxious to make her acquaintance, and to
extend to her their hospitalities. Long, long
did the memory of those days of happiness re-
main with Mary Lindsay, now the wife of
William Unipod, who, although much her se-
nior in years, treated her with reverential re-
spect, and did his best endeavor to smooth the
path she had to tread in after life.
	Several weeks were spent at Whittam on the 
hill, a place lovely for situation; all the ravines
and copses became quite familiar to the "Lon-
don Lady," as Mrs. William Unipod was fa-
miliarly called. It was a treat also to visit the
village church; for although the walls had but
few monuments and tablets to relieve the same-
ness of the whitewash, the chancel was em-
bellished with many little niches, filled with
sculpturing by some of the best artists. There
was also paneling in oak, worm eaten, by rea-
son of a venerable antiquity, but this had
been renovated, under the direction of the
young curate; a "delightful man," who was al-
most idolized by the ladies. Then there was a
baptismal font of most exquisite workmanship,
on which were the arms of the Unipods, in re-
membrance of its having been presented by
some former member of that family. All
these things were very precious to Mary Lind-
say, bringing back to memory associations of
the most agreeable kind, and although the in-
tonations and chantings common to the larger
churches were wanting, the simplicity and
solemnity of the services were not the less sub-
lime and consolatory.
	Before Mrs. William Unipod had hardly
had time to recognize all the various persons
who assembled for public worship in the nu-
merous pews, the time of returning to London
arrived. The great pew for the church ward-
ens everybody knew; there it was with its tall
hassocks made of flaming red leather, soft to
kneel on, and sufficiently high for the dutiful
officials to be seen kneeling before all the con-
gregation. Then the wands overlaid with gold
were placed in the exact position where the
church wardens and other great parochial au-
thorities would kneel. Then there was the
"big pew," as the people called it, the sides of


which were  high, and  the  entrance  to  which
was  in  an  obscure corner, where the "Squire"
from  the "big  house" could enter  unobserved,
and  retire when he  pleased, without disturbing
the congregation.  These, and the chancel win-
dow  of  stained  glass, in  which  the  figures  of
the  Apostles  were  seen,  grouped  around,  the
form which is everywhere recognized so readily,
that of our Savior--these, all these  and more,
had only  just  become  familiar,  when  Mr. and
Mrs. Unipod had to return again to London.
 Hallowed for  centuries have been the  eccle-
siastical  edifices  in which  our  forefathers wor-
shipped;  the  devotional feeling  engendered by
their awe-inspiring surroundings and ceremonial
observances  are  not without  their meaning  to
the  thoughtful.   If humanity  saw  the  truth
"as  through a glass  darkly," there was  a  dim
perception  of  the  existence  of Deity; a lying
logic had not  yet learned to deny the being  of
a  God  because  of the excellency and majesty
of the methods of creation!
To be Continued.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


LIFE INCIDENTS. 
	    		   -------
	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.
			  --------
		   [CONTINUED.]
	There are thousands  who  can  testify  to  the
truth  of  the  words  contained  in  the  charge
given  by  Brother O. Cowdery to  the  Twelve
Apostles previous to starting on their first mis-
sion, and although he was among the ones who
first turned aside, yet we know that  he  spoke
by  the  spirit and  power  of  the  Almighty, for
his words have been fufilled. The Church at
that time was but  a little handful,  as it were,
and therefore  weak  in  faith  when  compared
with those who have  had a  longer  experience
and can see and better understand the purposes
of our Heavenly  Father.  If  we have  not im-
proved it is because we have  witnessed the
fulfillment of the Prophet  Joseph's words from
that day to this and how can we doubt the rest.
When I think  of the miraculous power that has
been  manifested  at different  times  in  our  de-
liverance  from  the  cunning  devices  of  our
enemies  and  to  witness  the  faith  and  hope
which the Saints have clung to, enabling them
to patiently endure the sneers and scoffs of the
world, and  all the  aggravating trails which
have been heaped  upon  them for  over  fifty
years, I wonder that  anybody can be so blind
as not  see and  realize  that  none but Saints
who are looking to the future beyond this short
piobation for their  reward, could or would for
a moment submit to  these wrongs;  but we can
afford to wait for we know that  the  Almighty,
who has fought  our  battles  will  continue to,
and overthrow  our enemies  if we  faithfully
perform  our part.
	The following interesting  sketches  are from
my fathers Journal.
 After giving a description of the house of the
Lord in  Kirtland he says:  "This building was
commenced  in  1833,  in poverty and  without
means  to do it. In 1834  they completed  the
walls, and in 1835 and 6  they  nearly  finished
it.  The cost was  between  60 and 70,000 dol-
lars. *	*	* The  house was  dedicated to
the Lord on the 27th day of March  1836. *
*	* During the  ceremonies of the dedica-
tion an angel appeared and sat near President
Joseph Smith, Sen., and Frederick G. Williams
so that they had a fair view of his person. He
was a very tall  personage,  black  eyes, white
hair, and  stoop  shouldered,  his garment was
white, extending to near his ankles, on his feet
he had sandals.  He was sent as  a  messenger
to accept of the dedication. *	  *	  *
	In the winter of 1834 and 35, all the princi-
pal Elders in  upper  Missouri  came down to
Kirtland according to  previous appointment.
Some of them  spent  the summer laboring on
the house, while others traveled and  preached
in the Eastern and Southern States."
	Among the outside world there has been and
still is an  impression  that the "Mormons" are
not particular about having schools, or educat-
ing their children.  This  of course is only one
out of many other false ideas cherished by them
against the Latter-day  Saints.  The following
which I copy  from my father's Journal shows
that they are ignorant  of our faith and princi-
ples, for  it  was  a  command that the  Saints
should  seek learning &c.  "In  the  fall,  and
early part of the winter  of  1835-6  the Priest-
hood  of Israel  consisting  of  elders, priests,
teachers and deacons, gathered to Kirtland to
the number  of four hunderd and  sixteen who
remained there  through  the  winter.  Schools
were instituted  for  their  use;  many studied
English  Grammar, Geography,  History and
other branches.  We also  employed  the cele-
brated  Hebrew teacher  Professer Leixas, who
gave us much  insight into the language in a
short time.  The first  Presidency, the Twelve,
Bishops, High Counselors and Elders, attended
this school.  The Elders and Church had been
previously commanded to  seek learning, study
the best  books and  get a  knowledge of coun-
tries, kingdoms, languages, &c., which inspired
us  with an  untiring  thirst  after  knowledge.
Several months  previous to this we had been
commanded to prepare ourselves for a solemn
assembly. At length the time arrived for this
assembly to meet, previous to  which President
Joseph  Smith  Jun., exhorted  the  Elders to
solemnize their minds, by casting  away  every
evil from  them  in  thought, word,  or  deed,
and  to  let  their  hearts  become sanctified,
because they need to expect  a  blessing from
God without being  duly prepared  for it, for
the Holy  Ghost would  not  dwell  in unholy
temples. *	*	* The solemn assembly took
place soon  after  the  House of  the  Lord had
been dedicated."  After  describing  the  cere-
monies of washing and anointing and conferring
blessings upon  the  President  and  Counselors
and the  different  quorums,  father continues.
"While these things were being attended to the
beloved discple John was seen in our midst by
Brother Joseph Smith Jun.  Oliver Cowdrey
and others.  After  this all the quorums arose
in order together with  the  three  presidencies;
and the Twelve  then  presenting  themselves
separately  and  individually  before  the  first
Presidency, with hand uplifted towards heaven,
asked of God whatever they felt to desire; and
after each individual petition, the whole of the
quorums answered  aloud  Amen  and Amen.
The 6th day of April being the  day  appointed
for fasting and praying, all the Elders, Priests,
Teachers and Deacons,  numbering  about four
hundred,  met  together  in  the  house  of the
Lord to attend to  further  ordinances none be-
ing premited to enter, but official members who
had previously received their washing  and an-
ointing."  After the  ordinances were attended
to, father  continues.  "They  then  took their
seats, each quorum seating  themselves in their 
respective places and continued in fasting and
praying prophesying and exhortation until even-
ing.  A sufficient quantity of bread having been
provided to  feed  this  whole assembly; it was
broken by the first Presidency, and afterwards
the  Twelve took  it and  administered  to the
congregation until they were all filled."
	The wine was made and provided by Bishop
N.  K.  Whitney  for  this  occasion.  It  was
blessed by the first Presidency and  distributed
to the congregation by the Twelve;  father says,
"This  order  of  things is similar to  that which
was attended to by the Savior amongst his dis-
ciplos, previous to his ascension.  * *  The
meeting  continued  on  through the night, the
spirit  of  prophecy  was  poured  out  upon  the
assembly, and cloven  tongues  of fire  sat upon
them;  they were  seen  by  many  of  the  congre-
gation.  Also  angels  administered  to many,
and also were  seen  by  many.  This  continued
several  days, and  was  attended  by  a  marvel-
ous  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  for  a  number  of
weeks  our  time  was  spent  in  visiting  from
house  to  house, administering bread  and wine
and pronouncing blessings  upon  each  other to
that degree, that from the external appearances
one  would  have  supposed  that  the  last  days
had  surely  come,  in  which  the  Spirit  of  the
Lord  was  poured  out  upon all flesh, as far as
the  church  was  concerned,  for  the  sons  and
daughters  of Zion  were  full  of prophesying.
In this  prophesying  great  blessings were pro-
nounced upon the faithful, and also great curs-
ings upon the ungodly, or upon those who had
smitten us.  During this time  great  and  mar-
velous  visions  were  seen, one  of  which  I will
mention,  which  Bro.  Joseph  Smith, Jun., had
concerning  the Twelve.  His  anxiety was and
had  been  very  great  for  their  welfare, when
the following vision was  manifested to  him, as
near  as  I  can  recollect.  He saw the Twelve
going  forth, and  they appeared  to be on a far
distant  land;  after  some  time  they unexpect-
edly met together, apparently in great  tribula-
tion, their  clothes  all  ragged and their knees
and  feet  sore.  They formed into a circle, and
all stood with their eyes fixed upon the ground.
The  Savior  appeared  and stood in their midst
and wept over them, and wanted to show Him-
self  to  them, but  they did  not  discover Him.
He saw until they had accomplished their work
and  arrived  at  the  gate  of the celestial  city;
there  Father Adam stood  and opened the gate
to  them, and  as  they  entered,  he embraced
them one by one  and kissed  them.  He then
led  them  to  the throne of God, and then the
Savior embraced  each one of  them and kissed
them, and crowned each  one  of  them  in  the
presence  of God;  he  saw  that  they  had  all 
beautiful heads of hair, and all looked  alike."
The  impression this vision  left  on Brother Jo-
seph's  mind was  of so acute a nature, that he
never  could  refrain  from  weeping  while  re-
hearsing it."
	Those were truly glorious seasons enjoyed by
the Latter-day Saints  in  Kirtland, after pass-
ing through so much sorrow and the many pri-
vations  endured  while troiling to  build  the
house  of  the  Lord.  They  were  thankful to
see that  day, for He was true  to his  promise.
It  seemed  as  though  they stood  in a need of a
double portion, because of their sufferings there
and  also  in  the  State  of  Missouri, where so
many of  their brethren had been cut down by
the cholera.  The  Lord  in  his  tender mercy,
knowing  they had  been  obedient and patient,
blessed  them with  those miraculous manifesta-
tions.
	I have  read  this vision  many  times, and it
always  brings  the  same  heavenly influence,
lifting as it were the  curtain which hides eter-
nity  from  our  view, showing  to  us  the  pure
love  and  charity which characterized  the life
of our blessed Savior, whose example we should
all strive to imitate.  I feel sure that the Lord
will be more  merciful towards those who stum-
bled and  fell by the wayside in the  early start
of the  church, than  He  will  be  to  the  ones
who  have  become  farther  advanced  in  the
knowledge  of  the  truth, and then  apostatized.
I would admonish my young friends to beware
of  apostacy,  more  especially  those  who  have
been  endowed with  the  blessings  of the Holy
Priesthood, which  are  the  most sacred  of all.
To me there is nothing that is so terrible as the
doom of an apostate.  I have no recollection of
the  dedication, or the  solemn assembly which
took place in  the Temple at Kirtland, not be-
ing present, but  have  heard  my  parents  des-
cribe  it.  I  remember  the  love  which  the
Twelve Apostles manifested  towards  one  an-
other, as  they  frequently met  together  at my
father's house, not  council, but some of


them met there to study the Hebrew language.
President Thomas B. Marsh I can remember,
with others, seated around the table studying,
and they would frequently practice talking
Hebrew, which afforded us children considera-
ble amusement, and often they would burst out
laughing at their own awkward mistakes.
They were all young men, and as humble as
little children. I often heard my parents
speak of those days and how their hearts were
bound together as one. They were willing to
go without purse or scrip to the nations to
preach the Gospel, the spirit and power of
their mission resting down upon them. If they
had always cultivated that humility, nothing
could have destroyed their union.
				To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


MY HEART.

Though all the world proclaim me good and noble.
	Tho' friend and foe, alike, should speak my fame.
Yet must I stand in sorrow, hushed and humbled,
	Unless my heart can speak to me the same.

Truly "its own bitterness, each heart knoweth,"
	Each knoweth best his own besetting sins,
Though by no outward sign its weakness showeth,
	The Heart will claim no praise but what it wins.

Though 'mong my friends I bear an unstained record,
	God knoweth if my heart is pure and true;
Before Him lies my life nor jor, nor tittle,
	Of sin, or weakness hidden from his view.

What though the world condemn me without mercy,
	And rumor's forked tongue should peirce me through;
Yet if my heart approves it cannot hurt me,
	The earth is just as green, the sky as blue.

Though some may misconstrue my words and motives,
	May scan my actions with a critic's eye,
Yet if I only sim for truth and justice,
	My father's tender love will bear me by.

O precious boon! O gift of highest heaven!
	The inner consciousness of pure desire,
No carthly honor, nor no worldly censure
	Can dim they lustre, or quench thy fire.
							ESTHER A. BENNION.
	VERNON, JAN. 18th, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued from No 12, Nov. 15 1880.)

	Sister Eliza may be said to have commenced
a new era in her life when she arrived in the
valley. To be sure the first year was spent in
retirement, home duties, and comforting the
Saints who came round her in hours of trial,
for those were the days which tried the souls of
men and women; days of adversity, and yet heav-
en showered down rich blessings upon them.
Her pen was busy at every available moment
and many were consoled, strengthened and
encouraged by the inspirational muse, who
never has forsaken her under any circumstance,
or changes. Sister Eliza felt a little lonely in
those days being separated from some of the
sisters with whom she had been intimately as-
sociated, but still she rejoiced that she had
reached a haven of rest after having partici-
pated in the persecutions and exile of the
Saints. Her health improved and her Spirit
soared aloft and she drank in invigorating
draughts of intelligence, which were poured
out in verse and song and psalms of praise.
	She had been designated by Joseph the
prophet, Zion's Poetess; and though he was
gone, and her years were multiplying, she con-
tinued to write and a double portion of the
spirit of her mission and calling seemed to rest
upon her. Her diligence her faithfulness, and
integrity are worthy emulation by the
daughters of Zion. When yearning tenderly
for those she had left behind, in November

[Column 2]
1847, she wrote a poem entitled "Come To The
Valley" addressed to Sisters M. A. Young,
Vilate Kimball and E. A. Whitney, from
which we quote a verse or two showing her
anxiety to be reunited with them.

"Oft my spirit seems to mingle
	With you, whereso'er you are;
Than you soon may reach the valley,
	Is my earnest daily prayer."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

"All is well, is well in Zion—
	Zion is the pure in heart:
Come along, you holy women,
And your blessings here impart."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

I anticipate the period
	When you to the valley come:
Haste and leave your Winter-Quarters—
	Here you'll find a better home."

	Peaceful and contented in her humble home;
full of faith and buoyant in spirit she trod the
path of duty. In the fall of 1848, Pres. Young
arrived in the valley, and this was a time of
public rejoicing and demonstration, and Sister
Eliza as was her wont chronicled in verse
the important event. It was entitled "The
Salutation" and inscribed to President Young
and his Counselors. The poem is published
in volume one of "Poems by E. R. Snow," page
196. We regret we cannot publish more of
her poetical writing in this short sketch, but
we will give here one verse from the "Saluta-
tion.

"To our Chieftain all hail to his counselors too,
	With the Camp of the Saints that escaped from Nau-
		voo;
"Up through great tribulation," indeed you have come-
	To this beautiful valley we welcome you home."

	After Pres. Young's arrival the city began
to be built up and he made arrangements for
his family to have comfortable homes though
of course they were primitive in all their ap-
pointments. These cottages are yet referred to
as the "Log Row," and were situated just above
what is known as the Eagle Gate. In one of
these Sister Eliza dwelt and many of her
choicest articles were written there. As time
passed on a place was consecrated in which
holy ordinances might be administered and
then it became necessary that woman should
perform her part of the sacred work. Sister
Eliza was called upon to take part in these
administrations, as a Priestess in the House of
the Lord, in which calling she has officiated
up to the present. Thousands of the daughters
of Zion, have received blessings under her hands,
and therefore with the utmost propriety she
may be called a Mother in Israel. In every
public assembly where women took part she
has been an active participant, and in Mormon
history she has been ever conspicuous. She
has written much both in prose and poetry for
public gatherings and demonstrations and
perhaps no other woman has attained such
popularity among this people. She is re-
cognized as a leader, and stands to-day in the
front rank and at the head of the Latter-day
Saint women's organizations. Sometime sub-
sequent to the settling of the valley and when
wards and settlements were pretty generally
systematized Pres. Young called for a reorgani-
zation of the Relief Society which had form-
erly existed in the days of Nauvoo. He called
on Sister Eliza to assist in these organizations,
and associate with her in this labor
Sister Zina D. Young. This gave to Eliza
and Zina the precedence which they have since
held. In the work of organizing Sister Eliza
stands pre-eminent among women.
	'Her life has been consecrated to Gospel
work and devoted to the elevation of woman
and her redemption from the condition in
which she has been so long held, helping to
lift her into that freedom of action and range
of thought from which custom and tradition

[Column 3]
have for ages excluded her. In this connection
we may with propriety mention that the opin-
ion of the world regarding woman's position in
this Church is entirely astray. The principles
and spirit of the Gospel are "altogether incom-
patible with the serfdom of woman." At a
mass meeting of 5 or 6 000 women held in Salt
Lake City Jan. 13, 1870, just previous to the
granting of the franchise, by the Utah Legis-
lature in Feb. of the same year, a woman's meet-
ing called on purpose to enter a protest against
the "Cullom Bill," Sister Eliza made a strong
and brilliant speech from which we make a
brief extract as illustrative of the assertion
made above. "Our enemies pretend that, in
Utah, woman is held in a state of vassalage—
that she does not act from choice but by coer-
sion—that we would even prefer life elsewhere,
were it possible for us to make our escape,
What nonsense! We all know that if we wished
we could leave at any time—either to go singly,
or to rise enmasse, and there is no power here
that could, or would wish to prevent us."
	"I will now ask of this assemblage of intelli-
gent ladies do you know of any place on the
face of the earth, where woman has more
liberty: and where she enjoys such high and
glorious privileges as she does here as a Latter-
day Saint? No! the very idea of a woman here
in a state of slavery is a burlesque on good
common sense."	*	*	*	Were we
the stupid, degraded, heart-broken beings that
we have been represented, silence might better
become us, but as women of God filling high
and responsible positions, performing sacred
duties—women who stand not as dictator, but
as counselors to their husbands, and who, in
the purest, noblest sense of refined womanhood,
are truly their helpmates—We not only speak
because we have the right but justice and hum-
anity demands we should."
	Politically this grand mass meeting was the
turning point in the history of the women of
Utah, for ere another month had elapsed the
legislature had passed the bill giving suffrage
to woman and she was free in the sense of cit-
izenship. In this Sister Eliza rejoiced feeling as
all spiritual women do impressed with the great
question of the period which involves woman's
emancipation. Sister Eliza realizes the im-
portance attached to these growing responsibili-
ties and the urgent necessity of educating
women to appreciate the ballot as well as to
exercise her physical agency by going to the
polls.
			[To be Continued.]


FRIENDSHIP.

	I have just been reading some of our dear
sisters' thoughts in our excellent paper. I
would like to say a few words on friendship,
that, to me, is the greatest blessing of life;
apart from our own hearthstone. A true friend
in all life's phases is truly a blessing; one who
can see your imperfections (as none are exempt)
sometimes feel them, but true as steel a friend
in childhood, a friend in old age, a friend in
all life's vicissitudes one to whom you can lay
open your heart's secrets good or ill, still your
friend to do you good; reproof from such a
one is sweet to the ear. Such a friend is price-
less. Oh! my sister let us cultivate true friend-
ship like Damon and Pythias, be true to the
death, with no thought of reward, no guile.
My old friends are dear indeed, tried and true.
God bless all those who seek to live upright
before him who dwelleth in the heavens. Ever
be faithful and true.
								B. M. J. B
	RICHMOND, DEC. 19, 1880.


MRS. Hayes is said to be a women of re-
markable endurance. She never has any ill-
ness except an occasional sick-headache, and
looks much younger than she is—forty-nine.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
WOMAN DEFENDS THE POSITION.

	Naturally one cannot help feeling a little in-
dignant at the course pursued by Gov. Murray
in issuing the certificate of election to Mr. Camp-
bell who only received 1,357 instead of Mr. Can-
non who received the overwhelming majority of
18,558. It is not very remarkable that women
citizens who represent a large part of the votes
of the Territory should feel nettled over the
affair; it is well known that a short time previ-
ous to the election a mandamus was issued or-
dering all the names of women to be stricken off
the registration list, which would have materi-
ally decreased the number of votes on both sides
and by that means the "Liberal" party expected
to carry the election. This little scheme did
not succeed, the good genius of woman pervailed
on that occasion and her claim to the franchise
was honorably sustained. Yes this is one of the
pleas made by Campbell in extenuation of Mur-
ray's official assumption that the votes cast for
Mr. Cannon were the votes of women and con-
sequently illegal. How very magnaminous!
How everybody must admire this noble man,
who to screen the governer must draw such a
flimsy veil over him and throw the blame upon
woman! How grandly Mr. Campbell heralded
forth his nomination by urging women every-
where to vote for him, as their friend one who
would take their part, lift them up, exalt them!
How specially gratifying is the result! How
magnaminous he stands forth in woman's de-
fense! It is strange how men will persist in the
same course pursued ages ago, and cry "The
woman did it," and the newspapers must for-
sooth echo the old-time saying "Woman is at
the bottom of the mischief," even thongh they
do not justify Gov. Murray.
	It is a great pity for Mr. Campbell that he
should have manifested so little justice in an
affair where he professed so much gallantry, for
should he desire to be counted in by the ladies
again, he would make a sorry showing.
	There is no doubt in the mind of any well-
informed person that Mr. Cannon would have
been elected by a considerable majority, had
Maxwell's plan succeeded, and all the women
of Utah been disfranchised. The non-Mormon
population is comparatively small, and the peo-
ple had nothing whatever to fear on that score
by the disfranchisement of woman. It was not
a question of the strength of numbers that
caused the Utah Legislature to concede to wo-
man her political rights, but because the very
genius of "Mormonism" required it, and this
truth will one day be recognized.
	Once having obtained the right to the ballot,
it is not likely that any woman valuing the
blessing and p[-]ivilege truly as an American
citizen, will be likely to look with any degree of
complacency on those who would wrest it from

[Column 2]
her. "Mormon" women vote on all religious
questions, on all political question, on all social
questions, in fact they are a "part and parcel of
the body politic," and are not "goods and chat-
tels," not serfs, but free women, with the liberty
of conscience and of action. They have en-
dured much, and are strong, not weak, and their
daughters have inherited their strength of
character,and are prepared with their brothers to
valiantly maintain the position of their mothers
on this question of rights and privileges. They
are a strength and a power in the land, even
without the ballot, and when men talk of help-
ing "Mormon" women to free themselves from
thralldom and oppression, they talk the veriest
nonsense. "Mormon" women do not need their
aid: with the same courage and fortitude, which
helped them to brave the wilderness and desert,
with their fathers, husbands and brothers, they
are still endowed: their courage does not falter,
and they are not easily intimidated. They trust
in the arm of the Almighty and not in the arm
of flesh.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	In Ogden, January 21, the birthday of Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow Smith was celebrated in a
most appropriate manner. A social party was
given in her honor by the officers of the presid-
ing boards of Relief Societies and Young Ladies'
and Young Mens' Associations of Weber County,
Mrs. Jane S. Richarks and her Counselors hav-
ing charge of the arrangements; Pres. Peery
and Counselors, also the Bishops of Ogden City
assisting very materially in preparations. The
Relief Societies of Ogden prepared a free ban-
quet. Invitations were issued to all the Bishops
and Presidents of R. S., Y. L. and Y. M. M. I.
A. in Weber Stake, to participate in the festivi-
ties of the happy occasion. About two hundred
and fifty persons assembled in Union Hall, and
by invitation of Pres. Peery, Bishop N. C. Fly-
gare made the opening prayer. Dancing com-
menced at six o'clock, the very best music hav-
ing been provided. No numbers were issued,
yet the most perfect order was observed by all.
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
bv invitation, also honorable C. W. Penrose and
wife and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City.
At about half past nine the company repaired
to the 2d Ward meeting House, an elegant new
building, where tables were set for the guests
with all the choice varieties of good things
which refresh the body, and two hundred and
fifteen persons sat down to partake the bounties
provided. Of the Quorum of the Apostles there
were present Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards, also Mayor Herrick, Counselor Mid-
dleton, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Judge Williams
and F. S. Richards, Esq. The blessing was pro-
nounced by Pres. Woodruff. Mrs. J. S. Richards
was the presiding genius of the feast, flitting
from table to table, anxious that all should be
plentifully helped and faithfully served. It
were worse than useless to attempt to enumer-
ate the luxuries with which the "tables groaned."
The ladies who waited looked charming in their
white aprons, and very gracefully filled the on-
erous positions. Supper over, the company re.
turned to Union Hall, where dan[--]ng was re-
sumed; but soon Elder F. D. Richards called
the attention of the audience, and read the re-
ply of Sister Eliza to the telegram inviting her
to be present, and in a most happy manner made
a few brief remarks, regretting the absence of
the lady. He spoke of the inestimable worth
of the one whose birth they were celebrating,
of her untiring labors in Weber County in help-
ing to organize and instruct; of her great gift
and talent in writing, which had ever been a
blessing and comfort to the Elders upon their

[Column 2]
missions in foreign lands, to the prophets of
God, to the Saints in the midst of persecution,
and in fact to all; of her association with the
Church in early days, and the integrity she had
maintained to the Gospel, that her example was
noble and worthy of emulation by the daughters
of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells then read the poem
"Our Own Eliza Snow," which is published on
the first page. Mrs. R. Monch next read an ad-
dress written by herself, in behalf of the sisters,
and inscribed to Sister Eliza. Pres. Wilford
Woodruff made the closing speech. Referred to
his first acquaintance with the lady whose birth
they were celebrating, her faithfulness and un-
faltering energy in the Gospel, her extraordinary
ability as a writer, and exhorted the young to
imitate her many excellencies of character. He
spoke in praise of the sisters' labor in the Relief
Societies, and exhorted all to live lives of purity
and obedience to the requirements of the Gospel.
At the suggestion of Sister Jane S. Richards,
the assembly joined in singing, "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah." Coun.
Middleton pronounced the benediction, and the
company dispersed before twelve o'clock.
	Mrs. Richards and the ladies of Ogden who
took part in arranging for the celebration, may
with propriety congratulate themselves on the
complete success of this public demonstration,
and Aunt Eliza may justly be proud of the honor
shown on this memorable occasion, although her
presence would have added greatly to the enjoy-
ment of the evening. It was a flattering testi-
monial of the love and esteem in which she is
held by the people of Weber County.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE second edition of the "Children's Primary,
Hymn Book" will be ready for sale in about ten
days. Plenty of "Tune Books" ready at this
office.

	SISTERS M. I. Horne and S. M. Heywood at-
tended the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, which was held at Centerville Jan. 21,
Mrs. S. I. Holmes presiding. The meetings
were excellent and the reports creditable.

	THE Home Dramatic Club gave "The Bank-
er's Daughter" at the Theatre on Wednesday
evening, Jan. 26, for the benefit of the Alta suf-
ferers. The citizens of Salt Lake manifested
their appreciation of the play and the occasion
by filling the house.

	SISTER Eliza's birthday, Jan 21, was celebrated
in St. George with due honor, as well as in Og-
den. Although in St. George they had the
pleasure of the presence of this illustrious lady,
and in Ogden we were compelled to supply the
deficiency with a fertile imagination. Mrs. E.
R. S. Smith has reached her 77th anniversary.
She is healthy and vigorous in body and mind,
and her spiritual faculties grow brighter as each
year rolls by.

	BRO. Wm. G. Heberhart has opened business
at the old stand of H. J. Richards & Co. Bro.
Heberhart is an enterprising young man and
thoroughly reliable as a druggist, having been
disciplined in the business in his brother's es-
tablishment in Madison, Indiana. Since he
came to Utah in June, 1879, he has been em-
ployed in Z. C. M. I. Drug Department, until
he bought out the Richard's establishment. Bro.
H. is an industrious and persevering young man,
and worthy the patronage of the public.

	MISS Ada Dwyer of this city, a pupil of Prof.
Hamill, the elocutionist, has been giving read-
ings as a professional in Utah County. Her ren-
dering of the pieces chosen produced quite a
sensation, we are told. As we have never, heard
her, we are not prepared to express an opinion.


[Column 1]
but she is highly spoken of by those who are
considered competent judges. Miss Ada is
young, and possesses many excellent capabili-
ties which would attract an audience. She
has fine ability, and we have no doubt will be
successful, if she possesses sufficient continuity
and determination. One cannot win fame in
any profession without these requisites.

	THURSDAY, Jan. 20, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Over forty of her friends called upon her in the
form of a surprise party, at her residence in the
11th Ward. After partaking of the bountiful
repast served to all, the ladies' attention was
called to a sort of literary entertainment. Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson read a poem composed ex-
pressly for the occasion by Mrs. A. J. Chroche-
ron, and presented Mrs. Shipp, in the name of a
few friends, with an elegant gold ring, on which
was engraven her name and Y. L. A. This was
followed by an original poem, Mrs. M. A. Freeze;
impromptu addresses, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Ro-
mania B. Pratt, M. D.; original article, Lillle
Freeze; recitation, "Jennie Mc'Neal's Ride,"
Alice Freeze; and other similar exercises. A
happy spirit was manifested throughout all the
varied entertainment of the evening. Dr. Shipp
was warmly congratulated by her many ardent
and true-hearted friends.

	AN anniversary meeting of the 17th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A. was held, and entertainment given,
at the residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, on
Tuesday, Jan. 18. Opened by singing, "Let Zion
in her beauty rise;" prayer by Pres. H. T. King.
Annual report was read by the Secretary, fol-
lowed by a song by Miss Minnie Felt, "Call and
Answer." Mrs Nanie Leavitt essay on the
"Creation of Man." Miss Louie Ellerbeck piano
solo. Miss Mamie Alford recitation. Address
by Mrs. Hannah T. King. Impromptu address
Miss Belle Clayton. Remarks were then made
suited to the occasion by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, M.
A. Freeze, Marinda Hyde, M. I Horne, Julia
Howe, E. B. Wells, Louie Felt, Miss Minnie
Felt and Nanie Leavitt, and Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood. Singing, "The Spirit of God." Prayer
by Sister Catharine Horrocks. After the meet-
ing was dismissed, the ladies all sat down to a
delicious repast, which, with the conversation
and association together, was calculated to re-
fresh and invigorate body and soul. An hour or
two was passed in friendly interchange of ideas
and opinions, and the guests and members dis-
persed, feeling it had been a good time indeed.

	ON Thursday, Jan. 20, we attended the annual
meeting of the 10th Ward Y. L. M. I. A. A
sumptuous dinner was given at 12 m., at the
residence of the President, Mrs. Mary Pierce.
After partaking, the ladies repaired to the meet-
ing house, and services commenced by singing
"Behold the Mountain of the Lord." Prayer by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Sung, "O my Father, thou
that dwellest." Minutes read and accepted.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze made the opening speech,
Mrs. Louie Felt was the next speaker, then Mrs.
E. S. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne. Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. H. T. King
a[-]d Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall made some remarks.
The sisters expressing an earnest wish to hear
from the young ladies, the following responded
in short and spirited speeches: Ella Rogers, Jen-
nie Pyper, Annie Chandler, Harriet Earl, Eliza
Hansen, Martha Pierce, Agnes Harvey, M. Ed-
monds and Belle Clayton, also Mrs. Cheshire.
Mrs. Pierce expressed her pleasure in having so
many of the most intelligent sisters present,
who were able to give instruction. Meeting ad-
journed. Sung, "The Spirit of God," &c.
Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.

[Column 2]
	BISHOP Jacob Weiler and wife, of the Third
Ward in this city, recently paid a visit to their
friends in the East. They left Salt Lake Sept.
14, 1880, and went first to Hutchinson, Kansas,
where the Bishop's brother resides. They also
visited portions of Iowa, Indiana, Ohio and
Pennsylvania, traveling extensively in the last
two States. Everywhere the people were anx-
ious to converse with them about the resources
of Utah and the peculiarities of the "Mormon"
people, but few cared to hear the principles of
religion. Mrs. Weiler conversed with many
women of superior education and culture upon
the principle of plural marriage, and its adapta-
tion to p.actical life. Brother and Sister Weiler
found in many instances that all the informat-
tion the people had concerning the "Mormons"
had been gathered from books written against
us. Ann Eliza's, Mrs. Stenhouse's and Biddle's
Books were pretty widely circulated. Thought
some pamphlets would be useful to distribute in
those places. Mrs. Weiler believes much good
could be done among an intelligent class of peo-
ple by our sisters, for they seem eager to listen
to women on these subjects when men would
have no iuflue[-]ce; in fact they would not hear
them. Mr. and Mrs. Weiler returned on the
18th of December.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 133


AN ADDRESS.

Written upon the occasion of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith's birthday, recently celebrated in this city.

(From the Ogden Junction.)

BELOVED BRETHEREN AND SISTERS:
	We have met this evening, not only to mingle
in friendly and social converse, in dancing and
feasting, but also to commemorate the birthday
of our dear sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, who is
at present in Southern Utah, and who, in conse-
quence of her prolonged visit there, is unable to
be with us on this occasion. We sincerely re-
gret her absence, knowing, as we do, that her
presence would add immeasurably to the plea-
sure of this evening's entertainment. We deem
it not inappropriate at this time to express, hum-
bly and briefly, the heartfelt love, esteem and
respect that we cherish towards her as a sister,
friend, and co-laborer in the Kingdom of God.
We appreciate her labors, though it may be im-
perfectly, and thank our Heavenly Father for
the blessing of so noble and useful a woman in
our midst. Many, if not all, who are here to-
night are acquainted with Sister Eliza's untiring
efforts in assisting to organize and establish the
various Relief Societies and Improvement As-
sociations in this Stake of Zion. We have seen
her brave the winds and storms of winter, and
the heat and dust of summer, that we might be
benefited. We have listened to her faithful
testimonies, her wise counsels and instructions,
and our minds have been enlightened, our hearts
cheered, and with renewed courage we have
pressed forward in the path of duty. Through
her great faith and power to bless, many a weak
and suffering sister has been made to rejoice.
Then why should we not love, respect and
honor her? To one who has devoted her time
and talents to the cause of truth, who has sacri-
ficed all for the Gospel's sake, surely honor is
due. Therefore we, the Latter-day Saint women
of Weber Stake, desire to do homage to her, on
this, the anniversary of her natal day. She is
dear to us all. Her intellectual works are house-
hold treasures. The young, for whose welfare
and improvement she has labored with such
deep earnestness, if they fail to appreciate her
now, will yet bless her name. She has truly
shown her faith by her works, and through her
works she has wrought out an influence for good
that can never die. She has lived long and well;


and though ripe in years and usefulness, may
she live yet many years to bless and be blessed.
And may we, the members of the Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies' Association, imitate
the example of this good and true woman, and
strive to learn to appreciate the labors of those
who have braved persecution, confronted evil,
served long and faithfully in righteousness, and
have proved themselves noble men and women
of God.
						HATTIE C. BROWN.
	Ogden, January 21, 1881.


OBITUARY.

	DIED: at Mt. Pleasant Sanpete County Dec.
9th, 1880, Mary Tholman Winkler, of dropsy
after a lingering illness of 3 months, which she
bore with patient resignation, her faith in the
Priesthood being firm and unshaken to the last.
Sister Winkler was a member of the visiting
committee of our Relief Society, and filled that
office with honor and dignity like a true Saint
which she was. She was a native of Switzer-
land, born in Zell, Co., of Zurich, aged 40
years. Sister Winkler was the mother of 9
children, 4 of which are gone before, and five
are left with her sorrowing husband, to mourn
her early departure; as also a large circle of
friendswhodeeply sympathize with her bereaved
family and relatives.
						M. F. C. MORRISON.


CORRESPONDENCE.

					MESA, JAN. 3rd, 1881.
DEAR AUNT EM.—
	My health is not very good but I enjoy my
Arizona home very much, I would not exchange
it for one in Salt Lake if I could, although I
would like to see you all. We have the most
beautiful climate the heat is at first an objection
but one soon gets accustomed to it, and it is
rather more agreeable than otherwise. We are
having reinforcements from the North almost
daily now; this is the emigration season for this
country on account of having Deserts to cross.
Bro. David Kimball says Mesa is destined to be
the second city of Arizona,it certainly is growing
rapidly. We are thirty miles from the Southern
Pacific Rail Road, five days and a half from Salt
Lake. I live in hopes of seeing my Salt Lake
friends here to spend our delightful winters.
	Zulie has just returned from Phoenix our
county seat where she went to pass her ex-
amination as a teacher, she got a first class
diploma and will soon open school at Jonesville.
We have excellent laws regarding schools in
this territory.
	We have enrolled 64 children on our school
record. It has been estimated that we of Mesa
receive almost as much school money from the
county as the tax on our property. We have a
good school-house just finished and another is
already being talked of.
	Everybody that has not got their small grain
sown is hurrying to get it in, there is already be-
tween five and six hundred acres in, and grow-
ing nicely. If planted now it has the advantage
of ripening before the weather gets too warm
for harvesters, and besides it does not need so
much irrigation; then also there will be time
for other crops when the wheat is harvested.
There are quite a number of orchards and vine-
yards started which are doing well; this place
seems specially adapted to vineculture. We had
several hundred pounds of grapes last year as
did others.
	Kind regards to all enquiring friends.
								FRANCELLE.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Tuesday, Dec. 28, 1880, a few of the members
of the Relief Society of East Bountiful met at
the house of President E. Barlow, it being the
69th anniversary of the birth of our beloved
sister and President. The sisters brought with
them picnic and presents. The afternoon passed
off agreeably; a few remarks were made, bear-
ing testimony to her faithfulness in her official
capacity, and usefulness in the Relief Society,
always using her influence for good, and ever
faithful in discharging her duties. After wish-


ing her many happy returns of the day, and
every blessing that her heart might desire, the
company retired at an early hour.
East Bountiful.	M. J. C.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESS.

	Dress is a subject that occupies no small
amount of the time and means of many people;
indeed, instead of eating and dressing to live, it
seems as though they lived to eat, dress and ap-
pear well in the estimation of their friends and
neighbors. We do not like to see people penu-
rious in either of these respects; on the contrary
we think to "live well," as it is generally termed,
to dress comfortably and tastefully, and to own
a suitably large, well lighted, commodious and
attractive residence, well situated, is essential
to and almost the foundation of our happiness;
while, on the other hand, poverty, wretchedness
and often disease are easily traced in a small,
cold, damp, uninviting abode.
	There are those in comfortable circumstances
that were a little more time and taste expended
it would amply repay; while any sensible mind
would condemn the extravagance of some of
our wealthier class, to say nothing of Queen
Elizabeth, who is said to have left three thou-
sand different habits in her wardrobe.
	We think that climate is the "general regula-
tor" of dress, together with the different na-
tional customs. In some warm countries sandals
take the place of s[-]oes, and in eastern countries
flowing garments take the place of the more
closely fitting of those lying west, while the Es-
quimaux and those inhabiting intensely cold cli-
mates are mostly dressed in fur. A Russian
grouped among other Europeans can generally
be easily pointed out, also the Scotchman with
his kilt of plaid. The attire of the peasantry
in many European nations is picturesque and
very gaudy, while that of the rich is fine and
costly.
	The first dress that we have any account of
was that worn by Adam and Eve; the Bible
tells us that they made themselves aprons of fig
leaves, and that afterwards God made them
coats of the skins of beasts. The New Testa-
ment informs us that Christ dressed like a Naza-
rene. 
	Jewelry has, since the time that Abraham's 
servant gave an earring and two bracelets to Re-
becca up to the present, in all ages and countries,
occupied a prominent place in the attire of both
sex.
	Livingstone informs us that fashion is fashion,
and there is no disputing on that subject, that
there may be a fashion of going undressed or
dressed—the former is the fashion in some parts
of Africa, and some of the men wear aprons of
beautifully tanned skins; and both the men and
women of Belonda thought themselves splen-
didly attired if they could get a few feet of bright
cloth to wrap about the neck or body.
	The taste of dress in our own day among our-
selves is rather unaccountable, even though the
fashions do come from Paris. We have often
dressed ridiculously, that style has become un-
fashionable, odd, uncomfortable and odious, just
on account of a later one being introduced,
while before it was "perfectly lovely." Then, in
about seven years the old style comes up as
"lovely" as ever, while the others in their turn
are frowned on.
	But God has given us a rule in the Doctrine and
Covenants which should guide us. He says;
"And again thou shalt not be proud in thy heart,
let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty
the beauty of the work of thine own hands, and
let all things be done in cleanliness before me."
Though these instructions were given (for our
benefit) to Joseph Smith, some years ago, com-
mon sense tells us that they still hold good, and
though in following them we may not always
follow the fashion, if we obey God's other in-
structions we may be followers of Christ, and
sit down to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb,
having on a wedding garment.
	ANN FELLOWS.


GILDED MISERY.

	The following item from the letter of a fash-
ionable lady in one of the largest Eastern cities,
to a friend here, will explain how the "down-
trodden women" of Utah compare with their
fellow sisters in the world. This lady once re-
sided in Utah for three years:	*	*	"My
life is resting under a cloud. Mr.—went to"
(mentioning a city in Colorado), "as he did to


Utah. Not feeling satisfied with the appearance
of things I went to———unexpected by him. I
found him living with a woman who had passed
herself off as his wife; I remained two days
at the same hotel. Hence, I am now here alone
with my parents and a few kind friends, who
cling to me. What the future has in store for
me is known only to God, and in patience I must
wait. Oh, the vile condition of society in the
world that sets itself up as a judge of your peo-
ple! There is far less misery and heart agony in
Utah, than in the so-called refined circles of the
fashionable and religious world. Gilded misery
can be found in harvests, while love hardly
dares claim a place.	*	*	*	But life in Utah
is pure and good, and happiness abounds as fully
as I have ever found it in my varied experience."
	January, 1881.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Relief Society of Mesa, Arizona, organized
March, 1880. Sarah Phelps, President; Eliza-
beth and Sarah M. Pomeroy, Counselors; Fran-
celle Robson, Secretary; Fannie Macdonald,
Treasurer. Have held meetings monthly; a good
spirit generally prevails. Have a city lot ar-
ranged for, and are going to build as soon as pos-
sible.
		Yours truly.
				FRANCELLE P. ROBSON.

	We have about twenty-five families here in
our little settlement of Pleasant Green, Brighton
Ward, and we are trying to live up to our duties,
to the best of our knowledge. Our Relief So-
ciety was organized March 9, 1879, with Sister
Charlotte Hirst, President; Ann Bertoch and
Francis Hardman, Counselors. The death of
our dear president left our society disorganized.
It was re-organized August, 1880, with Sister
Alvira S. Hirst, President, Ann Bertoch and
Nancy Dearden, Counselors. From our first or-
ganization up to the present time we have do-
nated to the temple $10; emigration, $9.50; to
the poor, $3.75; for books $1.90. We have on
hand at present, cash, $7; property, $20. Our
society does not own any grain, but we expect
to in the future. We celebrated Joseph Smith's
birthday by getting up a party for the benefit of
the schoolhouse, to get some new benches.
			ALVIRA S. HIRST, President.
			FANNY JENKINS, Secretary.
			ALICE COCKRILL, Ass't Secretary.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—The sisters of Rich-
mond are striving to do their part in the great
work that is laid out for them as handmaidens
of the Most High, ever willing and ready to im-
part to the needy, comfort the distressed. At
the present time there are but few who are not
able to help themselves. The Lord has blessed
us with a good harvest, there is no sickness of
any moment, for which we strive to be thank-
ful. Your paper is ever a welcome visitor among
us. Please accept our kind regards, in which
our president truly joins.
	Your sisters in the Gospel.
				A. M. MERRILL, Pres't.
				B. BROWER, Sec'y.

	Dear Sister: It is with pleasure I write to in-
form you of the organization of a Relief Society
in the Riverton Branch of the South Jordan
Ward with the following officers: Jane Silcock,
President; Sarah J. Howard, first Counselor,
Caroline Hansen, second Counselor: and Hen-
rietta Bills Sec'y. Sarah Kidd, Treasurer.
			Respectfully,
						JANE SILCOCK.
	RIVERTON, DEC. 17, 1880.

KANAB.

	The Annual Conference of the Belief Socie-
ties, of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was held at
Orderville Dec. 9, 1880. Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Metting opened by sing-
ing "Sweet is the Work" and prayer by Pres't.
Lousia Spencer, sang "O awake my slumbering
minstrel."
	Minutes of previous Conference and statis-
tical and financial reports read and accepted

[Column 2]
There was a good verbal report given by the
Presidents of the different wards. Coun.
Bunting said, she was thankful for the privil-
ege of again, meeting with the sisters in the
capacity of a Conference,considered it a privil-
ege to have Pres't. Nuttall visit us, was glad
he was so well pleased, with the labors of the
sisters in the different Wards. Sister Bunting
wished the sistars to make a special effort, to
obtain means to help gather the poor Saints.
Urged upon the sisters the necesity of puncual-
ity in attending meeting. Hoped that we all
would take the counsel of Brother and Sister
Nuttall, to be united and of one heart, in our
labors. Made other excellent remarks.
	Prest. H. O. Spencer said, he was desirious
of sustaining the societies in every good thing.
He also wished the sisters to sustain home
manufacture, it is a part of our great mission,
to do this, that we may sustain ourselves tem-
porally.
	Prest. J. L. Bunting felt great pleasure in
meeting with the sisters, thought that a com-
pliment was due them for the many efforts they
had made. Opposition we must expect in this
world, but we must meet it as becoming
Saints. Once we had not the organizations,
that we have at the present time, consequently
we could not do then as we can now.
	Why are the Saints required to perform the
labors of making quilts, hats &c., and of
gathering wheat? That they may be economical
and a saving of the means of existence; that
we may be independent of the outside world.
It appears that the brethren to a certain
extent, have failed in many things, and the
sisters have been called upon to assist the
brethren, and they have made many praise-
worthy efforts. Urged the sisters to pray in
their families, in the absence of their husbands;
also to do what they could to help gather the
poor Saints.
	Elders, Chamberlain, Robinson, Pugh and
Rider, gave some good counsel to the sisters.
Sang "Let Zion in her beauty rise." Dismised
by Elder J. R. Jound.
	STATISTICAL Reports.—Teachers, 68; meet-
ings held 297; average attendance 50.
	FINANCIAL:—On hand last report $265,04;
receipts, $151,25; disbursements, $137,52; In
treasury. $27,97.
	We hoped to have the pleasure of a visit
from Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. Young,
while on their visit South, but were very much
disappointed. Wishing yourself and all the
sisters a happy and a prosperous New Year. I
remain your sister in the Gospel.
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Stake Sec'y.


GEORGE ELLIOT'S INFLUENCE.

SELECTED.

	The death of George Eliot will come with
a sense of personal loss to a large body of
readers in all parts of the world. The woman
was intensely English, but her genius was of
no country. She stood far above all rivals of
her own sex, and was foremost among the small
band of novelists whom the latter half of the
century has produced. Her nom de plume
was typical of her character. She had a woman's
keen intuitions joined to a masculine power of
analysis and strength of reasoning. Above
all, she had that superb imagination which is
given only to one or two writers in a century,
and that power of incarnating ethical truths
which none of her contemporaries possessed in
equal measure. She lived a laborious life,
frequently working with so great intensity as
to injure her health. She has left a noble in-
heritance to coming generations of readers.
	Her genius gathered about her a circle of
admirers, but society did not look kindly upon
her. CHARLOTTE BRONTE has depicted the


loneliness of a woman "hearing the nations
praising her from afar," while her own heart
is hungry for the homely love and affection of
the fire-side. The marriage of the author, of
"Jane Eyre" was almost as singular as the
latest union of George Eliot. When her first
youth was gone she espoused a country curate,
whose only claim to consideration was his de-
votion to her. Many of George Eliot’s ad-
mirers professed to be greatly grieved at her
action in marrying so soon after the death of
GEORGE HENRY LEWES. She might have
replied to these critics, as NAPOLEON did to
the remonstrances of the jealous JOSEPINE,
that she was not to be judged by the same
rules as ordinary women. The great Emperor
expressed in his terse phrase the truth, that
genius is a law unto itself in directing that ex-
uberant energy which is at once its curse and
its blessing. George Eliot was kept from vio-
lating morality as she did conventional laws,
by her English blood and training. Born and
bred in France she would, no doubt, have re-
peated in her life the career of George Sand.
This "large-brained woman and large-hearted
man," who gave so great an impulse to French
literature, lived what we would call a very
immoral life until the fire of her passions was
quenched with years. But there is no question
that she strove to be a reformer to the best of
her light—as earnestly as ANNA DICKINSON
does in our day.
	George Eliot, in her own way, has done much
to influence English character. To the world-
wide audience of readers of her novels she has
preached the sermon of self-restraint, high en-
deavor, and obedience to that moral law that
speaks to every man and woman in accents
that cannot fail to be understood. She shows
the consequences of its violation in "Adam
Bede" and "Romola"—the two novels that will
live longest in popular regard. In her other
works she has meted out justice with unsparing
hand, smiting the weak-willed and those strick-
en with moral paralysis. But it is only in a
single short poem that she sums up her creed.
In that hymn, "O may I join the Choir Invis-
ible," she rests her faith, not alone on the hope of
immortality, but on the power of genius to live
through from age to age, upholding and
strengthening sorely tempted and struggling
souls. This one poem embodies the hopes and
aspirations of a large sect of English rational-
ists. They have no faith in the God or the im-
mortality of the Christian religion. They believe
only in the life and the possibilities of living
hereafter, by virtue of the work done here, as
SHAKESPERE and MILTON live to-day among
English-speaking people in all parts of the
globe. This faith she expresses in these grand
opening lines:

	O, may I join the choir invisible
Of those immortal dead who live again
In minds made better by their presence; live
In pulses stirred to generosity,
In deeds of daring rectitude, in scorn
For miserable alms that end in self—
In thoughts sublime that pierce the night like stars,
And, with their mild persistence urge man'lfs search
To vaster issues.
					So to live is heaven;
To make undying music in the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM NAZARETH.

* * * * At this moment we
are having a very striking reminder of the
expression in Jeremiah—“The voice of the
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride"—which
says nothing to us Westerners because our
brides and bridegrooms do not lift up their 
voices. A little while ago, 4 p. m., I heard a
sound as of a distant multitude shouting and
singing. I looked out and saw coming over
the brow of one of the hills on the other side
of the town, a gay procession, hundreds of peo-

[Column 2]
ple singing, shouting, firing guns, &c. They
were bringing a bride from one of the outside
villages. With Mrs. Gilbert's glass we could
distinguish many camels gaily decked with
carpets, rugs and scarlet cloth, and Miss Tan-
ner told us that the bride's trousseau is also
displayed on these camels. The bride rides on
a horse—very probably for the first time in
her life—and is taken to the house of a friend,
the people all chanting, as they pass slowly on,
verses in praise of her beauty and perfections,
that remind one of the songs of Solomon.
	When the bride was safely housed, we heard
in another direction the procession of the
bridegroom, who was being taken to the house
of one of his friends, where he will be feted
and congratulated, and have verses sung in his 
praise also. The friends of the bride are in 
the meantime weeping and condoling with her,
as well they may, for though the affair as seen
from the outside looks very Biblical, she is in-
deed to be pitied, for women are kept in such
a degraded condition here, it fills one with in-
dignation. Eastern brides generally get a
sound thrashing from their husbands as an in-
troduction into married life, "just to make
them know their place." To-night there will
be a grand torchlight procession, more firing 
of guns, chanting, etc., etc., and every day un-
til Sunday, when the marriage will be cele-
brated at church or mosque, according as the
bridegroom is Moslem or Christian, and all
will be finished up by the grandest torchlight
procession, when the bride is taken to her 
tyrant's home.
	Sunday. I little knew that the wind up of
the wedding was going to be a fearful riot, but
so it was, and we had truly a bad time of it,
coming home from Church with our sixty
panic-stricken children. We were about three
hundred yards from the church when there
was a block and a panic, and we heard that
there was a serious riot going on between the
Greeks and the Latins in the street. The C.
M. S. school was the nearest place of refuge,
and we were most thankful when we had
placed our sixty children inside; they were all
in a state of the utmost panic, big and little,
and just babies. There was no getting them
to understand a word, and we had just to drag
and push them just where we wanted them to
go. The stones, which are still the missiles of
this country, always handy and always abun-
dant, we could see flying thickly about the low
flat houses, and we heard of many being se-
riously wounded. Then it seems the party
who were getting the worst of it, rushed up the
hill above the house, the pursuers following;
and as night was falling, it was considered ad-
visable for us to try and gain our home before
the rioters returned into the town. That was
a bad time for us, for having so many little
ones with us, we could not climb the hill very
fast, and there were big stones, larger than I
could lift, lying thickly in the path, where the
worst of the fray had been. All the way there
was the fear that we meet the rest of the rab-
ble returning before we gained the shelter of
our home. We could see figures rampaging 
about our land, and thought: "Oh, if only we
had a wall built!" Yakoob was on the lookout
for us in a great state of anxiety, and at last
we all got inside the gates, and could breathe
again. Then we went up on the roof to see
how matters were going, and we could hear the
shouts and shrieks, but the combatants were
just over the brow of the hill, and all we could
see were the stragglers, whose figures stood out
clearly all along the ridge, against the sunset 
sky. Such a glorious sunset it was, and to
think of what was going on under it, on that
very hill where we are sure Jesus of Nazareth
spent many an hour of quiet communion with
His Father, and that He was looking down on
these Christians! raging like demons over those
spots which they profess to hold sacred for His

[Column 3]
sake. Night comes on very suddenly here,
and as the noise on the hill died away with the
dying light, we can only suppose that the dif-
ferent parties returned to their homes under
cover of the darkness, and must wait till to-
morrow to know what it was about. * *
	Monday. This, it appears, was the upshot
of the riot: It seems the Governor of Naza-
reth went out to quell the riot, but the Latins
were too bold for him; they took his karboosch
(fez cap) and broke his head, and then he took
refuge in the house of a Greek. This morning
he sent his soldiers to bring up the offenders,
and received the answer: "We are not at lei-
sure, we are drinking today." And so the
thing ends. Every one knows of course that
he has been bribed heavily; the Latins are rich
and powerful, and they have a fiery little fel-
low, Fra Giuseppe, who never allows any one
of their persuasion to be punished. If a Latin
has committed murder even, and flies to the
convent for sanctuary, Fra Giuseppe is certain
to get him off. I have just heard of a sad
proof that we can reckon but little on the sta-
bility of our converts here. A woman who
has professed Christianity for years has now
gone back to Moslemism, because Mr. Huber
did not give her a dress at Christmas. I am
sorry to acknowledge that here as elsewhere;
"the loaves and fishes" too often influence a
person's religious opinions.	TEACHER.


﻿ALLEGORY.

	The clock had passed the stroke of the
eleventh hour of the last day of 1880. A
slowly burning fire, that ever and anon flick-
ered with a pale, tremulous glow—now light-
ing the room, then sinking low, till naught
but lurid shadows filled the place—was burn-
ing on the hearth. Dreamily my mind went
back through light and darkness to every
place the past year had borne me, in its arms
of power irresistible. A personage was with
me now—a pale, wan figure, with the mark of
death set deep upon his brow. It was the old
year. He approached me with extended hand:
"Farewell," he said, "I soon must go; I pray,
you that when I am gone you will think of
me kindly." I shrank from him, refused his
hand, and sternly I replied: "Think of you
kindly? No. Why should one throb of ten-
derness e’er move my heart toward one who,
when he first crossed my threshold, was laden
with care, sickness and disappointment, and
bound the burden on my weary soul. Yet
more, my house was filled with those my eyes
so dearly loved to look upon; yon have re-
moved nearly all of these far from me; you
have robbed us of our home, and now you seek
to part with me in friendship! Get you gone!
Away with you, I say! let oblivion cover all
your evil ways.
	"Sister," said a soft and mellow voice, "for-
give." In an instant 1880 passed like a shadow
from my sight. One now stood near me who
had been hidden by the figure, which was gone
like vapor from the room. This last one came
with firm, elastic step, his eye was full of ten-
derness and truth, his brow, though clothed
with power, was softened by the beams of mercy
and forgiveness. He took my hand with pity-
ing look, and all at once the hardness of my
heart was gone—I only felt good will and
peace toward all mankind. He spoke again:
"I am your coming year; I am 1881, and I
command all men, by word from heaven, that
at every coming year they do forgive the past.
I have been everywhere evil spoken against,
yet not by you nor yours. In me you all have
hope. In me you can trust, if you will well
and truly act as I shall you instruct. Hold in
your heart sacred the sensations of kindness
and sympathy for Adam’s fallen race; a for-
giving spirit toward those who err, as now you


are  moved  upon  by  me  to  do.  Love  your
neighbor  as  yourself, and  the  most holy com-
mandments  well  and  truly keep, you will  not
part  with  me  as  with  my  predecessor;   for
among all  my tenderest  cares will I remember
you  and  your  loved ones,  all  who were spared
by 1880, and given to me in trust.   Then  when
all the former yea[-]s shall come before the judg-
ment  seat  of  Him  who  had  appointed  them
their  times,  I  too  will   come  and  testify that
while  I  traveled  with  the  earth around upon
her  circle  in  the  heavens, thou wast true and
faithful  in  all  the  things  that  make  man
worthy, by  forgiving  to  be  forgiven, and hav-
ing  kept  the  law  of  God, so  far  as  I can  be
your witness, art  entitled  to  partake with  the
just of the leaves of the tree of life eternal.
	M. J. C.


136	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	All that long summer the gold fever in-
creased, and a tide of humanity went surging
past, making Salt Lake their resting place, and
the little oasis in the desert became a business
centre and a place of rest. The miners came
with wagons, but, owing to the nature of the
mountain country, thought it expedient to
finish their journey with pack animals. This
gave employment to many of the citizens in fit-
ting up saddles and the necessary outfit for
packing. Their jaded animals were exchanged
for fresh ones, their wagons together with all
sorts of farming utentsils, machinery, stoves,
trunks and clothing of all sorts,were exchanged
with the citizens or sold at a mere nominal
price. It was a God-send to the poor, destitute
inhabitants, affording them implements to
work with, and even provisions, meat, flour,
cheese, crackers, fruit and groceries, were sold
of given in large quantities to the settlers, who
gave thanks to God for all his mercies and
went to work with renewed faith and courage.
Jesse had left his business in charge of his
partner, who was a good, honest man in his
way, but of no business capability. The saw-
mill was good property,and lumber in demand,
but he only managed to make a scanty living
for his own family and very little for Mary.
Jesse's friend, John Somers, had promised him
before he went, that while he had anything
Mary should not suffer. He went to Green
River in company with others to ferry over the
emigrants receiving in payment, many things
for the comfort of his family. He brought
Mary a small cooking stove which she prized
highly, as she had thought never to own such
an article again when she left her home.
	That fall some men came in from California
bringing news of the absent ones,for there were
no mails in those days. Jesse sent Mary
four hundred dollars in gold, to be divided
with his partner, according to contract. He
had arrived at his destination after many hard-
ships, and after resting awhile from his fatigue,
had found work at his trade as boss carpenter,
at good wages and sent the proceeds to his
family. To Minnie it seemed like a fairy tale
to see so much gold and she expected her father
would soon come home with so much that they
could have everything they wanted. Poor
child, she hardly realized what all they wanted
might mean; she knew little of the require-
ments of life,nor how one want supplied makes
way for another. Blessed are the humble poor,
so long as want and starvation does not assail
them, their homes are happier and more free
from care than the mansions of the rich. Her

[Column 2]
mind was full of anticipations, everything
would be bright and happy when her father
came. She did not care much if he would
only come, she always had everything as others
had, so far as she saw, he had always provided,
and why should he not always do so. It would
be so bright and happy if he was only at home
she did not care for the gold if father would
only come. Childish logic certainly but how
much better for all if Jesse could have
seen it in the same light; how many slow tor-
turing years might have been spared them,
what sorrow and care and desolation: but the
excitement was strong and gold seemed the
surest way to happiness.
	To Mary it meant comforts for herself, and
rest for Jesse. He had always worked hard,he
would be an old man after awhile, and it would
be nice to have a good home and comforts for
their old age, and gold might bring them even
there,for were they not promised that the wil-
derness should blossom as the rose; that Zion
should be established in the tops of the moun-
tains; and peace and plenty should reign in their
midst. There were many hardships in settling
a new country, especialy one so isolated from
navigation, where all means for improvement
had to be imported so many miles in ox-teams.
The farming required so much labor on ac-
count of irrigation, and all the wood and
lumber had to be hauled from those dreadful
canons at the risk of life and limbs, and many
a good man was killed or crippled while labor-
ing on the mountains. They had come to set-
tle in peace where they could rest secure from
their enemies. They had been robbed, and
plundered, and driven, but they had come so
far away that no one would care to molest
them, the country was such a barren desert,
that no one would wish to wrest it from them.
Here at least, they would find rest, they would
build cities, rear temples, and improve the
country, worshiping God according to his re-
vealed will without fear or molestation. It was
said, "seek first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness, and all else shall be added."
They had left father, mother, home and friends
for Christ's sake, and if they were faithful to
their covenants, and true to themselves and to
God, He would bless them in all their under-
stakings.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
[Sketch of boy harvesting some type of crop with the words
"WARNER'S", "SAFE", "KIDNEY & LIVER", "CURE" written on the sketch]

	Is made from a Simple  Tropical  Leaf  of  Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the  diseases  that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of  the  Kidneys, Liver,  and  Urinary  Organs.  For  Fe-
male Diseases, it  has  no  equal.   It  restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It  is  the only known  remedy that  cures Bright's Dis-
ease.  For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists  and  Dealers  at  $1,25  per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market.  Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
	CLASS  IN  MIDWIFERY.
DR.  ROUMWNIA  B.  PRATT  WILL BEGIN  A  NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building,  March 1st, 1881.  Students  should send  their
names in time for books to be procured.
	TERMS ,  830.	BOOKS,  812.

	DR.  ELLIS  R.  SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN  AND  SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop  Hunter's old residence, between Z.  C.M
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South S[-]reets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
	BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES   &  SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's  Fine  Shoes,
obe found in the West.	Your Orders are Solicited.
	GEO.  DUNFORD.

	F.  AUERBACH  &  BRO.
	HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos.  124  &  126
	CALL  AND  EXAMINE
	Fall  and  Winter  Goods.

	DAVID  JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for  RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and  FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.   Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS,  GROCERIES,
HEAVY  &  SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS  &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL  IMPLEMENTS,  ETC.

	AT  TEASDEL'S
	SALT  LAKE  CITY.
	Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets,   Ladies'   and   Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods,  Shawls  and  Domestics,  Groceries,  Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
	S. P.  TEASDEL.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home  Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN  C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.

	H.  DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING  BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL  PAPER
AND 
BABY  CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First   South  Street,
SALT  LAKE  CITY.

DR.   A.   B.  DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural  teeth. Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE T[--]TH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the 
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST.   OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE  HOUSE.
P.  O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1881.	No. 18.


[Column 1]
OUR HOPES ARE IN THEE.

A SONG IN THE NIGHT.

So long is the night, and the tempest is fearful;
	The landscape is covered with winter's own pall;
Ah! is it the earth, that so blooming and cheerful,
	In the spring, in the summer, enlivened us all?
Oh, yes, 'tis the same, though bereft of its brightness—
	Though the darkness hath jealously covered its face—
Yet the sun in the morning shall smile on its whiteness,
	And spring shall restore to it beauty and grace.
And lo! in the clouds is a star brightly gleaming,
	Its ray through the darkness is cheering to see;
Look upward for light! is its infinite seeming—
	It tells us, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

So long is the night, Lord, vouchsafe me this, only
	E'en the spirit of song, as to David of old;
"My soul is cast down, 'tis disquieted," surely
	Thou wilt not this blessing, this comfort withold;
For the gloom of adversity gathers around me,
	And Thou art my star, shining forth through the cloud;
If I seek not thy Spirit, Thy peace, to surround me,
	The blackness of night doth my being enshroud.
Put a song in my mouth, let me sing of Thy glory,
	Of Thy mercy, that many may comforted be;
And behold, mine own pathway 'twill brighten before
		me,
	And thus I shall know I'm accepted of Thee.
'Tis even to-night that I truly desire Thee,
	I am patiently waiting Thy kindness to prove,
"Tis the living, O Lord, 'tis the living must praise Thee,
	The dead cannot sing of Thy mercy and love!"
Thy light in the darkness my spirit would see,
	And thus would I sing that our hopes are in Thee!

Do I doubt Thee, my Father? Ah, no; but the spirit
	Of man is depressed, by the body so frail;
Oft, while Hope is exultant, lo! Darkness is present,
	And because of our weakness, Despair would prevail;
But e'en "as a Father, his children doth pity,"
	Thou dost amply allow for mortality's cares;
Thou seest Thy children in hamlet or city,
	And hearest in kindness their wants and their prayers,
Thought each soul's but a speck on life's limitless ocean,
	A drop in humanity's measureless tide;
Yet Thou knowest our thoughts, yea, our every emotion,
	And all who will seek Thee can make Thee their guide.
Great Father! Thy bounty unbounded must be,
	And because of Thy mercies, our hopes are in Thee.

And oh! what is man, that Thou thus should'st regard
		us?
	Oh, what are we, Lord, that Thou even should'st deign
To hear our petitions, to guide us, to guard us,
	To soothe us in sorrow, to help us in pain?
In the dust, at Thy feet, will I even adore Thee,
	My Father, my Father! "the Gnide of my youth!"
Though I stumble and stray, yet Thou still dost restore
		me,
	Dost give me to drink from the fountains of Truth;
Oh, give it me always, whate'er, Thou withholdest,
	Vouchsafe me "the Bread and the Waters of Life."
By the strength of Thine arm still support and enfold
		us,
	And calm we shall be in a tempest of strife;
The soul Thou sustainest to fear is a stranger;
	Yea, Death he can face, on the land and the sea.
Thou art watchful to shield us in darkness and danger,
	When Thou knowest, O Father, our hopes are in Thee!

Ah! what, tho' the honest are grieved in their spirit?
	Ah! what, tho' the trusting are tried from their youth?
Ah! what, tho' it seems they are born to inherit
	Misfortune? 'Twill yet be their triumph in truth.
Though e'en the affections we purely have cherished
	Are crushed, like the roses whose breath we distill,
And the hopes we have fostered, that yet they might
		flourish,
	Pride bids us uproot, by an effort of will;
Though "the billows" encompass us, fiercer by far
	Than e'er seemed the ocean when lashed into foam,
Shall we passively drift to the "gulf of despair?"

[Column 2]
	Or think that the Lord has forgotten his own?
Necessity urges man's bravest endeavor,
	As strengthened by sorrow should sympathy be;
Though buffeted sorely, we know they are never
	Forsaken, O Father, whose hopes are in Thee!
'Mid Sinia's thunders, O Lord, Thou didst tell us
	Thy children should worship and serve Thee alone;
Because of Thine honor, Thou even art jealous—
	The gods we would cling to are surely o'erthrown.
Oh, "cease ye from man," in our ears it is ringing,
	"Whose breath is as naught," who must fallible be;
Our soul's, in thy providence, Lord, Thou art bringing,
	To worship 'Thee only, to lean but on Thee.
Adversity's storms all the weakness discloses
	Of the structures that mortals uprear on the sand;
And foolish is he who his whole trust reposes
	In man, for the tempest he cannot withstand;
Thou art teaching us, Father, tho' mighty men be,
Thou art mightier still, that our hopes are in Thee!
While we "render to Cesar" his due, need we e'er
	Kneel down to a mortal in place of our God?
'Tis oppression, or pride, that presumes or will dare
	To humble his fellow, e'en down to the sod.
Power, invested in man, will at times breed abuses,
	And the triumph of Darkness these help to complete;
For Satan is subtle, and glad of excuses
	To ensnare us, to try us, "to sift us as wheat."
Though, even as children, we stoop for salvation,
	And are "buried with Christ" all our sins to efface,
Yet, as "righteousness surely exalteth a nation,"
	"The TRUTH" MUST uplift us, it CANNOT DEEASE.
To all, thus obedient, God giveth His Spirit,
	And who shall its light or their conscience defy?
Though the actions of mortals some censure should
		merit,
	To blacken the truth is it honest to try?
Nay, bold as a lion for right and for justice,
	Enduring as dauntless Truth's lovers must be;
Give us strength to be true, Lord, with wisdom entrust
		us,
	While "offences must come," let our hopes be in Thee!
Oh, happy are all who confide in Thy promise,
	Oh, wealthy are all who are blessed by Thy love;
Though "riches take wings," though they fly away from
		us,
	Yet Thy grace for our comfort sufficient doth prove.
What if Penury even, Misfortune's twin brother,
	Hath frozen and blighted our prospects so fair?
What if Circumstance strips us almost of a cover,
	And all things around us are gloomy and bare?
Though nothing we see for the fruits of our labor,
	Nor e'en will our troubles dissolve like the snow,
Though "the poor are most surely apart from their
		neighbor,"
	And 'tis even presumptuous the lofty to know;
Though the winds of Adversity sweep round our dwell-
		ing,
	Nor vast is the structure to weather the shock;
Though the floods of affliction are rising, are swelling—
	Need we fear, if our house is upreared on "the Rock?"
While the ear of Omnipoten[—] lists to our plea,
	While, infinite Father, our hopes are in Thee!
So long is the night, yet my spirit rejoices,
	A star still is glowing, still sparkling for me.
Shine out, all ye stars! By your numberless voices
	Proclaim that most mighty your Maker must be.
Shine out, gentle moon, e'en like purified saduess,
	Like sorrow subdued, that is sweeter than mirth;
Shine out, cheer the night with your mellowy gladness,
	And whisper, the Lord is the Judge of the earth.
The sun, in his gorgeous effulgence and splendor,
	We expect not, we pray not, at midnight to see;
All good in its season "the Just One" will render,
	To trust in His purpose contented we'll be.
We can wait, for we know that the darkness will vanish,
	The curtain of night will be shortly uprolled:
"The King of the day" every shadow will banish,
	Will gladden the earth as with glorified gold."
The dawn we shall welcome, the day we shall see,
For, merciful Father, our hopes are in Thee.
						EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	In the Medical and Surgical Reporter, a
weekly journal, published in Philadelphia, Pa-
we find the following notice of Utah Ter. from
a report made by our rising woman physician
Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	Proceedings of the Alumnoe Association of
the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.
	This unpretending volume cannot fail to
be read with interest. It is one of the first
which owes its origin to the female physicians
of this community as a body-so far as we know
actually the first.	*	*	*	*	Dr.
Romania B. Pratt sends a very instructive
medical report on Utah Territory. Of the
diseases of that Territory she writes:"
	"As I scan the table of death, the monthly
mortuary of Salt Lake City, for 1879, I observe
the deadly footprints of the epidemic of diph-
theria. The total number of deaths from this dis-
ease in 1879 was 156, the greater number under
ten years of age. I find the next greater fatality
in acute-lung diseases pneumonia 50, bronchitis
5. It is said that this region of country is
peculiarily favorable to the recovery of patients
suffering from phthisis pulmonalis, if destruc-
tion of lung tissue is not too far advanced. I
will mention the fact interesting on account of
its negativeness—the record of one death from
syphilis. I have not met with a case yet in my
practice."
	The National Woman's Suffrage Association
held their thirteenth Annual Convention in Lin-
coln Hall, Washington, D. C. on Tuesday
and Wednesday Jan. 18th and 19th. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton presiding. Upon the platform
were Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Clemence S. Lo-
zier, Phoebe Cousins, Dr. Caroline B. Winslow,
Dr. Susan B. Edson, Marilla M. Ricker,
Misses Julia and Rachel Foster and several
other ladies of well-known celebrity. The
morning hour on Tuesday opened with memo-
rial services in commemoration of Lucretia
Mott, her picture (a large crayon portrait)
resting upon an easel in the centre of the stage.
It was draped with dark crimson and above
it was a white dove with extended wings a
beautiful vine of smilax trailing gracefully
from his beak, below the picture was a sheaf of
wheat tied with pale blue ribbon, a floral lyre
stood near. In honor to Mrs. Mott the audi-
ence joined in silent impressive invocation.
Mrs Stanton then delivered in an eloquent and
touching manner a graceful and happy tribute
to the memory of that estimable lady. Then
followed a solo by Miss Blanche Washington,
after the singing Robert Purvis was called upon
to present the floral harp to Edward M. Davis
son-in-law of Lucretia Mott as her representa-
tive, who made a happy response. Short
speeches from several of the members followed
and the session closed with the grand and sub-
lime hymn "Nearer my God to Thee."
	Of the work of subsequent sessions we will
give some details in the next issue.


FOREIGN.—The British Parliament re-
assembled Thursday and listened to the
Queen's speech. In the evening Earl Beacons-
field made a long speech in the House of
Lords, condemning the goverment policy. A
protracted debate was had on the Queen’s
speech in the House of Commons, Mr. Glad-
stone urging for its measures. Ex.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[CONTINUED.]
	My father's early life and experience, with
his father, is a fair sample of those who pio-
neered and did the hard work of breaking and
settling a new country. The hardships en-
countered by them can be understood and ap-
preciated by those who were pioneers to this
western land, and have made their homes in
these Rocky Mountains. The Leaders, and
many others who were in that little band, were
the veritable descendants of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers and Mothers, who laid the foundation for
their independence. The Prophet Joseph
Smith and his brother, Hyrum, with Brigham
Young, Heber C. Kimball, Bishop N. K.
Whitney, and many of the prominent men of
the “Mormon” Church were born in the State
of Vermont. My father, in his history, says:
"Father Joseph Smith and his brother, John
Smith, were acquainted with the Kimballs, the
families were connected by marriage. Bishop
Whitney and my father were also related; they
were never acquainted until after we moved to
Kirtland, but by tracing back they found that
the mother of N. K. Whitney, whose name
was Susannah Kimball, was a relative of my
father. Father Whitney thought so much of
his mother, that he added the Kimball to sev-
eral of his children’s names; his own middle
name was Kimball, after his mother. Grand-
mother Whitney was a very intelligent, and
what the Yankees term smart woman, and
noted for her ready wit, which the following
anecdote will illustrate. One Saturday, after
the regular training was over, a drunken fellow
came riding swiftly by, and suddenly stopping
before her door, halloed, “Madam, do you
know’t (hic) hell’s broke loose?” “Yes, I see
you’ve got your liberty,” was the quick reply.
	My father and mother were of Scotch des-
cent. Their families have prided themselves
on the knowledge that they came from a noble
stock; but my parents cared very little about
worldly nobility and rank, they were proud to
be able to say that some of their ancestors
were among those who first came to America
and helped gain their independence, and
that their descendants were noble hard-working,
self-sacrificing and conscientious people, who
believed in rising on their own merits.
	The Murrays were a very warm-hearted
race, kind and generous to a fault. Many of
them were possessed of a poetic temperament,
or the gift of expressing thoughts in verse.
After the death of my eldest daughter, Vilate,
my Uncle Gould Murray’s daughter, Libbie,
who I remember when a child, sent me some
beautiful lines.
	When hearing of my mother's death, my
uncle wrote me a loving letter, and closed it
with the assurance that the children of his
own "baby sister" were dear to him, and they
would always find "his latch string on the out-
side." He was the oldest and my mother the
youngest of four children, and from her birth
he took care of her, and always called her his
"baby sister."
	My father was the only one of his family
who received the Gospel. He had a natural
reverence for the Supreme Being, and I have
often heard him, when relating his experience,
say that when a little child he loved to be
alone and reflect upon what his mother had
told him about heaven; and sometimes when
she was going out to spend an afternoon and
wanted him to go with her, he would say, "Let
me stay home at alone, ma, so I can take com-
fernits."
	He was the favorite brother, and had no
enemies until after he joined the "Mormons,"
which act, one might suppose, would have had
the effect of changing his whole nature; I

[Column 2]
might say that in one sense it did change him,
it made him a better man. This step was a
terrible blow to their pride, more particularly
to his oldest sister, Eliza, who was rich and
proud, and although she loved him, she felt so
humiliated that she said she never wanted to
see his face again. His brother, Solomon,
heard the "Mormon" Elders pray, and he told
my father that they were full of the Holy
Ghost religion; father told him he was going
to see them, and he told him to "go." His
daughter has since paid us a visit, and she told
me that her father was converted to "Mormon-
ism," and had it not been for the bitter oppo-
sition he met with from her mother, he would
have been a "Mormon."
	My father, when convinced of the truth of
it, went forward and obeyed its requirements,
without knowing whether my mother would
receive it or not; she never opposed him, but
for two or three weeks he mourned over her,
and plead night and day with the Lord to
give her a testimony of the truth of this work,
when his prayer was answered. Had his
brother done likewise, obeyed his convictions,
instead of his wife, he might possibly have
drawn her and his children after him.
	The following may prove interesting to many
of my father's friends, particularly to those
who were born and reared in the Eastern, or
New England States. He begins his life by
saying: "Concerning my ancestors I can say
but little; my Grandfather Kimball and his
brother came from England, and both assisted
in gaining the Independence of the United
States. My father, Solomon Farnham Kim-
ball, was born in the State of Massachusetts,
in the year 1770; he was raised from his boy-
hood with Judge Chase, of Massachusetts, re-
maining there until he was married, when the
Judge assisted him in establishing himself in
the business of blacksmithing in the town of
Sheldon, Franklin County, Vermont. He
was married to Anna Spaulding, who was born
in New Hampshire, in the town of Plainfield,
on the banks of the Connecticut River. At
the close of the Revolutionary War, my father
was thirteen years old, and I can remember
his rehearsing to me some of the scenes of the
war.
	"He was bald-headed, had dark brown hair,
blue eyes, sandy whiskers and sandy complex-
ion, five feet eleven inches high, and weighed
two hundred pounds and upwards; was captain
of a company of militia in Sheldon, and wore
a cocked up hat of the old English style, and
a strait-bodied coat and short breeches with a
knee buckle, long stockings and Suwarrow
boots with a pair of tassels.
	"He engaged in clearing land, burning the
wood into coal and ashes; he had also a forge
and a trip hammer in the manufacture of
wrought iron. About the time of the embargo,
before the last war with England, my father
lost his property, as it was invested in salts,
potash and pearl ash; the embargo having
shut down the gate of commerce between the
United States and England, left his property
in his hands without much value. He imme-
diately took it into his head to travel to the 
West and go into the Genessee purchase; he
saddled his horse, put on his big portmanteau,
which contained a change of raiment, and
started for the West. Arriving at the town of
Scipio, Cayuga County, New York; he fell in
with Judge Towsley, who employed him as a
foreman in a blacksmith shop, where he labored
six months; after which Judge Towsley and
my father traveled still further westward, to
within fourteen miles of the Genessee River,
to West Bloomfield, Ontario County, where
Judge Towsley assisted him in establishing
the blacksmithing business.
	"In the meantime my father took up several
hundred acres of land in this new country,
and after remaining six months, he returned

[Column 3]
to Sheldon to his family, having been absent a
year.
	"In February, 1811, he took my mother
and their six children in a sleigh, with one
span of horses, and what clothing we had upon
us and a change, and a few blankets to wrap
us in. We traveled on the ice on Lake Cham-
plain up to Whitehall, a distance of 110 miles,
where, spring being open, he traded his sleigh
for a wagon, and proceeded to West Bloom-
field, where he continued his business of black-
smithing and farming, and commenced build-
ing. He built an academy in West Bloom-
field, also two tavern stands and several pri-
vate dwellings. He made nearly all the edge
tools, such as scythes, augurs, axes, knives, &c.;
also ploughshares and agricultural implements
for the country around, to a distance of fifty
or sixty miles; and sometimes he had eight
forges at once, with a foreman and apprentice
at each fire. He generally worked with his
men and occupied one fire, and took the over-
sight of his workmen.
	"We continued living in West Bloomfield
during the late war with England, which place
was in the thoroughfare between Albany and
Buffalo, on what was called the public turn-
pike,' and on which the soldiers passed during
the war of 1812-15. It was flourishing times,
there being plenty of business and money, and
most men in business became involved, so that
when the war closed bankruptcy became com-
mon, as every merchant, tavern-keeper and
grogshop had a banking establishment, and is-
sued shin plasters from one cent up to five
dollars.
	"My father lost the greater portion of his
property, which broke him up in that place,
when he moved two and a half miles east, half
way between East and West Bloomfield, where
he brought a farm near a small lake, called
Stewart's Pond; on this pond there was a little
improvement.
	"Here he established blacksmithing, built a
large tavern-stand, barns and other outhouses,
and once more set out an orchard of various
kinds of fruit trees; this was in the year 1816,
which was called the cold season, the same
year that the black spot was seen on the sun;
the following year we gathered milkweeds,
boiled and ate them, not having salt to put on
them. It was with difficulty that bread could
be procured. My father paid three dollars
per bushel for potatoes.
	"My father was a man of good moral char-
acter, and though he did not profess any reli-
gion, yet he taught his children good morals,
and never would suffer them to swear, or play
upon the Sabbath day, without correcting them,
and would have them remain at home and read
good books, or attend the church.
	"My mother was a Presbyterian, agreea-
bly to the strictest sense of that religion; she
lived a virtuous life, and according to the best
of her knowledge taught her children the ways
of righteousness."
	To be Continued.


ITEMS.

	THE Harvard Annex for Women has 40
students. 
	QUEEN Victoria, before her marriage, was
Victoria Guelph; since, if she were a private
lady, she would be known as Mrs. Wettin, that
being the family name of her late husband,
Prince Albert.
	FOURTEEN hundred students in Berlin alone
have signed the petition for depriving Jews of 
their civil rights. Their outburst would ap-
pear to be caused by jealousy; at a recent meet-
ing of students it was alleged that three-fourths
of the writers and poets in Germany are Jews.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 139


A HEART'S RESPONSE.

The trav'ler on the barren desert-waste
	Would soon grow faint and weary, and despair,
Were there not cooling draughts for him to taste,
	Upspringing from some green oasis there.

And even so in life, when fortunes frown,
	When hearts are sad, and brains are tempest-toss'd
When joy and hope, e'en faith is almost gone
	And worthy aspirations too seem lost—

How sweet to know, indeed sublime the thought
	That friendship's link remains unbroken still;
What nectar sweet to mortal lips is brought—
	Ecstatic bliss. Our cups of joy o'erfill!

E'en pain grows lighter 'neath a loving stroke,
	Wild grief, in time assuaged by friendship true;
Ambitions fire enkindled, and the cloak;
	Of woe exchanged for dress of brighter hue.

Upon my hand there sparkles, fair and bright,
	Thy gift, this ring, an emblem of thy trust;
A talisman of good 'twill be, a beacon light,
	Revealing names and faces pure and just.

The day is past! But oh, the memory.
	Live on, and ere will live throughout all time;
Yes, longer still, through bright eternity
	It will be written on this heart of mine.

Loved ones, for all the honor you have shown,
	As recompense what can I say or do?
My heart is full, and fain would make it known,
	That love and gratitude abound for you.

Ah, yes, my future aim in life shall be
	To live more worthy of thy trust and love;
Be true in joys and through adversity,
	And join you in that better world above.

							E. R. SHIPP, M. D.
S. L. City, Jan. 22, 1881.


[Column 1]		
	SARAH CARTER.
	
WHO WAS IN A TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.
			
	BY HANNAH T. KING.
		
	"Once upon a time"—formerly these words in-
variably commenced some remarkable tale, so
I take them, as mine is also a remarkable tale,
but not founded on "fairies," or "Bluebeards,"
or any of those wonder-exciting histories that
used to be written for the young readers of
those ancienct days, and generally commenced
with these woe-exciting words as above. My
tale, or the episode in a life which I am about
to give, is a veritable fact, to which I was again
and again an eye witness. I shall again repeat
these ominous words, "once upon a time," when
(looking through the lens of memory) the very
earth seemed young, when fruit seemed more
luscious and flowers more exquisitely sweet in
their never-to-be-forgotten perfume, even if they
were not so gorgeous in appearance. We had
not then heard of the rose of the "Cloth of
Gold," the Hybrid rose, and the Nosette, and
the Bankseer and others, and a "Horticultural
show" was a nine days' wonder, blackberrying
and nutting were the red-letter days in the do-
mestic calendar of youth, and the village
"feast" was the grand exposition of the year!
The very remembrance of those times brings
over us a freshness, a freedom, a gladness; that
nothing to-day seems akin to. In the pano-
rama of those golden days, vistas through
which we are now peering, I see two little girls!
Yes, were I a mechanical painter I could pro-
duce them on the canvas, even to their features 
and the very expressino of those little round,
chubby faces; they exhibited strong character-
istics, though the eldest could barely be eight,
and the other probably six years old. They 
were ever dressed precisely alike, quaint and
original, as everything was about them; they
wore little straw cottage bonnets lined, with a
piece of ribbon simply put across to tie them
down, little shawls quaintly pinned down at 
the waist, frocks, stockings and shoes all twin
they invariably walked hand in hand as they

[Column 2]
passed to school, or on the errand on which
they might have been sent. They were fresh
and rosey with health, and were perfect types of
the little rustic, though they differed in ap-
pearance; Sarah, the principal subject of this
little sketch, was entirely the little rustic; Betsy,
her sisiter, denoted a more refined physique, her
complexion pink aud white—Sarah the bru-
nette. They ever seemed entirely devoted to 
each other; in passing groups of children they
would eye them as they passed, and perhaps
look back a little over the shoulder, but on no
account did they ever stop to make observa-
tion or listen to what was going on. This pic-
ture is apropos to them for years. Did not all
this denote character in children of such an
early age? I think so. Probably they acted 
under orders from head-quarters, and truly 
they were obedient.
	The father of these children was a man far
advanced in  years; he was himself a character.
I expect his type is obsolete, for at that time
even, he seemed to belong to a past age. He
was a small farmer, but his own landlord.
Non-enterprising, like a certain class of that
day when he started into life. He would grow
some wheat, enough to supply his family, and 
sufficient to sell to pay his taxes and other tri-
fling expenses, oats for his horses, which always
looked fat and lazy, peas for his pig, of which
he farmed many, and barley for malt for his
own use, and some also for the market. He 
had married early in life, but his family had
grown up and gone out into the world, and his
wife was dead. 
	Of course he must have a housekeeper, and
he found one the very counterpart of him-
self, only she was younger by some years;
how long she remained housekeeper deponent
knoweth not, but finding her one who could
ably fill the chair of state in his household, he
proposed honorable marriage and was accepted.
I wish I could describe her! for she too was of
a type now extinct; indeed, at the time of
which I write she stood out in bold relief, like
her husband, as belonging to the past. In ap-
pearance she was homely, but not vulgar, strong
and stalwart in form, but not masculine; an
arm that we should have shunned, had she 
been angry and attempted to hold a culprit.
She always wore short sleeves from the elbow—
she would have hid herself in the bushes had
she been found walking in the garden in the
cool of the day in a long-sleeved dress, as some-
things she ought to be ashamed of! a large hand-
kerchief over her shoulders, primly pinned
down at the waist; a full apron, that had the
appearance of half a skirt, an open dress folded
and pinned back, a bright colored calimanco
petticoat, a cap—but over that she eternally
wore a little black bonnet; whether she slept
in it I am unable to say, but she was never
seen without it from the rising of the sun to
the going down of the same. I do not know
whether my picture will be vivid to my read-
ers but to me it is graphic and true to the life.
I have spoken of her figure, now a few words
on the face; she wore one eternal expression—
had she ever smiled? It must be long ago. In
looking at her, one might have imagined at
one time in her life she might have had a
great sorrow, and it had set its mark upon 
her as a heavy cloud, which no sunbeam ever
lifted. Had she loved in early life and been
"disappointed?" I have not a glimpse of light
upon that subject, so must leave it; but if so,
it might have been one cause why she took the
uncouth old man for her husband. He was 
also rich: that might have put a bright face
upon affairs. At any rate, she became Mrs.
Carter, and in every sense of the words became
an excellent wife and mother. She was not 
repulsive, but certainly not winning in her 
manners and appearance; she looked entirely
behind the times in which she lived. When I
came to know her, years after the times I am
now describing, in her great sorrow, I ever fel

[Column 3]
deep sympathy and respect for her, and she
evidently appreciated these feelings in me.
Such were the parents of the children des-
cribed above.
	When Sarah was about fourteen years of
age she had a severe attack of typhoid fever.
Her mother alone nursed her  with the most
devoted care and she seemed to recover from
death itself. At last she arose from her bed,
but there was such extreme weakness and pros-
tration of vital energy that she would fre-
quently lie down and have long sleeps. Her
mother considered this as nature bringing
about a restoration in her own way, and did
not attempt to prevent it. Time passed on
and she seemed restored in a degree, but leth-
argy increased upon her; she would sleep for
hours, and at last whole days, and then arouse
up and take some food. Still it seemed no
effort was made to throw off the lethargic state
into which she was daily sinking. Instead of
days, it would now be weeks, perhaps two,  that
sleep, or trance, which lasted seven years! At
the commencement of this trance-like stage
doctors were called in, and indeed many went
to witness the strange phenomenon uncalled
for. Doctor Haviland and Doctor Ficklin,
both of Cambridge, physicians of great prac-
tice and high character in the medical world,
and also in the highest society, were daily
visitors, for a long time, to the beside of the
sleeping girl. Many experiments were tried,
until the poor mother stood forward in her
commanding way, and declared her child
should be no more "tampered with."
	[To be Continued.]


SPANISH FORK PRIMARY.

	The Primary Association of Spanish Fork
had a party in the City Hall on Wednesday
Dec. 22nd, 1880 when about 200 of the little
folks assembled and participated in the enjoy-
ment of the occasion consisting of dancing,
singing, recitations &c. Cakes pies and candy
were bountifully distributed, and all seemed to
highly enjoy themselves. Just before dark
they were dismissed, and in the evening many
of the parents assembled some went in
the dance others enjoyed themselves in social
chat, or listining to the sweet tones of the organ,
or the voice of song in the Council Room which
was very comfortably fitted up for the occasion.
At 10 P. M., refreshments were handed round
again. At 12 P. M., the party was dismised
with prayer. Much credit is due to the Presi-
dency of the Primary Association and assistants,
for their labors in getting up so enjoyable a
party for the Juveniles and also the Adults.
		Respectfully,
						EMMA MONK.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Paris 2nd Ward Relief Society cele-
brated the anniversary of its organization on
Monday 3rd Jan. There were present: Pres.
Lindsay and Counselors, Maria Rich and
Elizabeth Collings of the stake presidency, also
Pres. Mary A. Shepherd and Bishop Rice be-
sides a great attendance of members and
friends. The first on the programme was
supper, after which, the report of the society
for the year was read and addresses made by
the sisters of the presidency followed by Bishop
Price who encouraged the sisters in their good
work. The remainder of the time was spent in
dancing and singing &c. All present seemed
to enjoy themselves thoroughly, and partake of
the good spirit that such gatherings promote.
								E. M. A.


140	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 15, 1881.


THE NEW PRESIDENT.

	James A. Garfield has been duly elected and
declared President for the next four years. by
those empowered with the authority to officiate
in that capacity. On the 4th,of March proximo
the inauguration will take place, and it is antici-
pated that the affair will be the most eleborate of
any inauguration on record. The Inaugural Com-
mitee are well adapted for the executive work
necessary to make it a splendid success, and
money is said to be "rolling in" liberally for all
expenses attending it. Mr. Garfield is reported
as looking worried and fatigued.
	It is desirable and needful that the President
should come to his arduous and extensive labors
fresh and vigorous in body as well as mind. It
is to be hoped his friends and admirers will be
sufficiently mindful of him not to "persecute
him with honors"and attentions beforehand. The
nation at the present time, if it ever did, needs
a strong man at the helm of the ship of state,
one who will maintain justice and equality for
all citizens,irrespective of caste or condition with-
out prejudice and see that all are protected in
their rights and privileges in accordance with
the letter and spirit of the Constitution.


OUR DELEGATE.

	Application was made in the Third District
Court, Feb. 8, before the Chief Justice of Utah
for a writ of mandamus against acting Governor,
Arthur L. Thomas, requiring him to give a cer-
tificate of election to Hon. George Q. Cannon,
who was duly elected delegate to Congress on
the 2d of Nov., 1880. The petition for man-
damus sets forth the plain facts in the case in a
clear and forcible manner, and is signed, George
Q. Cannon. Arthur Brown, Attorney for Peti-
tioner, District of Columbia, Washington.
	Although an attempt has been made to de-
fraud the people of this Territory of an honest
representation in the Halls of Congress, it is to
be hoped that the step now being taken to re-
adjust the matter properly, will be a success-
ful one; that men who honor the law and love
justice may stand firm for the right, without
bias from prejudice and misrepresentation.
Surely, in a Territory, where the people have no
voice in the selection of Governor and Judges,
they should be allowed the privilege at least of a
Delegate to Congress, otherwise their liberties
are indeed entangled.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	PATRONIZE home manufacture by going to C.
R. Savage's for the prettiest and sweetest valen-
tines. We found one in our sanctum the other
day artistic enough to satisfy the most ardentest
of true "lovyers."

[Column 2]
	RICHARD A. Proctor, the celebrated English
Astronomer, gave two interesting lectures in the
Theatre Monday and Tuesday evenings, Feb. 7
and 8. His subjects were, first, "The Birth and
Growth of Worlds;" second, "The Life and
Death of Worlds." He gave his ideas drawn
from observation and long, earnest and diligent
study of the heavenly bodies.

	IN the Senate of the United States, Jan. 19,
Mr. McDonald called up the proposition for the
appointment of a committee to hear claims of
women citizens, a request which had been made
in February, 1880. He advocated the subject as
a means by which women applicants for legisla-
tion, etc., might be heard before the country,
and added that he thought it was time they
should be heard. Mr. Conkling thought if the
Senator intended to crown with success this
movement, he should raise a special committee,
and give it to understand its purpose was not to
postpone forever, but act promptly one way or
the other. Mr. McDonald preferred the proposi-
tion as submitted, because new rights and new
propositions would come up, and apprehended
the subject was not one to be soon disposed of,
but so long as the human family lasted, the
rights of women would demand conslderation.
Mr. Davis moved to refer the resolution to the
Committee on rules. Agreed to. Yeas, 26;
nays, 23. And there the matter stands.

	MUCH gain in the cause of Woman Suffrage
has been achieved in England during the past
year. The important fact that the law enables
women owners to vote at elections in the Isle of
Man is a grand beginning. Women workers in
the cause of suffrage are not laboring in vain;
more and more their claims for woman are be-
coming recognized. Woman's Journal, Feb. 5,
contains an account of the Twelfth Annual
Meeting of the American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation, held in Boston the last week in Janu-
ary. This meeting seems to have been specially
interesting. A public hearing was granted in
the Green Room of the State House in behalf of
the petition of the Joint Special Committee on
Woman Suffrage. Lucy Stone, Chairman of
Executive Committee, said the petition asked
for three distinct acts of Legislature, viz.: "a
law to enable" women to vote in presidential
elections, a law to enable women to vote in mu-
nicipal elections and town meetings, and a re-
solve for an amendment of the State Constitu-
tion, abolishing all political distinctions on ac-
count of sex.

	MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson returned, Feb. 4, from
her visit to the East. Mrs. C. was accompanied
by her husband, H. B. Clawson, Esq. They left
Salt Lake Dec. 15, went direct to Chicago, and
from there to Washington; called upon Bro.
Cannon, visited the White House, the Capitol
and other places of interest, remaining there
only one day. Mrs. C. visited her relatives in
Canaan, New York and West Stockbridge, Mass.,
at Christmas time, and found all delighted to
see her, after forty years' absence, and though
only a child eight years old when she left her
home in West Stockbridge, she recognized all
the old places, and felt almost as if she were liv-
ing over again the days of her childhood. Dur-
ing her stay in the East she succeeded in obtain-
ing many items of the genealogy of her forefa-
thers. Mrs. C. visited the notable places in
New York City, where she spent some time
and was filled with admiration more than she
could express in seeing Greenwood Cemetery.
Scattered through the States of New York and
Ohio are many of the relatives of her family,
whom she spent some time in visiting. She
spent one day at Niagara Falls, whose grandeur
and sublimity impressed her as they do all the
	dmirers of Nature's works, with awe and rever

[Column 3]
ence for the Great Creator. Mrs. C. visited
most of the largest manufacturing establish-
ments in the East—her husband's business re-
quiring him to do so, and she accompanied him.
She has enjoyed her journey very much and re-
turned in good health and excellent spirits.

	WEDNESDAY, February 9, the President and
Senate, Vice-President, Speaker and the House
of Representatives gathered in the Hall of the
House of Representatives for the purpose of
counting the electoral votes. The Vice-Presi-
dent called the Assembly to order and said,
"The two houses being assembled in pursuance
of the Constitution, it became his duty as Presi-
dent of the Senate to open the packages pur-
porting to contain the certificates of election of
the several States of the Union. Accordingly
the regular formula was observed, though the
vote of Georgia having been cast on a day
other than the day fixed for the casting of
such votes by the act of Congress was not re-
corded. "The letters footed up at the close of
the reading, and Senator Thurman announced
that the whole number of electors voting were
369, of which a majority is 185. Had the vote
of Georgia been cast on the 8th day of December,
and counted, the result would be for Garield,
216, Hancock, 155. Not counted, the result
would be, Garfield, 214, Hanckock, 114. "In
either event, James A. Garfield has recieved a
majority of the whole number of electoral
votes. The same statement was made respect-
ing the Vice-President, wherefore the Vice-
President declared James A. Garfield, President,
and Chester A. Arthur, Vice-President of the
United States for the four years beginning March
4th, 1881." (Loud applause.)


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE regret that some of our correspondents do
not yet understand the necessity of sending
their full name to the editor to secure the publi-
cation of an article. Initials will not answer
any better than a fictitious name.

	A FAMILY party was held at the residence of
Mrs. B. W. Smith; in honor of the anniversary
of the birthday of the martyred Patriarch
Hyrum Smith Wednesday Feb. 9. Patriarch
John Smith and Pres. Joseph F. Smith sons of
the deceased were present, also Apostles John
Henry Smith and F. M. Lyman. About thirty
relatives, not counting the babies, sat down to a
sumptuous dinner about 1 o'clock. The afternoon
was spent in visiting, recalling old times and
items of family history, and in the evening after
agreeable conversation and a general expression
of good feeling a light repast of choice good
things was partaken of and the company dis-
persed.

	GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF SOCIETY
SECRETARIES: Hereafter Stake Secretaries will
only require semi-annual reports, which should
be furnished them as early as the 5th of Septem-
ber and March, to enable Stake Secretaries to
prepare and forward their reports to Central
Secretary by the 15th, as she is required to give
her report at President Taylor's office ten days
prior to Genernl Conferences. These instruc-
tious are designed for organized Stakes in all the
world. Times of making reports may be varied
to suit the circumstances of branches in foreign
countries and on the Islands.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Central Secretaay.
By order of Relief Society President.

	RESPECT THE AGED: On Satnrday Jan. 30, a
few of the sisters of the Relief Society in the
18th Ward of this city went to the house of
Father Tucket as a Suprise Party; it being the
80th anniversary of his birth,they wished to ex-


press their kind feelings for him and his aged
wife.  The table was spread  with  some of the
choicest bounties of  earth  and  all  felt  blessed
temporally and  spiritually.  May  the  peace  of
heaven  rest  upon  them  in  their  declining
years.   Sister Ann B. Snow  and Riser were the
committee in this praiseworthy affair, and may
the Lord help them and all  of us to  do good to
the aged, the  feeble, the fatherless  and  all who
need comfort, and in  blessing  we will be blest.
	M. P. Y.
	LETTERS from St. George  inform us  that  on
Saturday Feb. 5, Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith
and Zina D.  Young, visited Price City five miles
from St George,  met  with  the Relief  Society
at 10, A. M. and organized  a Primary  Associa-
tion in  the  afternoon  returning  to  St.  George
the same night.  On Monday  morning  they ex-
pected to  start  for  Kanab;  they  will  visit  the
different branches in that stake  and  will prob-
ably  be  absent  from  St.  George  two  weeks.
They are doing a great  work in that  vicinity in
organizing  and  reorganizing   the women  and
children and in awakening a desire  for spiritual
improvement.
	Sister Rachel R.   Grant  Pres.  Relief  Society
13th,  Ward of this city  is spending a few weeks
in St  George and enjoying to a great degree the
good  spirit  and  infliuence  which seems  to have
such a  salutary  effect  upon  all  who  visit the
Temple.
	PEN Sketch of an Illustrious  Woman  is  nec
essarily delayed again also Jesse   Burns, Or Was
It Fate.  We commend to the  attention  of  our
readers the serial now  in  course  of  publication
entitled  Living Links.  It  is  all  true  and  de-
serves being well  read.
	The other  continued   articles are  also  strictly
true.   Life Incidents contains many interesting
items of Church History,  and  important  matter
from the journal of Pres. Heber C. Kimball  the
father of the writer.   Our readers  some of  them
have mistaken the identity of Helen Mar. Whit-
ney confusing her with "Mother Whitney," and
attributing the articles to her.  Helen Mar Kim-
ball was the  daughter of   Prest. Heber C.  and
Vilate Murray Kimball,and is the wife of Horace
K.  Whitney eldest son  of Bishop Newel K. and
Elizabeth Ann   Whitney, lovingly   designated,
"Mother Whitney" by the  people among whom
in good works and faithfulness  to  the  interest of
Zion  she has lived over  half a century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 141


OBITUARIES.

	DIED: In Fillmore City, January 21st 1881.
Tamson P. wife of Roy H. McBride and daugh-
ter of Janvin and Sophia Dame: born January
13th 1843, McGarysvill.	Hancock CO. Ill.
	She was an excellent wife and exemplary
mother, her loss is keenly felt and her home is
indeed left desolate; Her sickness lasted 30 days
and her sufferings were great all of which she
bore with patience; she frequently spoke of death
but always with calmness and resignation.
	A little while before she died she spoke in a
clear distiect voice, but in a language not under-
stood by those present, at least for fifteen min-
utes closing with a fervent "Amen," then bid-
ding her friends all "Farewell" passed peace-
fully and quietly away. She leaves four child-
ren and has gone to meet the same number in
that better home.
She has gone, she has gone and the lone ones mourn
	For the mother and wife so dear,
But they will meet again and with her reign.
	Where all is bright and clear.
								M. A. MCBRIDE.

	DIED: At Hyde Park, Jan. 24th 1881. Zina
Young, wife of Don C. Hyde and daugher of


Samuel and Rebecca Roskelly, borne at Rich-
mond,Cache Co, March 18th, 1862. Deceased de-
parted this life shortly after giving birth to a fine
son. Sister Zina was a woman of noble mind,
an amiable and affectionate disposition, had
gained the love and esteem of all her associates;
she was deeply attached to her parents; her
mother departed this life not long since; there
will be a joyful reunion. Well may it be said of
Zina, that she was a faithful daughter, a loving
wife and a true Latter-day Saint. Her funeral
was attended by a large assembly of her relatives
and friends. Our Brother feels deeply the loss
of his young companion, but can only bow in
submision to the will of the Lord, as He taketh
unto himself whom He will, and will comfort
and bless the bereaved who trust in him.
							M. L. WOOLF.


ADDRESS TO ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

WRITTEN BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.

	'Tis evening! In the deepening sky the tiny
clouds drift slow. Each pearly bank, lit up with
beams of light fast fading, show gold and opal
tints. The birds, with mellow notes, trill soft
goodnights, and gently shake their plumage
down to go to rest. The lengthening sounds
glide sweetly to mine ear, and tell of all the day
has done. The Morn arose with breezy breath,
and called the world her own. With eager
hands she grasped the time and mourned the
hours that flew. The Noon with slower steps
moved down the hill and gathered up the mo-
ments, enriching them with labors done. But
now the Evening comes; with quiet placid power
she takes the day, and in her full embrace each
hill and sweeping glade is clothed in loveliness.
The moments, with their rich rewards, come
hastening on to lay them down at her dear feet.
The Morn was fair, the Noon was clear, but
Evening's gentle hand is pressed to running o'er
with promises fulfilled; with hopes grown into
certainties; with pains soothed down to peace,
with fruits of time and love.
		*		*		*		*		*		*
	The Autumn sits with crown of sheaves upon
her yearly throne. Sweet flowers laid there by
loving hands around her bosom twine; and at
her feet are heaped the fruits of many useful
days; her raiments wrought of purest gold spun
out by conquered pride; and in her hands the
staff of truth points to the narrow way. Her
feet are treading out the wine of children's grate-
ful love; her heart's a lake, where all that's good
may gaze and find their image there. Sweet
Spring! Dear Summer! Your seasons bring us
joy, but Autumn's sweet, full tones chant in
our ears the dearest sounds the year can give to
us.
	A maiden in the morn of life, with fairest
dreams and hopes, is sweet as springtime flow-
ers; we feel her beauty in our soul, but fear
and tremble as we look. The summer's glow,
the noontide's heat in life, is full of care, and
but a little of the wealth that's earned is given.
But when the Evening, with its song and pur-
ple shades—the autumn, with its crown of
years—have come, we bring our blessings.
	To-night we hail our Evening star, our Au-
tumn Queen, with joyous acclamations. She
hath shed her light o'er all this people; and na-
tions yet unborn will bask in the sweet sun-
shine of her songs, her deeds, the records of her
life. The pioneer of women in the latter day
is she. Old England's proud of their First Lady;
we of ours are far more justly proud, for she
will be a Queen through all Eternity, and God
Himself will crown her. Her monument will
be upreared in woman's heart, and children will
look back to her as she who, by the grace of
God first gave them their dear Primaries.


We love thee—E. R. Snow! The magic name
—I hear it whispered by the wind, and children's
voices catch the sound and sing it high and free.
The hearts of thousands stir and murmur out a
prayer. Old hands are held to Heaven to call
down years upon her life, and little babies coo
the song of love they cannot speak. All join
our anthem as we pray—God bless thee, E. R.
Snow.
	St. George, Jan. 21, 1881.


LETTER OF GEN. WASHINGTON.

	"When Gen. Washington was at West Point,
New berg, in 1779. He wrote a letter
to Dr. Cochran, the Director General of the
Hospitals, which will well serve to show a
specimen of the homely fare of his table, and
serve as a vestige of the Hasbrook House and its
concomitants, to wit:

	West Point, Aug. 16, 1779.
								DEAR DOCTOR:
	I have asked Mrs. Cochran and Mrs. Living-
ton, to dine with me to-morrow; but ought I not
to apprise you of their fare? As I hate deception,
even when imagination is concerned, I will. It
is needless to promise that my table is large
enough to hold the ladies—of this they had oc-
ular demonstration yesterday. To say how it
is usually covered, is rather essential, and this
shall be the purport of my letter. Since my ar-
rival at this happy spot, we have had a ham,
sometimes a shoulder of bacon to grace the head
of the table. A piece of roast beaf adorns the
foot, and a small dish of green beans—almost
imperceptible—decorates the centre. When the
cook has a mind to cut a figure, and this I pre-
sume he will attempt to-morrow; we have two
beefsteak pies, or dishes of crabs in addition, one
on each side of the centre dish, dividing the space
and reducing the distance between dish and dish,
to about six feet; which without them, would be
nearly twelve feet apart. Of late he has had the
surprising luck to discover that apples will make
pies; and it is a question if amidst the violence
of his efforts, we do not get one of apples, instead
of having both of beef. If the ladies can put up
with such entertainment, and submit to partak-
ing of it on plates once tin, but now iron, (not
become so by scouring) I shall be happy to see
them.
			Dear Sir Yours,
				GEORGE WASHINGTON.


ITEMS FROM LEEDS.

	On New Year's day for the first time we had
a visit from our honored and beloved sisters E.
R. Snow and Zina D. Young. On that day they
met with the Relief Society, and they certainly
have the spirit of their office and calling upon
them as all must feel who come under the sound
of their voices; and I think their visit was truly
appreciated by many of the sisters. Our Relief
Society is in a prosperous condition under the
able managment of Sister Anna Wilkinson.
	On the following morning they met with and
organized a Primary Association which I believe
will be of great benefit to both parents and child-
ren, I believe the sisters all join in a hearty God
bless them, and may they live long to do good.
							S. H. B. C.


PRIMARY MEETIMG.

	94th, Meeting of the Primary Association of
the 11th Ward, held Dec. 10th 1880. Pres.
Louie Felt presiding. Meeting opened by sing-
ing "The day dawn is breaking," prayer by
Susie Simons, singing. Roll called 113 mem-
bers present. Minutes of the previous meeting,
read and approved. The programme was then


carried out as follows: Essays by Annie Peterson
and John Sears. Five verses from the Bible
were recited [-]y Master George Taylor and John
Beardall. Recitations by Mary A. Sears and
Carrie Leaker. Song by Ada Hubbert and little
Louie Felt: after which a few questions were
asked and answered by the children.
	We find it better to have a varied programme
as the children become tired of one thing. For
instance one week a programme like the one
above is carried out; the next the children make
a few remarks telling how they enjoy their
meetings, and speak of the goodness of God to
them. We also practice singing. We have
certain questions that we ask the children. For
instance. If they know of any of the children
belonging to the meeting that are sick, if so we
pray for them. Then we ask how many have
spoken cross during the week, (and we hear
that this is a great help to the parents,) and
many simple questions which please the child-
ren, and keeps the interest of the meetings up.
	Yours in the interest of the Primary Associa-
tion.
					HATTIE A. FELT, Sec'y.


142	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

	DEAR EDITOR: I have often had a desire to
write a few words to our valuable paper, if it is
only to say how much I appreciate it, and the
good and instructive peices written therein, by
our sisters. I can truly say the EXPONENT is a
great comfort to us, it encourages and strength-
thens the laborers of Zion, and all that have a
desire to do good. As a Relief Society we are
striving to live in accordance with the spirit of
the times, in encouraging each other in our
duties as Saint. I am happy to anounce that at
our last Quarterly Conference a Stake organiza-
tion of the sisters was effected. I think it will
prove a great blessing to the sisters of this Stake,
my prayer is that our noble sisters who are labor-
ing for the welfare and advancement of Zion,
may live to see and realize the fruits of their
labors, in rich abundance. Wishing the EXPO-
NENT the success it so richly deserves I am your
friend and co-laborer in the Cause of Truth.
						MARY L. WOOLF.
	Hyde Park, Feb. 6th, 1881.

GARDEN CITY.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: The R. S. of Garden
City, was organized June 17, 1879, under the
direction of Stake presidency Sisters Julia Lind-
say Elizabeth Collins and Mariah Rich. We
have held our meetings regularly every month
also our working meetings monthly which are
generally well attended. A good spirit prevails.
We have stored 68 bushels of wheat, and some
white beans; we have donated 6 dollars to the
temple and have still some means on hand in
the Treasury: the amount stated in the statis-
tical reports. We have a Sunday School a
Young Ladies and Primary Association. We
have a good Bishop well respected by the peo-
ple.
	The people of this place, with a few exceptions,
are young all having young families; we antici-
pate an interesting time through the winter sea-
son. Yesterday being New year's day the child-
ren and friends of our President Sister Ann E.
Cook, left Garden City in 10 sleighs and with
amply filled baskets and cheerfnl countenances
repaired to the home of our President at Iron
Creek 3 miles distant, for the purpose of giving
herself and husband a surprise on the occasion
of the 41st Anniversary of their Wedding Day.
At three o'clock Brother and Sister Cook were
summoned from a short distance where they
were visiting, passing through the dining-room
where two long tables were set with a sumptuous
repast. They were ushered into the sitting
room which was crowded to inconvenience.
Bishop Calder bade them welcome and made a
few appropriate remarks on the object of the
gathering and spoke of the kind feeling enter-
tained by the people toward the family. Several
short speeches were made by others of the
brethren, relating to the good feeling entertained
for them as good and true and long-tried mem-
bers of the Church, their hardships and persecu-
tions in the early rise of the same. An essay

[Column 2]
on their Wedding-day was read, by one of the
children, written by Amy E. Cook, 75 persons
were present at the tables after which all en-
joyed themselves in the dance; others joined
the party later in the evening swelling the num-
ber to nearly a hundred.
	Everything passed off pleasantly with the
best of feelings, Brother Cook thanked the peo-
ple in behalf of himself and wife, for their kind-
ness, said he had not the language to express his
gratitude but felt that it had been a day long to
be remembered.
					AMY E. COOK Sec'y.

MANASSA, COLORADO, Jan. 3rd, 1881.

	DEAR EXPONENT: Wishing to say a word along
with the rest of my sisters, I will endeavor to
write to you again. The winter in this place
has been quite pleasant, so far for this cool clim-
ate, which has proved a great blessing to the
poor Saints, who come in from a warm climate,
very late in the year. Brother Erastus Snow
and Son have been here with us for about six
weeks teaching and preaching to us here which
has proved to be a great help to us here, it shows
that we are not forgotten in our efforts to build
up this waste place. I do not think anyone else
but a Latter-day Saint would have ever tried to
make a home on this barren looking plain, but
we came here with faith that God would bless
the land for our sakes, and the land has proved
to be good, it will yield an abundance of wheat
and vegatables. We have not had time yet to
try fruit to a very great extent. Our town is
growing rapidly, one can see new log houses go-
ing up almost every day. The people here are
mostly from the Southern States, they are a
very kind-hearted people in general. We have
a day and Sabbath School in regular session and
a goodly number of children attending. The
holidays are now over we have had a pleasant
time. We have had some sickness during the
winter but all are now better. Ever praying for
the welfare of Zion, I remain your well wisher
in the Truth.							S. G. B.

MARRIOTSVILLE, WEBER Co. FEB. 8th, 1881.

	EDITOR EXPONENT: We take the opportunity
this evening affords of writing to apprise you
how we are progressing in this place. Our meet-
ings have been held very constant since our or-
ganization in A. D. 1868. The sisters have been
firm and true to the trust enjoined upon them
by their superiors in the Priesthood, and have
labored continuously and assiduously for the ele-
vation of their sex, the well being of the sick,
and the independence of Zion.
	The Relief Society of this Ward gave a party
at Christmas to the young folks which was a
splended affair giving great satisfaction. Danc-
ing which has heretofore been the acme of
amusement for our youth, has toned down con-
siderable, giving place to exercises more intel-
lectual and refined.
	We have had some very agreable birth-day
surprises which have been very pleasant and
profitable, one of which we desire to make hon-
oroble mention of, viz., that of our Pres. Sister
Anne Bickington; The sisters made her some
nice presents; as a token of their high apprecia-
tion of her services, and to crown the whole.
Sister Jane S. Richards, of Ogden, unexpectedly
came in and presented her with a very handsome
portrait of herself having been taken while on
her recent visit to San Francisco, all were very
greatefully accepted, and responded to in a short,
but concise speech by Sister Bickington. Others
present (of which there were quite a number)
contributed with speeches, songs, recitations &c.
Bishop Ritchie furnishing a good quota.
	The Institutions of the Ward are in a fair
healthy condition including the Primary, bear-
ing the aspect of progress, growth and pros-
perity. We have built a good Granary com-
pleted last fall, and stored away about 136 bus.
of wheat.
	The EXPONENT is always a welcome visitor,
and is read with a deep-abiding interest. Ever
hoping for its continued success.
			I am fraternally Yours &c.
					CATHARINE PARRY, Sec'y.


SERICULTURE.

	Report of the Silk Association of Sevier Stake.
The Silk Association of Sevier Stake was or-
ganized May 26th 1879, with the following of-


ficers: President Eliza Ann Ogilvie, Counselors
Ann Marsh and Annie Hansen, Secretary Mary
Marsh, Treasurer, Martha L. Peterson. Since
we were organized we have been doing all we
could, to promote the interest of sericulture in
this stake, more especially in Richfield, we have
purchased some mulberry trees of three and
four years old and planted them on a quarter
lot belonging to the Relief Society. This winter
we have purchased a lot, of seventy-five dollars
($75) cost on which we intend to plant mulberry
trees. We have several hundred cuttings ready
when the season comes to plant them. Some of
the settlements of this Stake are doing very
well in this branch of home-industry.
					MARY MARSH Sec'y.


PAROWAN RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

MEETINGS AND REORGANIZATION.

	The Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies composing the Parowan Stake of Zion
was held in the Parowan meeting house Nov.
13th. Quite a number of the brethren being
present. Verbal reports were given by the re-
presentatives of the different branch societies
and organizations in the Stake showing a general
desire in both old and young to increase in know-
ledge and good works. Many of the sisters ad-
dressed the congregation exhorting one another
to diligence and perserverance in the work of God,
bearing testimony to the truth of the principle
of a pluraltiy of wives. President Dame, Bishop
Arthur and several of the brethren addressed
the sisters, said they were proud to see them
stand forth and so valiantly uphold the principles
of truth. Counseled them to seek the spirit of
God and its guidance in all their undertakings.
Conference was adjourned to be held in Cedar
City on the 13th day of Febuary next.
	November 16th: The sisters of Cedar City
were highly pleased by a call from our beloved
Sisters E. R. Snow and Zina D. Young, who held
meeting in the evening, imparting to all much
good instruction. Counseled mothers to have
a watchful care over their little ones, to strive
above all to instil into their tender hearts prin-
ciples of truth and virtue. Spoke on the prin-
ciple of Plural Marriage advising all never to
speak lightly of this holy order. Referred to
the necessity of home industries, encouraged the
sisters to persevere in their endeavors at silk
culture. Urged upon them the neccessity of
attending their meetings and donating to the
poor. The meeting was considered by all present
to be a feast of good things and we humbly
thank our beloved sisters for their good instruc-
tion; praying the Lord to bless them and pre-
serve them in their labor of love.
	Dec. 6th, a reorganization of the Young Ladies
M. I. A., was effected and the following young
ladies elected as officers. Caroline Keturah
Arthur, President; Sarah Ann Higbee, Julia
Ann Neilson Counselors; Ellen E. L. Jones,
Secretary; Sarah Ann Jones Ast. Sec'y., Louisa
Leigh, Treasurer. They were all set apart to
their various offices by the presiding brethren.
The former officers who have labored diligently
since the first organization five years ago, who
were at that time young girls, now have families
to attend to, therefore they are honorably re-
leased with the blessings and good wishes of the
brethren and sisters for their faithfulness and
humility. May prosperity attend all associations
formed for the benefit of God's people old and
young, is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
		J. P. MACKELPRANG, Cor., Sec'y.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PRIMARY REPORT.

	The Primary Association of Bloomington
was organized on the 14th of June 1879 under
the direction of Pres Lindsey and under her
kind watchcare and motherly counsel we have
prospered. Our ranks now number 135 mem-
bers. At our last Conference in August last,
a Stake presidency of P. A. was organized, as
follows: Mrs. Anna Laker President, Mrs;
Elizabeth Pugmire and Mrs. Elizabeth Hunt,
Counselors. All are veterans in Zion's cause.
Some of whom have traced their experience
beck to the scenes of Nauvoo. And with such


[Column 1]
wise and efficient counsel we expect to instil
into the minds of the youth the principles of
life and salvation which is the grand aim and
object of the Primary Association.
	On Saturday evening Nov. 20, the Primary
Association of Bloomington gave an entertain-
ment. The opening and closing singing was
conducted by Bro. Grenhalch. Our exercises
consisted in dramatic presentation, fairy scenes,
songs, recitations and dialogues. Two of the
most attractive features of the evening was the
singing of a medley by 12 little girls, after
which they gave a list of follies, and the recit-
ing of an Orthodox Creed by 12 girls of a
larger size, spiced with some choice proverbs.
The proceeds of the entertainment is to pur-
chase books, suitable for the members to make
their selections from, for our weekly meetings.
	Enclosed find two dollars for a years sub-
scription of your paper I certainly think there
should be one at least, in every Primary As-
sociation.
				L. M. HART, President.
				ELMIRA HULME, Secretary.

LAKE VIEW.

EDITOR EXPONENT: We have a Y. L. M, I.
Association with twenty-one officers and mem-
bers, with an average attendance of about fif-
teen, which is very well considering that there
are only seventeen families in the setlement.
	We meet every other Tuesday and the last
Sunday evening in every month with the Y.
M. M. I. Association which gives us about
three meetings monthly.
	We make out a programme every meeting
day for the next meeting, which consists of
select readings, essays, recitations and songs,
and I can truly say the girls do well in all;
they also arise and bear their testimonies when
called upon and I feel the Lord is blessing
them.
	The boys and girls gave me a very pleasant
surprise, on the twenty-second of December.
They met at the residence of Mrs. Louise
Hanson, our school teacher, and at six o'clock,
they burst in upon me not only themselves, but
with baskets well filled, not only with picnic,
but with many pretty and suitable gifts.
	We spent the evening very pleasantly in
songs and games until about half-past eight,
when refreshments were passed round after
which we had more songs, games, and a little
dancing, the company retired about ten o'clock.
The Y. M. M. I Association is in good runing
order and I believe the boys are all trying to
do right in every way.
	There has been scarcely any drinking here
during the holidays, which is very gratifying.
	We have a day-school with twenty-six
names enrolled, which is doing well.
	May the spirit of God rest down upon us all
that we may remain faithful to the end is the
prayer of,
					ELIZABETH MILLER,
	President Y. L. M. I. A.

LITTLETON.

	Our Third semi-annual meeting convened on
the 22nd Jan. 1881. The presiding authorities
of the Stake several bishops, and others of the
local priesthood were present. Also Pres. Ly-
dia Rich and Counselors, and a very good at-
tendance of the presiding officers of branch
societies and members. The Relief Societies
were well represented statistical, financial
and verbally. And all seemed to be doing well
and feeling well in the Gospel. The only com-
plaint seemed to be a slackness in general at-
tendance at meeting. We have built, this last
season, completed and had dedicated a very
nice substantial, concrete granary for the

[Column 2]
Stake R. S. And the most of our grain is in;
its dimensions are 18 by 24 feet.
	The Y. L. M. I. Association and Primary
held their Conference the 23rd Jan. were well
represented and seemed to be in a thriving con-
dition. Our Home Industry Association is in
good runing order and turns out very nice hats,
bonnets &c. &.
	Our Statistical and Financial reports are as
follows, for the half year ending Jan. 10, 1881.
	STATISTICAL: Teachers, 31; members 156;
officers and members, 235: meetings held, 43;
average attendance, 93; WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT. 16.
	FINANCIAL: On hand July 10, 1880, receipts,
to Jan. 10 1881, cash, $140,50; property,
$1,099, 64; Wheat lent out, in cash $35, 97;
property $106,74; wheat 533, bush. 9 lbs.
	Disbursements: To the poor cash 5,40; pro-
perty, 12,55; temple 10, 00; property 30, 00;
building 26. 96; property 111,37; missionaries,
12,61; books, 4. 89; property 1. 35; Sunday
schools, 4,05. property 3. 51; home industry,
4. 90.
	On hand Jan. 10. 1881. Cash $107. 76.
Property 104 7, 81. Wheat 533, bush, 09. lbs.
			H. CORDELIA SMITH, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 143


[Column 1]
GEORGE ELIOT.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Though we never were privileged to look
upon this great and grand woman, we have be-
come as it were united to her by our sympa-
thies being excited and wound round her by
her noble works, which we have read with a
marvel and a wonder! and we mourn to hear
she has passed away from this mundane sphere
of action. It seems hard to believe that that
great heart, whose love and sympathy extended
over all God’s creation, will beat no more!
That that brain will no more concoct grand,
beautiful, deep and enduring picture-models of
human life and character, that elevated all who
read, and excited in them a desire to arise to
a higher state of existence than hitherto they
had deemed themselves capable of.
	"Adam Bede," the "Mill on the Floss" and
"Middlemarch" were her first grand publica-
tions; "Daniel Deronda" and "Romola" her
later ones. Her father, of whom she was pas-
sionately fond, was the original of more than
one in his daughter’s novels—notably of Caleb
Garth, in "Middlemarch." Her mother died
when she was still a child. Her father, Robert
Evans, was a land agent and surveyor, and
lived in the neighborhood of Nuneaton, War-
wickshire; he is still remembered as a man of
rare worth and character by many neighbors
in the Midlands. She was a great lover of all
animals, and she ever showed as intense a sym-
pathy and intimate acquaintance with animal
as with human nature. A gentleman once
took her into a racing stable at Newmarket, to
view "Kisber," a Derby winner, and to the
utter astonishment of the Trainer, she drew at-
tention to the fine points of the horse; showing
that even that she had made a study. She
seems to have come up to London when quite
a girl, and became associated with many of
the writers in the "Westminster Review"—
with John Stuart Mill, Herbert Spencer,
George Henry Lewes, Mr. John Chapman
and others. Her first work, "Scenes of Cleri-
cal Life," it is said was sent anonymously to
"Blackwood’s. Magazine" by G.H. Lewes, and
was eagerly accepted by the editor, who dis-
covered in it the promise of rare and pre-
eminent genius. It was not; however, until
"Adam Bede" was published, in 1859, that
the world at large discerned that a new nove-
list of the first rank had appeared. The name
of George Eliot became a household word, and
much curiosity was excited as to the real name
and sex of the writer. At this juncture a

[Column 2]
clergyman, H. Anders, Rector of Kirby, wrote
to the "Times," naming a gentleman who he
assured the editor, was the author of "Scenes
in Clerical Life" and "Adam Bede!" This
produced, on the next day, the following re-
joinder from the real George Eliot:

	"Sir—The Rev. H. Anders has, with ques-
tionable delicacy and unquestionable inaccuracy
assured the world through your columns that
the author of 'Scenes of Clerical Life' and
'Adam Bede' is Mr. Joseph Liggins, of Nunea-
ton. I beg distinctly to deny that statement.
I declare on my honor that that gentleman
never saw a line of those works until they
were printed, nor had he any knowledge of
them whatever. Allow me to ask whether the
act of publishing a book deprives a man of all
claim to the courtesies usual among gentleman?
If not, the attempt to pry into what is obvi-
ously meant to be withheld—my name—and to
publish the rumors which such prying may
give rise to, seems to me quite indefensible,
still more so to state these rumors as ascer-
tained truths. I am, sir, yours, &c.,
						GEORGE ELIOT."
	The secret, however, soon leaked out, and
long before "The Mill on the Floss" was pub-
lished in 1860, it was known in literary circles,
at least, that George Eliot was none other than
Marian Evans, the Westminster reviewer and
translator of Strauss. In appearance, this ex-
traordinary woman was commonplace, and
persons expecting to see a woman of com-
manding aspect, with her genius written on
her face and figure, often turned back disap-
pointed after the introduction; both in dress
and manners she was quiet and unassuming;
only those who could get into low-toned, sober
talk on high subjects, knew what an emotional
glow there was beneath that calm exterior,
how readily she responded to a true sentiment
in which her heart and her intellect agreed!
	There is reason to believe that she saw in
later life the great mistake which she had
made in early life, it must be confessed with
her eyes open. But having put her hand to
the seal of a dual covenant, nothing could
alter her purpose; but though her resolve never
faltered, the arguments with which she justified
herself did falter. She was ever acknowledged
and received into society, her great genius and
the peculiar circumstances that surrounded
her being accepted as apology. Her health
failed with the death of George Henry Lewes.
It is hoped that she leaves some traces of auti-
biography, through which the world will be
made to understand one of the greatest women
of the Victorian era.
	It was desired by some of her friends that
Westminster Abby should be her last resting
place, and it is said that Dean Stanley would
have consented, but on mature reflection that
desire was withdrawn, and her remains repose
in one of the most beautiful, elegant and lovely
cemeteries in the environs of London—I think
Kensal Green, if I remember right. All ad-
mirers of this remarkable woman will look
forward to yet reading a biography that shall
do her justice, and they will bend over its
pages with love and sympathy of the purest
and of the most unique; and many a sigh and
many a tear will be blended with their admira-
tion and rich appreciation.


REFLECTIONS.

	As I sit and reflect upon passing events  my
mind  wanders  back  many  years  then  on
the present, and  also the  future.  What  are
we  to  expect? We look  for many  things to
transpire in the next  five years,  according to
philosophers,  account  of numerous signs in the
heavens, but have  we not been told  of  these
things that were to come, by  our beloved Pro-


[Column 1]
phet while he was  with  us, and have we  not
seen many of these  predictions  come  to pass
just as he said they would;  also many that are
still with us, and  our late  President  Brigham
Young  and  his  co-laborer  Bro.  Heber  has
told us many times  what  would befall the na-
tion.
	We are  not  under  the  necessity of reading
the stars or planetary system for this  informa-
tion. We are in a measure  prepared for these
events.  Our glorious  nation!  and the  ruler
and father of this  free land  of liberty, what do
we expect  of him?  Truth, honor, freedom, for
all mankind, is  what  was  promised  our fore-
fathers that fought and bled when Washington
the noble  father  of our  country  proclaimed
liberty and freedom, and  planted the national
standard,and the stars and stripes floated to the
breese; the very thought  of which makes every
patriotic heart swell with enthusiasm.
	Do we still love that  emblem?  Are we to be
deprived of the promised  liberty and freedom,
that is dear to every  American citizen?  What
has become of the  constitution  and the  laws
that  we as a people  are  forbidden  our  rights
and privileges? 
	Oh, the cry is  you  practice  such erroneous
habits!  you have many wives  and honor them!
take care of  your  offspring!  clothe  them  and
educate them, and teach them truth and right-
eousness and to  love  their  neighbors as them-
selves and  honor  the  laws  of the land and  to
protect  our  national  flag and carry out  the
promised  freedom  that  our  noble father pro-
claimed in 1776! Is it these things or their own
wickedness that  they  cannot  endure to see  a
law-abiding  and  peaceful,  industrious  and
God-fearing  people  rest  in  peace, but must
spread  falsehoods  and slander to  accomplish
their own desires.  But  our  heavenly  Father
is at the helm, and in God  we trust.
	I am wandering from  my  subject and now 
to my mind  appears the "Vision  of  Washing-
ton."  He tells of great and  wonderful  things
that will befall this nation;  and after  the  ter-
rible  event  that  beautiful  cities and  villages
will spring up  all  over the land.  The heavy
cloud seems now to hang over  America, when 
will it  burst  and  the  angry  elements  clear
away?  Are  we as a people  prepared  for  this
awful day?  I fear not!  the  greater portion  of
us seem to be  asleep.  Wake up!  oh, ye sons
and daughters of Israel  humble  ourselves be-
fore the great  Ruler of all!  He will  hear our
humble prayers, He cannot resist the pleadings
of his fair daughters, let us obey his command-
ments  they  are easy  and  plain;  He  says,
"come out of Babylon  oh, ye  my people, that
ye partake not of her plagues and touch not, nor 
handle not of her unclean things!" is this hard?
not at all.  We gather  out  from the world to
worship our Heavenly  Father as  He directs.
Now let us serve  him  with  an  earnest will 
faithfully and we will be blest, and  will  have
peace  that our  enemies  cannot  control, and 
turn things at their will.  Sisters  let us plead
with our Heavenly Father  and urge  our hus-
bands and sons to bow in  humility before God
and  our Delegate will keep his seat in Congress
and the Franchise will not be taken away from
us, nor will our enemies  have power to hurt or 
make us afraid;  for we have this promise given
to us if we are only faithful.
	Now let us wake up  and  humble ourselves, 
ovey the  commandments  given  us  keep the
word of wisdom the law  of Celestial  Marriage,
pay  our  tithing honestly, donate to the temples,
help to  emigrate the poor,  and  come  out of 
Babylon, partaking not of her follies and fash-
ions.  Can we do  all  these?  Most  assuredly
we can.
	Our Heavenly Father says "ask and ye shall
receive, knock  and  it  shall  be  opened unto 
you," Well let us ask  and knock, and be un-
ited in all we do, strive  to be humble and ob-
edient and forgiving  to one  another, then  we

[Column 2]
can  claim the promises that belong to the faith-
ful.  Success to tha EXPONENT may  it always
be a boon to every household as it is to me.
	J. C. JOHNSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TELEGRAM received by the Times, London
notifies the arrival at the Executive Mansion, 
Washington, of a writing table, made of tim-
ber from the ship Resolute, presented by Queen
Victoria to the President of the United States.

	SOME two years since the Russian Govern-
ment sent two musicians to Siberia to collect and
write down the national melodies. By travel-
ing from village to village, and attending the
various festivities of the peasants, they have
obtained a large number of tunes, including
about thirty which were previously unknown.
The collection is to be published during the
coming winter, and is looked for with much
curiosity in Russian musical circles.—Ex.


WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel, Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1.25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
		H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents! 15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postpaid.

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS, $30. BOOKS, $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPEICAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manners, PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1881.	NO. 19.


[Column 1]
IN  MEMORIAM.

F. A. C. JAN. 7th, 1881.

"Shew me the path of life."
She "asked of thee life and thou gavest it."

Was this thy prayer! beloved,
When standing 'neath the em'rald arch
Of thy sweet  springtime, thou didst gaze,
Adown the vista of the years to be, and through
The dim haze caught the dawning blush,
Of rosy summer suns, that heralded
The full orbed glory of thy royal womanhood.
And as thy white-winged thoughts,
Pure, spotless as the lily-bud, which amorous winds
Have scarcely dared  to kiss, sped through
The paths of knowledge, to the fane,
Where learning sits enthroned—and gathered thence,
Sweet inspirations rife with future good;
And youth passed like a joyous song;
Did the petition rise,  that he who in the aeons past,
Created Life, thy tender feet would guide,
Along the path untried, untrodden yet,
Through which thy happy spirit should,
At last attain the Evermore—
And when upon the radiant loveliness
Of thy meridian fell the mystic charm
Of love, that in the loved one lives; and stirred
The hidden depths of thy sweet nature
To a tremulous calm, thy spirit rose
From fiery baptism to newer life,
In which all selfish aims and purposes
Were lost.
	Thy busy hands
Took up the loom of life, and wove therein,
A web of fairest texture, violet-hued,
And flecked with many a thread,
Of gold and silver sheen, in kindly deeds
And words of loving helpfulness
To those who called thee friend,
The benison of this prayer,
In thy self consecration, brooded
Dove-like within  thy gentle breast,
And  in  thy dreams existence held
Nothing so bright, so beautiful  as love—
And love was life.
	Time passed—
And on thy fair white brow,
Was placed the royal crown of motherhood—
The keystone of the arch of earthly life—
And waxen finger-tips with their soft pressure
Thrilled thy woman heart with extasy unutterable.

	God called thee then,
And the full choral of thy life's sweet hymn,
Set to celestial music, was intoned
By choirs invisible, and thou didst join
That radiant throng whose harmonies,
Ne'er reached our dull and earth-stopped ears.
He heard thy prayer and answered it.
We 'neath the cloud of sorrow,  cried
With bitter woe, "Her life is done."

	With tear-blinded eyes,—
We could not see the azure bars, through which
The glory rifted as thou entered in,
Nor hear the pealing anthems that did hail,
Thy soul's Apotheosis.
Thou hast reached the fount of life divine!
The golden chalice of thy soul is filled
With its full tide, and pearly drops o'erflowing
Bring healing balm to stricken hearts below.
In thy bright home, forget us not,
But let the electric chain of love,
That binds thee to the Father's great white throne,
Drop golden links to weld our souls to thee.
And may the light of thy bright life,
Beam starlike o'er the path we too must tread.

	Kind angels guard,
Thy sleeping dust until the resurrection morn,
When clothed with immortality, and crowned
With endless lives, we too shall clasp thy hand,

[Column 2]
And walk with thee the golden streets
Of that fair city where the living never die.
	E. B. FERGUSON.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
	LIVING LINKS:
	OR
	SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

	BY AVONDALE.

	CONTINUED.
	If Mr. Apothecary Lindsay had exercised a 
sound discretion, he would have taken care to 
have a settlement made of the fortune of his
daughter, in her favor, before marriage. It so
happened that the city merchant was not so
wealthy as supposed; life in the city of Lon-
don was very expensive in those days; the 
baneful habit of wine-drinking was indluged 
in to a fearful extent. Men would boast of
their powers in hard drinking, calling them-
selves "bottle men;" some were four or five
bottle men, that is, they could drink that num-
ber of bottles of wine at a sitting, "without
being the worse for it," i.e., they were not in-
toxicated. There are some things men can do
in "society," that however evil in themselves,
they are winked at; drinking is one of them,
and will be so long as that practice is fashion-
able. But no man should give his daughter
in marriage to one who is guilty of such a de-
grading practice, which not only injures the 
health of the drinker and impoverishes the
purse, it afflicts his posterity possibly for many
generations—if not cut off earlier by disease
and death. So recently as within the last 
forty years the writer has witnessed some of
these scenes at table, "after dinner," as was 
said by way of excuse for inebriety. Men,
gentlemen of high social standing, would de-
mean themselves by excessive drinking—not 
in the gilded saloons and restaurants we are
familiar with, splendid dramshops, fitted up
specially to allure the youthful and thought-
less, but in the habitations of the wealthy. 
There, in the midst of everything indicative of 
refinement, men would get drunk! At the be-
ginning of this century, life in the city of Lon-
don was characterized by habits of intemper-
ance, that even afflicted the countenances of
the frequenters of the festive halls belonging
to the great city companies. A "mulberry 
nose" was a common name for a "respectable" 
toper—respectable because the associate of 
wealthy men. The ancient writer understood
the mischief wrought by drink. He says:
(Prov. 23.) "Who hath woe? Who hath sor-
row? Who hath contention? Who hath bab-
bling? Who hath  wounds without cause?
Who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry
long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed
wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it
is red, when it giveth its color in the cup, when
it moveth itself aright. At the last it biteth
like a serpent and stingeth like an adder." We 
see the effects of drink in the days of Solomon; 
they are similar to-day. If men could drink 
and drink until they are saturated with the 
spirit of wine, and no one should suffer but
themselves, the mischief would not be so se-
rious; but they cannot, and the first to feel its
evil effects are their children. 
	Early in the year 1830, a poor man, clad in
worn out garments, was on his knees before
that Being who "seeth in secret" and "who 
heareth and answereth prayer." The coun

[Column 2]
tenance of the poor man was not yet noble, his
expansive brow gave evidence of commanding
intellect, his form and appearance betokened
one who had "seen better days." He had mar-
ried  early in life, under most promising cir-
stances, to a lady who was a remote descendant
of the martyr Ridley; she had been a martyr
too, not by material fire at the stake, but by 
the unhallowed fires of strong drink that had
inflamed her husband's brain. She had been
the victim of neglect. Night after night her
maddened husband had left her and her babes
to perish in hopeless misery. The wife was 
now dead, their children scattered, no one to 
care for them, and they hated their father as
much as little children can hate. The wife
had been  a tender plant;  had zephyrs of sym-
pathy breathed over her, and the genial sun-
shine of a husband's love shone upon her she
might have lived. The man who had done
these wrongs now kneeled before the heavens
and implored forgiveness. He had been her 
husband, the father of her helpless babes, and 
he was the son of Mary Lindsay; he himself
the slave of inherited passions, the victim of 
the poison taint of the spirit of wine, trans-
mitted from his father! 
	At the time this poor man was stirred up to
reformation there was a remarkable movement
in Europe, thousands of persons declared the
advent of Christ was at hand; they said they
felt the influence of that spirit the prophet Joel
had declared should be poured out upon all
flesh. The spirit of prophecy, of dreams and
visions, became common among men of every
creed. Men tried to account for these feelings 
by saying: "The wind bloweth where it listeth, 
and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst 
not tell whence it cometh m'or whither it go-
eth." Amid all this excietment men were
taught to love one another, to forsake evil, es-
pecially to abstain from drink. Happily for 
the son of  Mary Lindsay, a good Samaritan
met him, and, to the praise of humanity be it
spoken, many like him aided the poor and
penitent inebriate to carry out his intentions,
to "cease to do evil and learn to do well."
	"There is a tide in the affairs of man which
taken at the flood leads on to fortune." If 
such a period had been experienced and neg-
lected before, it was not so now. The afflicted
one was permanently reclaimed; the outcase
from society became a useful and energetic
man in reclaiming others. And many were
there to whom words of mercy would flow 
from his lips in after years, as he would say, in 
grateful humility: "He who hath much for-
given loveth much." "Not unto us, not unto
us, O Lord, but unto thy name be the glory."
Such were the sentiments of Mr. Obadiah Uni-
pod, the reformed inebriate, who shunned the 
wine cup and its associations, and with what
zeal he entered into the "new movement for 
reformation" many years of successful labors
gave ample evidence to thousands.
	It is interesting for us who are familiar with
the history of our Church to trace the opera-
tions that were going on in England at the
time the Prophet Joseph was promulgating the
truth on this continent. At Preston, in 1833,
a Mr. Richard Turner began to call on people
to abstain from all intoxicating beverages.
He was met with fiery opposition by drunkards 
and those who helped to make them, the deal-
ers in strong drinks. The followers of Mr.
Turner were derided and frequently cruelly
treated; they were hissed at, and in derision


nicknamed. "Tee-totalers." But the true mis-
sionary spirit was in the man, he persevered,
thousands were reclaimed, and they in turn
became "lecturers" on temperance. In an in-
credibly short time the chief cities of England
had large organizations entirely engaged in
preaching and practicing the principles of en-
tire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.
The effect was marvelous; public houses were
emptied, gin palaces were less thronged; as a
consequence, coffee houses and reading rooms
were filled. Freed from drink, men began to
reflect; churches, and especially chapels, were
better attended. Public lecture rooms were
opened; some of the most eloquent orators
were developed from the speakers of the Tem-
perance platforms. By the middle of the
year 1835, at the very time the organization of
the Quornm of the Twelve Apostles was ef-
fected at Kirtland, great missionary efforts
were being made in England; in London the
singular spectacle was seen of men of every
evangelical creed uniting their efforts to preach
the Gospel! A system of domiciliary visita-
tion was devised, by which the poor should be
visited and invited to attend the "means of
grace." This was done without any desire to
increase the number of converts to any par-
ticular denomination of Christians. The poor
were visited in the most wretched localities,
their wants were ministered to; tens of thou-
sands of dollars were raised to establish mis-
sions. Great good was done. The feelings of
brotherly love were extended among all reli-
gious bodies. And as a culmination to the
universal desire to put away sectional fellings,
clergymen of the Church of England and non-
conformist ministers began to labor together as
missionaries. Such was the origin of the
"London City Mission" in 1835, founded by
men of the most exalted moral character, who
could not have labored more assiduously for
the preparation of the minds of the masses to
receive the truth had they known that the
Gospel, as restored through the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, was about to be introduced into
England by the Apostles of our Lord Jesus
Christ! Never was there such a time of re-
joicing in the churches, never were there such
meetings as those held in public assemblies,
where ministers of every denomination who
"named the name of Jesus" were recognized as
brethren; where all agreed to put away sec-
tional feelings, and imitate the Savior of man-
kind! And never was there an organization
established upon so wide a basis of Christianity,
in which its members were more vigilant, more
upon the altar of sacrifice, more humble and
prayerful, more efficient, in its early history.
And, as a sequel to the labors of Mr. Obadiah
Unipod, he was appointed as the first of the
missionaries of this important organization—
The London City Mission. This is only one
among the many good results of the Spirit of
the Lord that had spread among the nations;
in the reclaimed inebriate, now placed upon a
higher plane of usefulness, the strong moral
nature of the mother triumphed, when the
weakness inherited from the father was van-
quished.

To be Continued.


146	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SARAH CARTER.

WHO WAS IN A TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	It seems to me I have anticipated a part of
my subject; I ought to have named that just
before affairs arrived at this climax with
Sarah her father died. This made quite a
change in the situation of the family; the
widow had to remove from the old homestead,

[Column 2]
as of course the eldest son became heir and
took possession. She was left in circumstances
raised above all want, but still with compara-
tively small means. She had a house built for
herself and two daughters, to which she retired,
These events somewhat aroused the dormant
faculties of Sarah, but as soon as they were
settled in their new home, all exertion ceased
on her part to arouse herself, and then com-
menced the lethargy I have forestalled in my
last section.
	Such a pitch of excitement did the affair
create, that the parochial authorities took it in
hand. Imposition and fraud, making money
by allowing her daughter to be visited, were
the stigmatizing accusations thrown upon the
poor mother. Watchers were placed day and
night to make observations, and to see that no
sustenance was given to her. The "Cambridge
Chronicle" issued a column headed "Sarah
Carter," in which the depositions of the watch-
ers were given, and remarks thereon. Nothing
was elicited that could in any way designate a
fraud. The medical men tried many experi-
ments as far as the poor mother would allow
them, one of which was croton oil; at one
time vomiting was produced, which ejected
food that had lain undigested in the stomach
for some weeks. It was also proposed to drop
flaming sealing wax upon her, but all such
torture her mother positively forbade; and
quite right too.
	A lady of title, of a very high and noble
family was a daily visitor to the house. She
was a woman of a sweet, angelic nature, and
was throughout an angel in disguise to that
afflicted family. She said to a friend: "I feel
there is no deception; I myself, when sitting
quietly by her bed, and watching her sleeping
form alone, have tried little strategems upon
her, such as suddenly striking her face or
hands with my pocket handkerchief, but I
never saw the least start, or even a thrill, pass
over her, no more than if I had struck a
corpse."
	At last the Faculty gave in and owned it
was "one of their opprobriums!" They con-
fessed that it appeared to them that "the finger
of God was upon her," and so they retired.
Doctor Ficklin would often call in, and the
poor mother seemed to like to see him, for he
was ever kind and ever a gentleman; he would
be permitted to walk into that silent room and
view the sleeping girl. Lady Godolphin never
forsook the mother. Every week, when not at
her town residence, might be seen her beautiful
equipage standing at Mrs. Carter's gate, while
she was talking to and comforting her, and al-
ways sitting some little time bythe somnambula I
who lay sleeping calm as a summer morning,
and really growing beautiful and etherealized
by her marvelous somnambulism. I first saw
her when she had lain in that state about three
or four years. How well I remember the visit
and the feeling of awe with which I stood at
the foot of the bed. I was very young then
and had never looked but on one corpse; this
appeared to me as the second. The house-
keeper of our family accompanied me; she was
one who knew nothing about nerves, or what
is commonly defined fine feelings, though by
no means deficient in humanity. She at once
made friends with Mrs. Carter, and I did what
I could to assure her of my sympathy by hold-
ing her hand with a warm pressure in mine for
some minutes; and I believe she understood
me, for from that time her door was ever open
to me, when she had closed it to all except
those she knew were her friends, and I respect-
ed her for it, and she seemed to know it. A
few questions were asked by my companion, in
a low voice, and they were answered in the
same. I saw her no more until she awoke
from her long slumber, which happened at the
end of seven years!!
	Lady Godolphin was sitting by the bedside,

[Column 3]
when she observed the eyelids of the girl
slightly tremble, and the body gently show
signs of returning animation. Lady G. called
gently and said: "Mrs. Carter, your daughter
is waking!" Judge the electric shock to the
two ladies, both fond, devoted mothers.
	From that time life and animation returned
slowly, but surely; her mind, weak as that of
an infant, her body helpless—but both seemed
to grow and expand, like the mind of a child,
until she was in the full possession of her men-
tal faculties. She still continued her reclining
position, the lower limbs retaining great weak-
ness and inertia; at last she was daily lifted
from her bed to a sofa placed beside it; her
mother being her sole nurse, and performing
all those offices, with assiduous and loving de-
votion; indeed, it appeared that she became to
her a "consecrated shrine," whereon she ex-
pended her maternal worship; and Sarah be-
came her preacher and her teacher, her Bishop
and her Cardinal! and though the clergyman
of the village visited her occasionally, I am
not sure that she allowed him to see her daugh-
ter; I feel sure she made him feel that she tol-
erated him merely as one to whom custom had
rendered courtesy, and not as being of any as-
sistance or edification to her or her household!
	That child that I portrayed in the little
quaint dress must surely have had the germs
of a lady in her little form, for she developed
from her sleep into a polished lady. She ap-
peared a queen holding her levee, calm, cour-
teous and polite to all! Yes, and all felt they
were in the presence of a being whose life was
something apart from common every day life.
The grand and the noble that visited her felt
she was their peer; and with the tact of genuine
nobility, at once yielded to her the palm, and
stooped their crest to her as one ennobled by
affliction that was so unique that all put the
finger on the lip, and waited for the few words
that issued from her mouth. What was there
in that simple girl, in her simple, homely room,
her simple white wrapper, all so entirely un-
ruffled that the beholder marveled how the
robing had ever been accomplished. Every-
thing about her was remarkable! at no moment
did it seem she could be taken unprepared; her
pillows like a heap of snow for whiteness, no
furbelows about them, or any pretentions to
them; her dress the same, the simple plaited
frill passing round the neck and down the
bosom of the wrapper, with the wrists match-
ing; this was all the ornamental trimming. A
cap—yes, that cap, let me not forget it; Titian
would not have forgotten it, he would have
made that whole form a Madonna, that would
have filled his studio with an admiring crowd
The cap, with a broad plaited frill, that sat
round that pure face like a little bonnet, and
the rich, dark hair banded over the pure broad
white forehead completed the costume. She
ever sat in her bed in a reclining position, her
hands lapping over each other, and generally
a little gem of a book, a gift of course; or a
letter just received, or a choice bouquet, sent by
some (elegant, loving heart, lay close by them.
The bed pure and white as "unsunned snow,"
not a spot or wrinkle ever upon it. Here, to
me, was ever the mystery; but so it was. A
chair always placed by the right side of the bed
for the choice visitor—seldom more than one
was admitted at one time. As the visitor ap-
proached, the right hand would be gently, ex-
tended, a smile of welcome, and you were in
the presence of Sarah Carter.

To be Continued.


MR. Cross, husband of George Eliot, de-
ceased, is preparing a biography of the life and
works of that eminent woman. There will no
doubt be a great demand for the book, as so
little is known of this acknowledged genius of
the nineteenth century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIFTY YEARS TO-DAY.

A Congratulation to Elizabeth Knight Johnson, on
the Fiftieth Anniversary of her Baptism, by Hyrum
Smith, Nov. 1st 1830, into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,at Colesville,Broom Co. N. Y.—she be-
ing the youngest member in the Church at that time. She
was the daughter of Joseph,and Polly Knight,and went up
in the first Company to Jackson Co. Mo. in 1831, her
brother Newel Knight presiding.

Tell it gratefully, and gladly—
	Proudly as you may—
That you've fought beneath truth's banner
	Fifty years to-day.

Oh! if e'er I envy any,
	'Tis the favored few
Blest to know our martyr'd Prophet,
	And Brother Hyrum too.

Oft I've found myself regretting—
	That their work was done;
That their lives were near their setting,
	Just as mine begun.

Nor fanaticism is it,
	Thus to hold him bear,
Whom the angels loved to visit—
	Joseph Smith "The Seer."

Unborn millions shall revere him,
	As "The Prophet" true;
Of the grandest dispensation,
	That the world e'er knew.

All the truths his life-blood sanctioned,
	Are so glad and free;
'Tis not strange that you have loved them,
	Half a century.

Fifty years! it seems a life-time:
	Thought is almost dumb,
Retrospecting, comprehending--
	All you've overcome.

Prejudice and persecution,
	Mobbings drivings too;
All the consequent privation,
	That the saints passed through.

Hunted down by priests and people,
	Worn by ceaseless strife,
Fearing not the red man's nature,
	Preying peace and life.

Trustfully the saints toiled hither,
	True to heaven's command;
But for faith, not knowing whither:
	Led by God's right hand;
To these then far distant valleys,
	Joseph's promised land.

When their weary journey ended,
	Dreary was their lot;
Scant supplies and isolation.
	Home a desert spot;
But these saints had faith and freedom,
	And they murmured not.

Trackless plains and bridgeless rivers,
	Mountains towering high;
Which these exiles crossed was nothing--
	To their childrens cry,
Even for Bread. Oh! crowning ordeal,
	Yet relief was nigh.

Yes you've had a long experience:
	Hard enough indeed.
And you've learned that God is equal—
	To our greatest need.
Constancy to right must merit,
	Future joy and gain;
Yet you may be glad you cannot—
	Live your life again.

Fifty years it tells its story,
	More than lengthy speech:
Doubt I not, Celestial glory—
	Is within your reach.
Few there are on earth remaining—
	Who can truly say,
I have labored in God's kingdom—
	Fifty years to-day.

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 1st. 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
[CONTINUED.]

	In our last chapter we referred to the Log
Row where Sister Eliza spent her first few
years in the valley, after leaving the Fort when
Pres. Young returned in 1848. These were
the primitive times, as we often term them,
when every woman made her own soap and
candles, carded and spun the wool, dyed the
yarn, knit the stockings, and many even wove
and afterwards cut and made the material into
clothing. Carpets of homemade yarn, dyed
in the gayest colors, were quite the rage, and
in these things Sister Eliza also excelled. She
took an interest in all these affairs, and her
patterns in dress goods and carpets of home-
manufacture were much sought after by others.
	In 1854-5 the Lion House, one of President
Young's family residences, was completed, and
she has ever since resided there. It is rather a
peculiar style of building, quaint in architec-
ture, and reminds one more of an age now
past, than of modern times. It was some
years after the family moved into the new
home before the domestic spinning, dyeing and
weaving were dispensed with. Sister Eliza to-
day has a homemade yarn carpet in a very
good state of preservation, and other articles
manufactured by her own hands. Her history
is a complete contradiction of the illusion so
current in the world that literary women, or
blue-stockings, are never domestic, or industri-
ous and successful as housewives. True, this
is sometimes the case, but this remarkable wo-
man possesses the happy combination of do-
mestic and literary ability. At the present
time, when arrived at the age where most wo-
men lay aside all the cares and duties of do-
mestic labor, she does her own work, runs her
own errands, and waits upon company after
the "old school" style, in addition to all her
public and literary labors. At Conferences
she entertains her friends from the country,
never complaining of weariness, and strangers
are likely to make informal calls uppn her at
any time; and she is always ready, never non-
plussed.
	It would be difficult to find a woman any-
where like Sister Eliza, combining so many
qualifications which fit her for active life, and
yet in reality possessing such an abundance of
spiritual vigor.
	In 1869, Pres. Young having observed the
inclination among the people to follow after
the follies and fashions of the world, leading
women more especially into habits of frivolity
and extravagance, called upon Sister Eliza
and one or two other ladies to lead out in an
organization for the purpose of retrenchment
in dress and table expenditure. Accordingly,
meetings were called, the subject discussed,
and an association formed with a presiding
board of seven officers;meetings were appoint-
ed to be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, that being a central and suitable place.
These meetings havenever been discontinued,
but are still held regularly in the same place
and at the same hour, and the same ladies offi-
ciate as officers, with one exception, that of
Sister Margaret T. Smoot, who moved to Provo
after the first few years, when Sister Elizabeth
Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy. In
these assemblies from time to time much in-
struction of the best and highest quality has
been dispensed to the sisters.
	Shortly after this Retrenchment Association
was organized, Pres. Young called upon Sister
Eliza to aidhim in efforting an organization of
young ladies, commencing with his own daugh-
ters, which she was quite competent to do. She
framed a set of resolutions for the President's
approval, which set forth the object of the as-
esociation in appropriate words, and gave the

[Column 2]
members a good idea of the work and progress
that would be expected of them in an organ-
ized capacity. All this was very new, and ex-
cited ridicule, as all innovations do at first. It
was hard work for the young ladies to come
out from their companions and take an active
part in public meetings. Those who persevered
in doing so were set down as strongminded,
over-religious, &c.; but Sister Eliza stimulated
and encouraged them, and from time to time
organizations were formed in the various wards
and extended thence into the settlements; the
organizations were designated Retrenchment
Associations, the same as the one formed by
the older sisters, and to distinguish between
the two, one was called the Senior and the
other the Junior Retrenchment Association.
This work of organizing the young ladies in
all parts of the Territory was a most original
plan; never had such a thing been heard of
before. Sister Eliza from the first seemed to
perfectly comprehend the nature of the task
assigned her, and again her executive ability
became apparent. To accomplish a labor of
this kind requires method in its execution, and
to select the proper material for the work one
need be possessed of a knowledge of human
nature, keen and deep, and then the planning
and arranging of the order of discipline to be
pursued to effect the desired result, calls forth
all the tact and energy of character that can
be exercised upon the subject. It has been a
wonderful acquisition to all the other means of
improvement, this spiritual and moral training
of the young in these organized societies. To
be sure, by common consent the name Junior
Retrenchment has since been changed to Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, but the object
and spirit of the work remains the same. Sis-
ter Eliza may well rejoice in the great work of
improvement among the young sisters, although
there are many who have never as yet recog-
nized it, or joined in the labor.
	The reader will readily perceive that Sister
Eliza had much public speaking to do, which
called her out from home to go here and there,
in "fair or foul weather," but she had the mis-
sion to fill, and she was endowed with the spirit
and power essential to its performance. I
doubt if any other woman has accomplished so
much in organizing and in public speaking
among women. Subsequently Sister Eliza took
a journey to the Holy Land, leaving Salt Lake
City October 26, 1872, her brother, Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, meeting her in Ogden; in New
York they joined Pres. George A. Smith and
party, who had left Salt Lake City on the 16th.
Sister Eliza endured the fatigue of traveling
as well and even better than some younger
ones of the party. The company took the
Steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th of
November. Her letters written while at sea
are as full of vigor as at any other time, and
Pres. George A. Smith, writing on board ship,
says: "Miss E. R. Snow has stood the voyage
and sea-sickness so far as well as any of us,
and has given us a good deal of intellectual
enjoyment. She wrote a poem at sea, "Cross-
ingthe Atlantic," which our readers will find
in the "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists."
We give a verse or two descriptive of the storm
on the Atlantic.

Anon all Neptune's furies
	Are on the steamer's path,
We mount the deck to wintess
	The ocean in its wrath.

The scene! What pen can write it?
	What pencil's art could show
The wild, terrific grandeur
	Which reigns around us now.

The waving, surging waters
	Like battle armor clash;
Tumultuous waves upheaving,
	With foaming fury dash.

The steamer mounts the billows,
	Then dips the space below;
And bravely presses onward,
	Tho' reeling to and fro.

[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published  semi-monthly,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2. 00: one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  month, $3. 00.  A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.   Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT  LAKE  CITY,	MARCH 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
	SELF-MADE  WOMEN.

	How little we hear of self-made women!  Self-
made  men  is  a  term in common use, very; but
the other is uncommon, a phrase seldom heard;
in fact, we do not remember having heard it all,
and flatter  ourself  it  is  rather an  original title.
Self-made women exist, nevertheless.  We know
of some  fully  entitled  to  the  appellation, and
have  heard  of  others,  elsewhere, whose  lives
were  worthy  of record  in  the  annals  of their 
country.  It is pretty generally understood that
woman is a dependent sort of creature, and does
comparatively little for herself in any positive
manner;  man leads and woman follows, he toils
and she partakes of the fruits of his labors.  We
have  heard  all  our  life  long  of  self-sacrificing
women—that  phrase  is  hackneyed, to  say  the
least, and self-made women  is pleasant, if only
as a  kind  of relief.  The  Scripture  says, "Obe-
dience is better than sacrifice," but most women
combine  in  their  character  both  obedience  and
sacrifice of self.  History tells us very little about
women; judging from its pages, one  would sup-
pose  their  lives  were  insignificant  and  their
opinions  worthless.  Now  and  then  one  more
favored than others  of her  sex, figures  in  con-
nection  with  a  lover,  or  husband,  but  rarely
alone,  and  evidently the attention of the writer
of history has been  to  leave women  out.  And
yet  women  are  patriotic  in  their natures, and
some  of  them have braved  all  resistance to ac-
complish good; instance, Joan of Arc.  Volumes
of unwritten history yet remain, the sequel to
the written lives of brave and heroic men.  But
although  the  historians  of the past have  been
neglectful of woman, and  it  is  the  exception if 
she be mentioned at all;  yet the future will deal
more  generously with womankind, and  the his-
torian  of the  present  age  will  find it very em-
barrassing to ignore woman in the records of the 
nineteenth  century.  We  may  say,  and  with
propriety, that there is a class of  women on the 
earth now, whose lives and labors are likely to be
recognized even  by the average historian.  Wo-
man has really undertaken  to do her own work,
to  make  her  own  record, in  one sense, and to
stand as an individual representative of herself
and a type  of her  class; and yet  not  in  opposi-
tion  to  man,  but in intelligent harmony.   "The
woman  is  not  without  the man, nor the man
without the woman in the Lord."  A great change
has  come  over woman in this age, and man be-
gins to acknowledge, in a sort of indefinite way,
her  individuality and power of active thought.
There is less  of  the blind idolatry and man wor-
ship and more vivid expression given to woman's 
ideal and real love, than in the days we speak of
as  man's  chivarlry  and  woman's  self-denial.
Some  aver  that  the subtle  charm  of woman's 
worship  is lost, and in its  place a tangible real-
ism has sprung up, less attractive and calculated

[Column 2]
to  rob  woman  of  that  indefinable  mysticism
which has for centuries floated round her like an
evanescent incense to man, and yet something
unreal,  for  she  proved  not  exactly  what  she
seemed.  Now, man  approaches  her as a being
of understanding, one who has pronounced opin-
ions of her  own, and who is free  to  choose, if 
need be, her own vocation, and can, when need-
ful, "eat her  own  bread  and wear  her  own  ap-
parel."
	Possibly man  has  driven woman  to  this ex-
tremity, by the want of consideration.  Albeit
they complain sometimes bitterly  of the women
who want some  of  the  situations  and  advan-
tages  once a clear field for  the lords of creation,
and  wonder why the sex are not content to oc-
cupy their former position as erst in  the days of
their grandmothers.  There is not quite so much
credit due women for the exertions made from 
necessity, but after all, there  is abundant  proof
that they are mentally and morally equal to the
occasion, when they defend  their position, as in
social and political  life some  of  them  are doing 
everywhere to-day.
	Self-made women is a powerful term.  It  tells
its own story, of struggles  against  fearful odds,
with  unpropitious  circumstances, and  a  lack of
the means  of education  and  cultivation.  But
on  the  other  hand, it  bespeaks  self-help, self-
denial, patient hopefulness and persistent deter-
mination.    How,  when  fortune  frowned  and
friends  were  lacking,  the  brave  heart  never
quailed nor shrank from hardship, but  pressed
onward in the path of achievement,  regardless
of ridicule  or  hindrances; and  faced  the  great
world that has set itself so hard and firm against
the  woman  who  makes  her  own  way, unless
she arrives at a pinnacle of fame, then the same
world is ready to worship at her shrine.  How
many besetments  lie  in  her  path, how thickly
is it strewn with  thorns and briers, and oh, how
many sharp and cruel rocks lie scattered in the
pathway she must tread alone!   Here and there
a  flower, a  rill, a  bird  note, or  a  soft  fanning
zephry, but all the wealth and sweetness blooms
in the gardens of cultivation, from which she is
barred  until  she  can  open  the  gates  herself.
But much has been done to make education at-
tainable for women, who hunger for knowledge,
and  to  lift  all  women  to a higher view of life.
A new era has been ushered in, mainly through
the  exertions  of self-made  women, acted  upon
by an influence many comprehend not, which is
working  for  their  redemption  from  under  the
curse, and yet a vast amount of narrow-minded-
ness  and  prejudice  still remains to be wrestled
with, and  it  requires almost superhuman cour-
age  and  endurance, and  workful  waiting, with
an earnest and implicit faith in God,  Who hears
and answers prayer.  Self-made women!  How
grandly significant is the title  of strength and
power in the true dignity of her character.


[Column 1]
﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	RELIEF Society blanks at the Deseret News
Office.
	"LIFE Incidents," by Helen Mar Whitney,
also "Jesse Burns" are crowded out of this issue,
but will appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are requested to send in reports from
October last to March 6th, as the Stake Secretary
wishes to compile them for the April Confer-
ence.
	OFFICERS of Primary Associations in the Ter-
ritory and throughout the Stakes of Zion, are
expected to report the same as R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A. and direct their communications to
Lillie Freeze, Secretary of Central Board P. A

[Column 2]
	THE second edition of Primary Hymn Books,
edited by Eliza R. Snow, are now ready for sale.
Orders from the country which have been lay-
ing over will now be attended to promptly. For
sale at this office, Deseret News and Juvenile
Instructor. The ready sale of the first edition is
the best recommendation the book could have.
	A PLEASING concert was given in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday evening,
Feb. 24, for the benefit of the Sunday School.
The programme conisted of songs, duets, quar-
tets, recitations, instrumental music, &c., all of
which were carefully selected and well rendered,
and the affair was altogether a successful one.

	THE Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L. M
I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 18 and
19. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these organizations that there be a full
attendance, and that all reports be sent in be-
forehand.

	AN entertainment will be given in the Social
Hall for the benefit of the 18th Ward Sunday
School, on Friday evening, March 11., consisting
of a laughable farce, entitled "My wife's Bon-
net," and the popular operetta "A Capital Joke."
Edith Clawson, Soprano; Louie Wells, Contral-
to; H. G. Whitney, Tenor; J. D. Spencer, Bass.
It will be a fine entertainment.

	THE Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. are
requested by order of the President Central Board,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, to forward full reports from
date of organization, where none have been giv-
en, to October last, and also reports from October
[-]past to March 6th of the present year. Will sec-
retaries please govern themselves accordingly,
and send in the reports in time for the coming
Conference, March 19, to Louie Wells, Secretary
Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.

	THE "Evening News," published in Phila-
delphia, makes a notice, under the heading of
"Youthful Orators," of an entertainment given
by the National School of Elocution and Ora-
tory, in the halls of the Institution, Monday
evening, Feb. 7, in which favorable mention is
made of Miss Martha Paul Hughes, of this city,
a recent graduate of Ann Arbor University with
the title M. D. She gave the selection "Beauti-
ful Snow," it is said, with scholarly ability.

	ON Friday evening, March 4, the day of the
inauguration, the tragedy of Macbeth will be
performed in the Theatre in this city, for the
benefit of David McKenzie, the popular and fa-
vorite star actor, who was quite the rage when
he followed the profession. Of course it will be
a success in the rendering of Macbeth by Mr.
McKenzie; and no doubt Miss Nellie Colebrook,
whose talent for the stage is well known will
enact Lady Macbeth in a natural and easy man-
ner. Everybody should patronize the Theatre
on the 4th of March. Go and see McKenzie as
Macbeth.

	SATURDAY evening, Feb. 19, the public were
treated to a fine entertainment of readings in
the Theatre, by Miss Alice Hamill, Miss Ada
Dwyer and Mr. Harry Hamill. Miss Alice
Hamill is a finished reader, so far as scholarly
ability is concerned, and she has also the genius
which is rendered meritorious by cultivation.
Miss Ada Dwyer has been reared in Utah, and
of course the people here naturally take a great
interest in her improvement. She quite exceed-
ed the expectations of her friends, who, knowing
how short a time she had been studying the
science of elocution, were surprised to see how
well she rendered her parts. She has a fresh
and vivacious manner, and a very pleasing, rich
voice. She did best (we think) in "A little Girl's
Views of Life in a Hotel" and in "Christmas at


the Quarters," though she certainly did very
well in all. We congratulate Miss Ada on her
success in her debut before a Salt Lake audience.
She has proven she has talent and ability for
the profession she has chosen; by patient appli-
cation and persistent study she may rise to the
supreme height of excellence in the art of read-
ing, which is a most happy attainment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 149


[Column 1]
ONE WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ON THE
SUBJECT.

	"Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know
them."—Matt., vii, 6.

	These words of our Savior, given to his disci-
ples when he was upon the earth, by which they
might know men, are just as good to-day, for
the Latter-day Saints to be guided by, as they
were for the former day Saints eighteen hundred
years ago. Judging by this rule the actions of
the "Liberal Party," their fruits are very appar-
ent as persecutors of the Saints. What other
motive could Gov. Murray have had, in giving
the certificate of election to Mr. Campbell, and
then fleeing the country? His guilty conscience
needed no accusing (if he has any conscience it
must be very small); if he had heaped such an
indignity upon any other people, he well knew
what the result would be. The words of the
proverb are very significant in this case, for
"The wicked fleeth when no man pursueth."
The Latter-day Saints are not the people to take
the law in their own hands to redress their
wrongs, but leave all things in the hands of a
just God, Who has said, "Vengeance is mine
and I will repay." The Latter-day Saints can
wait for that time to come, as it surely will
come, when "the sinners in Zion will tremble,
and fearfulness will surprise the hypocrite."
Then the Lord "will laugh at their calamity and
mock when their fear cometh."
	But to return to the subject. Who is A. G.
Campbell? How long has he been in the coun-
try? How much correct information has he ob-
tained about the people called "Mormons," whom
he is so anxious to represent in Congress? Not
much, I think, by the company he keeps. The
first I heard of him was his jumping a mining
claim, and losing the case in Court. The next I
hear, he is trying to usurp the place of Delegate
Cannon. And to dishonesty he adds falsehood
and misrepresentation, giving as an excuse for
his failure in securing the election numerically,
the "women elected Mr. Cannon." Now, this
is untrue. Mr. Cannon was not dependent on
the women for his election, although many wo-
men did give him their votes, and would have
been proud (if Mr. Campbell's assertion were
true) of the privilege of sending an honorable
gentleman to represent them in the Congress of
the nation.
	But how is it with poor Mr. Campbell? I am
sure he is to be pitied, if out of so large a num-
ber of votes as 1,357, to 18,578, that he should
be entirely forgotten by the ladies! It is not a
very good position to be out of favor with the
women. Surely some one will write him a let-
ter of condolence, to quiet his nerves, after such
a signal defeat, and that by women. He must
have felt very much relieved after giving ex-
pression to his feelings, accusing the women of
doing the evil! Always the same story given
by unprincipled men—if there is anything
wrong "the women did it." But there is no
wrong. The votes of women as good as those of
men, and they are as good and honorable citi-
zens as men are.
	The Mormon women are not the oppressed,
down-trodden women they are represented to be
by their enemies, but high-minded and intelli-
gent women who can think and act for them-
selves, and have as much liberty to give expres-
sion to their thoughts and feelings as women of
any other community. And I know, for one,
that the "Liberal Party" may contest Delegate
Cannon's seat in Congress for years to come, as
they have in the years that are passed, so long
as the Lord wishes him to remain in the halls
of the nation, they will fail in their attempts to
remove him. If the time comes that the nation
is not worthy of having an Apostle in their
midst, then the Lord will suffer him to be re-
moved,and not till then. And why should they
seek to remove him? What has he done? Why,
say his righteous opponents, "He has more
wives than one!" Well, if he has, his wives
have the most implicit confidence in his faith-
fulness to them; they can trust him in Wash-
ington, or in any other place, for years, if need
be, and feel perfectly satisfied, knowing he would

[Column 2]
return to them as true to his marriage covenants
as when he left them. If all the fathers, hus-
bands and sons of monogamic families commit-
ted no greates crime, nor did anything more to
disgrace themselves than Mr. Cannon has in
marrying, methinks the Millennium would soon
be ushered in, and "every man in every place
would meet a brother and a friend." But alas!
for fallen humanity, that time is not yet.
Now, I think it would be much more sensible
for Mr. Cannon's righteous opponents, if they
would petition Congress to pass a law for the
suppression of houses of prostitution and ill-
fame, which are so degrading to womankind and
an open disgrace to the nation. Yet they are
fostered and supported by men in high social
circles, who lift up their hands in holy horror
that the Mormons marry women and make
them honorable wives, and judging by the ac-
tions of men, they would say to Mr. Cannon,
have as many women as you please, but don't
marry them; then we can be hale fellows well
met, and you will be a fit representative to Con-
gress.
	The women are now making a great noise
about polygamy. It seems to me that the wo-
men of the nation would be engaged in a much
better cause if they would get up petitions to
Congress for the suppression of real evils in their
midst, and use all their influence to elevate their
sex from the degradation that men have placed
them in. "By their fruits ye shall know them."
								M. I. H.


[Column 1]
QUESTIONS.

	Pardon me if I ask why the Governor of Idaho
is so much alarmed for the safety of this govern-
ment, as we learn from his speech before the 
Legislature of that Territory? He seems to
think that our practices are so vile and so much
out of character, that we should be stricken
from civilized society, lest we contaminate the
people and cause the destruction of the whole
human race. The reason why he thinks so is
because he has only weighed the subject on one
side of the question. Now, let me ask, does he
fear that the systems built up according to the
best abilities of the men of the world will crum-
ble away? Because the God of heaven will set
up a kingdom that will never be thrown down
or given to another people. And why? For this
reason: our Heavenly Father is wiser than man.
His designs are broader and more perfect in
every sense of the word, and will achieve the
greatest good for his children. Is it not said in
holy writ, that he made of one blood all the na-
tions of the earth? Accordingly, there must be
a germ of the Deity in each and every bosom,
which, if cultivated and developed, will enable
us to see and understand his designs and pur-
poses concerning us. Notice how fast a child
learns from observation the first three years of
its life, and later if the germ is kept pure. But
after the tempter begins to sow seeds of envy,
hatred, malice and revenge, then begins the
warfare.
	But God sent His Son Jesus to teach us a dif-
ferent lesson—the lesson of love, which is an at-
tribute of the Deity, for God is love. But the
opposite spirit is from the tempter, and the seeds
he sows will produce bitter weeds, which will
choke and destroy the germ, If I may use so
rough a term. Let us remember our Father's
laws, given by Jesus, the Savior of the world.
Then ask who can love his neighbor as himself?
And why not? Is it not because the parents are
selfish before the children, or otherwise the force
of example, selfish until it seems impossible to
think of anything else? Who is there that can
love his neighbor as himself? Does this not
show that the germ has not been cultivated?
But bitter weeds have been permitted to grow
and produce evil fruits, to that degree that they
begin to wonder why they have been born in
such a world as this. It seems that love, and
the fruits of love, such as should bind the hu-
man family together have been choked out of
existence.
	Would we not rather welcome the kingdom of 
God, with its pure laws, to govern and produce
"peace on earth and good will to men," which
was the song of the angel at the birth of our
Savior—He who is to reign our king. This king-
dom, when established, will p[-]oduce a reign of
peace. Is it strange that the Governor at Idaho
should fear and tremble when such a kingdom
is to be established upon the earth? No, verily
no! People of sound minds and pure principles
will readily adhere to such laws, and the frail
governments made by mortal man will be weak-
ened and go down, for want of sound minds to
sustain them. This is all they need fear, for

[Column 2]
there is no warfare greater than to keep the gar-
den of the mind free from those weeds which
the tempter is always on hand and ready to sow,
and if permitted to grow will baffle the mind of
its possessor, and destroy his or her usefulness in
the world. But you will ask who knows all this?
I will tell you. They are those who have re-
pented of all their sins and been baptized for the 
remission of them, which is the teaching of our 
great Lawgiver, Jesus Christ. Then they re-
ceive the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, to take
lead of their minds and enlighten them upon all
things pertaining to this life. My earnest desire
for the Governor of Idaho is and shall be that he
may learn to love his neighbor as himself, and
deal justly with all, remembering that the mea-
sure he may mete out will in return be meted to
him again. Self-government will be requisite.
Is any one fit to govern who cannot govern him-
self? King Solomon's words are, "He who rul-
eth his own spirit is greater than he that taketh
a city." He of course is a general, especially if
he can love those who hate him and pray for
those who despitefully use and persecute him.
Such are the laws given to us to fit and qualify
us for the kingdom of God, and cannot be accom-
plished without the assistance of the Holy Spirit,
which we need daily, and that we may possess
it is the earnest prayer of
	Your friend,
	M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1881.


FAREWELL SURPRISE.

	On the 16th day of February, 1881, a quiet and
pleasant surprise party took place at the resi-
dence of the late Jacob Peart, of Farmer's
Ward, held as a farewell parting of the family,
owing to their expected removal into the coun-
try. This party was arranged by the sisters of
the Relief Society of this ward, thus showing
their kind feelings for the sisters who are about
to leave them.
	The party was a very appropriate one on such
an occasion. The ladies were greatly surprised,
but pleasantly received the guests—in all a happy
and jolly party. Expressions of [-]ove and good
feelings for one another were manifested at the
meeting. A substantial dinner was set in order,
the surprised and surprisers enjoyed themselves
greatly. After dinner, a few hours elapsed in
friendly jokes and conversation making the time
agreeable to all. After which the parties dis-
persed to their respective homes, leaving their
kind feelings and blessings with the family, who
in return wish to thank and bless the sisters of
Farmer's Ward.
						EMMA WOODRUFF.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Feb. 9, the sisters of the Relief Society in
Payson, held a party in commemoration of Pa-
triarch Hyrum Smith, under the able manage-
ment of Pres. Jane B. Simons and Counselors
Agnes Douglas and Mary Morse. At half past
six p. m., the sisters, with their husbands, as-
sembled in the City Hall. After singing, prayer
was offered up by Counselor David Sant. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
	An interesting speech was then delivered by
Elder I. M. Coombs, referring to the many inci-
dents in the life of Hyrum Smith. Dancing by
the company. Then followed a recitation by H.
Hamill (son of Prof. Hamill), reading, Prof. J.
L. Townsend, and a song by James Reece, when
intermission for a short time was taken. Justice
was done to the viands prepared by way of a
picnic, after which a song by John Quigly.
Dancing was then resumed. Speeches by
Bishop J. S. Tanner and Counselor D. Sant, who
read the names of the eight witnesses to the au-
thenticity of the Book of Mormon, and Henry
Jacobs, who was personally acquainted with the
Prophet and Patriarch. Songs then followed by
James Reece, George Hancock and S. E. Daniels.
Sen. Pres. Jane Simons briefly tendered thanks
to the company for their presence, and to all
who had contributed to the evening's entertain-
ment; also said that she was personally ac-
quainted with Joseph and Hyrum Smith. "The
Resurrection Day," composed by Wm. Clayton,
was then sung by the assembly.
						M. A. HARDY, Sec'y.


A BRONZE statue of Dante has been placed
in the Square of the Rue des Ecoles, Paris.


150	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of the Primary Association of the
10th Ward, held Jan, 28, 1881, President Jane
McLean presiding. Opened by singing "Jo-
seph Smith's first prayer." Prayer by Coun.
Rose Chandler. Singing, "Dare to do right."
Roll called; seventy-eight members present.
Minutes of the previous meeting read and ap-
proved; after which Maria Badley read part of
the 39th chapter of Genesis. Pres. McLean
read a portion of the 2d chapter of the first
book of Nephi. Six little girls recited a
dialogue entitled "First Principles of the Gos-
pel." Arthur Woods and George Badley re-
cited a dialogue, "Two boys who met on the
street." Song by Joseph Paul. Recitation by
Edith Ashman. The children repeated the
Articles of Faith in concert. Oscar Nystrum
repeated the Lord's Prayer. The children
sang "In our lovely Deseret."
	Coun. Libbie Edmonds said we have had a
very good meeting to-day. Hoped there were
no little boys who belonged to the Primary
who smoked tobacco or used profane language.
The angels take notes of all we say and do.
The judgments of the Lord will be upon those
that do wickedly. I am pleased to see so many
here, but if all the little boys that are on the
streets would come to these meetings, I think
they would not use tobacco or speak bad words
so much as they do. I pray God to bless you
all. Amen.
	Pres. McLean then asked the children who
organized them, and they answered, Sister E.
B. Wells. Next, what are these meetings for?
Improvement; to learn the ways of God, that
we may be saved in the kingdom of heaven.
What is Faith? One little girl gave an exam-
ple of faith.
	Meeting adjourned for one week. Singing,
"Praise to the man who communed with Je-
hovah." Prayer by Coun. Libbie Edmonds.


[Column 1]
DEPUTATION TO MR. MASON M. P.

	On Thursday, January 20th, a deputation of
members representing the various branches of
the National Society for Woman's Suffrage
waited upon Mr. Hugh Mason, M. P. for Ash-
ton-under-Lyne, at his apartments in Fenton's
Hotel, to ask him to accept the leadership of
the movement in the House of Commons, in
the place of Mr. Leonard Courtney, who has
accepted office in the Government. Repres-
entatives were present from the various com-
mittees in all parts of the kingdom, and
amongst the ladies who met Mr. Hugh Mason
at Fenton's Hotel, St. Jame's-street, London,
were Miss Becker, Mrs. Dumcan M'Laren, Miss
Davenport Hill, Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., Miss C.
A. Biggs, Mrs. Lindsay from Belfast, Mrs.
Cameron from Glasgow, Mrs. Edward Parker
of Dundee, Mrs. Lucas, Miss Downing, the Vis-
countess Harberton, Miss Babb, Mrs. Ashton
Dilke, Mrs. Charle M'Laren, Miss Thornbury,
Mrs. M'Donald, &c. Amongst the gentlemen
present interested in the movement were Mr.
Thomasson, M. P. for Bolton, Dr. Cameron, M.
P. for Glasgow, Mr. S. Morley, M. P. for Bris-
tol, and Sir David Wedderburn, M. P.
	Mr. THOMASSON, M. P., who introduced the
deputation, said that no doubt many of those
present were already well known to Mr. Ma-
son. He did not think that under the circum-
stances he need say anything beyond that he
heartily concurred in the object which the de-
putation had in view. (Applause.)
	Miss BECKER said that on behalf of the
Manchester Committee she had been unani-
mously deputed to formally invite Mr. Mason
to accept the leadership of the woman's suff-
rage movement. She had had an opportunity of
explaining the views of the association to Mr.

[Column 2]Mason, and she would therefore, leave it with
the representatives of the other branches con-
nected with the society to lay their views be-
fore him. (Hear, hear.)	*	*	*
	Mr. HUGH MASON, M. P., in reply: Miss
Becker, ladies, and gentlemen,—Since my
name has been mentioned as a member of Par-
liament who is likely to take up this question
which Mr Leonard Courtney had in hand dur-
ing the last two or three years, I have received
from one or more of my intelligent constituents
at Ashton-under-Lyne what I may call a slap in
the face for having ventured to give any kind of
promise that I would take up this question. I
have been told that, judging from what has
hitherto taken place in Ashton-under-Lyne, I
would lose my seat if women were admitted to
the franchise. In that town, I am informed,
there have been hundreds of women on the
burgess list, and it has been found that they
mainly vote for the Tories; therefore. I am
further informed, they would not vote for me
if they were enfranchised parliamentarily.
My answer was very prompt and very decided
to a remonstrance of that kind, and I simply
said that women had a right to the franchise,
and however they might use their vote it was
nothing at all to do with me. I said they were
quite as capable as men of forming a judgment
upon political questions, and that I had just as
much confidence in the women as I had in the
men. I added—"whether the result should be
that the women will vote against me and turn
me out of Parliament or not, it is a matter of
perfect indifferance to me so long as they exer-
cised the franchise honestly, as I believed they
would." (Hear, hear.) If I have any misgiv-
ings about acceding to your request, and I say
it without any false modesty, it rises entirely
from a doubt as to my ability to do justice to
this important question, and justify the appli-
cation which you are so unanimously making
to me. (Hear, hear.) You know that I am a
new man in Parliament, and I have a great
deal to learn. Yet I am not new to political
matters of various kinds. I told my friend
Mr. Leonard Courtney a few days ago, when I
was talking to him on this question, that if I
was an intellectual giant like him I should feel
very much greater confidence in venturing to
become the leader of this important question
and doing my best with it; but although I am
so much inferior a man in intellectual and
mental capacity, I now say, and I told Mr.
Courtney, I yield neither to him nor any oiher
man in showing an earnestness in promoting
this question to the utmost of my ability.
(Applause.) I intend to prove my honesty of
purpose by showing a determination to further
the interests of this society. (Applause.) If
sincerity, honesty, and earnestness will accom-
plish what the ladies wish to accomplish, I can
only say that I most sincerely hope and believe
that the present Parliament will perform this
great act of justice and enfranchise woman.
(Applause.) You are aware, ladies, that there
is a great block in the House of Commons ow-
ing to Irish questions occupying so much time.
Now I am doing what I can, by standing
steadily by the Government, to enable them to
bring the Irish questions before the House.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson has an important amend-
ment to bring before the House, and though I
am entirely with him, as I am with one or two
of the amendments brought forward by the
Irish members, abstractedly—for I yield to no
one in the desire to do justice to Ireland—still,
seeing that the Irish questions are blocking the
way to the consideration of most important
English questions, I can only see one course for
myself to take, and that is to support the Gov-
ernment, and thus get rid of the present block
to public business. That is the course I have
decided to take. I may inform you that I am
not unacquainted with the question that you
wish me to take in hand. I have been con-

[Column 3]
nected with the association, and also a sub-
scriber to it almost since the day it was formed;
and I think Miss Becker will do me the justice
to say that not only have I subscribed to this
particular association, but that there are two
other associations in which I take an interest.
I am, of course, new to Parliamentry work and
I shall have to bespeak your indulgence, and
ask you to give me all the assistance you pos-
sibly can in the duty which now lies before me.
I accede to this public request with great pleas-
ure indeed. (Applause.) I esteem it a great
honor to have been asked to undertake the duty,
and to have been waited upon by a deputation
so large, so influential, and so representative;
and if anything could encourage me in the
work, it is the fact that so many ladies in this
inclement weather have travelled so long a
distance to ask me earnestly to undertake the
duty. I do not think I can say anything more
beyond reading the resolution which the ladies
desire I should put on the parliamentary paper
immediately, so that friends in the country
may know that the work is not resting. That
resolution is: "That in the opinion of this
House the parliamentary franchise should be
extended to women who possess the qualifica-
tions which entitle men to vote, and who in all
matters of local government have the right of
voting." I will do my best with this resolution,
and if I fail in persuading this new House of
Commons—I do not think the House is going
against us at all, I have great confidence in it
—to accept it, it will not be for want of earnest
devotion to the duty I have undertaken. I
feel the great responsibility of it and I will do
my best to bring the work to a successful issue.
)Applause.)	*	*	*	Woman's
Suffrage Journal, Eug.


CLAN COFFIN MEMORIAL REUNION.

GREAT GATHERING OF THE DESCENDANTS OF
TRISTRAM COFFIN, ON THE ISLAND OF NAN-
TUCKET, AUGUST 16th, 17th and 18th,
1881.

	The Executive Committee of the Tristram
Coffin Reunion Association having received
numerous responses from members of the family
in all parts of the country, and having made
important progress in the arrangements for
the bi-centennial, referred to in their previous
circular of invitation, are now enabled to an-
nounce that the Grand Reunion will be held
on the Island of Nantucket, the exercises to 
continue three days, commencing on Thursday,
the 16th day of August, 1881. The programme,
as now definitely arranged, will include the
following:
	FIRST DAY.—On August 16, a Grand Clam-
bake, to come of near the site of Tristram
Coffin's dwelling house of two centuries ago.
On this occasion an oration will be made by
Tristram Coffin, Esq., of Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,
followed by the usual feast of reason and flow
of soul incidents to such occasions, a mammoth
tent being erected for the purpose.
	SECOND DAY.—On August 17, the memorial 
exercises with procession and corner-stone
ceremonies. Charles Carleton Coffin, Esq., of
Boston, will pronounce the oration, and Robert
Barry Coffin, Esq., of New York, will probably
act as the poet of the occasion.
	THIRD DAY.—On August the 18, a breakfast 
will come off under the mammoth tent, with ap-
propriate incidentals. Prof. Selden J. Coffin,
of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, will deliver
the oration on this occasion, A Gaand Ball
at night will close the exercises. 
	On all the days of other literary and musical
exercises appropriate to the times and places
may be anticipated, and all the descendants of
the illustrious ancestor are invited to contribute
something in speech or song to make the cele-
bration emphatically a family reunion.


[Column 1]	
﻿	At a meeting of the  Executive  Committee
held in August last, it was voted  to  erect two
bronze statues representing  the patriarch Tris-
tram Coffin and  Dionis Coffin, his wife, upon a
broad pedestal, at an estimated  expense of from
eight  to ten thousand dollars.  In view of the
spirit already  displayed  in  the  matter, it is
hoped and believed that the many descendants
of those who are to  be thus  honored  will be
prompt in responding to the call; and will con-
tribute liberally to make up the desired amount
with the least  possible  delay.  It is  earnestly
desired  that,  in  response to  this circular, all
members of the  Coffin family who intend to be
present at the Reunion  shall  signify  such in-
tention in advance, and, if possible, at an early
date, as the plans  of the  Committee  will  be
much facilitated by their so doing.
	Those wishing to contribute to the Memorial
Fund for  the erection of the Statues are earn-
estly requested to signify in  writing the sums,
larger or smaller, which  they will be ready to
contribute.  It is also important that  all  per-
sons  responding  by letter to  this call  should
write their full  names, giving  both  Christian
and  sirname,  and also  middle name if  they
may have one.  If possible, they may also state
the names of parents and  grandparents, show-
ing to what line of the  Coffin  family  they  be-
long, as such  information  may  be  interesting
and valuable.
	A collection of articles used  by members of
the family in  olden  time  will  be gathered to-
gether for exhibition  during  the  week of fes-
tivities.
	The Committee  have in  contemplation  the
publication of a  Life of  Tristram  Coffin, the
founder of  the family  line in  America, and
from whom all persons by  the name of Coffin
in this  country  are  descended,  together with
reminiscences of some  of his most  illustrious
descendants.  An outline of the family history
from the earliest reliable data will also be given,
illustrated with the different  Coats  of  Arms,
and  other  interesting views.  The profits  to
go toward defraying the expenses  of the cele-
bration.
	Photograph copies of eight different oil paint-
ings of some of the  descendants  of  the  first
Richard Coffin, which now adorn the walls  of
Portledge, near Bideford, Devon County, Eng-
land, and who  flourished in the fifteenth  and
sixteenth centuries, it is hoped will  be  offered
for sale in aid of the celebration fund.
	It is also expected that medals will be struck
commemorative of the  two-hundredth anniver-
sary of the  death  of the  American  ancestor,
appropriately inscribed, that all who attend the
Reunion  may carry away with them  a fitting
memento  of the  celebration, the proceeds to be
applied  to the celebration fund.
	All correspondence  should be addressed  to
the  Secretary and  Treasurer,  Allen  Coffin,
Nantucket, Mass.

	ARTICLES OP ASSOCIATION.

	This association  shall be  known  as THE
TRISTRAM  COFEIN  REUNION ASSOCIATION.
	The object shall be the  commemoration  of
the two-hundredth anniversary of the death  of
Tristram Coffin (the first of the race who settled
in America).
	Its officers shall consist of a President, seven
Vice-Presidents a Secretary and Treasurer, and
and Executive  Committee  of thirty,  the Vice-
Presidents and  Executive Board  being  dele-
gated with power to increase  their numbers at
any time.
	Any person who is a  descendant or married
to a descendant of Tristram Coffin may become a
member of this association by proving the same
and paying to the  Treasurer an  admission fee
of fifty cents.
	Officers: CHARLES G. COFFIN, ESQ., of Nan-
tucket, President;  ALLEN COFFIN, Nantucket, 
Mass. Secretary and Treasurer.

[Column 2]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—I have to thank you for giving
space in your excellent paper for the circular
of the  Tristrim  Coffin  re-union,  and  to  offer
you  an  apology  for  the  trouble I am  giving
you;  but when the same  is inserted I shall  re-
quire many Nos. of the EXPONENT to send  to
my numerous  relatives  and friends in different
parts of the United States, that they may join,
as  myself  and family have done.  I expect to
attend the “Memorial Re-union,” if my  health
permits, and expect some of my family will ac-
company me;  each one of them will contribute
to the  Memorial Fund.  I desire  to  show re-
spect to the first  of  our  ancesters, who settled
on the island  of Nantucket;  and to  clasp the
hand  of  my  living  relatives in the bond of
unity and friendship, which 1 trust I shall be
spared to do.
	ELMIRA PINKHAM TUFTS.
Salt Lake City, Feb.14, 1881.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


AN ADRESS.

	Bg Ruthinda E. Monch, in behalf of the Re-
lief Societies and Mutual Imprbvement Assocea-
tions of the Weber Stake of Zion, on the 77th
Annivvrsary of the Birth of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith.
To ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
	DEAR SISTER:—We have met this evening
to celebrate the 77th anniversary of your birth-
day. To us you are a bright shining star in
Zion, and we feel, in justice to the noble work
you have done among the sisters of Israel, and
in this Stake particularly, that it is but befitt-
ing for us to show you, in this feeble way, our
appreciation of your services. Your wise coun-
sels have been given without money and with-
out price; yet they are sacred and of far more
value than the riches the world can afford.
How often when overtaken with trials, and
bowed down with grief has your timely advice
and words of comfort brought peace and heav-
enly solace to the aching heart! It is your good
fortune to carry the balm that heals the wound
the anodyne that soothes the pain, the clear
and beautiful light to guide the obedient, virtu-
ous, faithful and true. The secret of all is this,
you have in rich abundance the spirit and in-
fluence of our just Father in Heaven, who never
fails to reward his obedient children, as he has
you, for it is well known to us all, that you
have been obedient to all the requirements
made of you and therefore you are now in your
old age beloved and cherished by your sisters,
honored and respected by your brethren,
esteemed and highly favored by God our Eter-
nal Father.
	Like your honored husband, you have done
a noble work among your sex and you are,
therefore, truly worthy to stand with him, side
by side, upon Mount Zion with the faithful of
God's chosen few.

Beloved sister, thou art dear
To all the Saints assembled here;
Honored, cherished, pure and bright,
To all mankind a shining light.
Thy counsel wise doth teach the heart,
And light and truth and peace impart.
We do delight to hear thy voice,
For well we know thou'rt Heaven's choice.
Thy praises sung in prose and rhyme
Have echoed forth in every clime
Sweet anthems to the Lord and King,
Till old and young its muses sing.
Let us then clasp that aged hand
That hath such blessings at command,
And fondly love our sister dear--
A mother true to all that's here;
And may her years yet numbered be
Till Zion's standard wafts as free
As mountain breeze that sweeps the plain,
Or boundless waves that surge the main,
And all mankind shall bow the knee
In humble prayer to Trinity.

From the Ogden Junction.


THOMAS CARLYLE.

	In the death of Thomas Carlyle, the most
considerable literary man of this generation
has departed. Mr. Carlyle inherited the austere
culture of a Scotch Presbyterian household,
and was educated with a view to the ministry.
But he declined that calling after an intense
mental struggle, out of which he came with a
definite renunciation of the religion he had
been expected to preach. After a time spent 
in teaching, he settled upon literature as his
life's business. It is remarkable that he gained
an earlier and wider recognition in this country
than in Great Britain. The collection of his
essays published in Boston through the intro-
duction of Mr. Emerson was a revelation of
the author to many of his own countrymen.
He was one of the first to bring German litera-
ture to the notice of the English mind, and his
first publications were translations. It was in
his "Sartor Resartus" that he first came for-
ward distinctively as a thinker, while he
clothed his thoughts in a style so defiant of all
recognized proprieties of composition as to be
a stumbling-block in the path of the reader.
 
	As a historian he forever vindicated the
memory of Oliver Cromwell and English Puri-
tanism from the aspersions of two hundred
years. His "French Revolution" is rather a
poem than a history. It everywhere supposes
the reader to be familiar with the facts, refers
freely to many things with a bare reference in
footnotes to the sources of information, but be-
fore us unrolls a panorama, the successive
scenes in which are painted with something of
preternatural vividness and power. His "Fred-
erick the Great" was less successful. It is per-
meated with his later worship of force—titan-
olatry, as Julius Hare named it, the first ar-
ticulate expression of which was in his "Heroes
and Hero-Worship." His scorn of human
rights, and consignment of the mass of man-
kind to absolute rule of the strongest, set him
in opposition to the whole tendency of modern
life, and made him a prophet of evil to his
generation.
	His name and works will live, not teaching,
but stimulating thought. His essays include
some things that have a chance of longer life
than his more elaborate books. If the voice
of his countrymen could be heard, he should
rest among the great in Westminster Abbey.
But his own strong desire was that his body
should lie beside that of his wife, whose loss
has been so tenderly lamented for so many
years of domestic solitude.—Ex.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have a Relief Society and Y. L. M. I.
Association in Pine Valley, and we are all
striving to do what we can for the upbuilding
of the Kingdom of God. We have lately had
a visit from our worthy sisters, E. R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. Young and Minerva W. Snow.
They held three meetings in this place, giving
the sisters some very good instruction, which
will long be remembered by them, and was
highly appreciated. We do not enjoy the so-
ciety of such talented women often. While
here they organized a Primary Association,
which I think will be the means of doing much
good in implanting the principles of the Gos-
pel in the young and tender minds of the chil-
dren, that they may grow in the love and ad-
monition of the Lord; for "as the twig is bent
so does the tree incline."
	Ever wishing for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain your sister in the Gospel,
	C. S. GARDNER.
	Pine Valley, Feb. 6, 1881.


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Queen has ordered a painting of the
"Capture of Cetywayo."

	Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild has a new neck-
lace, which, although it is only a single row of
pearls, is valued at $100,000. One of her hus-
band's bridal gifts was a pleasant little sum of
$2,500 for distribution among the Jewish chari-
ties at Vienna.

	IN the United States Senate last week the
statue of the late Senator Collamer, of Ver-
mont, was presented to the United States, to
be placed in the national statuary hall set
apart for two statues of representative, men
from each State.

	A NEW painting by Titian has been discov-
ered in the Austrian Chateau d' Ambras, where
it hung unnoticed for many years. It is a life-
sized portrait of the wife of the emporer
Charles V. There are said to be full proofs of
the authenticity of the work, which has been
taken to Vienna.

	A NEW work by Ouida, entitled, "A Village
Commune," is now in active preparation. It
consists of a passionate protest against the ap-
plication to regenerated Italy of the Code Na-
poleon and a picture of the kind of oppression
to which, according to the author, the peasants
are now subjected. Messrs. Chatto and Windus
will be the printers.

	THE Joseph Hume scholarship in political
economy has been awarded by the council of
University College, London, to Miss Ada
Heatherbigg, LL. A., St. Andrews, and moral
science scholar 1877 (Cambridge higher local
examination). This is the first time that the
Hume scholarship in political economy has
been carried off by a lady.

	COLONEL Jerome Bonaparte and his wife
are now living in Washington and entertaining
a great deal. Mrs. Bonaparte—a grand-
daughter of Daniel Webster—is a clever and
charming woman. She dresses magnificently,
and often wears beautiful jewels, a large share
of which descended to her from the late Eliza-
beth Patterson Bonaparte.

	MRS. Erastus S. Gaylord is a Cleveland (O.)
lady of note, now in her eighty-first year. At
her grandson's wedding a few days ago General
Garfield was receiving with family friends.
When Mrs. Gaylord made her adieu to the
President elect she said: "My leave taking to
you is pax-tibi, but I suppose many would say
instead, 'Remember me when thou comest into
thy kingdom.' "


ITEMS.

	Two little boys were playing a short time
since, when one said to the other, "You aint
got a Nell," meaning a gentle nag he some-
times leads to water. "But we've got a Bess,"
said the other child. "You aint got a pa,
though." The little fellow waited a moment,
then said, in a low, hushed voice, "No, I aint
got a pa, but I've got three fathers." "Who
are they, then?" "Well, there's Frank, that's
one (meaning his eldest brother), and my
father who died and lives in heaven, that's
two, and my Heavenly Father, that makes
three."—Q.


CLASSES IN MIDWIFERY.—Of the medical
students taught by Dr. Romania B. Pratt during
last summer in her classes in midwifery, Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall, of Kanab, Mrs. Jeannette De
La Mere, of Tooele City, and Mrs. Sinah P.
Bishop, of Salt Lake City, were blessed and set
apart by Pres. W. Woodruff and Counselor D.
H. Wells, and all passed a satisfactory examina-
tion before Dr. Benedict and Dr. S. B.


Young, and received certificates, showing their
qualifications and ability to act, as midwives.
Another class, consisting of Mrs. M. A. Stod-
dard, of Qrantsville, Mrs. S. B. Goss, of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. A. Woolman, of Spanish Fork,
and Mrs. E. Papworth, of Hooperville, finished
their course of study last Wednesday, and were
blessed and set apart by President Jos. F. Smith
assisted by President A. O. Smoot, and in the
evening passed a very creditable examination
before Dr. S. B. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, each receiving her certificate of competency
to act in this special branch of medicine. Hav-
ing been duly qualified, as above stated, these
sisters are we believe fully worthy of the con-
fidence of the people among whom they are to
practice their vocation.


[Column 1]
WH. C. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes, use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
		H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

15 Cents !	15 Cents !!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postp a

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS , $30.	BOOKS $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the women of all Nations.
VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1881.	NO. 20.


THE PIONEER MOTHERS.

	Written for the 74th Birthday Anniversary of Sister
Phebe Woodruff, and respectfully inscribed to all the
pioneer mothers and veterans of Zion.

A song for the mothers! the pioneer mothers!
	The veterans of Zion, our boast of to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his kingdom for aye.

The staunch Pilgrim Mothers! The brave Mormon
	Mothers!
	Who time and again of their all have been shorn;
The blessing of God o'er their loyalty hovers,
	Who honored the truth 'mid oppression and scorn.

The sonnd of salvation, astonished the nation—
	So used was the world to the darkness of night;
That the silence was broken, Jehovah had spoken,
Was "shameful delusion," 'twas sacrilege quite.

Dupes, fools and deceivers, men called Truth's believers,
	The faithful were hunted and scorned and oppressed;
Nor Justice, nor jury condemned the mob's fury—
	What right had the Mormons to hope for redress?

What a social convulsion! the utter expulsion
	Of the Saints from their loved, from their fated
	Nauvoo;
The martyr's blood even is crying to heaven!
	To the righteous Avenger, "the Holy and True."

We honor the heroes, whose heads are now hoary,
	Who fought in those battles for truth and for right;
They shall live in our hearts, and the mantle of glory
	Shall encircle them still, like a halo of light.

We honor our brethren, so fearless and zealous,
	Who conquered the desert in Liberty's cause;
But the scrolls of the past most assuredly tell us
	That the Mothers of Zion, should share the applause.

May their deeds stir to valor the young generation,
	May they cleave to the faith with their natures en-
	twin'd,
True scions of Freedom, though some may mislead
	them,
They'll yet build the Kingdom Jehovah designed.

Of course they have failings—and none are without
	them—
	Yet the faults of the true are as specks on the wave;
Mortality's weakness must needs be about them,
	But some will do honor to parents so brave.

Then a song for the Mothers, the Pioneer Mothers,
	And the true Mormon Mothers of even to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his Kingdom for aye.
	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, March.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.

	A few years previous to the preaching of the
Gospel in England by the Latter-day Saints,
there were devout persons amongst almost every
denomination of Christians, as there are now;
but at that time, especially from the year 1830
to 1835, there was a large average of that class
 of worshippers. A movement commenced at
Preston, the very place where the great tem-
perance movement was begun in 1833; some of
the Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints arrived there from Amer-
ica, and they began to preach the doctrines be-
lieved in by the members of that Church.
The history of the doings of our people in

[Column 2]
England is before the world, as written in our
publications, and as placed on record by those
who were opposed to us as a people. With
great rapidity it became known in religious
circles that the new sect founded by Joseph
Smith had been introduced from America, and
that thousands were being proselyted by the
preaching of the "Mormon" missionaries. This
caused considerable alarm, for it was soon dis-
covered that those who received the new doc-
trines were among the very best of the various
churches. But this was not all; it was found
useless to attempt to persuade the new converts
to return back to their former church asso-
ciates. Many were the speculations as to the
cause of this perversity; persons were "labored
with" by zealous members, but in vain. The
conclusion was soon reached that it was "better
to let people alone when they joined the 'Mor-
mons,' for they became crazy with fanaticism."
	With such an extensive organization as the
London City Mission, it was impossible to es-
cape notice that thousands were being "delud-
ed;" every week the missionaries belonging to
that body gave in their reports at a central
office, and however much rejoicing was mani-
fested when an announcement was made of
some case of "conversion," great indignation
was expressed at the reports of people being
"deluded" and led away by the "Mormons."
"Why," said a superintendent of that Mission
to the writer, "I should really not have known
but what this 'Mormon' was a Christian!" The
gentleman had been appointed by the Mission
to visit one of the new converts, to see if he
could reclaim him. He went on: "When I
went into his room he rose from his seat and
shook hands with me heartily. He was of the
poorer class, but surrounded by all that is nec-
essary to make a working man's home com-
fortable. I told him the purport of my visit;
that I was sorry he had turned his back upon
the people of God and gone after the followers
of a false prophet like Joseph Smith. 'How
do you know that Joseph Smith was a false
prophet?' asked the 'Mormon' convert, without
betraying the least acerbity of feeling. I tried
to reason with him, by showing him that proph-
ets are not appointed by the Lord as they were
anciently, but I found I had a biblical Goliath
to do battle with. He took down the Bible
and tried to show me 'there could be no true
church without [--]ophets and Apostles.' He
argued that 'wherever the Church of Christ is
found, there the ordinances of the Gospel are
administered.' That 'faith in God and repent-
ence must go before baptism;' that 'baptism
must be for the remission of sins;' that to be effi-
cacious 'it must be administered by one who
has received authority from God.' It was vain
to try to show him that the command given to
the disciples anciently to go forth and baptize
was a divine command to-day to all who be-
lieved in baptism as 'a sign of spiritual grace,'
or 'to answer a good conscience.' He insisted
that 'those who are baptized should know that
their sins are forgiven, and that 'they should re-
ceive the Holy Ghost as a witness from God that
they have obeyed His commands, and had
been baptized by His authority.' All this and
a great deal more was said with an assurance
that astonished me, and I must also say in a
Christian spirit that I certainly had not ex-
pected." The writer ventured to hint that the
"Mormon" seemed to be as sound in his theolo-
gy as the writers of the New Testament Scrip-
tures. "Self-righteousness, all of it: efficacy

[Column 3]
in the water, in the laying on of hands, and
outward ordinances! There is no efficacy in
anything but the blood of Jesus Christ, and
him crucified," he replied.
	Not only were the churches of England los-
ing some of their most earnest members by
reason of the preaching of the Latter-day El-
ders, large numbers were being drafted into
infidelity. Probably the great rejoicings among
religious bodies at the time the Prophet Joseph
Smith was murdered, had a greater effect in
that direction than the opposition shown to the
doctrines of his followers. Thinking men
could not have a very exalted opinion of those
who indulged in the spirit of murder; and the
sceptical in the churches, who were not a few
among the young, these forsook the association
of religionists and sought for solace in the as-
semblies of infidels of the most extreme class.
The revival spirit gradually died out from the
churches; those who had proclaimed that Jesus
was coming became silent; prophecies about
the Millennium being at hand ceased to be ut-
tered; reverend pamphleteers who had pre-
dicted the day and hour in which Christ should
appear, after once or twice correcting dates,
and still finding their prognostications were-
false, these also ceased to prophesy. The truth
appears to be that the Spirit of the Lord that
had really exerted an influence among men for-
a season, had either been withdrawn in degree,
or had changed its operations in some new di-
rection.
	Now Mr. Unipod, the missionary, had a great
dislike to "Mormonism," and he, in common
with other religious persons, had at length
given up the second advent of our Lord Jesus
Christ. But his eldest son had heard the Gos-
pel at one of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints; as a consequence of this he had been
baptized and received the Holy Ghost, by
which he was enabled to see in a degree the
true meaning and intent of God towards the
human family. The truth is the mother of
this man had been a woman of faith, and she
had taught her son the value of prayer as a
means to obtain favor with God. She pointed
to the experience of Saints in all ages, as made
known in the history of the patriarchs and
prophets; she explained the meaning of dreams
and visions, and the reality of the visits of an-
gels to men. She taught her child to pray
from his earliest infancy, and the lesson was
never forgotten. However wayward and dis-
posed to wander in by and forbidden paths, the
prayers of the mother were remembered and
false steps were retraced. Oh, did women
know the power they have over their offspring,
there would be more faith in the world than
there is; for little children believe in a mother!
The germ of faith may be planted in the
youngest heart, and, if it is constantly watered
by the dews of heaven drawn down by a moth-
er's prayers, the truth will never die! As in
the natural world the spiritual controls the
temporal, the ethereal and unseen forces bind-
ing them together, so in the world of mind
there are living links connecting families, by
which the spirit of the fathers and the children-
are united by the welding influences of the
spirit of our Heavenly Father.

To be Continued.


The Czar of Russia Alexandea II was brutal-
ly assassinated by the Nihilists, a bombshell
thrown ander his carriage, March 13, 1881.
He died two hours after.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

CONTINUED.
	My father begins his own life by saying: "I
was born June 14, 1801, in the town of Shel-
don, Franklin Co., Vermont, about forty miles
from Montreal, ten miles from the shores of
Lake Champlain, and ten miles from St. Al-
bans, the county town, living between the Ma-
sisko and Black rivers.
	"Judge Chase, with whom my father was
brought up, called to see my parents soon after
I was born, and he proposed to name me Heber
Chase, which they did.
	"About the time of the great eclipse in 1806,
I commenced going to school, and continued
most of the time until about the age of four-
teen. I recollect the eclipse well, as my father
was about to start on a journey, but obliged to
wait on account of the darkness.
	"In February, 1811 when my father moved
his family from Sheldon to West Bloomfield, a
distance of about five hundred miles, I remem-
ber when we reached St. Albans my father
bought each of his boys a hat, which was the
first hat I ever had. We traveled on Lake
Champlain on the ice; the wind being very
high, my hat was blown off and lost.
	"When fourteen years of age my father took
me into his shop, and began to teach me the
blacksmith trade. When nineteen, he having
lost his property, and not taking the care for
my welfare which he formerly did, I was left to
seek a place of refuge of my own.
	"At this time I saw some days of sorrow;
my heart was troubled, and I suffered much in
consequence of fear, bashfulness and timidity,
I found myself cast abroad upon the world,
without a friend to console my grief; in those
heart-aching hours I suffered much for the
want of food and the comforts of life, and
many times went two or three days without
food to eat, being bashful and not daring to
ask for it.
	"After I had spent several weeks in the
manner before stated, my oldest brother,
Charles, hearing of my condition, offered to
teach me the potter's trade. I immediately
accepted the offer, and continued with him un-
til I was twenty-one.
	"I was enrolled with my brother Charles in
an independent horse company of the New
York militia, under Captain Sawyer, who lived
in East Bloomfield. With him and his suc-
cessor I trained fourteen years; one year more
would have entitled me to exemption from fur-
ther military duty. I was never brought be-
fore a court martial, or found delinquent in my
duty.
	"While living with my brother he moved into
the town of Mendon, Monroe Co., (six miles
north of Bloomfield, towards the city of
Rochester) where he again established a pot-
tery. After I had finished learning my trade,
I worked for six months with my brother for
wages.
	"Nov. 7, 1822, I married Vilate Murray,
the youngest daughter of Roswell and Susan-
nah Murray, born in Florida, Montgomery Co.,
New York, June 1, 1806. She was their fourth
child, and had lived with her parents in Vic-
tor, Ontario Co."
	I am here reminded of the following inci-
dent, which has in it quite a touch of romance,
and though it is not written in my father's
history, is one that I have heard related in the
family since childhood.
	One warm day in summer, as my father was
riding through the little town of Victor, being
very thirsty, he stopped before a house where a
gentleman was at work in the front yard, and
asked him for a drink of cold water; and as
he went to the well to draw a fresh bucketfull,
he called his daughter Vilate to fetch a glass,

[Column 2]
which he filled and sent by her to the young
stranger, who it seems understood her name to
be Milatie. Not long after this he again had
occasion to go to Victor, and as he came in
sight of this cottage, he suddenly became
thirsty, and seeing the same gentleman, he
rode up to the gate and asked him for a drink
of water. After drawing a fresh bucket he
(my grandfather) was about to hand it himself
when he said: "If you please, I'd rather Mi-
latie would bring it to me;" so he called her
and sent the water by her. She was the
youngest and the pet of the family, who gener-
ally called her Latie; of course this circum-
stance afforded a great deal of fun and amuse-
ment for her sister and brothers.
	Some of our family have been East and vis-
ited the old homesteads in Mendon and Victor,
which still look natural. Of course the scenes
around there had a peculiar charm for them;
they remembered the story of the well, which
they visited, and drank from the "old oaken
bucket, the iron-bound bucket, the moss-covered
bucket that hung in the well."
	My father continues: "Immediately after I
was married I purchased the situation of my
brother Charles, and went into business for
myself at the potter's trade, which I carried
on in the summer season, and worked at black-
smithing in the winter. I also chopped cord
wood and cleared land occasionally. I con-
tinued in the pottery business upwards of ten
years, and in the mean time I made a purchase
of five and a half acres of land, and built a
fine house, woodhouse, barn and other out-
houses, planted fruit trees, and had situated
myself so as to live comfortably."
	"February, 1824, my mother died of con-
sumption in the town of West Bloomfield. In
the spring of 1825 my father came to Mendon
and lived with me; he soon took sick and died
of consumption about a year after my mother's
death. My oldest brother, Charles S., and his
wife, whose maiden name was Judith Marvin,
died in the year 1826 or 7, and were buried in
Mendon by the side of my father. The record
of my father's family fell into the hands of my
sister Eliza, to whom I have written for an ac-
count, but have not yet been able to obtain it.
	"In 1823 I received the three first degrees of
Masonry, namely, entered apprentice, fellow
craft and master mason in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., five miles east of where I
was living, Lote Lawson acting as the Master
of the Lodge, Ezra Wilmoth, Jarvies Gillies,
Enos Gillies, Samuel Gillies and Nathaniel
Campbell (a brother-in-law of mine) were
present at my initiation, with perhaps fifty
others, whom I could mention if necessary.
In 1824 myself and five others sent a petition
to the chapter at Canandaigua, the County
Seat of Ontario County, to receive the degrees
up to the Royal Arch Maso[-], our petition was
accepted, but just previous to the time that we
were to receive those degrees, the Morgan
affair broke out, and the Masonic Hall in
Canandaigua, where the chapter met, was
burned by the Anti-Masons, and all the records
consumed. There are thousands of Masons
that lived in those days who are well aware
of the persecution and unjust proceedings
which were heaped upon them by the Anti-
Masons; not as many as three of us could meet
together, unless in secret, without being
mobbed.
	"I have been driven from my houses and
possessions, with many of my brethren belong-
ing to that fraternity, five times, by mobs led
by some of their leading men. Hyrum Smith
received the three first degrees of Masonry in
Ontario County, New York. Joseph and
Hyrum Smith were Master Masons, yet they
were massacred through the instrumentality of
some of the leading men of that fraternity
through the States, and not one soul of them
has ever stepped forth to administer help to

[Column 3]
me or my brethren belonging to the Masonic
institution, or to render us assistance, although
bound under the strongest obligations to be
true and faithful to each other in every case
and under every circumstance, the commtssion
of crime excepted.
	"I have been as true as an angel from the
heavens to the covenants I made in the Lodge
at Victor. No man was admitted into a Lodge
in those days except he bore a good moral
character and was a man of steady habits; and
a member would be suspended for getting
drunk, or any other immoral conduct. I wish
that all men were Masons and would live up
to their profession; then the world would be
in a much better state than it is now."
	The great blessings now enjoyed by the
Latter-day Saints in these valleys can be better
appreciated when we recall some of the earlier
scenes, when poverty and sufferings were the
common lot of all. The generation of to-day
know little or nothing concerning the history
of those who first stood forth in the defense of
the truths which were taught by Joseph Smith,
the founder of this great and marvelous work
which has caused such a commotion, not only
in America, but throughout every nation; and
this being the fiftieth year, it seems a fitting
time to review their history, and let the world
know that they were Americans, and were
born and reared in the midst of the Green
Mountains, and were true representatives of
the men and women of '76, and that that spirit
of independence has not died out, but is still
burning in the hearts of their children, and
the thousand and one trials which our enemies
have caused us to pass through, have only
fanned the flame. Long and hard have they
fought to hold us under their heel, but all of
their struggles have been in vain. It is true
we have been whipped, but we have never been
conquered; in the midst of what seemed the
most dangerous and critical times, our spirits
were the most buoyant; we were strangers to
fear, and injustice and oppression can never
break nor subdue that spirit. This pure moun-
tain air which we have so long enjoyed has in-
creased that love of freedom, which is our
rightful inheritance, and Americans are paying
themselves rather a poor compliment when tra-
ducing the characters of men and women who
so nearly resemble their own Puritan fathers
and mothers; but in spite of all their efforts
truth will prevail.
	Surely it was the Spirit of the Almighty
that inspired Columbus to seek out the new
world, and filled the hearts of the Pilgrims
with an unquenchable desire for liberty, a boon
that was denied them in their fatherland.
Nothing could daunt their spirits, but placing
their trust in Him, they undertook the perilous
voyage across the great deep, in search of a
home, where they might enjoy freedom and re-
ligious liberty without molestation; and their
children were filled with the same valor and
love for the glorious cause of liberty, which
was their battle cry, and under the sacred ban-
ner of freedom they fought in defense of their
rights, which they have risked so much to gain.
It was the same spirit which animated and in-
spired the hearts of the Latter-day Saints when
they left their homes in the winter to undertake
a journey over the trackless wastes to these
Rocky Mountains, to obtain freedom from tyr-
anny and oppression, where they could enjoy
the rights bequeathed to them by these same
fathers and mothers of our common country,
and added to this is our glorious religion, the
pure Gospel of Christ, revealed through Joseph,
the Prophet of God, by which, instead of bring-
ing us into bondage, every soul is made free.
	To be Continued.


The inauguration of President Garfield was 
the most elaborate of the kind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESSED TO MRS. M. KIMBALL
BY HANNAH T. KING.

[Written by request.]

Friend of the opprest! And if no more were said
	'Twould throw a prism'd halo round they name,
'Twould bind a wreath immortal on thy head,
	And make for thee an envied scroll of fame.

Friend of the opprest! Thy voice has ever been
	(With woman's tenderness and native tact.)
Upraised to put down bitterness and spleen
	Against a growing, veritable fact!

Among the Senators, and great ones of the land,
	All thou hadst seen and known—yes, all,
Thous didst declare, with countenance most bland,
	And over which shall ne'er descend a pall.

You came, you saw, and more, you conquered, too,
	The prejudice your mind might entertain;
All you asserted was the truth, you knew,
	And simple truth is easy to explain.

Thy words hereafter on a glittering scroll
	Shall shine immortal in the realms above,
And myriad harps, with sweet and luscious troll,
	Will laud such spirits filled with human love.

Friend of the opprest [-] Such thou hast ever been,
	And firm and faithful in the cause of truth,
And God has blest thee with a mind that's keen,
	And with a heart all human in its ruth.

Friend of the opprest! for you our prayers ascend;
	Long may you live to do much good on earth;
Long may you stand the oppressed to defend,
	And then receive in heaven immortal birth!


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS, 

OR, 
WAS IT FATE?

	A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	The winter brought few changes; the moun-
tain passes were blocked with snow, and all
communication with the outside world ceased
for many months. The following spring James
Smith started for the gold mines, with a com-
pany that was going through. His wife hav-
ing no children, and being a dear friend of
Mary's, persuaded her to share her home during
his absence. It was pleasanter for both, as 
they were much alone, and  could be more com-
fortable by living together.
	The long, lonely years crept by, with very little
change to break the monotony. Jesse's part-
ner built a comfortable home for Mary, the
first she had lived in since leaving her nice home
in Nauvoo. She had moved about from one
old cabin to another, with smoky chimneys 
and leaky roofs until life seemed a round of weari
ness and discouragements. She said no one
knew how happy she was to have a roof that
kept her dry when it stormed. Minnie grew
so fast that people began to think her a young
lady. She went to school and made the best
of her opportunities for getting an education;
it was not much, for only the commonest
branches were taught, but it proved a blessing
to her in after life. In writing to her relatives
in the East, she often expressed her regrets at
not having better opportunities.
	The tide of humanity still flowed in to the
Pacific coast and emigration continued to
come to the mountains. Other villages were dis-
covered, other settlements made, and prospects
altogether were improving. The Indians
caused the settlers some alarm and a great deal
of trouble and expense by stealing their cattle
and killing some men, but, after spending con-
siderable time and means, peace was finally re-
stored, and treaties were made which proved to 
be satisfactory for awhile. So the time pasaed
until Minnie was nearing her fifteenth birth-

[Column 2]
day, when they were surprised one day by the
arrival of her uncle Howard, Jesse's brother, 
from California. He had come, he said, to
take them to her father. Jesse, thinking he
could do better to have his family with him,
had sent his brother with means for their re-
moval, and full power to settle up his business
in Salt Lake. The partnership was dissolved
by giving the mill and all connected with it
to his partner and calculations made to start as
soon as the spring opened to "the land of gold"
Mary thought of no other course but to go, al-
though it was with some misgivings that she
began to make preparations. California was a 
rough place, filled with all kinds of people
whom gold had attached to its shores. Jesse
was fond of liquor, and before leaving the
states had shown a disposition to let the ap-
petite grow upon him. Many reports had come
during his absence, of his self-indulgence. 
Mary was grieved to hear such things of her
high-minded, intelligent husband, but, knowing
what slaves liquor makes of its votaries, she
feared it was too true. She had hoped that on
his return to the valley where very little could
be obtained, and no temptations were laid to 
ensnare him, he would get weaned from the
fatal indulgence. He did not mean to give
liquor an undue advantage: he thought a strong-
minded man might drink a little if he chose and 
when he chose, so long as he did not become in-
toxicated and it would do him no harm. He
was too proud to allow himself to become a 
drunkard, but, if sick or low-spirited a little
brandy was an excellent tonic, and Mary's kind
admonitions only angered him, that she had so
little confidence in his strength of mind and
self-respect.
	Next came thoughts of where her duty lay.
The Church did not approve of its members 
scattering to the gold fields: no community could
prosper or build up, especially in such a coun-
try as this, without standing firm and holding
a common bond of brotherhood. It was not
gold they wanted, but homes; labor, agriculture,
manufacturies, orchards, vineyards, education 
and refinement. Union was strength, and all 
these possibilities of the future lay within their
reach only through perseverance and united
efforts. Seek first the kingdom of God and
his righteousness and all else shall be added.
How could it be if they returned to Bablyon.
They had gathered out of her borders, poor,
needy, half-famished she had cast them forth
to make homes in the desert, or perish in the
wilderness. Should they after suffering so
many hardships, and enduring so much, give
it all up just as the means of comfort seemed
within their reach?  Their religion taught them 
to gather together and build Temples wherein
to perform the ordinances of baptism and do a 
work for the dead, whereby they might bring
about the redemption of Israel. Through the
ordinances of the Gospel and the teachings of
Christ; to prepare themselves for eternity,
through the Celestial Law as revealed to Jos-
eph Smith the Prophet; whereby they might
inherit thrones, principalities, and powers in the
kingdom of God. All these things with the
redemption of her father's household were be-
fore her. The children she had buried in those
long-past years, and whose dear presence she
had promise of once more beholding to claim
them for her own, in that bright land where
there is no more partings: an exaltation in the
kingdom of God and partake of His glory.
For these she had suffered partings, privations
and sorrow, cold, hunger and fatigue. Should
she turn back when the hardest of the journey
seemed over and the goal almost won? True
Jesse did not wish to give up all these things;
he still clung to his faith and did not intend to 
leave it; only to work for a few years where he
liked the climate and surroundings better.
Where he could make means easier, and keep
	s family more comfortable. He did not re-

[Column 3]
alize that influences were leading him each
year father away from the principles he pro-
fessed, nor taking his family away was the be-
ginning of the course that would take him from
the Church entirely; but others saw it and
warned Mary of the result of going away from
the body of the Church.
			To be continued.


SOMETHING TO DO.

	This title is rather suggestive of a lack of
employment and yet the world is full of work
of one sort or another. There is in the heart
of every man, woman or child a natural long-
ing for somthing to do, but the question which
presents itself is generally, what shall it be?
This causes delay and sometimes while deliber-
ating an evil influence is brought to bear and
the opportunity to do something useful is cast
aside. Thinking of employment to fill up the
intervals reminds me of a remark of Pres.
Young, who often said in illnstration of the
necessity of work, if you really have nothing to
do, pick up chips and when the pan is full,
turn them down and pick them up again.
It is true in every nation and among all classes
of people that,

"Satan finds some mischief still
	For idle hands to do."

	This is not only true of children of both sex-
es but alas! of men and women. When one is
constantly employed there is much less danger
of their falling into difficulties of any sort.
Children should have constant occupation
either work or play. They rest when asleep
but as soon as they wake they look about them
for something to give expression to their forces,
their vigor. As children are growing up it is
the custom in our day to keep them in the
schoolroom three fourths of the year, with little
play time morning and night; during these
early and late hours to employ themselves ac-
cording to their condition in life, for instance
the poor boy or girl must labor, the wealthier
does nothing; in nine cases out of ten perhaps,
it happens that the boy or girl who has to work
out of school hours gets on better than the
one who plays. One obvious reason is that the
boy who has no work to do and is always
playing, very often gets into bad company
among a class of children who have never had
any training, whose lives are a burden to their
parents and who have come into the world
unwelcomed;—parents who totally neglect their
imperative duties to train up their children in the
fear of God, neglect their moral even, in fact they
are left to themselves, without any restraint
or safeguard. Such children are a nuisance in
any neighborhood. Once there was no such
thing to be found here, but as the city increases
in population and streets become crowded with
tenement houses, where poor people huddle into
small rooms in back alleys, this state of things
has developed itself, and it leads one to think
upon the subject of occupation. If such par-
ents would see that their childran have some-
thing to do, they would have less inconvenience
themselves; for left as they are to roam about
the streets, to do whatever Satan finds for their
idle hands and busy brain, they often get into
diffi culty which involves the parents, however
unwilling they may be to assume the responsi-
bility of the guardianship and protection of
their offspring. Something to do then is the
antidote for evil. There is an old saying "that
an ounce of prevention is better than a pound
of cure," and it is emphatically true in this case
Give people something to do and it prevents
melancholy and headache and produces cheer-
fulness and contentment ordinarily. Give
children something to do, if you would not have
them grow up idle, dishonest and worthless, a
burden to themselves and a nuisance in so-
ciety.
							MORE ANON.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	MARCH 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
MORMONISM WILL LIVE.

	We have often heard it said, the best way to
kill a disagreeable thing is to let it alone, and it
will die a natural death. Evidently this is not
the idea generally entertained in regard to Mor-
monism. It seems to be as much an inexhausti-
ble subject to those who oppose it, as it is to the
Elders who proclaim its principles. Mormonism
is dished up in various forms for Congress and
the Cabinet, and to send about to foreign na-
tions, as well as for Territorial Legislatures and
the daily papers. Presidents and Governors
take a turn at it, and denounce the Mormons in
their speeches to the people. It not only both-
ers political leaders and demagogues, but Chris-
tion ministers, in their great anxiety to suppress
it, are exerting every nerve and bringing their
tremendous influence to bear, to show it up in its
most terrible aspect. And women, too, are tak-
ing extra pains, sparing neither time, money
nor talents to portray its hideousness.
	In the midst of all this controversy on the
Mormon question, the tide of empire still
marches onward, and the Stakes of Zion are
strengthened and her borders lengthened, and
the number of disciples to the "new faith" con-
stantly increases. There is something in Mor-
monism, so called, that is not apparent to the
casual observer; it has seemed an easy matter to
uproot this "obnoxious plant," but many power-
ful efforts have again and again been made, yet
all have signally failed. Men of enterprise, men
of nerve, have undertaken to battle with it, and
men of superior worldly intelligence have sought
to solve the Mormon problem, to read this enig-
matical riddle in vain. The Mormon people,
persecuted, driven and plundered, still have
prospered, made new homes, sent out their mis-
sionaries, built up the waste places and made the
desert blossom as the rose. Full of faith in God
and integrity to the principles He has revealed
in this dispensation, and regardless of the oppro-
brium heaped upon them by their enemies, they
pursue the even tenor of their way, and with
the indomitable perseverance of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers, who ventured all for the sake of worship-
ping God according to the dictates of their own
consciences, they have braved the perils of the
wilderness with wives and children, taking, as
it were, their lives in their hands. But this is
not enough. Their enemies pursue them, they
would despoil them of all the rights of citizen-
ship and place their lives in jeopardy. For
what? For obeying the law of the Lord as re-
vealed through his prophet. Blind as the people
who lived before the flood, they cry delusion,
and will not be warned of danger. They see
not the signs of the times In the calamities that
are following each other in quick succession.
But the Lord is working among the nations, and
in his own way and time bringing to pass his

[Column 2]
purposes. The few who are willing to make a
covenant by sacrifice, are looked upon as the
Saints of God were in former days, outcasts and
deluded; but they have that within which pass-
eth understanding, and though the world revile
and persecute them, still true to the principles
they have espoused and the covenants they have
made, they will unflinchingly maintain their in-
tegrity to the law of the Lord, though "the
heathen rage and the people imagine a vain
thing." Not only is this true of men bearing
the holy priesthood, but of women also, fellow-
helpers, who hold their faith as sacred as the un-
cient women of Scripture, of whom the Chris-
tian world is so justly proud. The world that
condemns Mormon women in the present age
for accepting the conditions of the Abrahamic
covenant, viz., patriarchal marriage, but hold up
to view, as examples worthy of imitation the
women of olden time, and immortalize their
memory in poetry and art. Sara, Ruth, Rebecca
and others, who obeyed the voice of the Lord
and made covenant by sacrifice. The women
of the new dispensation are prepared to make
similar sacrifices; indeed, they have already
broken in pieces their earthly idols and accepted
the new and everlasting covenant. The lives of
many are as grand and as noble as those of the
holy women of old. They have borne the cross,
and who shall say they will not win an immor-
tal crown, the blessing of endless lives. Such
women are earnest and staunch supporters of
the same "faith that was once delivered to the
Saints." There is in the Gospel men term Mor-
monism an ever-enduring germ, that cannot be
uprooted by the blasts of adversity, or destroyed
by the raging fire of persecution. Those who
have not drank at the same living fountain com-
prehend it not.
	Presidents, governors and rulers may make
and enforce stringent laws and measures bear-
ing upon the Mormon question, but they cannot
destroy the immortal germ of truth which gives
assurance to the Latter-day Saint that the Lord
has commenced to establish his kingdom, nor
can they compass the Almighty in his purposes,
and every weapon formed against Zion will fall
powerless to the ground; and while the tide of
humanity rolls on, this work will prosper, until
the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms
of the Lord and his Christ, and He whose right
it is shall reign forevermore.


HOME AFFAIRS.
 MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson wishes the Secreta-
ries of all the Primary Associations in the county
to send in reports immediately for the coming
Conference.

 THE Rev. Alessandro Gavazzi, the famous
Italian evangelist, and associate of Garibaldi, ar-
rived in this city Sunday just before noon. He
held two meetings to crowded houses. His au-
dience was electrified by his eloquence, though
the Good Father is now seventy-two years of 
age.

 THE Stake Conference of Relief  Societies, Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Co., will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 25 and
26. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these orgaizations that there be a full
attendance of the officers from each respective
brauch as far as practicable, and of all who are
interested in these association.
	CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.- Dr. Romania B.
Pratt will commence her fourth class in Mid-
wifery April 11, 1881. The increasing demand
that there is from all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory for qualified midwives, should stimulate
the sisters to more earnest efforts in this direc-
tion. The success that has attended Dr. Pratt's
former classes is a sufficient guarantee that no
exertion will be spared on her part to make the
lectures eminently instructive and practical.
We hope many will avail themselves of this op-
portunity.

 AN entertainment was given in the Social Hall
for the benefit of the 18th, Ward Sunday School
Wednes. Eve. It consisted of a laughable farce
entitled "My Wife's Bonnet," by some of the
Home Dramatic Club and the comic operatta
"A Capital Joke," arranged for four voices.
The operatta is something new and original suf-
ficiently interesting to excite the audience a
trifel and sort enough not to be tedious. The
parts were well rendered and both pieces evince,
some ability an the part of the young people.
	The selections were good. We commend
them for not undertaking anything heavier.
	Leaves From My Journal: This is the sugges-
tive title of the third book of the Faith Promot-
ing Series, which are being brought out at the
Juvenile Instructor Office. The work is by Pres.
Wilford Woodruff and is specially adapted to
young Elders, missionaries; and yet calculated
to inspire and strengthen the faith of all. The
Author begins with the "blue laws of Counetti-
cutt," his native state, from that goes on to see
ing Joseph Smith, visiting Kirtland &c., &c. It
s a most interesting book all the way through
and contains many powerful evidnces of the
healing of the sick: savors greatly of the Apostle
himself, rapidly taking you over the ground he
has trod and ever keeping up the same lively in-
terest.
	For Sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office.
Price 25 cts.
	It is earnestly requested that the secretaries
of the Y. L; M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake, send
in their semiannual reports immediately, that the
Stake Secr'y. may prepare them for the Ladies
Conference to be held March 18th anl 19th. The
following information is required: no. of mem-
bers, no. of meetings held, manner of conducting
meeting. If a paper is issued. If a library is
owned by the association. Amount of home
reading and Financial reports.
				Mary A. Freeze, Pres.
				Augulta J. Crocheron, Sec'y.


ENJOYABLE AFFAIR.

	A large number of ladies and gentlemen,
friends and relatives of Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
met at her residence March 8, at 5 P. M., to do
honor to the veteran lady, and celebrate the an-
niversary of her 74th birthday. The party had
been arranged by her daughters while the
mother was away, through their strategy, at the
Woodruff Farm a short distance from the city.
On her return per programme, she was ushered
into her own parlor, which was filled with her
most intimate friends, when her daughter, Mrs.
Phebe W. Snow came to her relief by making a
very pretty little speech, suitable to the occasion,
expressing the congratulations of her children
and friends. There were present, Pres. John
Taylor, Coun. D. H. Wells, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Bishop L. W. Hardy, Elder George
Goddard, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Elder George
Reynolds, Bishop Thomas Taylor, with their
wives, and many other brethren and sisters,
about seventy in all.
	After all the expected guests had arrived, Sis-
ter Woodruff was presented with the portraits of
three of her daughters, and some other articles
of value, and an elegant easy chair; the presenta
tion was made by her grandson, Leslie Snow,
in a pleasing little address suited to the occasion.


A sumptuous supper followed, the blessing at
the tables beign prounced by the veteran Bishop,
Edward Hunter. After supper speeches were
made and many good wishes and congratulations
tendered Sister Woodruff by those present.
Bishop Hnnter was the first speaker, then fol-
lowed Bishop Hardy, Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Elder George Goddard, Elder George Rey-
nolds and Sister M. I. Horne. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a poem, "The Pioneer Mothers," in-
scribed to Sister Woodruff, composed by Emily
Hill Woodmansee. Mrs. E. B. Ferguson sang
"Nearer my God to Thee," Brothers Goddard
and Marks joining in the chorus. Coun. D. H.
Wells, Pres. John Taylor, Hon. C. W. Penrose,
Sister S. M. Kimball and Bishop Thomas Tay-
lor all expressed themselves in a few words and
happy congratulations, good wishes, etc. Some
hymns were sung during the evening, and the
hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
was joined in by the whole company, and the
party closed with prayer by Brother Edward
Stevenson.
	The affair was really an enjoyable one, the
only drawback being the absence of Bro. Wood-
ruff. We add our cordial congratulations, and
wish Sister Woodruff many years of future use-
fulness and prosperity, and a continual increase
of wisdom and knowledge concerning the prin-
ciples of eternal life.			E. B. W.


﻿	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL GATHERING.
	On Monday, Feb. 28, a large number of ladies
and gentlemeu, friends of Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, met at her residence in the 13th Ward, to
celebrate the anniversary of her birthday (al-
though she was born on the 29th). The party,
which was a complete surprise to Sister Wells,
included President John Taylor, Apostle F. D.
Richards, Coun. D. H. Wells, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, Hon. Wm. Jennings, Elder George Rey-
nolds, and wives, with from forty to fifty more,
who all united in this expression of their esteem
and respect for her.
	After the company had all assembled, Sister
Wells was the recipient of a series of surprises,
which she endured with considerable fortitude.
In the first place, her daughters presented her
with an elegant gold chain, and this was followed
by the reading of a poem, a birthday greeting
from Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson then, in the name of those present,
and others who were unavoidably absent, pre-
sented Sister Wells with a handsome gold watch,
as a token of appreciation of her valuable ser-
vices to the women of Zion in all their organiza-
tions in the Church, as the unflinching advocate
of their social, political and religious freedom,
and a s a testimonial of their personal regard
and esteem. Mrs. Wells was quite overcome by
this unexpected, though not undeserved, honor,
but through the timely assistance and tact of
Mrs. E. Howard, was spared the necessity of a
lengthened reply. An elegant repast was then
served, to which all the guests did justice, and
various toasts were drank to the health and
prosperity of Mrs. Wells and her family.
	After supper a poem, written for Mrs. Wells
and entitled "Appreciation," by Mrs. Emily
Hill Woodmansee, was read. A kind and com-
plimentary speech from Pres. John Taylor,
written address by Dr. R. B. Pratt, and social
conversation occupied the time until a late hour,
when the company dispersed, feeling that they
had enjoyed a delightful season of social and
friendly intercourse, and wishing Sister Wells
many happy returns of the day, with every
spiritual and temporal blessing to crown her fu-
ture years.
					E. B. FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
﻿TRIP TO KANAB.

	Bishop Johnson, sent a team, with Brother
Herbert Riggs as teamster, and we, Sisters Zina,
Minerva and your correspondent, left St. George
about noon on the 7th of February, and returned
on the 27th, between three and four P. M.
	Going and returning we camped out three
nights. On our outward trip we camped at the
foot of "Hurricane Hill," on our return, on its
summit. To sit around camp fires, to eat our
suppers by their light, and to breakfast in their
warmth, constituted very interesting reminis-
cences of our bygone experience, when, expelled
from our homes and the land of our birth, we
fathomed the deep untrodden wilds of the inte-
rior; going we knew not where, in search of the
religious liberty guaranteed by our sacred Con-
stitution and wrested from us by its Executives!
But what a contrast! Then we were fugitives,
with a desert wilderness before us—now, as
mothers in Israel, on our way to happy homes of
faithful Saints of God, and the congregations of
noble mothers and the pure and lovely daugh-
ters of Zion.
	We arrived at Bishop W.D. Johnson’s, Kanab
on the 10th. The next evening we were in-
vited to attend a "Ward Social," (to which all
the Ward was invited,) where, after the opening
services of singing and prayer, we learned, to
our great surprise, that the party, consisting of
upwards of three hundred, was in honor of our-
selves, and, of course, our speeches were on the
programme.
	Now that you have so recently endured a sur-
prise, you know how to sympathize with us.
However, our great, overwhelming surprise ter-
minated very satisfactorily—the "Social" was a
success, perfect union prevailed, we had a men-
tal, spiritual and temporal feast, and all were
happy.
	The next day we organized a Ward and Stake
Primary Associations. The following day met
with the Relief Society at five P. M., and or-
ganized a Stake Silk Association. On the 15th
went to Long Valley; met with the R. S., also
with the children and organized them. From
there to Orderville, the Bishop of Orderville
having sent a team for us, where we organized
three Primary Associations; also one in Glendale,
and there also met with the Relief Society. We
stayed one night in Glendale, and returned to
Orderville and met with the young gentlemen
and ladies; and in Orderville spent the second
Sunday after leaving St. George.
	There our home was with Coun. Howard
Spencer and family, although we visited several
of our old acquaintances and some new ones in
their places of residence; was everywhere re-
ceived with a hearty welcome, and were treated
with all possible kindness. The longer I stayed
in Orderville the more home feeling I realized.
The people seem united and happy; those that
are able are indomitable workers—the invalids
and aged sharing liberally the fruits of their toil.
As a community they live within their income,
the men raising the supplies for their tables, and,
minus of all machinery, the women manufac-
ture the most of their clothing. All we saw
were dressed plain and well. We shall long re-
member with pleasure and gratitude our visit
with the good people of Orderville.
	From Kanab to Long Valley and its three set-
tlements we had the pleasure of the company of
Bishop Johnson, his wife and uncle, and Sister
Bunting, and should have returned with them,
had not the people of Orderville proposed send-
ing us by team to Kanab, and thence to John-
son, if we would stop with them till Monday—
the Bishop being under the necessity of return-
ing on Friday. Accordingly, on the 21st, Brother
Israel Hoyt took us to Kanab, and next to John-

[Column 2]
son, where we met the Bishop and party. Met
with the Relief Society. Stopped overnight;
morning organized the children and returned to
Kanab, where we were much at home.with the
Bishop and family.
	If any one dare say that women cannot be
happy in plural marriage, let him or her visit
Bishop W. D. Johnson’s family; and as a live
Bishop he cannot be excelled, looking after the
interest of all from the oldest down to the little
ones; he is in their midst, taking the wayward
by the hand and kindly pointing out their reck-
lessness and guiding them to the path of safety
and honor; meeting with and taking part in the
recreations of all ages, from the white-haired
veteran down to the little curly-headed prattler
occbpying the lowest seat in the baby circle;
These little ones all feel that the Bishop is their
friend and none seem afraid to approach him. In
noticing this, I could not help contrasting his
course, and the effect everywhere apparent, with
those Bishops who never have visited the Pri-
mary meetings in their wards.
	In Kanab, the three settlements in Long Val-
ley and in Johnson, we noticed with admiration
that the Word of Wisdom, so far as tea, coffee
and tobacco are concerned, is better observed
than in most places elsewhere that we have vis-
ited. Brothers Charles Oliphant and Heber
Clayton accompanied us from Kanab to this
place.
	I have some work yet to do in the Temple,
and, unless something special shall oocur, shall
remain here until after the St. George Stake
Conference, which commences two weeks from
yesterday. It is expected that four of the Apos-
tles will be present. Soon after that we expect
an opportunity of getting to the R. R. by private
conveyance—much preferable to stage.
								E. R. S. S.
	March 6,1881.


SURPRISE.
	On Friday, Feb. 25, we had a surprise party,
by the united feeling of the sisters, in respect to
Margaret Keller, President of the Relief Society,
on her birthday. She was presented with a
beautiful shawl; the presentation was made by
Counselor Christine Jenson, as a token of es-
teem from the sisters, showing their thanks for
her kind and motherly instruction. The sisters
all gathered at Peter F. Petersen's residence; our
dear and beloved Bishop, Peter C. Jenson, was
present on the occasion, with his Counselors, Lars
Anderson and Peter Jensen. After partaking
of a bounteous repast, our brethren gave us
much kind and fatherly instruction; exhorted
the mothers to bring up their children in a God-
fearing way, so when they were old they would
not depart from it. Pres. Margaret Keller ex-
pressed her gratitude for the kind feeling shown
by the sisters toward her.
				JULIANE CHISTIANSEN.


NOTICE.
 On April 10th, 1881, at her office, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp will open a class for the special instruction
of  women  in  the  art  of  Obstetrics.  For  this
class books  must be  obtained from  the  East, so
that those who purpose joining should commu-
nicate with Dr. Shipp at once.
Also, by request, a course of study on the care
of infancy and childhood, adapted  to the under-
standing  of  every wife  and  mother.  This  in-
struction will  be  given  in the  form  of popular
lectures, divested of technicalities.
Prevention of disease, the mother's province.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
DIED:  At St. Johns  Jan.  16th, 1881, of  pleura
pneumonia, Sister  Mary  Ann Kent in the 61st
year of her age. Deceased was born at Grimstead
Wiltshire England in  the  year 1819. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day  Saints in  1851. Emigrated to Utah Co.
in 1860.  Settled in  Rockport,  Weber Co. in 1861.
She removed to Bear  Lake valley in the early
settlement of that place, bore all the harships
of frontier life without a  murmer. During the
last ten  years  of  her  life, she  has lived at St.
Johns near Malad City. At the  organization of
the Relief Society she was called to preside fill-
ing that position until her death, winning the love
and confidence of all the  members;  her  life has
been  filled with deeds  of charity and kindness.
ever ready to minister to the poor and needy,
kind to every one,  none knew  her  but to love
and esteem her; death though  very  sudden was
painless, she passed away like one dropping into
a gentle slumber. Her funeral was the large stone
ever seen in St.  John's there were forty sleighs
well filled followed the remains to their last rest-
ing place, there to remain untill the resurrection
of the just. She leaves a husband two sons and
one daughter and a large circle of friends to mourn 
her loss.  
							COM. 

	DIED: in Manti Feb.  14,  of  old  age, Sister
Lucy Atwood. SHe was  borne Oct. 18 1796, in
the State of New Hampsnire,moved to Connecti-
cut  when  18  years of age and  married Reuben
Atwood. Was the  mother  of  five  children, of
whom three sons and one daughter are  still  liv-
ing.  She first heard the gospel preached by Elder
Phineas  Richards  and  embraced  the same
in 1840.  The  year  following  emigrated to
Nauvoo and remained there during  the exodus.
Her eldest sons were engaged in defending the
Saints, their homes, the widows and orphans who
were at last mercilessly  driven  across the  river-
Although over 83  years  of  age  her faculties
were good and she delighted to tell  some of her
experience in Mormonism  which was  quite  in-
teresting. One circumstance I will relate as ac-
curatety as I can remember.
"Previous to embracing the Gospel her  eldest
daughter had been very sick and confined to her
bed for many months, and  the doctors had  pro-
nounced her case as hopeless--when, the  Latter-
day  Saints  were called  upon  to  administer to
her, she  immediately  arose  from  her  bed  and
the next day walked quite a distance to meeting,
to the astonishment of all who  witnessed it. She
realized the promise made to her that she should
gather with the  saints  and  was  buried at Nau-
voo."
Sister Atwood  passed away  peacefully under
the affectionate care of  her  daughter,  Rebecca
wife of Pres. J. Wareham,  at his  residence, and
who assisted in soothing her  in  her  last  days.
She was an  estimable old  lady and  her memory
will be cherished by all who knew her even down
to her  great grand children.
Deseret News Please Copy.
M. A. H.


B. S. REPORTS.

PARADISE.

	As a Relief Society we are striving to live in
accordance with the spirit of the times, and to do
our part in the great work that is laid out for
the handmaidens of the Most High, the sisters
have been busy in making quilts, socks and mitts,
for the Temple; as there are but few in our set-
tlement who are not able to keep themselves;
there is no sickness of any moment for which
we feel very thankful. Our monthly meetings
are well attended, a good Spirit prevails. The
sisters give wise and good counsel and encour-


age mothers to have a watchful care over their
little ones, and strive above all to instil into
their tender hearts principles of truth and virtue.
Ever praying for the wellfare of Zion.
							EMMA SHAW.
	Feb. 26, 1881.

HEBER CITY.

	Minutes of Relief Societies of Wasatch Stake
held in the Heber Hall,Feb. 11th 1881. Present
on the stand, Pres. E. Brown, Presidents of the
several Relief Societies, and Y. L. M. I. A., and
Primaries. Meeting called to order by Pres. E
Brown. Singing. Prayer by Bishop Rasbond.
Minutes of last Conference read and approved.
reports read, verbal reports by the Presidents of
Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
Association all given in a very pleasing and sat
isfactory manner. Sister Brown made some
very encouraging remarks. Conference ad-
journed till half past 1, o'clock.
	Afternoon session: Singing "How Firm a Foun-
dation," prayer by Sister Cluff. Reports not giv-
en in the forenoon were brought forward. Some
very appropriate remarks were made by the
ladies calculated to encourage and inspire the
hearts of the sisters to go on in the good work
in which we are engaged. Bishop Foreman,
Pres. Hatch, Coun. Giles and others of the
brethren spoke a short time.
	Pres. Brown made a few closing remarks en-
dorsing all the counsel that had been given.
Conference adjourned until May 13th, 1881.
				MARY BRONSON, Stake Sec'y.

	On Oct. 12 1880, Sister E. R. Snow resigned as
President of the 18th Ward Relief Society: owing
to the many duties devolving upon her, she felt
that she could not attend to this duty also and
do justice to it.
	She therefore nominated Sister Ellen Barton
as her successor, who was appointed by unani-
mous vote of the meeting, and set apart by the
Bishop of the Ward, at Fast-meeting Nov. 4,
1880.
	Sister Barton selected for her first Counselor
Sister Louisa Horne and second Counselor Sister
Hannah Wright who were both set apart by
the Bishop's Counselors, March 3, 1881.
					MARY. SCHETTLER, Sec'y.


PBIMARY CONFERENCE.
	Primary Conference convened at the B. Y.
Academy, Provo, March 5, 1881, at 10 A. M.,
President Zina Y. Williams presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, "Praise ye the Lord," &c.
Prayer by Sister H. A. Beebe. Singing. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and approved.
The Secretary then read the statistical and finan-
cial reports of the Associations, showing a thriv-
ing condition of each ward, and the rapid ad-
vancement made since the receipt of the pre-
vious reports. The subject of the coming jubi-
lee being broached by the President, all present
expressed their willingness to assist in the exer-
cises, and use every effort to make the affair a
success. Hymns were seclected and valuable
suggestions offered. It was decided by the Presi-
dents that the Secretary of each ward should
copy the names of her Association, together
with the time of its organization, and forward
them to the Stake Secretary, to be placed in the
Jubilee Box.
	Some acted upon the decision at once. After
the outline of a programme had been suggested,
brief but explicit remarks were made by the
Presidents, all speaking in eulogistic terms of
their respective Associations, and each claiming
the ascendency in regard to the meritorious con-
duct of the children. Their enthusiasm was
great, indicating plainly how devotedly they are
attached to the little ones placed in their care.
After short and appropriate speeches by many
of the visitors, Conference adjourned until the
11th of June, 1881.
			NETTIE SOUTHWORTH, Sec'y.


SARAH  CARTER.
WHO  WAS  IN  A  TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.
	     BY HANNAH  T. KING
		  CONCLUDED
 Again I  find  I  have  anticipated circum-
tsances, but my time is precious, and I have to
write  hastily, and  my memory, though  almost
perfect, may  err a  little  as  to  dates, when  it
runs back over more  than  thirty  years, and
since  when  I  have  lived a new life in a new
world;  let  this  be  a  standing apology when I
may mix up things a little!
	But now I gather up the dropped threads of
this  really  wonderful  recital, of  which  every
word is truth, but the half is not told.  I must
now introduce  Betsy  Carter  upon  the  tapis;
you  will  remember  she  is the sister of Sarah.
Her  mother had given  her  all  the  education
she  could  afford and that could be procured at
a  village school.  She was the  rustic  belle of
that  village;  her  complexion  was  a  blending
truly of the rose and the  lily;  her  fair  fore-
head and  rich, dark hair, with  eyes matching,
made her a subject for a painter's beauty.  But
her life was to be a prisoner almost in the bed-
room of her sister.  She had become a beauti-
ful needle-woman–embroidery, working  on
nett,  and  fancy  work  of  all  description,  be-
came  her  sole  occupation,  the  county  ladies
finding her full employment;  Lady  Godolphin
being  her  first  patroness  and  devoted  friend.
She also became the watchful attendant of her
sister, who, though  animation  and  recognition
had  returned, was still, as it were, in a state  of
infancy.  In her room was  her work-table and
chair placed  by  the  window,  and  there  for
years might that young fair face be seen, as the
indefatigable work woman and the watchful at-
tendant of her sister, who  still lay listless  and
inert, but taking now a little  sustenance, as an
infant might do, conversing  in  monosyllables
with  her  mother  and  sister  and  her  friend,
Lady G., who was still a constant visitor to the
family.  This  state  of  things  passed  on  for
some years, and there, day by day and year by
year  sat  the  young and beautiful sister, work-
ing and watching in  angel guise  in  that room,
made remarkable by the events that had taken
place  in  it.  At  last it was  said that  Betsy's
health  was  failing, and  well  it  might, for she
had  no  recreation  beyond  a short  walk now
and then, though her window was  always open
when weather permitted, and the prospect from
it was  bright and airy;  but  she  had  been  for
years  literally a prisoner, and  her  appearance
and that brilliant color indicated delicacy.  For
a  long  time  she waived  off all inquiries as to
her health, but  at  last  she had  to give up her
sedentary  employment.  Dr. Ficklin  ordered
her to walk or  ride  out  much in the open air;
friends fondly came to the rescue, but the fiat
had gone forth- that beautiful, devoted, endur-
ing girl was to be transplanted to the Paradise
of her  Father!  Yes,  surely  her  place  would
be within his presence, if  devoted love, endur-
ing  privation from all  that  youth  so  craves,
purity  of thought  and  action,  love  and  obe-
dience to her mother, and a species  of  worship
to  her  sister, and  through  all working to sus-
tain herself- surely, surely, if  we  are  to  be
judged  by  our "works," her place was a bright
and glorious one!  But I aniticipate. She de-
clined  gradually;  work  was  laid  aside.  The
sisters, on on the bed and the other very often
on the sofa close by, still associated together in
their own peculiar calm  and  quiet way- that
way, which  even  on earth had  heaven  in  it.
At last  she  kept  her  own  room;  and  indeed
she was dying.  Sarah  had  to  be  apprized  of
the  dire fact- but how  would  it  affect  her?
Surely it would at  once  kill  her;  so  reasoned
the poor mother.  But at last  she told her, in
her  own  way, in  words  none  ever  knew, for
they were  alone when  the  cruel truth  was told
her-  How long  had  she to live?  Only a few
hours  at  most.  "Mother, I  must  see  her, we
must  meet;  how  can  it  be  arranged?" She
was more fully aroused now than she had ever
been before. It was arranged; the sofa was
drawn close to the bed, and the dying girl car-
ried by many gentle  hands and laid  upon it.
They at  once  clasped  hands, they  looked the


[Column 1]
love they had neither of them power to enun-
ciate; but they needed no language, their eyes
conveyed all that was necessary. Sarah was
aroused, to a pitch that was marvelous to those
who beheld it, and she never again sunk into
the inertia that her trance had heretofore
thrown around her. The sisters remained be-
side each other enjoying their own mute lan-
guage, till Betsy's eyes closed and she sank
to sleep, sweet and gentle as a weary infant.
The distress of Sarah was dreadful, but she 
could not give directions, express her wishes,
and it seemed the two sisters had become amal-
gamated in one.
	And the poor, heart-stricken mother! even
after all these years my tears fall as I think of
what she must have suffered and endured.
Talk of martyrs! there are thousands that are,
not burnt at stakes, but they pass through
fiery ordeals quite as sharp, quite as bitter, but
they seem to be made of such enduring mate-
rial, that there is an immortality in their composi-
tion, even though mixed with the “earth
earthy.” Such was certainly Mrs. Carter in
her loneliness , in her-strong individuality; she
was still a noble “Spartan mother.” She has
received her reward in heaven ere this, and I
know it must be a rich; a noble one.
	But I must return to Sarah. After this
heavy affliction she gradually returned to ra-
tional life; though always reclining in her bed;
she became conversational and communicative,
as I have portrayed her in my last section.
	It was, at this time that I again commenced
to visit her, and she recounted to me much of
what I have now written, and told me that her
long trance seemed to her only like a night’s 
rest; but all about her seemed so superior, so
etherealized aud spiritual, and still so “one of
us,” that what I am going to say may be
thought a fanciful idea. It often passed
through my mind had her spirit associated
with beings of a superior order, who had
watched over her in that long sleep, that had
fed her mind with heavenly knowledge, and
language too, and had given her an under-
standing and an appreciation of God and
heavenly things, and of his dealings with the
human family in general and of herself in
particular? Her perfect idea of that "better
land," and a strong yearning to enter it, yet de-
sirous to wait his appointed time; her calm,
superior, dignified bearing, where had she ac-
quired all this? Where?  Had she been in
school? Who shall say? She was sustained
bodily, why not spiritually? But like when
we dream beautiful dreams and awake from 
them, they pass away with the awaking, yet
they leave their influence upon us, perhaps for
days, perhaps never to be entirely erased. Who
does not know this? Then perhaps my reflec-
tions upon Sarah Carter’s spiritual education
may-not be so fallacious as at first view it may
appear to be; certain it is that she was visited
by the noble and the educated with a delighted
charm.  Dr. Ficklin would say on rising to 
leave her, "Sarah, whenever I visit you I go 
away a better man."  He had been an army
surgeon, had seen much of all sorts of life in 
its varied phases, was a highly educated man,
a polished gentleman, passing in the highest 
society of the county, yet would he often
come, and take that single chair by that hum- 
ble bedside, sit an hour, and rise up declaring
he was a wiser and a better man than when he
came. Who gave her this heavenly magnet-
ism? Who was her tutor? Where did she get 
it? Who shall say? All we know she had it.
	I will give one more example. The eldest
son of Sir Charles and Lady Wale was a fine,
handsome young man, and his person was
merely the index of his character. He was
very high in the University of Cambridge, and
his parents had educated him to enter the
church as that is of course the vehicle of high
honors and promotion to the highest. But as 

[Column 2]
time drew on for him to “take orders,” he
shrank with his whole soul from fulfilling the
desires of his parents. He worshipped God
with the devotion of a warm and ardent soul,
and it was this very worship. that made him,
feel he was unfit for holy orders, and he could
not dissemble before God, and take that upon
himself which he felt was not his vocation.
And then the cruel disappointment he was go-
ing to bring his parents under made him 
wretched. In this state of mind he more fre-
quently visited Sarah. He would open his
whole soul to her; he would weep at the disap-
pointment of his parents, but with all his sor-
row he felt he could not mock his God.
	Here was another seeking to pour out his
soul, and if possible to derive consolation from
an afflicted Saint. He passed through his or-
deals, but he did not enter the church. He
went abroad making his own pathway as he
went, and died in early manhood.
	One day when I visited her she told me she
was rather troubled, because her mother would
not consent to one of her desires; and she then
went on to tell me what it was. She said: "I
have been, as you know, so singularly affected,
that the doctors have not been able to come to
any decision on my case, and I have talked
with Dr. Ficklin about it, and told him posi-
tively that after death I bequeathed my body
into his hands for his special study and obser-
vation; he has so often told me that my brain
is so affected that nothing but my happy state
of mind preserves my sanity; and the heart is
also so affected that were he to talk to some of
his patients as freely as he does to me upon the
subject, they would probably drop dead at his
feet. But I love to hear him talk, which he
does freely, and if the post mortem examina-
tion of my body can benefit any other human
being, it will certainly add to my happiness.
My mother thinks every good of Dr. F., but
she shrinks from giving her consent so far; I
shall try my rhetoric upon her for a time, and
if she remains obstinate, I must give carte
blanche to him to whom I commit the trust.”
	Soon after this I fell into a very debilitated
state of health, and it was thought advisable
that I should discontinue my visits to the dear
invalid. We exchanged letters, and she sent
me a lock of her hair.
	Time passed. Her guardian angel in human
guise, Lady Godolphin, was called, from this
stage of action. Blessed woman! Tears fell
from the eyes of the poor and the afflicted; for
she was ever their ready friend. Though sur-
rounded by the pomp and luxury of a high
station; she was meek and poor in spirit. How
often I think of her and see her beautiful form
in my mind’s eye, her low, soft voice, and her
sweet angelic spirit, for “on earth she was all
but divine!”
	Time passed on, and I left England. Sarah
Carter, dear girl! did new friends supply the
place of old ones? I hope so. She still lived
years after I left; but all now have passed away
to “that bourne from whence no traveler re-
turns.” No tear of sorrow need be shed for
her; at no stage of her life was she an object
of distress, no, but one of wonder, of awe, and
at last of imitation and rich appreciation.

"Bright be the place of thy soul,
	No lovelier spirit than thine
E'er burst from its mortal control,
	In the realms of the blessed to shine."
[BYRON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The semi-monthly General Retrenchment
Meeting in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 12, 1881, was a very interest-
ing one, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, and of
her Counselors there were present Mrs. B. W.


Smith, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball and Mrs. E. Howard. Opened by singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "O my Father."
Minutes of former meeting were read and ac-
cepted, also minutes of the Primary Associa-
tions of the 11th, 9th and 3d Wards of this
city. Mrs. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the sisters administering to the sick,
and exhorted them to seek wisdom of God and
be cautious in all they did; gave good instruc-
tion, which, if put in practise, would preserve
the sisters from any indiscretion.
	Mrs. E. S. Clawson gave a synopsis of her
visit to the East, and told many interesting in-
cidents connected with her trip: referred to
her visit to her early home, and the recollec-
tions it brought so vividly to mind. Spoke of
her visit to Nauvoo and many other places.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks upon
the condition of the young people, the facili-
ties now enjoyed for mental and spiritual cul-
ture, and the indifference evinced by many to
the manifold blessings in which their lives
were so abundantly rich. Earnestly exhorted
mothers to urge their daughters to seek knowl-
edge and understanding from good books, and
be cautious in regard to their associations; dis-
card frivolity and nonsense, and prepare them-
selves for the mighty work which would be ex-
pected of them as daughters of Zion.
	Mrs. M. A. Wilcox made some excellent re-
marks, in a humble and childlike manner.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor continued the subject of
improvement, and said that decorum was one
of the things in which our young ladies should
be instructed. It seemed that many who came
here for the Gospel's sake lost their interest in
the work for which they had left home and
friends, and were carried away with outside in-
fluence; through this their minds became dark-
ened. If we could influence the young ladies
to attend their meetings, they would be guided
in a proper channel and fed with spiritual food,
and this would give them strength to endure
the trials they would meet from day to day.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the subject
of equality and the feeling which she believed
should exist towards those who are employed
as help in families; had sometimes felt it would
be a good idea if there were teachers in the
Young. Ladies' Associations, as there was in
the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Horne took up the same subject, ex-
pressing her views in regard to the employer
and the employed.
	Mrs. E. Howard spoke upon faith in the
healing power, and related an incident of the
manifestation of the power of God in a very
simple manner. She continued the subject of
help; said the rich were as much dependent
upon the poor as the poor were upon the rich.
It is our mission to seek to do good to all
people.
	Sung, Doxology. Prayer by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.


GROWTH AND PROGRESS OF THE
HUMAN MIND.

	The mighty oak, which seems in itself a for-
est, attained this wonderful size by many years
of steady growth. From the tiny acorn,hidden
in the bosom of tne earth, shoots are sent up,
bud after bud, leaf after leaf, are unfolded un-
til wonderful change it has risen from insig-
nificance to be monarch of the forest.
So with the mind of man. The infant's, like
the small seed that is planted in the earth,
seems to be of little consequence in its first
stages: but it gradually expands, develops,
obtains wider view, until, when its possessor
has attained maturer years, it becomes a some-
thing of admiration and reflection.
The Giver of all good has bestowed upon us


abilities, which in our early years, differ but
little from each other. There is a greater sim-
ilarity in the minds of children than in persons
of riper years. This latter difference is not
due so much to the fact that nature has been
partial to some, and favored them with minds
superior to others, as it is the result of careful
training, perseverance, and a determination to
advance.
	The receiver of a gift is expected to apppeci-
ate that gift, according to its value, or in pro-
portion to his estimation of the giver. We are
all the recipients of one of the most precious
gifts that could be bestowed upon human be-
ings; that is the power of acquiring knowledge.
	We are also responsible for this favor granted
us. If we neglect it, and treat it with indiffer-
ence,it is a sufficient proof that we are ungrate-
ful for this kindness; and ingratitude is classed
as one of the greatest sins.
	Besides this it is a well known fact that our
mental faculties, like the muscles of the body,
if left inactive, not strained to exertion, but
lying dormant, will become weak, ineffective,
and diminish in power.
	While, on the other hand, if the mind is ex-
erted in obtaining information from every con-
ceivable source, being continually active, it,
like the arm of the earnest manual laborer,
will become stronger, increase in power in
proportion to its legitimate use.
	We should, then become acquainted with,
and have a general knowledge of every science.
	A knowledge of mineralogy and chemistry
enables us to view even the inanimate objects
of nature with admiration and interest; and
the dull rock which the careless observer would
not deign to notice, has become a fit subject
for thought, and awakens within us a feeling
which creates a desire to penetrate the mysteries
and learn more of the wonders of nature. A
knowledge of plants is elevating and refining,
causing the unattractive thistle to be as much
an object of beauty as the most gorgeous flower
of tropical climes.	*	*	*	*
	We shall thus be able to converse more
agreeably on various subjects.
	And what can be more pleasing than to listen
to a good conversationalist? One who can set
forth his ideas in pleasing terms? I recall to
mind an instance of this kind. An elderly gen-
tleman, while talking on his favorite subject,has
so concentrated my attention that I have been
perfectly oblivious to all else: and so intensely
engrossed in his subject was he that it seemed
to be a part of himself. His face all aglow
with animated thought, caused one to become
enraptured, and partake of the powerful in-
fluence exerted by the speaker.
	If the habit of talking on topics of a lofty
nature, were to become universal, what a
change there would be in our fireside conversa-
tion! Then the tales of scandal would be at a
discount, and the tongue of gossip would be
silent.						CAMEO.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


SURPRISE PARTY.

  The officers and some of the members of the
Relief Society  of  South  Cottonwood,  with
many members of the family, met  at the resi-
dence of our aged and beloved Sister (Mother)
Maxfield, in a surprise party, spending a happy
and agreeable time conversing on the things of 
God and the early rise of this Church and peo-
ple, their  mobbings  and  persecutions, bringing
tears  to  the  eyes  of  many,  filling  each  heart
with a stronger determination  to  live  humbly
before the Lord.  Truly was  it  a  feast  to me
to meet  and  converse  with  some  of the aged
veterans who were personally  acquainted with
the  Prophet  Joseph.  The  Lord chasteneth
those whom he loveth.  Mother Maxfield has


been numbered with this people from the early
rise of this Church, having  raised  a  family of
nine boys and one girl.  A poem  in  honor of
the lady, composed by Mrs. Martha G. Young,
was read  at  the  table.  May her  days  end in
peace.             M. G. Y.


WM. G. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST  TEMPLE STREET,  SALT  LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
 DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals,  Toilet Articles,  Perfu-
mery, and a complete line  of  goods  usually  kept  in a
first class Drug Establishment.  All guaranteed  to  be  pure
and  fresh,  and will be sold at the  most  reasonable prices.
Special attention  given  to  Physician's  Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
   OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
 RESIDENCE on  South  Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
  Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases  of  Children
and Diseases  of the  THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.

WARNERS'S
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

  Is made from a Simple  Tropical  Leaf  of  Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body- for Torpid Liver- Head-
ache- Jaundice-Dizziness, Gravel, Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of  the  Kidneys, Liver,  and  Urinary  Organs.  For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal.  It restores the organs
that make the blood, and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is  the only known  remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
  For Sale by Druggists and Dealers  at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market.  Try it.
      H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N.Y.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE- Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE- Six Blocks East  of Post  Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of  the  EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASION, No. 1 7 EAST  TEMPLE ST. 
MRS. C.  E. DYE,
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please  Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its braches. Good  Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents! 15 Cents!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J.H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
	Ask for it in the Book  Stores.  Sent by Mail Postp
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA  B.  PRATT  WILL BEGIN  A  NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881.  Students  should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS , 830.                   BOOKS , 812.
DR. ELLIS  R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
 OFFICE in Bishop  Hunter's old residence, between Z.C.M.
I. and the National Bank.
  RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
  Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES, & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and  desirable  lines, best brands
Children's  Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. 	Your Orders are Solicited.
	GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH  & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND  EXAMINE
Fall  and  Winter Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT  LAKE CITY. 
 Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets,  Ladies'  and  Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home  Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS,  WIRE MATRESSES FEATHERS  WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77,  &  79,  First  South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set. in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: - MAIN ST[--] OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE. 
		[-]OX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1881.	NO. 21.


[Column 1]
[WRITTEN BY REQUEST.]
ADDRESSED TO THE SISTERS WHO
OFFICIATE IN THE TEMPLE AT
ST. GEORGE.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

'Tis Sabbath morning! calm and bright in rest!
The very atmosphere breathes peace and quiet;
And fans my cheek as with a zephyr's touch!
The birds, their notes, troll low, and calm and sweet
As though they realized a Sabbath morn;
A day of sweet Sabbatic Rest for all!—
Can this be fancy stealing o'er my soul?—
A life-long fancy then it surely is,
For from my early days it seemed to me
That God was nearer on that blessed day!
And oft I've stood upon a well-known hill
And whispered, listen—all the world is still!—
These childish thoughts come back to me to day,
And quick my mind rolls back o'er by-gone years.
And lands me on the stage of latter-days;
And in its Drama, there to take a place—
Calmly I sit and ponder on the scene,
And in imagination, realize
A work stupendous, known but to a few
The length, and breadth, and depth of that vast work
That few, but hold the Primer in their hand,
And only just the "alpha" comprehend!—
And as I muse, the vail is drawn aside
From off my mind! A Temple rises up!
Pure, and white, and standing out in bold relief
All indicating its design, and sanctity!—
I see in visions of my mind the Sentinels
Of Heaven keep eternal watch around—
I see the golden batons of their office
Poised in each one's hand, I see their eyes
Watchful, and omniscient, sedate and mild—
I see the "Dove"—witness of the Sons of God!—
Hovr'ing o'er that consecrated Edifice!—
I see sweet cherubs clustering around,
As ministers to those God-like Sentinels,
They see no night, 'tis an eternal day—
The light of Heaven makes eternal sun;
Around that dedicated Shrine of God!—
A Band of men-Servants of Jehovah
Officiate in its most holy rites,
A Band of sisters, Handmaids of the Lord
Have also ordinations laid on them,
And 'tis to you my Sisters I would speak,
To you. my mind is drawn as here I muse!
How holy is your office!—and how pure
The lives appointed you to live each day,
Within the precincts of that Holy Fane!—
Sisters in the everlasting covenant,
Can you, your holy calling realize
In all its grand responsibility,
For those now living, and for those now dead?
—How sacred do you seem to us outside,
Outside in person—but in the spirit there!
Join'd heart and hand, in all your sacred work—
When bow'd in orisons within those walls
Remember us thy sisters, fond and true,
For be assured we do remember you!
We realize your labors, all of love,
We realize the work you daily do.
And feel His spirit guides you ev'ry day;
And that His angels minister to you,
And hence how sacred is the life you live!
As Priestessess in the Temple of your God!

Of your vocation, little dream "the world"
Yet did they know—I feel there are a few
Would gladly cast their lot with Saints of God!
The Saints of Latter-days—feeling the vanity
Of earthly greatness—all its fallacies
Its tinsel, its emptiness—even its glare!
But know not where to turn for rest and peace;
Pray for their "longing, lingering," weary souls,
That they may hear the Gospel's joyful sound,
Hear and obey, and cast their lot with us,
And swell the serried ranks of latter-days;

[Column 2]
For in that holy Fane I feel to know,
Prayers must ascend, and must be answered too.

I need not say God bless you, for I know
His blessing, and His spirit rests on you;
Our Sister Snow, Minerva, Sister dear,
Here let her rest awhile nor call her home
By any feeling of magnetic aid!
She needs a rest from all her arduous cares,
She'll soon return in renovated strength.
And absence will but make her dearer still;
And now I'll draw my letter to a clese,
Offer the prayer I asked for H. T. KING.
	NOV. 2, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE LAND WE LIVE IN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Utah! the Territory, the State of Deseret
in perspective! I feel all will approve and
applaud this subject. Half a century ago the
portion of the globe now known as Utah and
its surroundings, were marked upon the map
as "unknown regions," and little, even in later
years, was known until the Latter-day Saints
located it, as a refuge from mobs and opposing
elements of almost every kind. At once it
gained a prestige, and to-day the eyes of Eu-
rope are gazing upon it as a remarkable spot,
and containing a very remarkable people of
cosmopolitan origin!
	You are aware that Utah is located in what
in geographical language is called "the Great
Basin." Salt Lake City was called the half-
way house to California, and is the metropolis
of Utah. Utah can scarcely be said to have a
history at present, her life is so brief; but here-
after it will be the Mecca of the United States,
if not of the world, for she has been, and still
is, the nursery of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints and the grand gathering
place of his people! and all must see and feel
that she is a blest land. The atmosphere of
her mountains breathe on the true Latter-
day Saint the very Spirit of God. I 
speak in no flowery language, but simply
express what I feel to be true! Utah
will hereafter be famous for the first grand
Temple raised in the Rocky Mountains to the
God of Israel: would that we could see it fin-
ished, and have the privilege of entering there-
in! but patience, we shall see that day, D. V.
	In altitude, Utah is 4,000 feet above the
level of the Atlantic, which accounts for the
rarified atmosphere we have to breathe. It is
encircled by ranges of lofty mountains, many
of them capt by eternal snows. The soil is
good, and has proved remarkably productive,
but, as you well know, requires irrigation to
make it fertile. The climate is warm, dry and
healthy. 
	According to the first section of the bill
passed by Congress, we find it granted that the
New Territory is bounded on the West by the
State of California, on the North by the Terri-
tory of Oregon, and on the East and South by
the dividing ridge which separates the waters
flowing into the Great Basin from those flow-
ing into the Colorado River and the Gulf of
California.
	Utah is geographically one of the most inter-
esting in the Western world—there is no other
just like it that we recollect on the globe.
Look on the map a little east the Great Salt
Lake, and just south of the southwest pass,and
you will see in the northeast corner of Califor-
nia the summit level of the waters which flow

[Column 2]
on the North American Continent. The Salt
Lake is one of the "lions" of Utah. It is re-
markable in many ways; one is, that no outlet
has yet been discovered. Good salt abounds
at the Lake, and plenty of it; some one face-
tiously remarked there was salt enough to do
the curing of the Union if they could not pre-
serve it in any other way, and another capt it
by saying, "Yes, enough to cure the world it-
self!"
	The resources of Utah are truly wonderful;
it is even now an undiscovered country. A
few years ago coal was not known here, and
now see the abundance! No doubt gold and
precious stones are also abundant, but we want
something that is better for us, and that we can
turn to better account. It also furnishes us
iron—and many other valuable things. I
am lawfully covetous of good things for Utah.
I love her; she has become, or rather I have
become incorporated in her, and I would love
to see her adorned with some of the beautiful.
things of the old world. Our riches should be
spent in adorning her, and blessing ourselves
in blessing her and her people. "She is a bea-
con set upon a hill, that cannot be hid," and
time will develop the finger of God upon her
in a marvelous way. Even the Gentiles feel
she is a favored land; and many of them love
her. Above all our craving to see her beauti-
fied, let us crave and desire that her people
will adorn her by the beauty of their wise,
chaste, intelligent lives, for they are the jewels
studded in the diadem of Jehovah! The true
Latter-day Saints are his sons and daughters;
they are the gold seven times passed through
the crucible of the Gospel of Christ; and will
come out free from the dross of earth, and fit
for the Master's use. So mote it be!

"Land of the West! through passing brief the record of
	thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page,
Let all the blasts of fame ring out, thine shall be loudest
	far.
Let others boast their sattellites thou hast the planet star
		Utah! the planet Star!"
								ELIZA COOK.


MISS  Rachel Foster of  Philadelphia was
appointed Corresponding Secretary of the Na-
tional  Woman Suffrage Association  at the
Washington Convention  in January  by  the 
President and Executive Committee in place of 
Sara  Andrews Spencer resigned.

   CAMBRIDGE University, England an institu-
tion which has a most  wonderful  prestige has
opened her gates of learning  freely and on the
broadest scale to women equally with man.
This is a grand step towards the higher educa-
tion of woman,  and  signals  a new  and  more
enlightened  era,  as  plainly  as  any  token of
hopefulness yet  realized.  It is an eminent ex-
ample for others to follow  and  will  exert a
powerful influence  in  favor of the woman
question.

  THE National Citizen and Ballot Box  pub-
lished in Syarcuse, N. Y. of which every  num-
ber is worth the full price  of a year's subscrip-
tion, now offers another  inducement to its pat-
rons.  Each  new  subscriber  will  receive a
photograph of the  venerable beloved Lucretia
Mott. The editor Mrs.  Matilda  Joslyn Gage
is one of the ablest  workers  in woman's cause
the world can  boast.  She is a staunch  and
fearless advocate for woman, utterly regardless
on the opinions of Madam Grundy.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


LIVING LINKS:
				OR
		SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

			BY AVONDALE.

				CONTINUED.
	Nothing can be more natural than that a son
who  has  received the  Gospel in the love of it,
should be  anxious  to  make  known  the  good
news  to  his father;  it  is  true, Mr. Missionary
Unipod  was  a  religious  man,  he  was  also a
Baptist but  he  had  not  been baptized by one
who had  received divine authority to adminis-
ter the ordinance  of baptism;  the  son  of Mr-
Unipod had, in common with all believers who
become Latter-day Saints.  And  it is for this
reason that they are all made  conscious of the
validity of baptism,  by  receiving  the  Holy
Ghost as a witness  from  God, as did  all  those
who  were  baptized  by  the  authority,  in  the
"name" of Jesus  Christ, by  the  former Apos-
tles.  These  evidences  were  then  received ac-
cording to the promise, and were credentials of
the authority  of  the  administration, as well as
proofs  of  the  efficacy  of  the  saving  ordinance
of baptism.  That which was true  then is also
true now, if the  Gospel  is  the  same  and  men
have the authority given them from the  Lord
Jesus Christ to  administer in its holy ordinan-
ces.  Now,  the  son  of  the  missionary  had
proved all this to  be  true, and knew for a cer-
tainty that  all who  obey the  divine command
and  receive the Gospel, receive this assurance;
no wonder, then, that  he was anxious to make
known the  joyful  news  to  his  father.  How
often had his father  prayed  for  him, and now
he could reply gladly to the inquiry that would
be  sure  to  be  made by that devout man, as to
the soul's health of his beloved son!
	There were two  things  that  greatly marred
the  peace  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod - "Ro-
manism" and  "Mormonism."  To  do  battle
with the latter was found to be utterly useless;
but  Catholicism  was  still  deemed  vulnerable.
And,  to  fortify the  minds  of  the missionaries
beneath his  watchcare with  evangelical  argu-
ments  against  Romanism had been the aim of
the superintendent  missionary for a long time.
For this reason he had prepared an address, or 
lecture, on  the  great  apostacy that  took place
after the  ascension  of  Christ.  Now, it so hap-
pened  that  when  the  son  of Mr. Missionary
Unipod entered the apartment of his father, to
tell him  he  had  joined  the  Latter-day Saint
communion,  the  manuscript was just being fin-
ished by his  father, who merely looked up and
said:  "Well,  Joseph,  has  the  Lord  met  with
you?" To his  great  delight  the  son  replied:
"Father, I have obeyed the Gospel of our Lord
and  Savior, Jesus Christ!" So  great was the
joy of the missionary to hear  this  unexpected
news, that he  could not wait to know what de-
nomination  of  Christians  his  son  had united
with-for Missionary Unipod was entirely un-
sectarian in his views-in common  with  most
of  the London City Missionaries.
	What a  pity  it is that  persons  are so  preju-
diced against that religion which acknowledges
Jesus  Christ  as  its  founder,  and  claims  that
present  revelation from Him is essential to the
existence  of  the  church which  He will recog-
nize! but  this  is  the distinctive feature of the 
Church  of Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day Saints.
	The lecture  of the  missionary was intended
to fortify the  minds  of  the  co-laborers of that
excellent  man,  against  the  sophistries  of Je-
suitical teachers who were at that time endeav-
oring  to  prove  the  right  of the  Church  of 
Rome  to  divine  authority;  and, as
the son  of  Mr.  Missionary Unipod
had now  admitted  that  he  was  a  believer
in Jesus Christ, the interesting article was read
by the  father  to him; to  strengthen  his faith
and guard him against the evils of Catholicism.It showed that "the Church  of Rome had not
the  shadow  of authority  from  Jesus  Christ;
that  the Apostles, to whom  alone he had dele-
gated  authority,  were  all  slain;  that  by the
middle of the second century of the Christian
era, not a man remained who had received au-
thority  by  the  imposition  of hands,  by  those
who  held  the  right  to  confer upon  men the
Holy Ghost."  That  "the  assumption  of  the
Bishop of Rome that he held the  authority  of
Peter,  was  based  upon  a  misconception  of
terms.  'The Rock' on which  the Church was
to  be  built  was  that  of  Revelation."  That,
"had the  complete  organization of the Twelve
Apostles  remained  among  men, as  established
by  Jesus,  there  might  have  been  some  sem-
blance  of  authority,  but  not  a  vestige  re-
mained, all were slain!"  Then the aged father
looked up and asked the son the question: "Are
not these  evidences that  the  Church  of  Rome
has no  authority from the Lord  Jesus Christ?"
"This  is  the very reason that our Lord had to
come down  again  to the  earth and restore  the
Gospel to man in our day," was the reply; "the
Apostle John foresaw these things you have so
ably  pictured;  he  had  it  revealed  to  him
that  the truth would be taken from the earth,
and the Gospel would have to be again restored.
He says in the 14th Revelation:  'I saw another
angel * * having  the  everlasting  Gospel to
preach unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth.'
That  messenger  from  heaven  has descended,
and authority has again been restored to man."
	"Where did  you learn that?" said the aston-
ished father;  "In  the Church  of  Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints."
	Had a thunderbolt dropped through the ceil-
ing it would scarcely have produced more con-
sternation  than  this  declaration.  All the ecs-
tatic  feelings  that  had  been  experienced  by
the  father  in  hearing  of  his  son's conversion,
all the gentle emotions felt on hearing that his
son had  obeyed  the  Gospel,  were dispelled!
Why? Why?  By  unreasoning, ungenerous,
unchristian prejudice!
		To be Continued.


[Column 1]
SOMETHING TO DO.

	The most industrious people are the most
successful in whatever place or at whatever
business. Have something to do, if there is
but little remuneration, and occupation more
advantageous will come just as readily, indeed,
is more likely to be had, than if one sits down
to wait for it. Parents who allow their chil-
dren to contract idle habits are sowing the
seeds of sorrow and discontent, which will grow
an abundant harvest of misery and wretched-
ness, perchance crime. It would be much ea-
sier to contrive some simple home employment
for the little folks than to settle all the entan-
glement and strife among children who con-
gregate in herds to play, to quarrel and to get
into mischief of every variety and kind imag-
inable, even were the trouble to end there.
	Little girls usually have domestic duties to
perform when very young; "helping mama"
implies a great deal, and it may be a potent
reason why we find, in looking matters plainly
in the face, that among the working classes
there are fewer idle women, than lazy men.
	Many little boys do positively nothing. There
is no wood to chop now-a-days, and no pigs to
feed, no cows to milk, no garden to make for
those who live in the heart of the city; papa
is away at his business, and mama is very busy,
her hands are so full with baby and all the
household duties, and she forgets the old adage,
"Idleness is the parent of many vices." The
boys are noisy and make her head ache, she
gets weary and nervous with their boisterous-
ness, and so they are sent into the street to
play, and there they pick up all the slang, and
get initiated into evil habits, before the parents
have the least suspicion of any harm having

[Column 2]
been done. Something to do is a necessity for
the children; not "all work and no play," but
some positive, regular work each day to form
habits of industry, in order that the children
may grow up to be useful members of society.
Lazy boys are the material from which the
drunkard and the criminal are oftenest made.
And children who are brought up idle seldom
take kindly to steady employment of any sort.
Some work to do, then, is an essential matter
in the training of a child, and should form a
portion of every child's education. Practical
work; not the theory, but the real, genuine ar-
ticle. Beware of idleness! in fact, beware of
idle people; they are not fit for companions,
they are a nuisance everywhere, and generally
complain of the cruelty of fate. There is so
much real pleasure in work, especially of that
kind to which nature seems to have adapted
one, that it seems strange that people should
enjoy idleness. But habit is second nature,
and children brought up idly have no true ap-
preciation of the benefits of pleasures of labor.
There are many who think work at an early
age hinders physical development, and indeed,
heavy, laborious work in childhood, early and
late, continuous, does have a tendency to re
tard growth and so forth, but a moderate
amount of even toilsome work is healthful and
invigorating, as well as elevating and enno-
bling.
	There certainly is a tendency in this age to
despise work, to scheme and contrive to make
money without laboring for it; and men who
have amassed fortunes in business speculations,
etc., although they may have been industrious
boys when commencing life themselves, often
forget it is as necessary that their sons and
daughters should know the true value of money
as it was for them. The facts prove that one
does not profit so much by the experience of
others as by having practical lessons them-
selves, and on this subject of industry and en-
ergy, or something to do, it is imperative that
each one for himself take an active part. Our
forefathers and mothers thought work indis-
pensable in the education of the children, rich
or poor. All were taught industry and econo-
my. How do we find it to-day! We have
terribly degenerated in these respects. The
boys despise the employment by which their
fathers accumulated their wealth, and often
blush to hear it mentioned, and in fact despise
actual labor in whatever form; and this is one
of the causes of the large class of men of lei-
sure, who, after having squandered the fortune
inherited from their parents, resort to number-
less methods to live without work. If we
Latter-day Saints would not see our boys grow
up in idleness, then we should begin by setting
them to work at something, instead of allow-
ing them to run the streets and follow after
the dreadful practices of men who lounge about
the streets and appear to live upon the corners;
idlers, who have no apparent aim in life. I
know many people think they cannot leave the
city, and here there are no suitable places for
their boys, but how much better to go where
there is land to till, and farm work to do, hon-
orable work, than to remain in the city for the
sake of a few attractions, that seem a part of
their life, because they have always been used
to them. This is a subject one cannot help think-
ing upon, if they notice the crowds of boys
who seem to have nothing to do. They may
by and by go out and settle a new colony, but
if they have never been accustomed to labor
they are not the mettle of which pioneers are
made.
							AUNT EM.


THE CAUSE OF SCIENCE: Has received an
important addition in the elegant Observatory
which H. H. Warner, proprietor of the valu-
able Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, has erected
at Rochester.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PATRIARCH HYRUM SMITH'S
BIRTHDAY.
A party was given Febuary 9th, by the R. S.,
of this place in honor of the birthday anniversary
of our Martyred Patriarch Hyrum Smith. Quite
a large number sat down to well spread tables at
four o'clock; after partaking of a bounteous re-
past the evening was spent in dancing, singing,
instrumental music. Short speeches from
Elders Duncan, Chaffin and Fuller, they being
the only residents in Cedar, who were ac-
quainted with Brother Hyrum. Some very
good lines written for the occasion, by E. C.
Cox, were also read; a very agreeable evening
was spent by all.
		J. P. MACKELPRANG.
This day we've met in festive throng,
To celebrate the birth
Of one who's fill a place among
The noblest sons of earth.
Just four-score years and one to day
Dawned that suspicious morn,
When earth in darkest slumber lay
Our Patriarch was born.
Th'o cradled not in luxury,
Nor reared 'mid pomp and state,
He early proved himself to be
A hero good and great.
And one of heaven's nobility
Reserved by God's own plan;
To usher in, in purity
The Gospel unto man.
When Joseph first the truth proclaimed
He hailed it with delight,
And to his latest breath remained
A Champion of the right.
He loved the Prophet Joseph too,
Dear as he loved his life,
And by his side stood firm and true
Through every scene of strife.
And when was quenched that vital spark
Upon that fatal day,
Our martyred Seer and Patriarch
Together passed away.
Buth though for righteousness he fell,
He lives behind the vail;
Beyond the powers of earth and hell
And demons to assail.
And as when he upon this earth
The path of virtue trod,
So now he's busy rolling forth
The purposes of God.
And onward now as in the past
His course will ever be;
Till he shall reign a king and priest
Throughout eternity.
Then while we celebrate his birth
With honor and with love,
Oh may we emulate his worth
And follow him above.
	E. C. Cox.
Cedar City.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	The steamer bearing the company in which
Sister Eliza was traveling arrived in Liverpool
Nov. 19, and the tourists remained two days in
that city, and then went up to London, where
they spent nine days sight-seeing, calling on
dignitaries, and visiting places of note. Sister
Eliza expressed as much pleasure in all the
variety of wonders with which London abounds,
as any young lady could have manifested. The
spirit of poesy, which has never forsaken her,
helped to give expression to the delight and
enjoyment of the journey, and wherever she
went she burst forth in song, which her ready
pen soon committed to paper. In London she
penned a poem named after that grand city,

[Column 2]
which the readers will find complete on the
26th page of the "Correspondence of the Pal-
estine Tourists." We extract a few lines:

To New Westminister Palace we resort,
Where the Chief Justice holds his August court;
'Twas then in session and the Exchequer too.

	Sister Eliza does not appear to have lost a
single point of interest in all her journeying;
her enthusiasm never flagged. In London
she attended Conference and met with the
Saints. She said to Elder Junius F. Wells,
who was then there on a mission, "I want to
see all the poorest Saints in London;" and she
went with him to call upon them. This is typi-
cal of her character; if there are any poor
she will search them out, and minister to them
spiritually and temporally. Sister Eliza had
her eyes open to take in London, the most fa-
mous metropolis of the world, but as we are
not writing up a book of travels, but the life of
an individual, we will only tell you something
of the woman and not what she saw.
	From London the party went by train to
Harwich and thence to Rotterdam.
	In the letters written by Sister Eliza and
others of the party, while on their Palestine
tour one may gather correct descriptive ideas
of the places that lie along the route over seas
and country. The book which contains these
is for sale at this office and at the Deseret News
office, and we recommend it as an excellent ac-
quisition to the young people's libraries.
	After visiting Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Ant-
werp and Brussels, and admiring the pleasant
pictures by the way, the neatness and simple
elegance of the country, as well as the grand-
eur and magnificence of the large cities, visit-
ing the Houses of Parliament in that interest-
ing kingdom; they went to Waterloo, and spent
a day there investigating and admiring where
that momentous battle was fought which is so
celebrated in history. Returned to Brussels
and took train for Paris. In Paris they called
upon the American Minister; however he was
absent, but met his son, Secretary of the Lega-
tion, who was very courteous and affable, and
of course they were pleased to meet with one
of their own country people in a foreign coun-
try. In that beautiful city Sister Eliza enjoyed
herself very much, visiting all the most cele-
brated places, and being well posted geographi-
cally and historically, she could appreciate
everything so much more than one not familiar
with the subject by reading and study. At
Versailles they had the opportunity of visiting
the Assembly, and were seated in the gallery
of the Diplomatic Corps facing the President
and the Speaker. President Thiers received
them in the evening, surrounded by his Cabi-
net and members of the Assembly. He was
very pleasant, and expressed his regrets at not
being able te converse with President George
A. Smith in English. The Paris American
Register contained some comments upon the
visit of the Mormon party to President Thiers,
which were quite amusing, and show clearly
how little this people are understood. Sister
Eliza wrote a "Farewell to Paris" in expressive
verse, closing with the following:

"Fair, lovely, Paris! What shall be
	Your future who can tell?
Your lofty spires no more I see—
	Again I say farewell!

	From Paris the party went on to Lyons and
en route for Marseilles. Antiquities abound
in the towns and cities through which they
passed and these are always interesting to a
mind like Sister Eliza's. She has remarked
to me that she never could forget the beautiful
grounds around Marseilles particularly the
shore of the "beautiful Mediterranean." The
party visited Genoa and from Turin to
Venice and so on through Italy. Sister Eliza
was in Milan at the close of the year 1872
away from her mountain home and under the

[Column 3]
sunny skies of far-famed Italia. The Muse
could not be silent and she penned a poetic
effusion to the old year from that famous old
city from which we quote

Good bye Old Year! we both are moving on!
You to the cloister of the mighty past,
To join it to the future yet unborn;
I to the far-famed land of Palestine,
Which has a history of the past, that bears,
With a momentous and eternal weight
Of destiny to all of human kind,
Upon the future, which the passing years
With hurried tread ere long will introduce
With bold magnificent developments.

	Sister Eliza seems to have been in quite a
poetical vein at Florence and writes in poetry
of her villa - dotted hills, and rich-gemmed
parapets of the river Arno, the very name
suggests poetry. She closes with,

The crown of peace is on your head
	Its wreath around your brow;
The royal carpet newly spread
	Adorns your threshold now.

	From Florence the travelers went to Pisa
from thence to Rome. Traveling suited Sister
Eliza both in body and mind she thoroughly
enjoyed it all.

To be Continued.


AN ALTAR BY THE WAY.

   Here and there in the Bible we find the
simple touching record; "And he builded an
altar.” The words are full of meaning,- help,
comfort, blessing, promise,- the place was
sacred not only to the builder, but to all that
came that way. Walled up with signal deliv-
erance from trouble, covered with the incense
of prayer, it stood a proof of some human heart's
trust in Divine power; and ruthless must have
been the hand that could have torn it down.
   So it seems to us who from afar have
watched the long weary march of the heroic
band of men and women who believe in the
equal rights of all the sons and daughters of
men,—the long weary march of years; here
and there new devotees joining their ranks:
here and there listening to the parting words
of those called from all earthly pilgrimages,
yet never despairing, never losing sight of the
promise- "for ye are all one," until a score
and a half of years had brought them to the
time and the place of a memorial altar.
 One whose heart and step were light when
the march began, whose voice ever rang its
truest, clearest note forl iberty, but whose lulla-
bies and home whisperings were most loving
and tender, the faithful elder sister of this
patient waiting band, had folded her hands,
and laid down to rest; had laid down her bur-
den, and left her blessing.
   When those who had known and loved her
gathered in the beautiful city where the laws
of our country are made, gathered to speak of
her unfailing faith, her devotion, and womanly
sweetness. And from the altar of love,
wreathed with flowers, smiled the imaged face
of Lucretia Mott, while amid prayers and tears,
the hymn she loved, "Nearer my God to Thee"
rose from tremulous lips,making forever sacred
to all women who shall come after her, this
"altar by the way." -Women at Work.


On Wednesday, March 16th, the Judiciary
Committee of the Assembly (N.Y.) reported a
Woman Suffrage bill; March 17th, the Con-
necticut Senate passed a Woman's School Suf-
frage Bill.  Registration not required.
	THE English Woman's Suffrage Journal
says, most of the speakers upon the coming
election in the Isle of Man refer to women and
their interests in their speeches.  The result of 
the election will be looked for with intense in-
terest by all women who value the franchise,
and indeed by all people who believe in the 
political emancipation of woman.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS. -   -   Editor.

 Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy, one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of non parell space, one
time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street.  Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, 				APRIL 1, 1881.


ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	As the Sixth of April, the day for the holding
of our Annual Conference, falls on Wednesday,
it has been deemed advisable to commence the
Conferance meetings on Sunday, April 3d, and
they will be continued on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday,—the last day being reserved for the
transaction of the usual Conference business.
	It is hoped that this arrangement of the meet-
ings will meet the convenience of the Officers
and Saints generally, and that there will be a
punctual attendance at the times appointed.
						JOHN TAYLOR,
						GEO. Q. CANNON,
						JOSEPH F. SMITH,
	First Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.—Des. News:


HUSBAND, HOME, MOTHERHOOD.
What grand words!  What tender thoughts
each one of them inspires.  They are to true
women the most expressive of affection and hap-
piness of any to be found in the English lan-
guage.  Everything which makes life attractive to
woman is linked and associated with one, or all
of these.  The three combined in a true sense
lift the soul into an atmosphere of sublimity.
The poor cottager is as rich in the possession of
these precious blessings as she who treads the
halls of a palace.  Love, the element which
exalts and purifies the nature abounds in the as-
sociations of each of these conditions. Where
true love is there is tenderness, joy, hope and 
faith in humanity, which ever inspiries faith in
a Supreme Being and aspirations for a lighter life.
How abundantly blest is she who clasps closely
and sacredly in her heart the realizing sense
that she is thus crowned even in her existence
here. No wonder she is gentle, pure, constant
and true, how could she be otherwise with so 
much happiness lying all around her.  Let such
a one continually offer un grateful orisons to
heaven for the mercies of which she is the daily
recipient. One of the poets perhaps Moore, at 
any rate it was a man, said "When the black-
lettered list to the Gods was presented, etc. * *
They slipped in three blessings, wife, children
and friends.  No doubt these comprise the
sun of man's happiness in its fullest and most
complete sense, but for woman, husband, home
and motherhood, are her cherished mine of gold
and precious gems.
Do women hold their blessings lightly? Many
do. They sometimes have all these and yet do
not appreciate the fulness of enjoyment allotted
to them; but were they ever deprived of them,
how agonizing would be the terrible contrast of
circumstances. And yet every woman's nature
lls for these three things, the longings of her
soul can never be satisfied without them, she
may be patient, faithful to that which she at-
tains, but she will never, can never know the 
supreme endowment which comes only with
these conditions. 
 A woman may have a fine house that is not
a home at all, she may be married and yet not
know what a husband is in its truest, highest
sense. These words do not always imply love
and happiness, they are sometimes miserable il-
lusive conterfeits, and the world, the great,
knowing, intelligent world, fails to detect the
difference; but the wife carries the consciousness
of the deception within, if its impress is not
stamped upon the lineaments of her face.  It is
well if hiding it herself, it does not reveal itself
in her children; they are oft times the faith-
ful exponents of domestic infelicity or of marital
incompatibility.
 However, it is possible for women to do much
to create happiness in the marriage relation and
in the home. Certainly, it is necessary that a 
wise choice should be made at first, and having
made it, build a family altar which shall be sa-
cred to love and duty, and suffer no infringe-
ment upon its borders, but guard it jealously and
zealously, and invoke the blessing of God upon it
always. And when one after another, children 
cluster around its holy precints, let them feel
the influence which rests upon it and reverence
the devotion which makes it powerful for good,
and never do aught to mar or detract from its
beauty and symmetry.  Do you ask of what this
altar shall be made? of the purest thoughts,
the truest emotions, and fortified with respect
for each other and honor for God.  Never give
expression to an evil thought which may take
form, or it will assuredly leave its impress.  A 
little thing will shatter it- so frail and delicate
is its nature.  Watch the little things that may
destroy its beauty; for once it is soiled or defaced
the less will you observe it, and by and by you
will cease to regard it with the tenderness and 
adoration once felt for it; and then farewell to
happiness, save that which is momentary. The
idol is shattered which gave home its prestige;
for wanting the altar of love, how poor is all
else, though furnished sumptuously.  Think of it,
you whose "strings of pearls adorn your brows
to-day, like precious diadems, and never crush
one, the least of all, beneath your feet, but connt
them o'er and o'er, and touch them ever with a 
soft caress, and as time goes on, they will grow
more strong, until even storms may beat upon
them and they will not be broken.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	PRIMARY Hymn Books and Tune Books by
Eliza R. Snow for Sale at this Office.

	Augusta Joyce Crocheron's Book, "Wild
Flowers of Deseret," will not be ready until
after Conference.

	IT is fifty years ago to-day since Sister Amanda
Smith was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Simeon D.
Carter, in Amherst, Ohio.

	PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF and Apostles
Erastus Snow, Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman
and John Henry Smith returned on Tuesday
evening from the South.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
arrived Thursday evening from their Southern
trip, and were warmly welcomed by a party of
friends at the depot and the Lion House. Sister
Rachel R. Grant who started with them came
home on Tuesday.

	IT is understood that several sisters coming
from the country to attend the Woman's Con


ference held in this city, were greatly disap-
pointed on account of the adjournment. Mrs
M. I. Horne who presides over the Relief Socie-
ties in this Stake, thinks it wisest and best to
hold the Quarterly Conferences the week of the
Semi-monthly meetings which are held regularly
every other Saturday in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms; otherwise there would be meet-
ings three Saturdays in succession. For the
benefit of all who may wish to attend the next
Quarterly Conference we have published in the
report the positive date, to which the meeting is
adjourned and which has been carefully calcu-
lated and comes on the meeting day.

	THE Jubilee Box which has been some time
in preparation at the office of Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, Secretary Central Organization of Re-
lief Societies will be sealed up to-day, eventually
to be deposited permanently in the His-
torians Office. This idea of Sister Kimball's is
a unique one and certainly is strictly original.
The box contains photographs; manuscripts, etc.,
of quite a number of sisters and a few brethren,
each one's package directed to the eldest female
descendant, the box to be opened the 1st of
April, 1930, by Mrs. Kimball's successor in of-
fice. A fuller description of the whole, with the
dedicatory poem, will be published in April 15.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot, is also preparing a
box in the same way, we understand. That
box will contain the name of each officer and
member of the Primary Associations in Utah
County. They were prepared by Mrs. Zina Y.
Williams and Master Sterling Williams.


OBITUARY.

   Died in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City, Feb.
20, 1881, Mrs. Teresa Hastings Judd. Deceased
(whose maiden name was Hastings) was born
in Turin, Lewis County, State of New York, but
when quite young moved to Canada, and in that
country passed her early life. In 1830 she was
united in marriage to Thomas A. Judd. In 
1836 she was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in 1843 moved
to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints,
where she passed through various scenes of pri-
vation and trial, but was ever firm and steadfast
in her faith. She mourned deeply and sincerely
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
She came to Salt Lake City in 1849, and has re-
sided here ever since.
   Sister Judd had five children, all are now liv-
ing, two daughters and three sons, Mrs. Mar-
garet G. Clawson is the eldest, Mrs. Phebe Kim-
ball the other daughter. Two of her sons reside
in Grantsville, and one in Bear Lake Valley.
She leaves quite a posterity upon  earth, five
children, thirty-eight grandchildren and nine
great-grandchildren.
   Sister Judd, was in the best sense of the word
a woman of God. Her life has been faithfully
devoted to the advancement of his kingdom; she
never lost an opportunity of removing prejudice
from the minds of strangers, and doing good to
her brethren and sisters. Her faith in the
principles she had espoused was unbounded, and
her fondest hope and desire was that her chil-
dren should ever revere, sustain, uphold, and
advocate "Mormonism." A gentle disposition
and great faith, combined with an extensive
knowledge of the virtue of medicines, eminently
qualified her to fulfil the duties of an attendant
upon the sick, and she thereby accomplished an
immense amount of good. She was for many
years almost day and night occupied by the bed-
side of the sick, or soothing the last moments of
the dying. She was a member of the Relief So-
ciety of the 15th Ward, has always been active
and energetic even zealous in the per-


formance of every duty, pertaining to the relief
of the poor and needy, the orphan and the
fatherless.
	She has lived and died the life of a true Lat-
ter-day Saint, and has passed away in glorious
hope of a part in the first resurrection. She has
joined the hosts of friends behind the vail, who
are looking forward to a reunion with those who
remain. She will be deeply mourned by her
posterity, and many other friends and acquaint-
ances, and her memory will ever be fondly
cherished by those who knew her many virtues
her loving disposition and honorable life.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 165


A WELCOME.

BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

	To Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina D. Young and Min-
erva Snow, in behalf of the R. S. of Kanab.

	We, the sisters of the R.S., most sincerly wel-
come these, our much beloved sisters, to Kanab.

	A long cherished home is realized in the happy
event. Here, on the frontier of Utah, in com-
parative isolation, it is the first time that any of
our representative ladies, have visited us.
Therefore, we say to them welcome, thrice wel-
come; and may this visit be long remembered
by us, as a time of rejoicing. May we treasure
up the counsels we received as precious gems.
	We welcome you as Lady Pioneers to this
beautiful, but once desert Territory; for by your
untiring efforts, you have greatly aided in de-
veloping refinement and social advancement
among the Saints.
	We welcome you as veritable Mothers in
Israel; for your lives have been given to good
works, and to the accomplishment of holy pur-
poses. We welcome you, as the early exponents,
by precept and example, of the new and ever-
lasting covenant of Marriage, and as leaders in
the self-sacrifice at first necessary to establish its
principles.
	We welcome Sisters Eliza and Zina as our
Elect Lady and her Counselor, and as Presidents
of all the feminine portion of the human race.
Although comparatively few recognize their
right to this authority. Yet, we know they have
been set apart as leading Priestesses of this dispen-
sation. As such we honor them. We welcome
them as the honored wives of our revered and
martyred Prophet Joseph Smith.
	We welcome Sister Minerva as the consort of
our beloved Apostle Erastus Snow, the leading
pioneer to Southern Utah, through whose wise
counsels, the Saints have developed the resources
of this desert country.
	We welcome Sister Eliza as Zion's Poetess.
How often have our souls been thrilled with the
keenest emotions of pain or joy, when reading
those graphic descriptions so beautifully penned
by our gifted sister. Of the heart rending suffer-
ings of our people in early days, of agonized
breathings of her soul, when her beloved hus-
band was cruelly murdered by fiends in human
form. Anon, her heart is filled with praise
and thanksgiving to the Supreme being, for
mercies received, and she wakes up in our bos-
oms the holy sentiments of reverence and love for
our heavenly Father. May our sisters live many
years to continue the great work they have com-
menced; and when the shadows of death hover
near, may their last moments be like the gentle
lulling of the infant on its mother's bosom.
When their spirits have winged their flight to the
realms of bliss, to meet kindred and friends who
have gone before, their kind acts will live in the
hearts of the Saints. The bright halo of their
great and noble souls will float around us, like
the glory of the departed day or the gentle breeze
of a Summer evening.


AMANDA  SMITH.
The name of Sister Amanda, or Mrs. Warren
Smith, is well known to the Latter-day  Saints.
She has had a most eventful life, and the terri-
ble tragedy of Haun's Mill, in  Caldwell County,
when her  husband  and  son  were  killed, and
another son wounded, have  made  her name fa-
miliar to all who have read the history of the 
mobbings and drivings in the State of  Missouri.
Her biography would make an interesting book,
and  would abound with  incidents  of wonderful
manifestations of  the power  of God  in healing
the sick and wounded.  Mrs. Smith is a native
of New England, and was born in Becket, Berk-
shire  Co.,  Mass., Feb. 22,  1809. Her parents
were Ezekiel and Fanny  Barnes; she was one of 
a family  of  ten children. Her  grandfather, on
her mother's  side, James  Johnson,  came from
Scotland in an early day, and in the  revolution-
ary war held the office of General; he was a great
and  brave  man.  Singular  indeed it  is that
many of the Latter-day Saints  that  have been
driven from their homes and plundered and suf-
fered cruelties at the hands of  mobs  are  the  di-
rect descendants  of  the  very  men who fought
for liberty and freedom in the early days of  this 
country.  Sister  Smith  says  her  father  left
Massachusetts when she was quite  young and
went up to Ohio, and settled in Amherst, Lorain
County.,  where the family endured all the  pri-
vations and hardships incident to a new country.
She says:  "My father was one  of  the  honorable
men of the earth, strictly  honest, but  made no
profession of religion, or  did not  belong  to any
church; my  mother  was  a  Presbyterian. I
clung most to my  father, and  partook  more of
his nature  and  strength  of character.  I was
considered rather  an  odd, strange  child  in my
father's house,  and certainly my  life  has  since
been  a most peculiar and striking one.
 "At eighteen years of age  I  was  married to
Warren Smith; we  had  plenty  of  this world's
goods and lived confortable and happily together,
nothing of particular  interest  transpiring until
Sidney Rigdon  and  Orson  Hyde  came  to our
neighborhood preaching  Campbellism.  I was
converted and baptized  by Sidney  Rigdon; my
husband did not like it, yet gave his permission.
I was at that  time the mother of two  children.
Soon after  my  conversion  to  the Campbellite
faith Simeon  D.  Carter  came  preaching the
Everlasting Gospel, and on the 1st day of April,
1831, he baptized me into the  Church  of  Jesus
Christ, of  Latter-day Saints,  of  which  I have
ever since been a  member. My  husband was
baptized shortly after and we were united in our
faith. Before a year had  passed  away  I gave
birth to a pair of twins witho[-]t pain  or  any suf-
fering whatever. This  was  a  'marvel  and  a
wonder' to all, I had suffered so much  with my
other children.  The whole country aronnd were
excited over it, and  thought it  was almost dis-
graceful.
 "We  sold  out  our  property in Amherst and
went to Kirtland, and bought a place west of the
Temple, on  the  Chagrin  River,  then  we  en-
joyed ourselves in the society of  the Saints, but
after the failure of the  Kirtland bank and other
troubles in that place, in consequence of our ene-
mies,we lost all our property except enough to fit
up teams, etc., to take us to Missouri. We started
in the spring of  1838, and  bade  farewell  to the
land of  our  fathers  and  our  home  to  go and
dwell with the Saints  in  what  then  seemed a
far-off place.  Our relatives who were not in the 
Church,  were  very bitter against  our  going  off
into the wilderness, as they termed  Missouri in
those days,"
	There were several  families of us and we trav-
eled  on without much difiiculty until we came
to Caldwell  County,  Mo.  One  day  when we
were going on as usual, minding  our  own  busi-
ness,  we  were stopped by a mob of armed men,
who told us if we went another step they would
kill us all, they  commenced  plundering, taking
our guns  from  our wagons, which  we had
brought, as we were going into  a new country,
and after thus  robbing  us  took  us  back five
miles, placed a guard  around  us,  and  kept us
there in that way three days, and then let us go.
We journeyed on ten miles further, though our
hearts were  heavy  and  we  knew  not  what
might  happen  next. Then  we  arrived  at a
little town of abont eight or ten houses, a grist
mill and saw  mill, all  belonging  to  the Saints,
our brethren and  sisters.  We stopped  there to
camp for the night. A  little  before  sunset a
mob of three hundred armed men came upon us.
Our brethren shouted for the women  and  chil-
dren to run for the woods,  while they (the men)
ran into an old blacksmith shop.
(To be Continued.)


WOMENS CONFERENCE.

	The Ladies' Conference of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall,
Friday and Saturday, March 25th and 26th,
commencing Friday morning, 10 a. m., Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. Meeting opened by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Prayer by Mrs Diana Reid, sung "On the Moun-
tain Tops Appearing." Minutes of last Confer-
ence read and accepted. Reports from branch
Societies R. S. were read by Mrs. E. Howard.
	Mrs. Horne made some remarks to the Sisters
and expressed her readiness to comply with any
invitation which might be extended to her to
visit the branches of Relief Society in this Stake.
Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. M. Heywood
each made some encouraging remarks Choir
sang "Lord dismiss us with Thy blessing."
Benediction by Mrs. M. P. Young.
	Two p. m. met again and after usual exercises
of singing and prayer, Sisters M. I. Horne, P.
Woodruff, B. W. Smith, S. M. Kimball, M. A.
Wilcox, M. Carrington, S. Gibson, D. Reid, E.
Woodruff, M. P. Young, E. Howard and E. S.
Taylor each made some remarks touching upon
almost every subject, essential to the work in
progress. Elder W. Willis and Father Graves
occupied a short time in speaking and Prest.
Joseph E. Taylor delivered quite an interesting
address, touching upon the duties of parents in
training and guiding their children, the neces-
sity of attending meetings and keeping the
spirit of God wirth us and listening to the whis-
perings of our guardian angel,thought we should
put away all enmity and ill will towards each
other and prepare to dwell together in eternity.
	Mrs. Horne made some closing remarks and
the Conference was adjourned. Singing Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Elder J. E. Taylor.
	Saturday 10 a. m. Primary Conference Mrs.
Ellen C. S. Clawson presiding. There were
crowds of children in attendance, minutes and
reports were read and an excellent time of re-
freshing was enjoyed by all. The singing was
very inspiring and it was a sight to gladden the
eyes, to see so many children assembled to hear
the good teachings of the Sisters. All Societies
reported were in a prosperous condition, and the
outlook for spiritual cultivation in the children
of Zion is much more auspicious than at any
previous time.
	Afternoon Session, Conference of Y. L M. I.
A. Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding. Opened by
singing "O My Father, &c," Prayer by Mrs.
Hannah T. King. Singing "Arise, O, Glorious
Zion." Mrs. Crocheron read the minutes of the
last Conference and reports from 1st, 2d, 9th,
10th, 11th, 15th, 17th and 19th Wards, also from
Herriman and Draper. Mrs. Cooper gave a
verbal report of the 7th Wards, Miss Gardner,
West Jordan, Miss Carlisle, Mill Creek, Mrs.
Thompson, South Cottonwood. Mrs. Freeze,
Mrs. L. Felt, Mrs. C. Y. Conrad, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, Dr. R. B. Pratt and Dr. E. B. Ferguson
addressed the meeting upon subjects calculated
to benefit and improve the young ladies warn-
ing them of the dangerous a[---]roments of the
world and exhorting them to live for a purpose.
Conference was adjourned until June 17 and 18.
Singing "O say what is truth," Benediction by
Judge Z. Snow. E. B. W.


KANAB RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun., having sent to
St. George for Sisters Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Minerva Snow, they arrived at this
place Thursday, Feb. 10, 1881. On Friday eve-
ning the Bishop gave a general party to the
ward in honor of these sisters. The amuse-
ments comprised songs, speeches, select readings,
and A Welcome, in behalf sf the R. S. of Ka-
nab, by M. E. Little. We had good instructions
from our much beloved sisters. We also had a
very ample picnic, which caused what Sister
Smith called a delightful confusion. 
	On Saturday Sister E. R. S. Smith organized
a ward Primary Association with 148 members. 
She also effected a Stake organization; the offi-
cers as follows: Lucy A. Johnson, President;
Louisa Spencer and Christine Nuttall, Counsel-
ors; M. Elizabeth Little, Secretary; Mary Udell,
Assistant Secretary; Rachel Ford, Treasurer.
	Sunday, the 13th, they attended school in the
morning, and at seven in the evening held a
joint meeting of the R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A.
The Bishop and a number of the leading breth-
ren were present. Sister Snow Smith said the
time was when we thought that our husbands
would save us, independent of our own exer-


tions. Now we understand that instead of de-
pending entirely on our husbands for salvation
and position, we have to work them out our-
selves. The responsibility and labor that devolve
upon women are becoming more important. If
society is reformed, it is to a great extent because
women are refined. And the well being of her
children depends much on her influence and ex-
ample. These societies are to be helps to the
Bishops, and take many cares from their hands.
We are organized in Ward and Stake capacities,
and it is necessary that every sister should come
forward and take hold of this work, for the bene-
fit of their daughters. The Lord wants us to be
a peculiar people. Felt that none of us draw as
near to Father as we should. When we get the
victory over ourselves then we are saved. "I
would say to my young sisters, never shrink
from a duty. God has put the means in your
hands to become queens and priestesses in his
kingdom, if you will only live for it." She gave
much more good instruction; also spoke on seri-
culture.
	Sister Zina D. Young—"My sisters, we have
had a feast of correct principles, that will save
us if we will listen to and put them in practice.
Celestial Marriage is a principle from God; He
commanded it, and sent an angel to reveal it to
the Prophet Joseph Smith. Treat it sacredly,
my sisters, for the Spirit of the Lord is grieved
when you speak against this principle. Sisters,
never speak disrespectfully of your husbands;
never allow your children to do so; but help and
sustain them in all good works." She also spoke
on sericulture.
	Sister Minerva Snow said: "I feel very hum-
ble. The blessings that we have received this
evening are enough to strengthen us and make
glad our hearts, if we are true and faithful. I
have traveled with these my sisters and had much
joy in their society. I have felt to wish that all
my sisters had the same privilege. We should
overcome our failings. What are the little trials
of this life, to the great blessings that are before
us if we are faithful? I know that the principle
of plurality is true, and that it is from God.
When I see my young sisters embrace this prin-
ciple I feel like throwing my arms around them
and asking the Lord to bless and protect them
from all evil."
	Sister Snow Smith organized a Silk Associa-
tion.
	During the evening we were blessed with
some of the gifts of the Gospel.
	Tuesday, 15th, the sisters left for the other
settlements in the Stake, accompanied by Bishop
W. D. Johnson, Jun., Presidents Harriet Bunt-
ing and Lucy A. Johnson; they also held meetings
with the R. S. and Y. L. A. They returned to
Kanab Wednesday, 23d, when they met with
the sisters of Kanab, at their sewing meeting
Thursday, 24th, at which time we received much
good counsel. Friday, 25th, left this place for
St. George.
	The visit of these our sisters will long be re-
membered by us as a time of rejoicing. May
they live many years to continue their good
work, and may we again be visited by these and
other honored representative sisters of our
people.
				M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A.  AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS. 

	The fifth semi-annual conference of the  Re-
lief Societies of the  Bear Lake State, held in
the St. Charles  meeting house, March 6 and 7,
1881.   Sunday  morning  session  there  were
present  on  the  stand  Pres. J. P. Lindsay and
Counselors;  of  the  Stake  Presidency, Pres.
Wm. Budge and  Counselor J. H. Hart;  Bish-
ops  J. A.  Hunt,  Robert Calder, R. Price  and
some  of  the  Elders;  Presidents  and  other offi-
cers of branch Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations.  Meeting  called to
order  by  President  Lindsay. Sang, "Hail to
the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning," &c.
Prayer  by  Pres.  Budge.  Sang, "Sweet  is the
work  my  God  my  king," &c.  Pres. Lindsay
made  a  few opening  remarks;  was  pleased to
see  so  many present, and hoped that whatever
was  said  would  be  dictated  by the  Spirit of
God and  prove  beneficial  to  all.  Roll called
for  the Stake  officers  of  Relief Societies, also
the  leading  officers  of  branch societies. Min-
utes of  previous  conference read and accepted.
Verbal  reports  of  the  Societies  in  the Stake
were given  by their  respective  Presidents, or
representatives. The reports were very  favor-
able, showing  that  a great  degree of interest  is
taken  by all  connected with  the Associations, 
who are  doing  all  in  their power to help emi-
grate  the  poor  from  Europe,  and  respond
cheerfully to  every call  made  upon  them by
the servants  of God, who preside over them in
the priesthood. 
	Coun. Elizabeth  Collings  was  thankful  for
a  standing  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom of
God. Exhorted  the  sisters  to  be  diligent in
seeking for the  Spirit of God, and in all  their 
words and actions to set an example before the
rising generation worthy of imitation. 
	Sister Emmeline  Rich  said  she was  pleased
to  meet with  the brethren  and sisters, and de-
sired  an  interest  in  the  faith  and prayers  of
the Saints. Felt to be one with the sisters, but
had not  been  able  to  attend meetings of late
as  often  as she  desired.  Thought the sisters
were  doing  a good  work. Unless  we attend
our meetings we will fall short of the blessings
promised by our Heavenly Father.
	Pres, Lindsay  was  pleased  with the reports
of the  various  societies,  and  commended  the
sisters very  highly for the interest they exhibit,
and their  willingness  to  respond  to  the calls
made upon them.
	Sang, "But in the last days  it  shall come to
pass," &c.  Benediction  by  Bishop  J. A.
Hunt. 
	Sunday afteroon session.  After  the usual
opening exercises, the Sacrament was adminis-
tered  and  the  statistical  and  financial report
of the  Relief Societies  read  by the Stake Sec-
retary, as follows:
	Statistical and financial report of the Relief
Societies  of  the  Bear  Lake Stake for  the six
months ending  February  14, 1881.  Statisti-
cal: Teachers, 125;  members, 515;  total officers
and members, 640;  meetings  held,  115;  aver-
age attendance, 231;  Church papers, 133;  WO-
MAN'S  EXPONENT,  32.  Financial:  On  hand
at date  of last report, cash, $113.79; property
$439; wheat, 1160 by. and  47 lbs, at  one cent
per lb,  $696.47.  Receipts,  eash,  $157.33;
property, $140.48;  wheat, 49 bu. and 15 lbs, at
one cent per lb, $29.55;  total receipts, $1576.62.
Disbursements: to  needy,  property,  $74.80;
emigration, cash, $56.28;  Temple, cash, $40.94;
property, $64.52;  home industries, cash, $82.91;
property,  $61.14;  books, cash $12.83;  build-
ing,  property,  $34.65;  on  hand,  cash, $78.16;
property, $329.85;  books,  $14.52;  wheat, 1210
bu. and 2 lbs, $726.02.
	Pres. Budge  said  he  esteemed  the privilege
of attending the  Conference  of  the Relief So-
cieties  of  the  Stake  very  highly, and  desired
that  the  Spirit  of  God  might  rest  upon  the
congregation, as well as upon those who might
be called to give instructions.  He had not had
the  privilege  of  meeting with  so many  of  the
sisters  in  this  capacity before, as the  general
organization had not been  affected  before  he
went  on  his  mission  to  Europe. From  the
spirit  manifested  by the  Stake presidency, as
well  as  those who  had reported the  condition
of the  Ward  organizations,  he  was  satisfied
that a good work was being done by the sisters.
Many sisters  had  formerly thought  that  they
could not spare time to look  after public inter-
ests, but the more they  way seemed to  open up to
enable  them  to  do  good. The Societies were
not only the means of  comforting the poor and
the sick, and administering to  their wants, but
they also  assisted  greatly in  more public mat-
ters, such  as  in gathering  the  poor, building
temples and saving  grain, and  in  these works
the sisters of the Bear Lake Stake had labored
with commendable zeal, and had been, accord-
ing  to  the  reports  which  we  had  heard  this
morning, very successful. He trusted that the
sisters  would  continue  to  enjoy their labors,
and that the spirit of  love and affection would
increase. It was desireable also that the sisters
should,  with  all  their  influence,  sustain  the
efforts the priesthood  were making to  discour-
age  entirely  the  use  of strong  drinks, which,
although not very generally indulged  in, were
used  more  or  less by too many. Prayed that
God  might  bless  President  Lindsay  and  her
Counselors, and all the officers and members of
the  Relief Societies  in  the  good  work which
engaged their attention. 
	Pres. James  H. Hart  endorsed all that had
been said and done during the day. Said time
only can develop the good done by the associa-
tions;  it  can  no  more  be  told  than the good
derived  from  the  early  training  of  a  wise
mother, the fruits  of  which may be seen in fu-
ture  generations.  It was  gratifying to see the
sisters so sound in doctrine as they are proving
themselves to be, also  to  watch the progress of
the  young in  the  Primary  Associations, where
they are taught  of God and his ways. Other
interesting and  encouraging  remarks  and in-
structions were given by Pres. Hart.
	Pres. Lindsay said she had been highly edified,
and did not feel tired  although  the  time  had
expired. Felt  very much impressed to do all
she  could  toward  helping to  gather the poor
Saints from the old  countries.  "It is impossi-
ble  for  me  to tell the Presidents of the differ-
ent Associations  all  their  various  duties,  but
the Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the  Lord had promised us his Holy Spirit, that
we may do all that he requires of us." Prayed
the Lord to bless  the people. Hoped  to  see
them all at meeting in the morning.
	Choir sang, "Jerusalem  my glorious home." 
Benediction by Pres.  George Osmond.
	Monday morning, March  7, 1881, 10 A. M.
After the  opening  exercises  of  singing  and
prayer, the forenoon was occupied by the Presi-
dent and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	2 P. M.  Singing and prayer.  Presidents of
Primary  Associations  reported  verbally their
respective wards, also  general remarks and in-
structions by Primary Stake  board of officers. 
	Coun. Maria  Rich felt very thankful for the
blessings God  had  given  us. Impressed upon
parents the  necessity  of setting  a  good  exam-
ple  before  their  children;  spoke  of  the Word
of Wisdom  and  the  blessings  to  be derived
from a  careful observance  of the same. Said
we should watch  and pray continually lest we
get careless and fall  by the way. 
	Pres. Lindsay  said  this  is  one  of  the  best
Conferences we have had.  The number in at-
tendance  during  Conference was  encouraging
to her, and showed an increase of interest taken
by the people generally.  Instructed the presi-
dents  and  officers  of  Relief Societies  in their
respective duties;  counseled  the  sisters  to  be
faithful  and  diligent, seeking  at  all times  the
Spirit of God.
	Pres. George  Osmond  said  he  was pleased
with the  way the  house  had  been seated, and
had  enjoyed  himself  so well  that  he thought
he would attend  the meetings  again. He had
been  edified and interested during the  Confer-
ence.  Counseled  those  present  to  remember
the  good  instructions  given  and  try  to carry
them out in their daily lives.
	Miss Julia  Budge  was  appointed  and  set
apart for Corresponding Secretary, Miss Teresa
Wihelmson, Treasurer, for the  Primary Asso-
ciations, Pres. George  Osmond and  Bishop J. 
A. Hunt officiating. 
	The Stake  and  local  officers  of  Relief So-
cieties  and  Primary  Associations  were  pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.  President
Lindsay thanked the Bishop  and people of St.
Charles for  all the courtesies  extended during
the Conference, also  the  choir  for  their  good
music.  Choir  sang, "Before  Jehovah's  awful
throne." Benediction by Bishop R. Calder.


[Column 1]
Conference adjourned for six months to meet
at Ovid, unless otherwise directed.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec'y.
			JULIA BUDGE, Cor. Sec'y.

The Tenth Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah County, Convened in the Meet-
ing House Provo City Feb. 25th 1881. Meet-
ing opened by the usual exercises of singing
and prayer reading of minutes of former Con-
ference and reports for the past six months by
Secretaries. Our conference was strictly a
home conference, no visitors out of the County
being present, but all joined in saying that the
spirit of the Lord was with us throughout the
whole meeting. There were present on the
stand President Margaret T. Smoot, Counselor
Mary John, Sec'y. &c. Bishop Johnson was
also present. Pres. M. T. Smoot said, I am
pleased to meet again with my sisters having
been debarred from attending our last Con-
ference on account of sickness; our object in
meeting together is the same; we have many
duties to perform and we have to keep them
before our eyes continually. I am pleased
with our reports. L will be brief but I wish to
speak of our Jubilee box. The Presidents of
the Societies all understand the object, we invite
all of Utah county to contribute to the box we
wish to slight none, we think it will be some-
thing desirable for our children to look at. for
if we could have had such a record of our
mothers written fifty years ago we would have
appreciated it I think. I ask God to bless us
and enable us to perform our duties.
	Bishop Johnson said. the reports please me
very much; there is nothing pleases me more
than to see the work of the Lord progress. We
have gathered here to serve the Lord. Ma
Smoot says in her remarks that the sisters are
trying to come up with the brethren for my-
self I feel grateful to my sisters for their help
and unity of feeling, we should all strive to
work together in union. We have been pre-
ordained to do the work that we are doing, we
are in the places that we should be in, I do
not wish to take up your time but wish to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work. Let
us improve our time that it may be said of us
"well done good and faithful servants." Let
us help build our temples as fast as we can
that we may do a work for our dead. Coun-
selor Mary John said, I feel to indorse all that
has been said, and let us put it in practice, let
us be thankful that we are able to attend these
meetings, let us try to serve the Lord day by
day, let us try to remember our meetings more
punctually in future. I hope to work out my
own salvation that I may have a seat in the
Celestial Kingdom of God.
	After singing, and prayer by Sister R. A.
Holden, meeting adjourned till 2, P. M.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing and prayer. Ma Smoot said, we will hear
from Sister Zina Y. Williams, after which we
will hear from the presidents of the different
Societies in the County. Sister Zina Y. Wil-
liams said, she would rather listen to the sisters
that were so much older than herself but as
she had been called upon to speak would en-
deavor to do so; and gave a very pleasant de-
scription of letters received from her Mother
and Sister E. R. Snow, showing the work they
had performed in Southern Utah; holding
meetings, organizing Primary Associations, and
Y - L. M. I. A., &c. Spoke of our Primary
Associations, wished to suggest that we put
the names of all the members of the Primaries
in Utah County in our Jubilee box to be
handed down to our posterity. I think it
would be glorious, our Primaries here are in a
flourishing condition. I see such a field of
work here that I can hardly sleep; there has
never been anything yet introduced in this
Church that will accomplish such a vast
amount of good as these Associations, we want

[Column 2]
to save the children so that if we are in Heaven
we can look down and see what they are doing.
I wish the sisters would inculcate in their
children the principles of Celestial Marriage.
It is ennobling and let no mother talk against
her husband before her children, I feel like
saying to my sisters in a voice of thunder, pro-
claim the principle of plurality of wives. Of
course it brings its trials with it but the Lord
will give us strength to bear all our trials and
what would we be worth if we were not tried,
the day is coming that will try us to the very
core and without his Spirit we cannot stand.
etc.
	The Presidents of the different Societies
throughout the County then gave verbal re-
ports of the societies over which they preside,
speaking in praise of the sisters with whom
they were associated, and also bearing their
testimonies to the truth of this Gospel, and to
their belief in the principle of Celestial Mar-
riage. After which SisterMary John bore her
testimony to the truth of plurality of wives and
said I do not see any other way that the Lord
could raise up a race of Kings and Priests,
and I feel determined to teach my children the
principle. I ask my heavenly Father to bless
us all with his holy Spirit while we dwell on
this earth.
	It was moved that we adjourn this Confer-
ence till the last Friday in May. Singing
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow.
Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
	Statistical and Financial reports as follows:
No. members, 2085; teachers, 317; meetings
held, 199; average attendance, 894; Church
papers taken, 297: EXPONENT. 108; disburse-
ments to needy, $627. 12; temples, 141. 95;
missionary, 30. 70; silk, I6. 26; books, 2. 17;
home industries, 80. 15; building 89. 50; sun-
dries, 47. 72. On hand in cash and property,
$8,198, 38 and half, wheat 1870 bushels 32 lbs.
			MRS. CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.

MINERSVILLE.

	Our Improvement Association was organized
October last, with Lydia Blackburn as Presi-
dent, Bathsheba Grundy and Ida Marshall as
Counselors, Harriet Eyre, Treasurer. We
have forty-eight members enrolled. We have
very interesting meetings, and a good spirit
seems to prevail.
				HETTIE DOTSON, Sec'y.
				HELLEN STODDARD, Ass't.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
﻿


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	In obeying the commandments of God we
claim his blessing to guard and protect us from
danger, but in leaving the flock and grieving
his spirit through disobedience, we are exposed
to the powers of darkness and cannot hold the
confidence and trust in Him we might other-
wise have, A great gulf seemed opened before
Mary, on one side were home, friends, faith and
the blessings of God; on the other was Jesse: a
husband's care and a father's protection for her
children; but would not God protect them, He
had promised to comfort the widow (she would
be more than widowed) and to be a father to
the fatherless. It was a trying time for poor
Mary. She had always given Jesse her con-
fidence and respect, his lightest word was her
law. He would be angry, she knew, if she did
not go, after the expense of sending for her.
Howard assured her that there were many good
people in California, that men of means and in-
telligence were bringing their families to settle
in the country, and society was steadily im-

[Column 2]
proving; but people were continually coming to
her with counsel and advise, telling her of the
danger of such a rough country, where the
female population was scarce, and men were
not governed by religious or moral principles.
They sincerely believed there was no safety
outside of Zion, and brought every influence to
bear that might hold her within its sanctuary.
Her young daughter, just blooming into
womanhood, would be much sought after;
should she meet an unkind fate or have her
prospects in life marred through taking her
out of the protecting influence of Zion she
would never forgive herself. Many sorrowful
days and sleepless nights she passed before de-
ciding. She could not believe either Jesse or
herself would apostatize from their faith.
They would stay awhile until they had gathered
sufficient means around them, and the valleys
had become better settled and built up so they
could live more comfortably, and then they
would come back. Like the drunken man who
stood in the door of his room waiting for the
bed to come nearer when he would jump on it;
but when he jumped he fell on the floor, for
the bed was as far off as ever. So they said
it would be with her. Their daughters would
grow to womanhood; no doubt they would
marry there which would be an additional tie
to bind them, and their dreams of wealth and
comfort, might be as far from being realized as
they were at present. Gold was an ignus-fatus
that lured many to destruction, and to Jesse it
had ever vanished when he thought it within
his grasp. Many times when he thought his
dreams about to be realized some freak of for-
tune would change his prospects; and when
three years had passed he found himself still
chasing the phantom, with as little prospect of
its becoming a reality. He had accumulated
some means and embarked in a mercantile
venture which promised fair to be a success,
but he must have patience and wait. Think-
ing it would be better to have his family with
him, and being unable to leave his business, he
employed his brother, whom he had met in
that strange country, after a separation of
many years, to go for them. Had he gone
himself no doubt his presence would have had
more influence with Mary, for few would have
ventured to counsel her then, and whether for
better or worse no doubt she would have gone;
or, perhaps he would have viewed the matter
as she did and concluded to stay with her, and
all the misery of those long years would have
been spared them; but fate had designed it
otherwise, and who shall say that our destiny
must not be marked out? Mary had crossed
the mountains once in an on team, and felt
that the experience was sufficient for a lifetime.
It seemed to be a great undertaking, and her
heart failed her when she thought of exposing
herself to the hardships of another journey.
Finally she resolved to appeal to President
Young and abide by his counsel. His advise
to her was, by no means to leave the valley.
If she went, he said, Jesse never would return.
If fortune favored him he would surround him-
self with home comforts and ties, and, aftersuffering so much in his past experience, he
would be loth to break them; if she was unkind
he would still pursue her where she held her
brightest inducements, instead of returning to
a place which offered so few attractions. If
Mary remained it would draw him back, for
his wife and children would certainly wield a
strong influence. Jesse was a man of intelli-
gence and fine principles, and would grow with
the country and become wealthy and honored.
He was a leading spirit, such a one as was
wanted to give life to the common wealth.
Here were purity, morality and virtue. Here
were no snares for the innocent, nor tempta-
tions for the weak. Here was safety, there
was danger and confusion. Mary came home
feeling calm and comforted; she felt that his


counsel was wise, and she had resolved to abide
by it. She would settle her mind to the duties
before her and say to Howard she would not
go. Minnie was a staunch little Mormon, and
willingly gave up all the fine prospects they
had flattered her with. Her childish faith
had never been shaken with dogmas nor sec-
tarianism. To her God was Omnipotent, and
Joseph Smith was his prophet. She had con-
fidence in Brigham Young and faith to believe
his counsel was for the best. This was a great
comfort to Mary and gave her strength in
those hours of darkness, for it is hard to go
against the feelings of those that are dear to
us, even though it accords with our best judg-
ment.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THORVALDSEN.

   The great sculptor Thorvaldsen was born at
Copenhagen in 1770. His mother was the
daughter of a peasant; his father was a wood-
carver, who made rough figure-heads for vessels.
When Albert, or Bertel, as his people called him, 
was old enough, he went into his father's work-
shop, and after a little practice it was seen that
his work equalled, and in some points excelled,
his father's. His father saw that if properly
educated, Bertel might be an artist; and at
eleven years old, he was put in to the Royal Ac-
ademy of Fine Arts. He cared for no kind of
study excepting that of his art, which he was
passionately fond of. His teacher thought him
quite a dunce; and when on the distribution of
prizes at the Fine Art Academy, a young
Thorvaldsen got the silver medal, he said it
might be a relative of Bertel's, and thought to
hold him up to the boys as an example of in-
dustry. What was his astonishment on finding
that it was Bertel himself! After that his
teacher called him "Herr," which was a great
honor. In 1796 Thorvaldsen embarked for
Naples, and then went to Rome. The Danish Ac-
ademy supported him  there six years, and at
the end of that time he prepared to return to 
Denmark. As there was trouble about getting
his passport he was delayed, and while waiting,
a wealthy gentleman entered his studio, and
seeing the statue "Jason," he was so charmed
with it that he ordered it in marble. An agree-
ment was made, and Thorvaldsen remained in
Rome. After that he was more prosperous.
   Napoleon ordered "Alexander the Great en-
tering Babylon" in marble, but by the time it
was finished, Napoleon was an exile. Poland
ordered two statues; but being delayed by
sickness they were not finished till after the
fall of Poland. Nevertheless, he found sale for
them. During this time the "Jason" was sadly
neglected, and it was twenty years before the 
gentleman received it! Thorvaldsen returned to
Copenhagen on a visit; but he had but little
peace, as his rooms were constantly crowded
with visitors.
   Again he went to Copenhagen. He was
received with all the pomp and glory that
could be devised by both king and vassal; and
even his native sky welcomed him home, as
there was a gorgeous aurora borealis at night.
On landing he was drawn in a carriage by the
people instead of by horses, although he was
ignorant of the fact until he arrived at the
palace. The people refused to be satisfied until
they had all seen their countryman, and so
Thorvaldsen appeared on the balcony and
bowed to the assemblage. So highly did they
honor him that it is said there was "danger of
his being killed with kindness." Thorvaldsen
moved in all classes of society. His shoemaker
was his friend, as was also the King of Bavaria;
Lord Byron, and Sir Walter Scott were among
his friends.  He died in 1844. His coffin was
carried by forty artists, and on it was lying a
wreath of flowers, wove by the Queen. On


the day he died, he was working  on a bust of
Martin Luther. Among  his  many beauitful
statues are "Night,"  "Morning,"  the "Nest of
Lovers," and the Lion of Lucerne."
M. EMMA KENT.
--The  Watchman.


The women  of Nebraska may well rejoice to
have secured  the  advance  step in the  equal
Suffrage movement having succeded in secur-
ing the passage of the bill to remove the word
"male" from the Constitution.  We had fondly
hoped that Utah might  have  had that honor,
and but  for the  veto  of  the Govenor who
seems  to hold almost  sovereign  power in  this
Territory, Utah might have been  the first.  It
was not for the lack of effort or  championship
on the  part of men or women, and the consti-
uents of those members who voted  favorably
on  that  bill  remember them  gratefully  and
they also remember the others, otherwise.
 THE Thirteenth Anniversary of the National
Woman Suffrage  Association  will  be held  in
TREMONT  TEMPLE,  BOSTON,  Thursday  and
Friday, May 26th and 27th.  All  persons  in-
terested in this great reform are invited  to be
present.
	The speakers will be Elizabeth  Cady  Stan-
ton,  Isabella  Beecher  Hooker,  Zerelda  G.
Wallace, Belva  A. Lockwood,  Rev. Olympia
Brown, Rev. Frederic A.  Hinckley. Phebe W.
Couzins, Elizabeth  Boynton  Harbert,  Rachel
Foster,  Frederic Douglass, Lillie  Devereux
Blake, May  Wright Sewall, Marilla M. Ricker,
Elizabeth L. Saxon, J.  Ellen  Foster, Edward
E.  Davis,  F.  Ellen  Burr,  Elizabeth  Avery
Merriwether,  Clemence  S. Lozier, Rosamond
Dale Owen, Laura De  Force Gordon, Robert
Purvis, Susan B. Anthony and Matilda Joslyn
Gage.
	ELIZABETH CADY STANTON, President,


[Column 1]
WM. G. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents!	15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail postpa[-]

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, m her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS, $30.	BOOKS, $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST-SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
[-]be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 3[-]6, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion,  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women of all Nations.
				Salt Lake City, Utah, April 15, 1881.           No. 22.


LAMA SABACHTHANI.

		GOOD FRIDAY.

		BY HANNAH T. KING.

Great God! heard'st thou that sad, wild cry
In Heaven, thy dwelling place above?
Where all the archives of thy bosom closed,
And deathly silent every voice of love?

It seemed to be so--for the death cry came,
And  "It is finished!" was the last sad word;
The spirit passed, and took its destin'd course,
And Heaven appeared as though it had not heard.

But earth took up the awful, wondrous wail,
And rent the rocks and shook the aqueous ball;
And darkness threw o'er all its dismal veil,
And spread o'er the earth its universal pall.

There was a cause that silence reign'd in Heav'n
(As when in mortal sorrow one is bowed)
When God heard not, then Heaven itself was mute,
And awful silence was the speaking word.

Grand, sublime, stupendous is the scene!
No mortal mind can fully realize--
We bow before it with our heart's best tears,
And worship silently the sacrifice!

Now let us humbly take the subject home,
We pray--but oft our prayers seem all unheard!
We think our Father has "forsaken" us--
We feel 'tis not according to His word!

But wait, and watch, full oft the answer comes
In form and place we never dream'd to meet it;
Perchance tis never answered--and we live to see
And thank the Lord He woudl not let us greet it!

We live to see and know we were not wise,
So imperatively asking him to give
What then seem'd, oh!  the desire of our eyes,
Without which we would scarcely care to live!

But time withdrew the veil, and then  we saw
Just dust and ashes where we deem'd was life;
The silent ear we thought was turned to us
Was love, that saved our  souls from woe and strife!

"Lama Sabachthani!" the agonizing cry
Of God's own Son, re-echoed oft has been!
But wait, the ebon pall will be withdrawn, 
And God and Heaven fill the glorious scene!

Father of Mercies! take the blinding scales
From off the eyes of all thy faithful ones,
That they may see, and know, and comprehend
Thy Will, in whatsoever form it comes.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.

		CONTINUED.
	After attending the school in Kirtland dur-
ing the winter of  1835  and  6, my father, with
the Prophet's blessing, started again for preach
the Gospel in the Eastern  States, leaving his
family in the  enjoyment  of health  and  pros-
perity.  This was  the  first  mission he  took
alone; he  was  absent  nearly  five  months,
preached  much  and  baptized  thirty;  visited
many of his friends in  Vermont  and the State
of New  York.  This  mission, which  he gives
an account of, is very interesting but too lengthy
to publish in the  EXPONENT, however, I  will
copy a few incidents from it.  He  says, "June
13th I arrived  at  Sacketts  Harbor, where I
had the  pleasure  of  meeting  Brothers Luke
Johnson and Orson  Pratt,  who  were laboring
with all their might for the  cause of  God in
that region.  From that  place  I went on the
Steamer, "United States," to  Ogdensburg, St.
Lawrence County,  New  York,  and from
thence I passed on about  three miles from the
village, where I was stopped by a shower of rain,
which drew me into  the hense of  Mr. Chapin
for shelter, and after making known my calling
the people  desiring a  meeting, called in  their 
neighbors, where I preached  to  them for about
an hour;  many stayed  until midnight, and be-
fore I was up  the  next  morning they  called
upon me, requesting I should preach again that
day  in the  School House,  which I  did, and at
night   I was  again thronged  with  those who
were eager to hear.  The second morning they
likewise called on me and would not let me go
until they  knew the truth  of my testimony, for
by this time the country round was in  an up-
roar of excitement.  On the fourth morning I
was called out of  bed and  baptized  three. I
remained seven days preaching the Gospel of
the kingdom of heaven and  baptized  and  con-
firmed seven.  The promise  was  fulfilled  for
those who believed spoke  in tongues and  the
sick were healed;  a woman named  Davis had
been confined  to  her  bed for five years, not
able to  do anything  during  that time,  and
scarcely able to sit up, who was given up to die
by the doctors.  I baptized and confirmed her
a member of the Church, and at the same time
prayed for her and  rebuked the  disease and
commanded it to depart from her, in the name
of Jesus Christ;  she began  to amend from that
very hour and in less  than one  week she  was
performing her usual household duties, walked
into the streets and  attended meetings to the
astonishment of  the  people.  "Sister  Chapin
and others were also healed of their infirmities.
Sister Davis' husband was considered a staunch
universalist, he was convinced and baptized."
	From there  my  father  journeyed to Platts-
burgh where he stayed  all night;  from  thence
went in a steamer to St. Albans,  Vermont, and
visited  friends and  relatives in  Sheldon and
Bakersfield, and traveled through various parts
of  his  native  State.  He  says,  "I  visited
Wrights  tettlement  on the top of the Green
Mountain, where some were believing, preached
once to  eight or  nine bore testimony  to  the
truth of the Gospel.  I met  Elder Solon  Fos-
ter at Pottsdam-after an absence of about five
weeks I returned to Ogdensburg, met the breth-
ren whom I had baptized and they rejoiced at
my return.  When I got to the house of Broth-
er Heman Chapin, he was grinding his  scythe
and fixing his cradle to commence cutting his
wheat. I proposed to him if he would  furnish
me a  tow frock and pantaloons to put on, and
a rake, I would go into the field  and rake and
bind  all he  could cut,  he declared  there  was
no man living could do it;  says I  never mind
Brother Chapin, its nearly as easy for me to do
it as to say it.  The  next  morning  after  the
dew had passed off we went into the fied, com-
mencing at a peice of wheat which he said had
three  acres  in it - says I go  ahead  brother
Heman, we'll cut down this piece  before din-
ner-about the  time he  took  the  last clip of
the three acres I had it bound in a bundle be-
fore he had  hardly a  chance  to  look round,
and about  that time the  horn  blowed  to call
us to dinner.  We started back  to  his  house,
he never spoke or said one word to me, appear-
ing  rather  confounded.  The  next Sabbath 
such a  congregation  of hearers  I had never
seen in the United States for Priest an peo-
ple had come for twenty-five  miles distance to
see and hear that Mormon that had  performed
a thing that had never  before  been  done in
that country,  for  brother  Chapin  had  pro-
claimed this occurence unknown  to  me. I
tarried for several days in those regions preach-
ing  and  baptizing.  August  25th,  while we
were assembled for a meeting our  hearts  were
filled with joy at the arrival of  Joseph  Smith
Sen.,  the  Patriarch  and  his  brother  John
Smith  who were  on  a mission  to bless  the
churches  in  the  Eastern States.
	Monday 29th,  we ordained Levi Chapin a
Priest, and Oliver Simons  an  Elder  to  watch
over  the  Church;  Father  Joseph  Smith  and
John Smith left us, the  Church  having  made
contributions  at my request.  I then
went to Black Lake,  preached,  and  baptized
one;  then preached  at Pottsdam, and  baptized
another, I returned to  the  township  of  Oswe-
gatchie, called the Church together at Ogdens-
burgh  which numbered 25, and bid them fare-
well.  I left the Church rejoicing in the Lord,
and  many  around  believing  the  testimony.
From thence I pursued my  journey to Victor,
Ontario county where I met Vilate, my  wife,
who was visiting her  friends and connections,
and I tarried  a few  days  with  them.  From
thence  we  pursued  our  journey to  Buffalo.
Here a Magistrate came  forward and paid five
dollars  for our passage to  Fairport, a distance
of  180  miles.  The  passengers  were chiefly
Swiss Emigrants.  After  sitting  and hearing
them some time, the Spirit  of the  Lord  came
upom  me, and I was enabled to preach to them
in  their  own  language,  they  seemed much
pleased and treated us kindly.  We had a very
heavy gale while  going  up the Lake,  so that
almost every passenger  and some of the hands
were very sick; many were frightened and one
woman died, she being very feeble when  she
came  on board;  but we reached our destination
without  accident,  and  arrived  in  Kirtland
Oct. 2nd."
	The mention of my  mother's  last  visit  to
Victor, recalls many seenes of  my  childhood
and impressions which  still occupy  a pleasant
niche in my memory. My uncle Wiliam Mur-
ray and their  sister  Lucretia  Campbell  were
living  in  Victor,  she  had  but  one  son and
daughter who with herself and husband died
many years ago.  My parents  had  buried two
of their children  in Mendon  their first  child
was a daughter  named Judith  Mervin, who
died when  ten  months old the  second  was
William Henry - I being  the third child and
last  daughter  my  mother  ever  bore.  Her
fourth was Roswell Heber, who died when five
months old-this was previous to their hearing
of Mormonism-I can  distinctly remember the
little grave yard between Mendon and  Victor,
where they were buried, and also  of  our visit-
ing at my uncle  Gould Murray's in the city of
Rochester and  of  attending  Sunday  School.
My parents were then Baptists; in three weeks
after joining taht church their ears were salutedwith the Everlasting Gospel.
	The following little  incident  will  no  doubt
remind others  of their childish  enthusiasm as
well as mistakes  which underwent timely cor-
rections.
	One morning  while Uncle Brigham Young
and his two daughters were  living with us, the
oldest one and my brother  William  proposed
that  we four should  go  up to Victor to meet
Grandpa  and  wife, who  was sister to  Uncle
Brigham, as they were  that day  coming down
to Mendon on  their way to  Kirtland.  Little
Vilate and myself were sent  to ask  Ma's  per-
mission who took but little notice what we said


[Column 1]
only to tell us to "go along" or something which
we took for consent, and away we ran through
the deep woods so delighted at the prospects
before us, and the nice ride back with Grandpa
and Aunt Fanny that we did not stop even to
pick huckleberries, which were growing thickly
on either side of the path, when we came out
on the Victor side of the wood, who should we
meet but Grandpa and Aunt Fanny who seemed
to know we were there without permission, and
taking little Vilate, the youngest of us, into
their wagon we were ordered to turn round
and get home with all speed, which we did not
stop to hear repeated, although we were very
tired and hungry too, having walked three
miles, and it being a very warm day in sum-
mer. It was seven miles by the road and they
kmew that we could run back quicker than
they could ride with a loaded wagon.
	It was quite late in the day before we got
back and our folks were hunting for us. Lib-
bie was the eldest, but my brother had to bear
the blame and we were made to realize the ex-
tent of our wrong doing by the strong impres-
sions made upon his feelings by a kind mater-
nal hand. Soon after this our home was sold
and when we were ready to start for Kirtland,
to my father's great surprise some of his neigh-
bors issued attachments against his goods, al-
though they knew that he had paid all his
debts and there were some hundreds of dollars
due to him which he left uncollected, but he
settled all their unjust claims and sent his
goods up to Kirtland by way of Lake Erie.
This prevented us from starting until late in
the Fall of 1833. While we remained we
lived in the house of one of our neighbors;
while there I remember of a terrible thunder-
storm coming up and our parents telling us
we must sit quiet and not talk, for the Lord
was speaking. I was hardly five years old but
their words with the awful thunder and light-
ning made so strong an impression upon my
mind that I have always felt that we should
keep silent when the Lord was speaking,
	When my mother went East she was accom-
panied by brother Joseph Nobles who was ap-
pointed to go on a mission. My eldest brother
was left in charge of Grandfather Murray.
Sister Nobles having no children wished me to
be left with her. This was our first separation
and I could never quite believe that it was of
only three weeks duration for it seemed like an
age to me. Sister Nobles lived but a few steps
from my Grandfather, but when I returned
with her that night I cried myself to sleep
though she tried her best to soothe my grief,
but I refused to be comforted. The only thing
I heard which particularly impressed my mind
was when she said "Brother Nobles has gone
to stay a much longer time than your Ma and
I might cry too but you see I don't." The idea
of her comparing her loss to mine sounded so
absurd to me. I thought, well, neither would
I cry for him.
	I also remember the morning when her sweet
face peeped into the door, I was just kindling
the fire and how quickly I dropped the wood
and flew into her loving arms. They had re-
turned late the previous evening and she could
hardly wait till morning to see me.
	The first object that met my eye as we entered
the door of our own sweet home was my little
brother, who had been very sick and was re-
duced in flesh previous to taking the trip
standing with both hands full of something to
eat, my father had not yet risen but our meet-
ing was a joyful one. The wood fire was burn-
ing brightly on the andirous and our old fash-
ioned tin oven stood before it filled with sweet
apples and Aunt Fanny was preparing break-
fast.
	Although many years have passed, and the
grass has long grown over the graves of those
dear ones, yet the scene is still fresh in my
memory. The winter after they returned I

[Column 2]
was baptized by Uncle Brigham in the tribu-
tary of the Chagrin river, my father cutting a
place in the ice for that purpose, I had longed
for this privilege and though I had some dis-
tance to walk in my wet clothes I felt no cold
or inconvenience from it.
	During the Spring of 1836, I at-
tended a school kept by Sister E. R. Snow in a
house of the Prophet's adjoining his dwelling-
house where she was boarding. I remember
that the Book of Mormon was one of our school
books.
	I never knew Sister Eliza intimately until
after our expulsion from Nauvoo and we had
quartered for the winter in, what is now Flor-
ence, Iowa. There I made her acquaintance
under peculiar and trying circumstances. The
first time I remember of meeting her there she
was lying sick with a fever in a poorly covered
wagon, with the blazing sun beating down up-
on it. Many more were in a similar condition
and had no other shelter, until after the heavy
rains was on us and the nights had become cold
and frosty, which made matters still worse, but
in the midst of these trials, with trusting faith
in the Almighty the Saints were sustained and
comforted. His power was made manifest
many times to our perfect astonishment. Be-
fore starting from Winter Quarters Sister Eliza
was able to go around and administer to her
sisters in affliction. For many years she has
helped to comfort those who stood in need, and
in blessing she has been blessed. Many a time
have her words dropped like refreshing dews
from the heavens, like manna they have come
when most needed, reviving and giving new
hope to the weary and hungry soul. Our in-
timacy began the first winter after we came to
this valley, we were both invalids and though
we lived within half a block's distance of each
other, we were unable to walk it; but we could
communicate our thoughts and feelings by letter
which we often did, though paper like every
other commodity at that time was very scarce;
we never left any blank space. Her notes
contained many things which were to me as
precious treasures, which I have preserved
among other choice relics of the past.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PLAIN TALK.

	DEAR SISTERS:—Being a reader of our
valuable paper, I desire to say a few words
through its columns, in behalf of the sisters
who labor in Zion.
	I ofttimes think it would be well if the
brethren would read our paper more than they
do, and become better acquainted with the
sisters’ feelings and desires, and perhaps we
could work to one another’s interest better
than we do now. It is true, the woman is the
weaker vessel, although I think she sometimes
carries the burden of the day and evening too.
Men, as a general rule, arise from fifteen to
twenty minutes earlier in the morning than
women some have chores to do, and some have
not, while the wife prepares beakfast. Then,
whed it is ready, the women serve the table
and wait upon the children; everything is
made easy, and then perhaps the wife is made
light of, because she has not eaten in seven or
ten minutes. Wife has not yet had a rest; table
cleared up, floors brushed, beds shook up, all
things in order, and wife is then ready for a
day's work. Hurries up with all her might,
for she knows the baby will wake soon, and
then the little dear must be tended; then, sure
enough, it is half past eleven. Baby, you
must go down, father is coming for his dinner.
Dear, oh my, no wood cut! Mother must skir-
mish around to get some wood to boil the tea-
kettle. She hurries all day, and evening comes
at last, but little impression made on the day's 
work. Then milk to skim, pans to wash, new


milk to strain, and so forth, a dozen other
things wanting to be done at once, Father,
will you tend the baby until I do some of my
chores? But, bless me! father can't read with
the baby, much less work all day with two or
three teasing and waiting to be waited upon.
	Well, mothers, if we are women, the world
cannot go on without us; so let us take courage
and try to take care of our bodies, that the
Lord has given us, and if we foolishly abuse
them, we will have to account for it. And
take care of our children, and not let them
run about so much, especially in the evening;
it is the very thing that destroys their bodies;
keep them at least one-half of the time at
home—and that is something that all don't do,
to my certain knowledge.
	Well, I will quit for this time. May the
Lord bless the fathers and mothers in Israel,
and help us to realize our duties that we owe
to one another, and the duties that we owe to
ourselves and te all mankind. Amen.
	Clifton, March 23, 1871.				D. K.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HARPER'S Magazine for May will contain
an article on George Eliot, by an intimate
London friend, and also Mr. Conway's recol-
lections and cunversations with Thomas Car-
lyle.

	THE bill giving Municipal Suffrage to wo-
men was rejected on Tuesday, March 29, by
the Massachusetts House of Representatives,
the vote being 76 in its favor, and 122 against
it.—Ex.

	MISS Sarah Louise Byles, descendant of Dr.
Mather Byles, has lately presented to the
Massachusetts Historical Society the family
Bible of Rev. Increase Mather—a copy of the
Geneva Bible, printed in 1599—and contain-
ing the record, in the hands of Increase Ma-
ther, of his marriage and the births and bap-
tisms of his children.

	PROF. Camille Piton has introduced the
timely novelty of painting in oil photographic
likenesses on wooden palettes, as presents or
souvenirs. The photograph is saturated in
water, detached from its mounting, and then
applied to the wood. By skilfully painting it,
no trace of the application remains, and when
finished, the picture looks like an original
miniature.

	THE first election under the new Manx Re-
form Act took place yesterday, and the first
person to record a vote was a woman. There
were three members to be elected for one of the
sheadings, which includes the town of Ramsay
and three villages. Three cadidates were
nominated by "the Church and Wesleyan
party" and one by the Extreme Nonconform-
ists." The confederated candidates were re-
turned.—Manchester Guardian.

	WOMEN AT SCHOOL ELECTIONS.—Public
opinion in New England and the Middle States
is rapidly drifting into the belief that the active
participation of women in some of our public
affairs will not only be gratifying to them, but
beneficial to the community. The time has
passed when intelligent citizens are frightened
at the idea of women's meddling with public
questions. Their advice and assistance are
sought in the home circle and in the promotion
of religious, charitable and educational work,
and society is the better for their efforts and
their influence. We shall have better schools,
for the assistance of women in their active
management, and our politics will be cleaner,
and our politicians will be more respectable
and self-respecting, when women take an active
part in all public affairs, as we have no doubt
they will do in a few years.—Providence Press.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEDICATION,

OF SISTER SARAH  M.  KIMBALL'S JUBILEE BOX.

Could I the curtain tear is way
That hides the future from to-day,
And look upon the reader's face,
Bent o'er the lines heron I trace,
How strange, perhaps, the group would be,
Who've come this treasure box to see.
And very few of us, I fear,
Who've placed these little tokens here,
Will meet with you upon that day.
Dear friends- we may be far away.
Should some be there, 'twill no be strange
If they have grown so very changed
That  you will wonder- is it true?
And was the portrait really you?
For fifty years will steal away
The face that we now wear to-day.
But if we do come, never mind-
A seat with the "old folks" we'll find.
If we  somewhat "old styled" appear,
In the advanced mental atmosphere,
Ah, let no slighting thought be cast.
Think of the scenes through which we've passed.

Believers, when Truth's  golden page
Proclaimed unto a darkened age
God's mandate, to observe his laws,
And give our lives unto his cause:
Throngh fifty years we've wrought, and still,
Give our glad service to his will.
This simile should be enough-
Foundation stones are sometimes rough.

Zion! may they next Jubilee
Thy Kingdom's power acknowledged see!
May thy fair Temples have a place
In every clime, in every race.
May olden deserts know again
Bright flowing streams and homes of men.
May the oppressed find sweet release,
And warfare end in lasting peace.

To our successors, we bestow
These little tokens, may you grow
Faithful and fearless in the Right
The Gospel be your guide and light.
May you accomplish all that we
Now in our holy calling see.
And may we too be with you there
Aion's next Jubilee to share.
		AUGUSTA JOYE CROCHERON.
Salt Lake City, March 30, 1881.


LIVE FOR A PURPOSE.

"I would not waste my spring of youth
In idle dalliance. I would plant rich seeds,
To blossom in my manhood, and bear fruit
When I am old."

 We are living in a wonderful era, a most
eventful time. Are the young men and women
of to-day making the most of the opportunities
of their existence here upon the earth in this
age of Gospel light, mental achievements and
scientific discoveries? Are they carving out
a noble name in living characters that will
endure, laying the foundation of a destiny
which shall prove the ultimatum of human
effort with the blessing of God upon its highest
and holiest endeavors? How grand and how
boundless are the possibilities of the future,
which lies before those who are just entering
upon the arena of action. How potent for good
in the hands of young men and women might
be the intelligence, which flows through the
channel of the holy priesthood to those born
in the new and everlasting covenant, if they
exercised the privilleges allotted to them and 
combined humility with knowledge. 
 But how is this blessing to be obtained?
We say the heavens are ready to pour out in-
numberable blessings upon the youth of Zion.
Yes but does the harvest ripen even though
good seed were sown and "God gives the in-
crease" where no careful husbandman has
watered and tended the soil, rooting out every
obnoxious weed, that would hinder the growth
and development of the grain? Does not the

[Column 2]
human heart and mind require as much atten-
tion in its culture as the seed that is sown in
the earth, that it may bear rich fruit intellect-
ual, moral and spiritual? Ay, yes, even more,
for the finer the texture and higher the quality
of any material or element the more assiduous
and constant must be the endeavor to preserve
it from evil or adverse influences in order to
bring it to the utmost perfection. 
   Parents who desire the greatest good for
their offspring lay the foundation in early
youth, and when they are older it is the duty
each one individually owes to himself and his
Maker to work out his own destiny, to set his
mark high, to bring his best efforts to bear upon
the success of his resolves for usefulness in the
path he has chosen for his career upon earth.
Each one should ask himself, or herself, if with-
in the heart the foundation is laid in strength
and sincerity for that which is desirable to at-
tain, the one purpose of a life-time. Much, 
everything we may say, depends upon beginning
right, otherwise one must eventually go over
the ground again and it is always more difficult
to root up and destroy that which has been
thoroughly impregnated in the native soil and
plant anew, than to cultivate the spontaneous
growth. 
 How essential then that the best and truest
principles be first, this being done, let the
cultivation be thorough, and how satisfactory
must be the result. If the principles of our
lives are vital they will bear exceeding rich
fruit, if they bear no fruit then they are not
vital, they are superficial and worthless. The
object of our being here upon the earth is for
a purpose; through the spiritual taining we re-
ceive, we comprehend more fully the glorious
destiny marked out for the Saint of God, and
the way by which one may attain to that pos-
sible exaltation. 
 It is indeed a melancholy picture to contem-
plate that of a young person with all the cap-
abilities of usefulness, even greatness in the
soul, with the intelligence of heaven ready to
burst forth upon them, weary of life longing for
excitement, seeking to plunge into the whirlpool
of worldliness to drown thought, to forget
duty and responsibility, and to elude the
viligance of the monitor within which is always
prompting and urging one to resist temptation.
 If one would have his name honored, his
virtuous actions and life recorded in the book
of remembrance, then let such a one decide
to make the most of his life and aim for a fixed
purpose with a view and determination daunt-
less enough to ensure at least moderate success.
This can never be done through a blind selfish-
ness; one must be keenly alive to the calls of 
humanity, the obligations of his fellows and the
universal brotherhood, "one touch of which
makes all the world akin." I am aware many
will say, they are hedged about with difficulties,
obstacles are continually springing up, and
even the roses are thickly set with thorns and
briers, and the path our Savior trod grows dark
and gloomy, and hope the anchor of the soul is
weary with long waiting, and crushed with
cruel disappointment, and faith has scarce sur-
vived even the short voyage upon the journey
of life. But stop! spiritual faith the germ of
sublimity of resolve must overpower all these
difficulties or it is not genuine. 
 Young men and young women, you who are
living in this golden age, this age of refine-
ment and culture, look well to yourselves; you
want more religion in your lives, every-day re-
ligion, that which will bear you up under trials, 
support you in every difficulty, and give you
that sweet charity which will help you to for-
give even as you wish to be forgiven, and bring
you into closer proximity to each other and
nearer to Him, who is the fount of all excel-
lence. The realities of life are upon you and you
need in connection with these practical religion
and a thrilling sense of its truth, which shall
enter into every fibre of your being making
you conscious of the power which holds the
destinies of nations in its grasp. Begin now
while all  your faculties are fresh and your
ability to do good, to gain name and fame is 
at its zenith of strengh and power. As Latter-
day Spints you have always one purpose in
view that supercedes all others, and that is
salvation, which involves a lifetime of energetic
action in a legitimate field of labor. It is not
one grand or heroic sacrifice that is going to
do the work for  you, but daily and hourly un-
ceasing efforts to live in harmony with God's 
laws will eventually enable one to overcome and
attain a larger faith in himself, greater courage
for the future and renewed zeal in the path
which leads to a sure and safe haven beyond.
The price of lofty attainment in everything
which lifts mankind, is diligence and earnest-
ness in its pursuit. You want the knowledge
that reaches into immortality; then you must
consecrate your life to the labor of progression. 
AUNT EM.


ANOTHER SURPRISE.

	March 25, 1881, being the anniversary of
Sister Orpah Everetts birthday, Sister Emme-
line Windsor organized a small party to give
her a surprise, and a surprise it was both to
her and to ourselves, for she was totally un-
suspicious of our intentions, and unprepared,
and we heard so many good speeches, and re-
ceived more blessings, by the spirit of the Lord,
being poured out, than we had thought of.
We resolved ourselves into a meeting, opening
with prayer, and singing, then followed speak-
ing, reading a few verses by E. B. Spencer,
then speaking again. Sister Ruth Tyler proph-
esied "Not one that is here will apostatize."
What a blessing! Brother Windsor gave an
account of his conversation with President
Young, at Windsor Castle. He had been re-
leased from the ranch, and desired to know
where to go, was told the next morning he
should know; was blessed by President Young
which blessing has since been repeated almost
word for word by Patriarch Perkins. The
next morning was told to "go to St. George and
work in the Temple for nothing, and board
himself," which he has done. No secular labor
gave him half the enjoyment that baptizing his
thousands has done.
	One after another the brethren and sisters
rose and spoke. Some giving life-history, some
bearing testimony, some offering congratula-
tions to Sister Everett. Our well known
school teacher aged 67: and Aunt Dicy, who is
84 at the close of the meeting spoke to us in
the gift of tongues, which thrilled us through
and through. The interpretation was given,
and the parting good bye said. We wended
our way homeward, leaving Sister Everett the
possessor of a nice cake presented by Sister L.
Vance and a beautiful pair of vases. that Bro-
ther Pymm had sent, as a token of his esteem;
as her friend and the teacher of his children.
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


MRS.  JAMES  A. GARFIELD.

	The wife of the  twentieth President of  the
United  States  is a daughter  of  a  Maryland
farmer, Zebulon  Rudolph,  whose  uncle, tradi-
tion says, fought in the Revolution, and, going
to France, espoused the cause  Napoleon and
became Marshal  of  France,  the  gallant  and
unfortunate  Ney. * * *  She  is
fond of  housekeeping, affectionate, yet decided
in her rules of household government, and with-
al a well-balanced, sensible and interesting
woman.  She enters the White House with the
good wishes of the whole  country, and there is
no reason to doubt that she will make the Ex-
ecutive Mansion  a home  as well as a  palace,
and  inculcate in  the  private as well as the
public virtues which should adorn it.- Boston
Jaurnal.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
======================================
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
========================
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
========================
 Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time, $2.50; per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office,  Lower  West  Room of  the Council
House, South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				SALT LAKE CITY UTAH.
=====================================
SALT LAKE CITY, 	-  		APRIL 15, 1881.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
			--------
	The fifty-first  Annual  Conference  of  the
Church of Jesus  Christ  of Latter-day Saints,
was held  in the large  Tabernacle in this  city,
and continued its session four days.  Commenc-
ing  Sunday  morning  April  3d,  and  closing
Wednesday  afternoon  April  6.  The  regular
business of the  Conference  was  transacted on
the last day.  It is said to have been the largest
Spring Conference  ever  assembled, and  was a
season of spiritual refreshing long  to be  remem-
bered.  There were present of presiding  author-
ities of the Church, Pres. John Taylor,  Counsel-
ors George  Q.  Cannon  and  Joseph F.  Smith,
Apostles, Wilford  Woodruff, (Orson Pratt  came
in the first afternoon  for a short time)  Lorenzo
Snow,  Erastus  Snow,  Franklin  D. Richards,
Brigham Young, F. M. Lyman and John Henry
Smith, Counselor  D. H.  Wells,  and  Patriarch
John Smith, Bishop Edward Hunter and Coun-
selors.  Presidents of Stakes from  different parts
of the Territory,  Bishops,  Elders,  &c.--women
and  children a  mighty  concourse  of people,
gathered to receive instruction and counsel from
the servants of  God, and to  partake of the  in-
fluence of the Holy  Spirit  vouchsafed to  every
humble heart in  worshipping "Our Father" in
spirit and in truth.
 Some Elders were called to go  upon  missions
to the British Isles and Scandinavia and a few to
different parts of the United States.  The preach-
ing altogether was very instructive, and  calcul-
ated to educate the  people in  the  duties  which
pertain to every-day life and also spiritual salva-
tion and exaltation.  On  Wednesday  afternoon
family  government  and  home  life  was  ably
treated upon by Pres. Joseph F. Smith and must
have appealed to the heart of every person who is 
desirous  of  promoting  the  happiness  and  best
welfare of the inhabitants  of Zion.  We  must
begin with small things, the little details which
make  up  the  great  sum  of  human  existence.
Pres. Taylor dwelt upon  generalities  temporal
and spiritual, and blest the  people in the  name
of the Lord.  The organ  and  choir  discoursed
sweet music  during  the Conference, but  at the
close of the last day the  congregation  standing
upon  their  feet  joined  the Choir  in  singing.
"The Spirit  of God   like  a fire  is burning" and
the grand assembly seemed  to be filled with the
power of the Holy Ghost.  Benediction  by Pres.
George  Q.  Cannon,  and  Conference  was ad-
journed until  the 6 of  October  next 10 o'clock
A.  M.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	PEN Sketch, Living Links and Jesse Burns are
laid over until next issue.

	THERE are a large number of Primary Hymn
Books, and Tune Books to accompany them,

[Column 2]
now ready, sufficient to supply the Territory.
They have been prepared by Sister E. R. Snow,
and published at the lowest prices possible, so
that every child may have one of its own.

	SISTER C. Llijenquist, of Hyrum, sent at Con-
ference time a specimen of cocoons to this office,
which are the largest we have ever seen. The
good sisters of Hyrum are determined to perse-
vere in silk culture, though they have labored
under great disadvantages in many ways.
	
	MRS. Lousiana Heppler has authority to act as
our agent in Glenwood, Monroe, Annabella, Elsi-
nor, Salina, Invernary, Joseph and Redmond,
in Sevier County. Slaterville, Lynne and Mar
[---]sville. Mrs. Mary E. Lightner has been ap-
pointed to act as agent for Minersville.
	
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks a pretty
little scroll of ornamental paper work by Mrs.
Thomena Sorenson. The whole is cut out with
scissors without patterns. She has made some
very handsome memoiral cards for those whose
loved ones have passed behind the veil. She is
a poor sister and would be thankful for patron-
age.
	IT is a matter of regret that at the last Con-
ference there were no reports from the Young
Ladies Associations of the Territory. The Stake
Secrataries failed in sending in half yearly re-
ports to the central organization as had been re-
quested. There were only two received Davis,
and Weber. Consequently no sort of
showing could be made.

	SEMI-MONTHLY General Retrenchment Meet-
ing in the 14th Ward, Saturday, April 9, was
well attended, considering the unpleasant
weather. Coun. B. W. Smith presided. It
would be well for the sisters from the country
settlements, as well as those who reside in the
city, to make a practice of attending these meet-
ings, as much good advice is given in regard to
the practical workings of women's organizations,
and the duties of women in disciplining them-
selves and their children. The best thoughts
of the sisters are brought forward for the ex-
pression of views and opinions, and consequently
light is thrown upon many principles of living
not perfectly understood. These meetings are a
good school for the development of intelligence.

	A PARTY of thirty ladies, occupying eight car-
riages, met Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
Zina D. Young at the depot, on their return
from St. George, March 31, and escorted them to
the Lion House, where a delicious repast was
arranged; and suspended on the wall of the din-
ing room was the motto, "Welcome Home," the
words artistically interwoven with the most ex-
quisite flowers of the season, embedded in moss.
Two poems by Mrs. A. J. Crocheron and ad-
dresses by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson and Mary A.
Freeze,in honor of the arrival of these two distin-
guished ladies, were read during the evening.
Sisters Eliza and Zina responded in a happy
manner. A closing prayer was offered by Sister
Presendia L. Kimball,and the company dispersed
at nine o'clock.

	THE Home Dramatic Club played very suc-
cessfully during Conference two very attractive
pieces, "Pique" and "Rosedale." These ama-
teurs are improving very greatly, and becoming
quite popular in their respective character act-
ing. On the 20th inst. they will appear in "Di-
vorce," something more difficult than the Club
has attempted before. This is said to be a very
charming drama, giving one a good idea of mod-
ern society As people must have recreation,
the theatre should be made attractive in the de-
lineation of the various phases of human char-
acter, customs and habits of life. Virtue held

[Column 3]
up as the perfection of character, and vice ex-
posed, though practised in its most intricate and
fascinating forms. In short, the stage holds up
the mirror to life, and shows us, as nothing else
does or can, what is going on around us.

	THE Jubilee Box, which has been prepared by
Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, to be sealed up for fifty
years, is now about ready to be deposited. It
contains contributions from eighty-one persons,
and weighs eight pounds. We publish in this
issue the dedication poem, which will give our
readers a very good idea of the affair. A tin
box is enclosed in one made of wood, and be-
tween the two is placed a list of the contribu-
tions, also a letter, addressed to the prospective
President and Secretary of the Central Board of
Relief Society, asking them to make a similar
deposit for the year 1980, and further expressing
a wish that the custom may be continued from
generation to generation through all time. The
articles are biographical, historical, genealogical,
with some letters of advice and a few poems.
Mrs. Kimball says but little interest was mani-
fested in the box until very recently, and she
had then some cause to regret its not being 
larger.

	A FEW of the personal friends of Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson met at her residence Monday, April
11, to celebrate her birthday and acknowledge
their appreciation and esteem for one who is la-
boring earnestly in the cultivation of music and
painting among our young people, as well as
ministering in her profession as physician and
surgeon to all classes of society when called
upon. Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Presendia
L. Kimball, M. A. E. Watmough, each expressed
her good wishes and love in a short speech, as
well as several others, both brethren and sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt read a very well written and ap-
propriate address, and Mrs. Lizzie Felt sang
"Grandfather's Clock," the company joining in
the chorus. Following this, Mrs. Ferguson was
presented with a handsome little clock. The
party was a pleasant one, the supper was deli-
cious, and all agreed the evening had been a
most enjoyable one. The lady in whose honor
it was given, although very much surprised,
collected herself sufficiently to say a few words
in response to her friends just before they dis-
persed.

	"AUTOBIOGRAPHY and poems by Hannah
Cornaby," is the title of a new book of 158 pages,
just from the press, published by J. C. Graham
& Co, of this city. The typographical work is
very creditable and the binding good. It is a
suitable work to put into the hands of the peo-
ple, calculated to inspire faith and promote vir-
tue and truth, and strengthen hope in the fu-
ture, both here and hereafter. The story of her
life is told in an easy, unpretentious, yet charm-
ing style, and when one commences to read, it is
difficult to leave off until the history is finished.
Many of the stanzas have been addressed to in-
dividuals on personal subjects, yet are applicable
to others under similar circumstances. The
writer is an invalid, who has passed much of her
later life in the sick room, and there is a wealth
of tenderness in her writings, a gentleness in
the style that is specially touching, and leaves a
sweet impression of the author's earnestness
and candor. It is a work calculated to do good.
Price, neatly bound in cloth, $1.00; handsomely
bound in leather, gilt edged, &c., $2.50. For sale
at this office and Deseret News.


EDITORIAL  NOTES.

 COMPLIMENT TO WOMEN.--In Vermont nearly
one-fourth  of all the  towns have elected women
for School Superintendents.


MRS.  Laura G. Fixen,  the "Little Dane," ad-
dressed  the Senate  and  Assembly of Wisconsin
Feb. 23, on the  constitutional amendment ques-
tion.  She was warmly received  and  loudly ap-
plauded.  Her  speech occupied the entire after-
noon.

	IN Colorado, the  first  Monday in May will be
election day in all  the  school districts.  All wo-
men twenty-one years of age, having resided in
the district  thirty days, and six  months in the 
State, not  prisoners, or insane, etc., will be per-
mitted  to  vote  on  all  questions  pertaining to 
schools, taxation  of  property,  improvement  of
school buildings, or  other  educational  interests
on which men vote.  Women may also hold any
office  voted  upon  at  such  elections.  Good for
Colorado.
 THE  President, Counselors, and  Secretary of
the Central Board of  Y.  L.  M. I. A. are  very
anxious to  get  complete reports from Stake Sec-
retaries, in order to record them, and also report
them.  In  October, November, and December,
1880, reports  were  received  from  Bear Lake,
Weber and  Box  Elder  Stakes.  These Stakes
will only need now to make half-yearly reports.
It is  earnestly desired  that all  organized  Stakes
send in  semi-annual reports in good time for the
October  Conference;  also  that  all  Stakes  that
have not reported from date of organization, send
in at the earliest date reports to March 1, 1881.

 TELEGRAMS  just  received announce that sev-
eral  prominent ladies  in  Washington society ap-
peal  to the people of the United States  in behalf
of the sufferers from the disastrous earthquakes,
which  have  been  so  destructive  of  late  in the
island of  Chio, which  is  situated  in the Greek
Archipelago.  These ladies urge upon the pastors
of  all  the  churches,  Catholic,  Protestant and
Hebrew, to take up  collections  in  their congre-
gations  at the  earliest practicable moment that
the rich and the poor  may have the opportunity
of contributing to  the  relief of the fainting suf-
ferers.  Riggs   &   Co.,  Washington,  will  receive
all monies collected.

OBITUARY.

 Sister Maria Normington, wife of Bishop John
Parker died at Virgen City, Kane Co., March 19,
of jaundice,after an illness of four months,during
which time  she had two  paralytic strokes, the
first in her left  arm  five  weeks, the  other the
whole of her left side five days before her death.
She was born at Burnley,  Lancashire, England,
Dec. 25th, 1820.  Embraced  the  Gospel in  the
year 1839, emigrated with her family in the last
hand-cart company in 1856, buried  her husband
and two children on  the  plains,  and  suffered
much herself.  Was married  to John  Parker in
1857, in Salt Lake  City;  moved  to  Virgen  City
in 1863, was a teacher in  the  Relief  Society for
two years;  was a faithful  Latter-day Saint, ever
ready to  bear her testimony to the  truth  of the
latter-day work and gave good counsel to all her
associates. She quietly went to sleep in the hope
of a glorious ressurrection.
						A. ISOM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AMANDA SMITH.

	[CONTINUED.]
	
	They feared, if men, women and children
were in one place, the mob would rush upon
them and kill them all together. The mob fired
before the women had time to start from the
camp. "The men took off their hats and swung
them and cried for quarter, until they were shot
down; the mob paid no attention to their cries
nor their entreaties, but fired alternately. I took
my little girls (my boys I could not find) and ran
for the woods. The mob encircled us on all
sides, excepting the bank of the creek, so I ran
down the bank and crossed the mill pond on a


plank, ran up the hill on the other side into the
bushes; the bullets whistled by me like hail-
stories, and cut down the bushes on all sides of
me. One girl was wounded by my side, and
she fell over a log, and her clothes happened to
hang over the log in sight of the mob, and the
mob fired at them, supposing that it was her
body, and after all was still our people cut out of
that log twenty bullets.” I witnessed that aw-
ful scene, which can never, no never, be erased
from my memory while I live upon the earth; I
can shut my eyes at any time and see it all over
again. The shock to my nervous system no lan-
guage can define.”
	“When the mob had done firing they began to
howl, and one would have thought a horde of
the infernals had escaped from the lower regions.
They plundered our goods, what we had left,
they took possession of our horses and wagons,
and drove away, howling like so many demons.
After they had gone I came down to behold the
awful scene of slaughter, and oh! oh!! what a hor-
rible sight! My husband and one of my sons,
tem-years old, lay lifeless upon the ground, and
another son, six years old, wounded and bleed-
ing, his hip all shot to pieces; and the ground
all around covered with the dead and dying.
There were three little boys had crept under the
blacksmith’s bellows; one of them received three
wounds; he lived three weeks, suffering all the
time incessantly, and at last died. He was not
mine, the other two were mine. One of whom
had his brains all shot out, the other his hip shot
to pieces.” This last was Alma Smith, who
lives at Coalville, and who still carries the bul-
lets of the mob in his body, but was healed by
the power of God through the careful nursing
and earnest faith of his mother. “My husband
was nearly stript of his clothes before he was
quite dead; he had on a new pair of calf-skin
boots, and they were taken off him by one whom
they designated Bill Mann, who afterward made
his brags that he ‘pulled a d—d Mormon’s boots
off his feet while he was kicking.’ Realize, my
reader, if you can for one moment, the dreadful
scene—nothing but horror and distress. It was
at sunset when the mob left and we crawled
back to see and comprehend the extent of our
misery. The very dogs seemed filled with rage,
howling over their dead masters, and the cattle
caught the scent of innocent blood, and bellowed.
A dozen helpless widows grieving for the loss of
their husbands, and thirty or forty orphaned, or
fatherless, children were screaming and crying
for their fathers who lay cold and insensible
around them. The groans of the wounded and
dying rent the air. All this combined was
enough to melt the heart of anything but a Mis-
souri mobocrat. There were fifteen killed and
ten wounded, two of whom died the next day."
This is only an item of the terrible tragedy known
as the battle of Haun’s Mill. There were not
men enough left to bury the dead, and they were
thrown into an old well that was dry, and cov-
ered with straw and dirt.
	My good friends who read this awful recital,
can you, do you wonder that the children born
about the time of these fearful mobbings and
drivings, should be imbued with a spirit of
avenging the wrongs perpetrated upon these in-
nocent, harmless immigrants? I think not. It
is these and similar persecutions of adding insult
to injury, that have made the Latter-day Saints
feel so indignant when, after leaving the civil-
ized regions, they are again pursued by their
enemies
	To be continued.


CORRESPONDENCE.

ST. GEORGE March, 28, 1881.
DEAR  EDITOR:  Our  Conference  is  over,  and
we  have  bid  adieu  to  our  beloved  and hon-
ord Sister E. R. S.  Smith  and  Sister  Zina D.
Young; but  although  they  have  left  us,  their 
visit will long remain  in our memories as some-
thing pleasant to  think  of,  for the  comfort and
blessings they  have imparted  and  good  work
they have done.
 It was our  coldest  part of winter  when they
arrived, and  after  resting  a  short  time,  and
working in the  Temple,  they in company with
our  esteemed  President,  Minerva  W. Snow,
started out to visit the settlements of this Stake,
facing  cold  and  storm.  Self  seemed  to  be a
secondary consideration with these truly women
of God,  filled with all humility and kindness.
	And the little  children have  seen and talked
with Sister Eliza,  whose songs they have sung so
long in Sunday School.  Now  she has organized
them into Primaries and they have meetings of


their very own,  the  good  results of  which  are
already manifest.
	I must not omit to mention also Sister Rachel
Grant and  Sister  Libby  Townsend, who  spent
part of the  winter here, and with whom we en-
joyed some most  agreeable   Associations.  We
are pleased to have our  friends  from the  North
visit us, it does us good, and we hope that as the
Rail Road  comes  nearer (so  that  they do  not
have "the horrid roads" to travel) that more will
come.  It is a delightful climate in winter,there
being  scarcely  a day  but   the  atmosphere  is
sunny and bright.   I am  sure Italy's  skies can-
not boast of a more beautiful blue.  It now looks
like a posey garden, all  the  fruit trees  being  in
bloom, and  asparagrus  and   pie plant has  been
ready for the table for more than a  week.
	I have been very sick, but through  the bless-
ings of  my  Heavenly   Father  and  faith  and
prayers in  my  behalf,  am thankful to say  I am
gaining strength,  and  hope soon   to be able  to
resume my every day duties.
	With  kind  love and  good  wishes  for your
success I remain your Sister in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH P. BENTLY, Cor. Sec'y R. S.


OUR SPIRITUAL SURROUNDINGS.

 That we  are more or less influenced by spirit-
ual powers, either  good  or bad, scarcely any one
will deny.  That Satan and his host are seeking
whom  they may destroy we  learn  from the Bi-
ble.  And this is done by them influencing per-
sons  to do wrong, hence it is  by our own acts we
are  condemned.  We  read  of Mary Magdalene
being  possessed of seven devils, and of evil spir-
its  being  cast  out  of  many  others.  Then  we
each have  our  guardian  angels  to watch and
protect us, and these, P. P. Pratt says, "are our
kindred- our fathers  who  have  died and risen
again in former ages." Angels  are  sometimes
resurrected beings,  persons  who once  lived on
this earth, but have passed to the higher spheres.
Spirits  are  persons who have  died  and not  yet
been  resurrected,  or  received  their  immortal
bodies.  History informs us that both have often
returned to earth and made themselves known
to many people.  From  the  Bible we learn that
angels appeared to Abraham, Lot, Hagar, Jacob,
Balaam,  Elijah, Joshua,  Daniel  and  others, and
many angel  visits  are  recorded in the New Tes-
tament,  to  Zachariah,  St.  Peter,  Joseph  and
Mary and St. John, and in the Book of Mormon
we read of angels appearing  to Alma, Amulek,
Nephi and Lehi, and in this age messengers have
appeared  openly  to  Joseph  Smith, Oliver  Cow-
dery, David Whitmer and Martin Harris.  These
messengers  had  some  important  business  to
transact, or  message  to  deliver.  The  Book  of
Mormon says one of the gifts of God is "the be-
holding of angels and ministering spirits."  The
Bible  tells us one  of the gifts is the discerning
of spirits.  From Wilford Woodruff, through the
Deseret News, we  learn  that  he  has, in dreams
that  seemed  almost  real,  seen  and  conversed
with Joseph Smith many times since his death,
and that  last winter  he "had  many such inter-
views with President Young, Heber C. Kimball,
George A. Smith, Jedediah M. Grant, and many
other" who  were  dead.  P. P. Pratt  speaks in
some of his writings of  receiving a visit while in
prison from  his  dead  wife.  How often  do  we
feel  at  times  an unseen assistance, some power
enlightening our minds and making things clear
to  our  understanding, and  assisting us in some-
thing we are doing, when, should we  try to ac-
complish  the  same  object  at another time, un-
aided,  we  would  make  a  comparative  failure.
That  such  is  rendered  may be  proved  by the
following:  "And  it  came  to pass, when Joshua
was by  Jericho, that he  lifted up  his  eyes  and
looked,  and  behold,  there  stood  a  man  over
against him with his sword drawn  in  his  hand,
and Joshua went unto him, and said  unto him,
Art thou for us, or for our adversaries?  And he
said, Nay;  but  as  captain  of  the  host  of  the
Lord am I now come;"  and  it  was certainly by
no mortal  power that  the "wall (of Jericho) fell
flat."
	It may be  argued that it is only on important
occasions that such power is displayed, but many
incidents  have been  related  of  persons  being
saved  from  accident by some peculiar supernat-
ural  impression  of the mind. It was  a  spirit
that  stood before the Lord and said he would be
a  lying  spirit  in  the mouth  of all Ahab's pro-
phets. and so persuade him to go to battle, which
evil terminated  his  life, yet  the  circumstance
seemed  brought  about  in  a  perfectly  natural
way, as though no unseen power was controlling.
	Again, We  read  in the second book of Kings,
about  Elisha  the  Prophet  warning the King of


Israel  against  the  Syrians, and the King of the
Syrians  sent a great  host  to  Dotham  to fetch
him, and  they compassed  the  city.  When the
servant of the prophet saw them he asked him,
"How shall we do?"  And  he  answered, "Fear
not; for they that be with us are more than they
that be with  them."  And  Elisha  prayed  the
Lord to open his servant's  eyes, which He did,
and the young man saw "the mountain was full
of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha;"
thus we see he was protected by spiritual power,
which could not, without supreme assistance, be
viewed by mortal eyes.
	Another instance  is recorded  in  Isaiah, 37th
chap.,  36th  verse.  "Then the angel of the Lord
went forth, and smote in the camp of tthe Assyr-
ians a hundred and four score and five thousand; 
and when  they arose  early in the  morning, be-
hold, they were all dead corpses."
	Possessing the same priesthood held  by these
ancient prophets, we are entitled to and enjoy
the "beholding  (and  protection)  of angels  and
ministering  spirits.  The following  is from  the
history of Joseph Smith in  the Millennial Star,
Vol.  15,  No.  39.  Elder  Roger  Orton  saw a 
mighty angel riding upon a horse of fire, with a
flaming  sword  in  his  hand,  followed  by  five
others, encircle the house, and protect the Saints,
even  the  Lord's  anointed,  from  the  power  of
Satan and a host of evil spirits, which were striv-
ing to disturb the Saints.		*	*	*
	Relative to the  hearing  from  the  dead,  in
Isaiah,  the  8th  chap.,  we  read  the  following:
"Should not a people seek unto their God for the
living to the dead?"  This  must  be  the  gift of
God, "the beholding of angels  and  ministering
spirits" spoken of in  the Book of Mormon.
	ANN FELLOWS.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


AN  ESSAY  ON  PRAYER.
"Prayer is the soul's sincere desire,
Uttered or unexpressed,
The motion of a hidden  fire
That  trembles in the breast."
Prayer! what  a  great and  important  weight
rests upon that word! how  prayerful we ought
all to be! our Savior told  his  disciples  to pray
without ceasing, lest they fall  into  temptation.
And on  another  occasion  he told  them  when
they prayed,  they  should  pray, "Our Father
which art in heaven, hallowed by thy name, thy
kingdom come thy will be done on earth as it is
in heaven."  Therefore  we see  how  necessary
it is to pray;  and  we  as  Latter-day Saints  do
know that the Lord does hear our prayers,  and
when we pray, let us not forget  to  pray for  the
Holy Priesthood and for all  the leading authori-
ties of this  Church  and  kingdom,  and  for the
mighty work that we are engaged in, we are told
that the  prayer  of the faithful availeth much;
therefore if we pray  unitedly the Lord  is  bound
to hear  our  prayers.  Then  let us  be  faithful,
and watchful, and often  times  found  upon  our
knees in secret prayer, let us  try to live our  re-
ligion, to keep the faith and do  our duty; let us
draw near unto  the  Lord that  we may  obtain
the Holy  Spirit  to guide  and  direct  us in  all
things.  Let us not miss the  glory that we have
started out for, that we may be ready and have
our lamps  trimmed and burning when the cry
goes forth, "Behold the Bridegroom cometh go ye
out to meet him."
				FRANCES B. HART.
Alma, West Weber, March 10, 1881.


PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION  IN  THE  ISLE  OF
MAN.--THE  WOMEN'S VOTE,--The first  con-
tested election in the Isle of Man for members of 
the  new  House  of Keys  took  place  in Acre
Sheading to-day.  There  were  polling  booths
in the villages of Andreas, Bride, and  Lez-Ayre,
and in the town of Ramsey.  There was four can-
didates for three  seats, Messrs. Farrante, Martin,
and Cowell, nominated by the Church and Wes-
leyan party, and  Mr.  R.  Teare, the nominee of
the extreme Nonconformists.  There was much
excitement during the day.  Party colours were
freely dispalyed and  business  was  suspended.
The first vote was recorded by one of the newly-
enfranchised women.  The result  was  declared
about  5  30,  as follows:-- Farrant; 333; Cowell,
326; Martin, 295, Reare, 255.--Manchester Guard-
ian.


R. S. REPORTS.

AURORA, SEVIER  COUNTY, UTAH,
					March 15th, 1881.
The sisters of this place were organized  into a
Relief Society on  the ninth  of  January, 1880.


Sister  Clarissa  A.  Morgan, President Celestia
Durfee and Sabrina Howard, Counselors,Agatha
M.  Baxter, Secretary, Mary E.  Colby,  Assistant
Sec'y, Emma Broadhead,  Treasurer.  We have 6
teachers,  29  members,  enrolled,  we  are  doing
very  well  under  the  circumstances,  hold  our
testimony  meetings  every  fast-day;  we  had a
call from Sisters E. R. Snow  and B. W. Smith,
on or about the  first  of October last,  they  gave
us  some  good instructions, may  God  preserve
them long on the earth for our good.  We raised
53 bus. of wheat 5 bus.  and l9 lbs.  of oats.  We
held our annual meeting on the 5th of Jan., 1881;
there were present Bishop Jensen, of Salina, and
Sister Jensen, President of Relief Society Salina.
We had a very good time;  the officers were  sus-
tained.  We donated  40 dollars  in  quilts  and
other  articles  to Manti  Temple.  We have  a
Mutual  Improvement  Association, a  Primary
and a Sunday School, all  in good running order
and doing a good work.  We read the EXPONENT
and pray for its success.  Ever  praying for  the
welfare of all our Sisters  and for  the prosperity 
of all  righteous  undertakings, your  sister in the
Gospel,
		Agatha M. Baxter, Sec’y.


R. S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
	SPRINGVILLE.
EDITOR EXPONENT: The Anniversary meet-
in of the Y. L. M. I. A.,  of Springville con-
vened in the meeting house Mar. 15 1881, Pres.
Caroline  Whiting presiding.  After  the usual
exercises of singing,  prayer  and  calling  the
roll, minutes of the  last anniversary  meeting,
Constitution  and  By-laws of the  Association
were read  by Sec'uy., followed by  reading of
programme  in  observance  of  which  several
speeches, songs, recitations,  Bible and Book of
Mormon,  exercises  were  given in a  lively and
interesting manner.  Statistical and Financial
reports from  the  different  departments, were
read and accepted.  Officers of the Association
were re-elected with  the  exception of the  2nd
and  5th, counselors,  who  had  previously re-
signed, and in whose stead others were  chosen
to  act.  Closing remarks by  Bishop Wm.
Bringhurst, urging the  sisters to be  energetic
and diligent  their labors  and spoke  highly
of the marked improvement, manifested during
the last year.  Meeting  closed  with  singing
and  prayer.  The  annual  meeting,  together
with the Y. L. M. I. A. party which came off
the  following evening has effected more unison
and interest amongst the members. With best
wishes for  the success of the Improvement As-
sociations of Zion.
	We remain, 
		CAROLINE WHITING, Pres.
	CLARA SNOW, Cor., Sec’y.
Minutes of Meeting of the Primary Associa-
tion of the Bear Lake Stake, met in Conference
with the Relief Societies,  March  7th,  1881, in
the St.  Charles  Meeting  House, at 2  P. M.
Meeting called to  order by  President  Annie
Laker singing by  the  Choir, “Praise Ye The
Lord,” prayer  by  Bishop  J.  Hunt, singing.
Roll called, Statistical  and  Financial  reports
were read.  Verbal reports were given by the
presidents of the various Associations; showing
there is a great amount of  good being done in
these  organizations.  President  Annie  Laker
gave general good instructions to the presidents
and  officers  of  the  associations, also to  the
parents of the children.  Counseled the parents
to encourage their children to be  punctual  in
attending their meetings, and  the necessity of
training them in  honesty  before  God, and to
remove  all prejudice of  an  evil  nature from
their minds.  The remainder of the  afternoon
was occupied  by the  Relief  Societies.  Con-
ference  adjourned for six months.
ANNIE LAKER, President.
ELIZABETH PUGMIRE
ELIZABETH HUNT.
	SUSANNA A.  BOOTH, Sec'y.

 Statistical and financial report of the Primary
Associations of the Bear  Lake  Stake  for six
months ending Feb 14, 1881.  Stastical: Of-
icers, 29;  members,  899;  total officers, and
members, 928;  meetings  held, 243;  average at-
tendance, 405.
 Financial:  On  hand  at date of last report,
cash, $0.75; property, $37.11; receipts in cash,
$51.60; property, $17.62; wheat,  24 bushels
and  30 pounds,  $14.70.
 Disbursements:  emigration  cash,  $1.00
temple cash, $16.00; book cash, $19.95; temple
property, $12.44; on hand  cash,  $16.90; pro-
perty, 37.13; books, 19.95; wheat  24 bushels
and 20  pounds, 14.70
		SUSANNA BOOTH, Sec'y.

 The report  of  the Primary  Association of
Hyrum City, Cache Co.  Utah.  Organized  by
Bishop O. N. Liljenquist,  with  Miss  L.  Snell-
grove, Pres. and 49  names  enrolled, on March
15, 1879.  Reorganized Oct. 2, 1879, with Mrs.
Lucy Wilson President, and members increased
to 131.  Our meetings  are held Saturday after-
noons, have held  50  meetings.  On  Tuesday
March  15,  1881,  we held our Annual meet-
ing, Mrs. Lucy Wilson presiding.  Singing by
the children	"The day  dawn is  breaking,"
prayer by Coun. James Unsworth, singing "We
thank thee O  God &c.  After which  the fol-
lowing report was read.  Received in donation,
$405.  wheat  gleaned  4 bus, 41  lbs;  we have
made and paid to the  Logan Temple 1  quilt,
at $5.00; paid  for  rewards  of merit $1.20,
and for a record Book, 95  cts;  wheat in  Re-
lief  Society  granary  4 bush, and  41  lbs.
Made a surprise party for sick  girl, and pres-
ented her  with  a  dress  worth  $2.  Report
accepted after  which Sister  C. Liljnquist Pres.
of the Relief  Society  and  other  sisters spoke
very  encouragingly  to the  children, and ex-
horted them to be good  and kind, obedient to
their parents, &c.  Bro. J. Unsworth spoke, on
Jesus  blessing  little  children,  "for of such is
the  Kingdom  of Heaven  likened  &c.  The
following  officers  were  then  elected. Mrs.
Lucy Wilson  President, Ingre  Tellefsen, and
Emma Liljenquist Counselors;  and Rebecca
Nielsen Secretary;  and Mrs. Alice  Unsworth,
Cor. Sec'y., and  Nancy Anderson Treasurer.
President Lucy Wilson said there would be an
entertainment given  in  the meeting house the
same evening, by the  children of the Primary
Association.  Benediction  by  Brother H.
Thorsen.
 Entertainment by the Primary Association,
Hyrum, Utah,  Selections  from  Book of Mor-
mon, repeating 12 verses from Christ's Sermon
on the  Mount  also  the  10  Commandments,
dialogues, songs,  quartettes, &c.,  all of which
was enjoyed very  much  by all  present,  the
little folks doing remarkably well.  Our meet-
ing house, being  pretty  well  filled, all went
away, feeling that they had  been well paid in
attending the little folks first entertainment by
the Primary.  Proceeds  from  sale  of Tickets,
at 5 and  10 cents each, $14.58 to go  for the
benefit of said Association.
		LUCY WILSON PRESIDENT,
		ALICE UNSWORTH Cor. Sec'y.


IMPROVEMENT.

	A  FEW  THINGS  WE  SHOULD  IMPROVE  IN.

	Address written for and read before the Y. L. M. I. A.
of the First Ward, Salt Lake City, March 29, 1881.

	In  the  first place  what is improvement?  My
dictionary tells  me  it  is  advancement  or pro-
gress  from  good  to  better;  and I should  say
from bad to good was also an improvement.
	We are organized into an  Improvement As-
sociation.   What  are we  to improve in?  Not
alone  in  bearing  our testimonies to the truth,
though we should strive to have a firm, strong


<c- in="" fact,="" almost="" every-="" thing="" we'.do="" we="" can="" see.="" where="" might="" im-="" ‘="" prove;="" and="" i="" think="" need="" not="" let="" the="" thoughts.-="" of="" our5="" getting="" too="" perfect="" for="" this="" edrth="" deter="" us="" from="" improving="" all="" can,="" fori="" don’t="" will="" ever="" be="" ,so="" far'="" advanced="" but="" that="" we;="" see="" ther="" isstill’rpom="" improvement,="" "find="" more="" wfe="" improve="" the'1="" learn,1="" broader="" field="" learning="" improvement="" appear="" to="" us.="" ’="" some="" may="" ask,="" how="" our="" ..="" thoughts?="" they="" take="" their="" own="" course,="" have="" no="" control="" oyer="" them.="" then="" should="" .strive="" them="" by="" filling="" minds="" with="" food="" pure="" holy="" thought="" at="" such="" times="" as="" spare="" thoughts="" duties="" life,="" dwell="" on="" evil="" oreven="" disa-="" greeable="" things..="" course="" only="" make="" better="" purer,="" it="" also="" add="" beauty="" than="" cosmetics="" or="" outward="" adornments="" used="" worn;="" who="" does="" hot="" know="" a="" person="" whose="" mind="" is="" filled="" disagreeable="" usually="" show.it="" countenances;="" while'="" onrthe‘="" other;liand="" has="" holy1="" expression="" their-="" countenance.="" face="" generally="" representation="" char-="" acters,and="" characters,="" extent:="" least,are="" formed="" .thoughts.="" -="" conversation="" consider="" one="" first="" and-foremost="" things="" in.a0'we="" allow="" lips="" utter="" freely="" do="" slang="" words="" phrases="" hear="" so="" much="" now="" days;="" very="" easy="" get="" into="" habit="" using="" them,="" hard="" break="" off="" that,="" habit;="" this.="" personal="" experience.="" seems="" al-="" most="" though="" stood="" end="" your="" tongue,="" ready="" jump="" out="" whenever="" you="" opened="" lips,="" keep="" back="" sensible="" words.="" if="" are="" educated,="" havei="" much,="" any="" knowledge="" gram-="" mar,="" many="" not,="" had="" advantages="" education="" girls="" now,="" easily="" distinguish="" phrase="" remark,="" even="" spoken="" grammatically.="" another="" consideration="" do,="" not-to="" handle,="" certain="" subjects="" familiarly,="" especially="" before="" children.="" sometimes="" we.iaregetting="" altogether="" careless="" about="" talk="" those:="" those;="" are'grow-'-="" ing="" up="" fill="" responsible="" positions="" either="" home="" public.="" we.="" reform="" -particular="" jt="" marked="" improvement'not="" modesty="" morality,-but="" well.="" when="" x="" .was="" child="" heard="" on‘as'familiarly="" "i="" am="" sorry="" say="" presence="" chil-="" dren="" too;,="" thinks="" whoare="" older="" agredwith="" meihat="" children="" growing="" nowjjwlth="" very..different="" ideas,and="" under="" less,="" restraint;="" general="" when-="" were="" child;="" and-i="" inclined="" thecauses,.if.="" .not="" cause,-is="" free.and="" .easy="" way="" which="" we.converse-upon="" topira="" were-="" once="" ’never="" alluded="" to'in="" phildren,="" .="" look="" forward="" few="" generations="" ask="" yourselves="" what="" thewesult="" ?-="" 'what,will="" lead="" to,="" con-="" tinued="" increases="" fast="" it;="" done="" short="" lifetimes="" ?="" readily="" admit="" picture,="" veryipleasant="" ope="" td="" contemplate.="" therefore,="" let’na="" choose="" our-="" carefully,="" noli="" only,="" ourselves,="" those="" younger="" profit="" ?by="" also.="" t.-regard="" to'dridonjl="" tih'tffat'we="" rre1="" required="" dress="" perfectly="" plain,="" try="" dress'as="" neat="" becomingly="" possible.="" lover="" myself,'="" love="" beautiful="" object,="" whether="" rock,="" tree,="" person,="" whatever="" be,="" 1="" sure="" my="" father="" heaven,="" loves="" too,="" he="" would="" made="" things;="" privilege="" ourselves="" possible,="" illuminating'="" countenances="" thoughts,="" dressing="" becomihgly="" shades,="" shapes="" colors="" suit="" forms="" complexions.="" false="" ideas="" of'beauty,="" must="" lace="" waists="" pinch="" toes,="" &c.="" however,="" beauty,="" uncomfortable="" leads="" disease="" death.="" neither="" dressed="" like="" fashionable="" dress-="" maker’s="" dummie,="" milliner’s="" advertisement,="" walking="" jewelry="" store,="" streets="" every="" day.="" figure="" complexions,="" far="" taste="" judgment="" to;="" others,="" less1="" time="" study="" find="" out,="" spend="" trying="" latest="" style,="" other="" equally="" foolish="" thing.="" there="" among="" friends="" acquaintances="" blessed="" means="" we,="" must,="" .just="" costly="" clothes="" order="" same="" society="" associate="" in;="" true="" lady="" just="" cheapest="" print="" she="" costliest="" silks="" satins,="" richest="" materials,="" cheap-="" est,="" equal="" her,="" great="" deal="" beyend="" ap-="" pear="" fine="" feathers="" did.="" while,="" the.="" hand,="" some,="" down="" are,="" well="" off.="" and,="" give="" chance="" earn="" to.="" level="" riches:—i="" because="" are.="" willing="" earn,="" we',="" able="" so,="" deserve.="" ...="" having="" touched="" upon="" these="" items="" where5;="" certainly="" an="" advance-="" ment="" good="" bad="" good,="" wishing="" monopolize.="" time,="" i-will="" leave="" rest="" else,="" perhaps="" dothe="" subject="" justice,than.="" j.="" while="" cultivate,="" refinement="" manners;="" speech,="" voice,="" &c.,="" ;="" avoid="" affectation,="" nothing="" :="" disgusting="" affectation="" way.="" be'natural;-do="" affect="" refinement,="" cultivate="" it.="" -r'="" hope="" sisters="" -will="" meaning="" alone,="" assure="" lido="" mean="" it.any="" for.="" myself)="" thatt-need="" fa="" of.="" things,="" why!="" hpyewrit:="" ten="" down,'tn="" might'="" impress="" firmly="" mind.="" presume-1="" faults="" sisters,="" desire="" correct="" benefit="" .the="" others.="" trust="" considerthat="" this,="" fp.rthe="" y.="" l.jmfi.1.="" a.,="" myself="" included;="" trust-also="" you.will,="" excuse:-="" rah="" if-i="" errors,="" gram-&="" maticalor="" otherwise,="" any’="" improper:="" remarks="" suggestions';-1="" you,!',="" willtake="" liberty="" correcting="" them;="" also.,-hope="" pardon="" me="" for-speaking'.s="" plmidy="" houghtsrj;="" jj!="" ,osao:;:0="" ,="" f.="" 3av..m.="" &="" 4<sy.i&="" awcnc<="" div="">[Column 1]
testimony within  us,  so  that  if  we  shoutd  be
required  at  any time  to bear it, we can  do  so
with  an  honest  heart.  We  should  improve
our  manner,  talk, dress, conversation,  educa-
tion,  thoughts,  &c., in fact, in almost  every-
thing  we  do  we  can  see  where we  might im-
prove;  and I think we need not let the thought
of  our  getting  too perfect for this  earth deter
us from improving all we can, for I don't think
we will  ever  be  so  far   advanced  but  that we
will  see  there  is still  room  for improvement,
and  we will find  that the more we improve and
the  more  we  learn,  the  broader  the  field  of
learning and improvement will appear to us.
	Some  may  ask,  how  can  we  improve  our
thoughts?  they take their  own course, we have
no control  over them.   Then we should strive
to  control them by filling our minds with food
for pure  and holy thought at such times as we
can spare our thoughts from  the duties of life,
and not let  them  dwell on  evil or even disa-
greeable   things.  This  course  will  not  only
make  us  better and purer, but it will also  add
more  to  our  beauty than  all the  cosmetics or
outward  adornments  ever  used  or  worn;  for
who does not  know that a person whose mind
is  filled  with  evil  and  disagreeable  thoughts
usually  show  it  in  their  countenances;  while
on the other hand a person whose mind is filled
with  pure  and  holy thoughts  has a pure and
holy  expression  on  their  countenance.  The
face is generally a representation  of  our  char-
acters, and  our  characters, to  some  extent  at
least, are formed by our thoughts.
	Our  conversation I consider  one of  the first
and  foremost  things  that  we  should  improve
in.  We  should  not allow our lips to  utter as
freely  as we  do  the  slang words  and  phrases
that  we  hear  so  much  now a days;  it is very
easy to get into the habit of using them, but it
is very hard  to  break  off  that  habit;  this  I
know from  personal  experience.  It  seems al-
most as though they stood on the  end of your
tongue,  ready  to  jump  out  whenever  you
opened  your lips, and to keep back  better and
more  sensible words.   If we are not educated,
and have not much, if any knowledge of gram-
mar, as  many  of  us have  not, for we have not
had the advantages  of  education that the girls
have  now,  we  can  easily  distinguish  a  slang
phrase  from  a  sensible  remark, even  if  it  is
not spoken grammatically.
	And another thing  I  think  we  should take
into  consideration  more  than we do, and that
is not to handle certain subjects too familiarly,
especially before  children.  I sometimes think
we, are  getting  altogether  too  careless  about
how we  talk before  those those  that are grow-
ing  up  to  fill  responsible  positions  either  at
home  or  in  public.   And  I  think  if  we will
reform in this particular it will make a marked
improvement, not  only  in  their  modesty  and
morality,  but  in  our  own  as  well.  I  don't
think when I was  a  child  I  heard  subjects
spoken on as familiarly  as  I  am  sorry to  say
I sometimes hear now, in the presence of  chil-
dren too;  and  I  think  you who  are older will
all agree with me that children are growing up
now with  very different  ideas, and  under  less
restraint, than  children  in  general  had  when
you  were a child;  and I am  inclined  to think
one  of  the  causes, if  not the only cause, is the
free and  easy way in  which we converse upon
topics  that were  once  never  alluded to in  the
presence  of  children.   Look  forward  a  few
generations  and  ask  yourselves what  will  be
the result?   What will this lead to, if it is con-
tinued  and increases  as  fast as we can see that
it  has  done  in  our  short life times?  I think
you will readily admit that the picture is not a
very pleasant one  to  contemplate.  Therefore,
let  us  choose our words and subjects carefully,
not  only to  improve  ourselves, that those who
are younger may profit by it also.
	In regard to dress, I don't  think that we are

[Column 2]
required to dress perfectly plain, but I do think
we should  try to dress as neat and becomingly
as possible.  I  am  a  lover  of beauty  myself,
and I love to see any beautiful  object, whether
it  is  a  rock, a  tree,  a  person, or  whatever it
may  be, and  I  am  sure  that  my Father in
Heaven  loves  beauty  too, or  He  would  not
have  made  so  many  beautiful  things;  and I
think it is our privilege  to  make  ourselves  as
beautiful  as  possible, not only  by illuminating
our  countenances by pure and  holy  thoughts,
but by dressing as  becomingly as possible, and
in  shades, shapes  and  colors to suit our forms
and complexions.  But  some  of  us have false
ideas of beauty, and think that to be beautiful
we must lace our waists and pinch our toes, &c.
However, this not only does not add to beauty,
but  is  very  uncomfortable  and leads to disease
and  death.  Neither  does  it  look beautiful to
see  any  one  dressed  like a fashionable  dress-
maker's dummie, or a milliner's advertisement,
or  a  walking  jewelry  store, as  we  can  see so
many  on  our  streets  every  day.   We  should
dress to suit our figure and complexions, as far
as our taste and judgment allow us to; some of 
us may not  have  as much taste in that way  as
others, but it will  take far less time and study
to find out, than some  of  us spend in trying to
find out which is the latest style, or some other
equally foolish thing.
	And if there are any among  our  friends  or
acquaintances that are blessed with more means
than we, don't 	 let  us think that we must dress
in just as  costly clothes  as they do in order to
appear in the same society as they associate in;
for  a  true  lady  is  just  as much a lady  in the
cheapest  print  dress  as  she  would  be  in  the 
costliest silks or  satins, and if she is dressed in
the  richest  materials, she  will  think  just   as
much  of  you  if  you  are  dressed in the cheap-
est, as she would if you were dressed equal to
her, and  a  great  deal more  than she would  if
you dressed beyend  your means  trying  to ap-
pear in  as  fine  feathers as she did.  While, on
the  other  hand, if  we  are  blessed with more
means than some others, don't let us look down
on  them, for  they may be  a  great deal  better
than  we  are, if  they are  not so well off.   Try
and  give  them a chance to earn their way up
to our level  of  riches—I say earn it because I
think what  we are not  willing  to  earn, if  we
are able to do so, we do not deserve.
	Having  touched upon these few items where
improvement  would  certainly  be  an  advance-
ment  from  good  to better  or  bad  to good, and
not wishing  to  monopolize  too  much  of  the
time, I will leave the rest to some one else, who
perhaps can do the subject more  justice than I
have.  I will only add  that  while we cultivate
refinement  of  manners,  speech,  voice, &c., let
us  by  all  means  avoid affectation, for nothing
is more disgusting than affectation in any way.
Then  be natural;  do not  affect refinement, but
cultivate it.
	I hope my sisters  will not think  that  I  am
meaning  all  this  for them  alone, for I assure
them I do not mean it any more for them than
for  myself.  I  can see  that I need to improve
in all of these things, that is why I have writ-
ten  them down, in  order that I might impress
them more firmly upon  my mind.  I presume
I have just as many faults as any of my sisters,
and it is my desire to  correct them as much as
possible, for  my own benefit  as well as for  the
benefit  of  others.  Therefore, I  trust  you  will
considerthat this is for the Y. L. M. I. A., myself
included;  and I trust also that you will excuse
me  if I have made any errors, whether gram-
matical  or  otherwise, and if I have made  any
improper  remarks  or  suggestions, I hope  you
will take the liberty of  correcting them, and I
also  hope  you  will  pardon  me  for  speaking
plainly a few of my thoughts.
	A. M. B. FLETCHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CONSECRATED  LOOKING GLASSES.

 We read in Exodus, 38th chapter, 8th  verse,
that  Moses “made the  laver  of  brass, and  the
foot  of  it  of brass, of the looking glasses of the
women.” This  laver  was  one of  the  most  im-
portant  articles  of  service  in  the worship  of
the tabernacle.  It  stood  between  the  brazen
altar  and  the  entrance  of  the  sanctuary, the
altar and the layer being the  only two articles
of the holy furniture  that were placed without
the tabernacle.  The  candlestick,  the  table of
shewbread, the incense  altar  and  the  ark, all
of  gold, were  within,  unseen  by  the  outside
spectator.  The order  in  which these  two, the
altar  and  the  laver,  were  approached  by the
priest on  entering the  sanctuary,  were signifi-
cant—first was  the  great  altar  on which  the
victim bled, and  then  after  this the laver  was
reached, indicating  that  faith  in  the  atoning
sacrifice  of  Christ and baptism  for  the  remis-
sion  of  sins  are to precede the entrance of the
soul into the inner  sanctuary,  where  the Holy
Ghost may be received and the gifts and graces
of  spiritual  growth  enjoyed.
 We read that Moses manufactured  the beau-
tiful  laver  out  of  the  looking  glasses  of the
women, the  polished brazen mirrors which, be-
fore  the  invention  of  glass,  performed their
functions in private  and  domestic  life.  Now,
such  an  act was  not  an  accident, nor  is  the
record  of it  an  accident.  Everything  in the
Jewish tabernacle,  and  its  story  teems  with
spiritual significance.  It is holy ground.  Every
order here given comes from the heart of God.
To make it empty, or meaningless, would be to
blaspheme  the  Most  High.  The ancient Jew-
ish ritual was full of symbolic  instruction, and
great  spiritual  and  practical truths were  con-
stantly  presented  to  them  in  the  types  and
shadows of their daily ceremonial worship.
 The fact  that  this  laver which  was  in  con-
stant  and  daily use was  composed of the look-
ing  glasses of the women  of  Israel, must  have
associated  itself  with  great  tenacity with  the
sacred  basin  in  the  minds  of  all  Jewish  be-
holders.
 The  tabernacle was set up by Moses, under
the  direction  of  the  Almighty,  in  the wilder-
ness, and the materials for its construction were
the freewill  offerings  of  the  people.  The wood
men contributed  bracelets,  tablets,  jewels of
gold and  offerings  of  silver and brass.  Among
those offerings were the brazen looking  glasses.
The  looking  glass is the best representation of
that microcosm of individuality which is known
by the French  word  toilette.
 There is  a  proper  attention  to  this  depart-
ment  of  life necessary to meet the demands  of
cleanliness and neatness in both sexes;  but that
which is rightly used for  the  modest  purposes
of  personal  cleanliness  may  very  easily  be
abused  for  immodest  purposes  of  vanity  and
display.  It  was  probably to warn the women
of Israel against this temptation that the look-
ing glasses alone were used in the construction
of  the laver.  This  emblem of holiness said in
its symbolism, “Ye women of Israel beware
vain show.  Waste  not  your  precious time on
vanity, frivolity  and  selfish  adornments,  but
rather employ it in cultivating the graces which
adorn  a  holy life, and  in  deeds of mercy and
charity  to  others.  Obedience  is  better  than
sacrifice,  and  purity  of  heart  more  acceptable
than  vain oblations. This voice yet speaks in
sacred history, and the injunctions of the Apos-
tles  Peter  and  Paul  still reiterate, the  same
teachings to  the  daughters  of  Zion.  Can  the
mothers and daughters of modern Israel afford
to  disregard  and  slight  these  express  and  re-
peated  teachings  of  their  God,  their  Father
and  their King? How  much  precious  time
and  valuable  talent  is  to-day  squandered  on
personal adornment which ought to be utilized
for our  own individual improvement and for
the instruction  and  benefit  of  others.  We
have come out from Babylon, that we may not


be  partakers  of  her plagues, and  yet we bring
the vanities  of  Babylon  into Zion, and prac-
tise her  follies  in the city of the Saints.  If I
were  required  to  point  out  one  of  the most
alarming  sins  in  this city to-day, one which is
deceitful in its influences, most demoralizing in
its  effects  upon  the female character, it would
be the love of  display and the blind submissions
to  the dictates of fashion on the part  of those
who, by  birth  or  profession, ought  to  claim a
place  as  daughters  of  the  King  of  kings.
While open vice sends its thousands  to  perdi-
tion, these fashionable and favored indulgences
draw  off  tens  of  thousands  from  the  ways  of
life  and salvation.  They sear  the  conscience,
encrust the  soul with an  impenetrable shell of
worldliness, distract  the  affections  from  every
high  and  holy object, and  make  the poor, be-
dizened  creature  a worshipper  of  self, a  rival
of the peacocks.  "The  king's daughter is all
glorious within," said the wise man.  She needs
no  jewel  upon  hand  or  brow,  no  pearls  or
costly array  to  prove her  royal lineage.  The
attributes  of  her  kingly  nature  shine  with
added  lustre  as  she  stoops  to perform acts of
mercy and goodness to even the meanest of her
Father's  subjects,  and  before  the  radiance of
her triple crown  of purity, love  and  fidelity,
the  diamonds  of  a  monarch's  diadem  would
"pale their ineffectual fires."
Let  us  then,  my  sisters, as  women  of Zion;
daughters of the King  of kings, dedicate our-
selves  and  all  we  have  to  the  service  of our
God, that His Temple  may arise  in  its  glory.
Following  the  example  of  the Jewish women
of old, may we freely offer even our most cher-
ished  articles  of  personal  adornment  to  be
used  for  higher  and  holier  purposes, and  as
the  prophet  foretold  that  in  the  latter  days
there should be written  even  upon the bells of
the  horses "Holiness  to the Lord," so may we,
as  women  of the  true Israel, consecrate  even
our looking glasses to the Most High.
		Ellen B. Ferguson.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


OUR  VISIT.
 We, the  people  of  Mt.  Carmel, feel that we
were highly blessed by having a visit from our
beloved sisters,  Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young  and  Minerva Snow. Although their
visit  was  short,  we  highly appreciated it;  I
think we would be very ungrateful if we could
feel otherwise, for they surely seem to have the
same  spirit  and  influence  that  our  beloved
Prophet  and Seer  Joseph Smith had, and that
his  Apostles  have.  Their  hearts  were  full of
love and their lips flowed with good counsel for
the sisters and  their  children,  whom  they  have
been  called  to  organize  into  Primary  Associa-
tions.  They organized  a  Primary  Association
in our little settlement, for which we feel thank-
ful.  We  all,  both  old  and  young,  loved the
meek and  charitable  spirit  they manifested
while here. We have  read  and  heard very
much  of  these  sisters  and the good they were
doing,  through  the  power  and  will  of our
Heavenly Father, and  by the counsel  and au-
thority  of his Holy  Priesthood,  that  He has
placed here  on the earth to lead, guide and di-rect his  children  here;  and  if  we strictly
hearken  to  their counsels it will prove a great
blessing to us, both here and hereafter.
 Since I wrote the above my husband, Henry
B. M. Jolly has  returned home from  a  short
mission  to  the  Southern  States,  feeling  well
both  in  body and  mind, and full of the spirit
of his mission;  seven of his relatives have come
home with him, and  there  are  many more in
that  country that seem to believe every princi-
ple  of  life and salvation that the Elders of Is-
rael teach them, through the Spirit of power
of our  Heavenly  Father. This work will roll
on with great and mighty power.  We can see
the prophecies being fulfilled continually, that
have  been  prophesied  by  both  ancient and


modern  prophets,  concerning  the  people of
Zion here  upon  the  earth  in  these last days.
So, dear  readers, let us, with  all our mind and
might, do all we can to help roll on the work
of the Almighty, that  He  has  established  in
these  last  days.  We  should  never speak one
word  against  any principle  that the Lord has
revealed  to  us  through  his  prophets, for his
children to be  governed by, and we should  do
all  in  our  power  to  raise  our  children, to be
honorable, honest and upright men and women
in the kingdom of our Heavenly  Father, and
do unto others as we would have others do unto
us, and  never, no, never, try to tear down our
brethren and sisters  to  build  ourselves up; if
we do, I fear  that sooner or later we  will fall
into the pit  that  we  prepare  for  others.  May
we  ever  be  careful  to  look  well  to  our own
short-comings instead  of  our neighbors, is the 
sincere  prayer  of  your  sister  in the Gospel of
peace.
CYNTHIA  ANN  JOLLEY.


HOME INFLUENCE.

 It was Napoleon who said, that the character
and  fate  of  the  child was  the work  of the
mother. Largely this is true, though not in a
sense to  exclude  the  influence  of the father,
especially in the case of boys.
	The child is often  left  to  the  mother's care.
A double duty is her's, to that which God gave
is added  that which man shifted upon her, and
with her rests  the whole work of preparing her
child for the grave  encounters of life. In how
many  homes does a  mother's  intercourse with
her children alternate between caressing indul-
gence and pettish  fault-finding? In how many
are the bodies pampered  and  dressed, children
reduced to mere ornaments to gratify paternal
vanity, while  the affections are  thwarted, and
all the highest  possibilities  of the mind either
uncultured  or  repulsed. Girlhood  and  boy-
hood pass,  the  old home  is  left,  and  the new
begun away  from old  scenes and associations,
restrained no  longer, but  altogether  free, still
you  trace  childhood influences. When your
boy steps into the street he  opens all the doors
of his home;  he  carries  out  a photograph of
his  parents  to be  seen  of  their neighbors. 
When the little girl  goes  into  the  next house
she carried  the  domestic  newspaper abroad. 
Dear reader,  is  your  domestic  newspaper
readable?--Haymakertown  Va.--Ex.
MRS. S. D. RICE.


[Column 1]
 A SINGLE STONE: From a running brook slew
the giant  Goliath, and millions  of  noble  men
since that time have died from  a single stone in
the bladder,  which Warner's  Safe  Kidney  and
Liver  Cure  would have  dissolved  and carried
away.

	ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and  Surgeon.

 OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
  RESIDENCE on  South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
   Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

  	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE- Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
  RESIDENCE- Six Blocks East  of Post  Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and  DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

		HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW  VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
   If not  you  should  do  so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The New Machine
is elegant in appearance  and  admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise  and  confusion, although
the  rate  of  speed  is  very high.  Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable.  Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING  MACHINE  CO.,  CHICAGO, ILL.
		YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST  TEMPLE ST
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
   Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velevet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS  R. SHIPP
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
  OFFICE AND RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z.C.M.I.
   Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities. 

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES  & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West.  Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO.  DUNFORD.
F.  AUERBACH  & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND  EXAMINE
Fall  and  Winter Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S, celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	Z.C.M.I
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

A LARGE STOCK.
Of Home Made  Trunks  for  Sale by  JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
[Column 1 within the advertisement]
Blankets, 
Flannels, 
Shawls, 
Linseys, 
Jeans, 

[Column 2 within the advertisement]
Brown Yarns, 
White Yarns, 
Colored Yarns, 
Cassimers, 
Tweeds, 

[Column 3 within the advertisement]
Cotton Batting, 
Wool Batting, 
Brooms, 
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc. 

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES  FEATHERS  WALL PAPER
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77,  &  79,  First  South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:- MAIN ST  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE. 
P. O.  BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL.  9.	SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  MAY  1,  1881.	NO. 23.


COMFORT  IN  SORROW.

One by one, death robs us of our dear ones' love,
One by one they leave us, weeping bitter tears,
Falling, ever falling,  with  the dying years.
One by one they're hidden in the grave so low,
While our hearts are riven, 'neath  a  weight of woe,
None but our dear Father all our grief  can know.
Voice we have greeted, one by one are hushed;
Hands  once  clasped  with  fervor, with  sweet  hope  and
	trust,
Pulseless lie forever,  turning into dust.
Violets  of  springtime, and the summer's bloom,
Leaves in autumn falling, and the winter's gloom,
Silently are weaving shrouds around the tomb.
All  that  cheered  and  gladdened,  from  our  sky  seems
	gone;
Dreary wastes of waters, naught to rest upon:
And  through weeping  clouds,  we're ever struggling on,
But the largest cloud hides most of heaven's blue,
Though we cannot  trace, we'll  trust  and  press on thro',
Till the mists shall vanish, like the morning dew.
Down amid old ruins, God the sunshine sends
Fertilizing showers, into barren fens,
Till green bud and blooming,  over all extends.
Yearning human hearts, along  life's dusty road,
Long compelled  to  carry sorrow's heavy load,
There's a house of refuge—His divine abode.
Faint not, weary  pilgrim, travel-stained, footsore,
There's abundant entrance into heaven's door,
Where the living waters flow on, evermore.
All  of  grief  and sorrow have their bound and time,
But  they cannot enter that celestial clime,
Love and truth eternal, reigneth there sublime.
Time is speeding swiftly with the grave and gay,
And the longest life is but a fleeting day;
Long  or short the journey, it quickly speeds away.
Through the raging waters, deserts burning sands,
His tried sons and daughters reach the promised land,
Aided by His power, guided by His hand.
	L. M. HEWLINGS.
	Atchison, Kansas.


THE  VICTORIAN  ERA.
BY  HANNAH  T.  KING.

 I believe  I  may say without fear  of  contra-
diction, that  Queen  Victoria  has  been  and is
the most popular  sovereign  of  her era, and the
same may  be  said  of her  government. Her
reign has been  agreeable  to her name, for vic-
tory has  crowned every enterprise of the same;
she has  been  surrounded  by  men  of  patriotic
character,  of  broad  brains  and  large hearts,
and she has shown, upon all occasions, that she
realized their  calibre and  ability, and has been
one with them, still ever holding her high posi-
tion  and  prerogative,  of  which  I  believe  her
strong will and good common sense has rendered
her capable of doing at all times;  she has given
proof  of  this on  a  few occasions, when she felt
her ermine  was  too  officiously touched or the
purple too  rudely  invaded;  and  this glorifies
her  position.  Had  Solomon,  "the  wisest of
men," done  this,  he  had  never  fallen so ab-
jectly.
 The  early  years  of  her  reign, especially in
her domestic life, were those  literally  of poetry
and romance;  her life was absolutely above the
common  lot  of  humanity.  She  had married
the man of her choice, and their association to-
gether  as  children, when  he  visited England,
his return  home, and  again  after  some years
paying another  visit, when  their  intimacy was
renewed,  and  they  had  every  opportunity of
becoming acquainted with each  other's charac-
ter and predilections, were all so unusual in the 
preludes of royal marriages, that it looked like
destiny.  Yet, of  course there were agents that
desired  an  alliance  with  the  queen elect, and
who worked for that purpose, and with the best
and  purest  of  motives. Her uncle, her  moth-
er's  brother,  Prince  Leopold,  (subsequently
King  of  Belgium) being  one  of  these  agents;
he had been the happy husband of the Princess
Charlotte, the  daughter  of  George  the Fourth
and Caroline  of Brunswick,  and  but  for  her
sad, early death, would have  stood precisely in
the same position  as his nephew, Prince Albert,
stood. On their marriage the government gave
them Claremont as a residence, and there many
of the  infant  years  of  Victoria  were  
Prince Leopold proving himself a foster father 
to the young sovereign in embryo; here, she 
says, her happiest, childish days were passed. 
	I return to my remark that hers seemed above
the  common  lot.  She  bore  children  almost
without suffering; they were fine formed,healthy
children, and I never  heard  of  sickness being
in their  household;  she  loved  her husband
with a degree  of  worship, and  he  was worthy
of it; she had the proudest nation  in  the  world
at  her  feet;  for  truly  the  chivalry  of ancient
times seemed  revived  and  exhibited  by the
English people  at  that  time;  the men  felt she
was the lady of their choice,  and  the  women
embraced her in their hearts  as their sovereign
queen, and felt as though the grandeur and the 
glory of that  noble  woman  reflected  back on
them--and it  did !  Had  she  indeed  been the
"Lord's anointed" she  could  have  received  no
more loyal homage than she did in every move
she made.
 She was  an  accomplished  equestrienne, and
before  her  marriage a cavalcade  of ladies and
gentlemen issued  from  the  palace gates  every
day, to take their joyous  ride around the beau-
tiful environs.  The  most  fearless  and  accom-
plished  horsewoman  in  England,  a baronet's
daughter, was  engaged  to  ride  and  train the
horses Her Majesty had chosen for her own use,
a groom always accompanying the Lady in her
exercises;  when  she  pronounced  the  horse, or 
rather  his  education  complete, he was led  out
for  the  Queen's  use  and  approval.  Her  Ma-
jesty was  fond  of  reviewing her  soldiers, and
was never absent from such events, which gave
an inspiration  to  such scenes. At this time of 
her life  she  seemed to wear  a  crown  of roses,
entirely without thorns.  Prince Albert shared
in these fond national feelings, for the country
loved him for the wise course  he took  in ever
remaining neutral in all affairs of government; 
if he ever did influence the Queen it was for a
national good.  A  few  years  after  their mar-
riage he  was elected Chancellor of the Univer-
sity  of  Cambridge,  the  oldest  in  the world!
The Queen  accompanied  him,  and  all  the
county families rose up  en masse to rally round
her and her Consort;  nothing could exceed the
enthusiasm, and  yet  respectful  devotion  dis-
played on that occasion. One  hundred of the 
flower  of  the  yeomanry  of  the  county  were
appointed to meet the royal party at the station,
and as a guard of honor escort it into the town.
their   horses were most  of  them  finely trained
hunters, and  they were  a  body  of  men  to be
proud  of. The  entrance  of the  cortege  into
the  fine  old  town,  with  its  world-renowned
buildings, magnificent in their grand old archi-
ture, and the immortal  reminiscences attached
thereto, was a sight never  to  be  forgotten; fir-
ing of  cannon annonced it, and  better still,
and sweeter, were the  bells  of St. Mary's, the
University  Church,  first  the  firing  of them,
and then  floating  off into  the  sweetest music
bells  are  capable  of  giving;  the  cavalcade
passed on to Trinity College, passed through its
fine old gates  of  the most elaborate iron work,
and closed when the royal carriages had passed
in; but through their ornamental work all was
perfectly  visible to outsiders, even to the alight-
ing.
 Trinity  Lodge  is  a  royal  residence  of the
sovereign when  visiting  the  University, there-
fore she  took  possession  of  her  own. Doctor
Whewell, the  world-renowned mathematician,
was then  Master  of  Trinity  College,  and  of
course  inhabited "The  Lodge." Mr. Norton,
the gentleman controller of the Queen's house-
hold, preceded Her  Majesty by  a  day or two,
to see  the needful preparations were all made,
and one was  to  wait upon  Mrs. Whewell, and
inform her  of the  etiquette  it would be neces-
sary for her to  observe, viz., that she must not
attempt  to "receive" the  Queen, as  it was vir-
tually  her  own  residence; consequently, she
and the  doctor  retired, and  in  due  time  the
Queen  received  them  as  her  most  honored
visitors.
The  day  of  the  installation  was  one  to be
remembered. Every house  and  street  was
crowded with visitors.  The  Senate House was
the  scene  of  the  inauguration;  none  but the
creme de la creme were admitted, and they only
by tickets. It is as  large  as  our large Taber-
nacle, with gallery all  round, the students and
Bachelors of Art occupying it, with wranglers,
senior  wranglers  and  young  masters  of  art.
On leaving, all, of  course,  were  standing, wav-
ing hats  and academical  caps, and ladies their
handkerchiefs. The Queen's  graceful  deport-
ment was the  subject  of  general  comment; as
she  literally bowed  herself  out of that august
assembly, never turning  her  back  till  outside
the  door.  There  no  guards  were  needed; as
they left the Senate House a phalanx of a lov-
ing and devoted  people formed  the passage  of 
her egress.  Prince Albert wearing  the beauti-
ful academical robe  of black silk, heavily  em-
broidered  in  gold, with  cap and  tassel of the
same rich  materials;  the  Queen  wearing a
Honiton lace dress and veil, as she always wears
home  manufacture,  which  of  course includes
the richest  fabrics  of  her  Indian possessions,
passed down  smiling  and  bowing  to  all, the
happiest of  the  happy,  and  looking  more  of
heaven than earth! So  ends a chapter which
now is history.


LIFE INCIDENTS.

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	CONTINUED.
	Before proceeding any farther I will say to
my friends that nothing could have been far-
ther from my mind, when commencing to write
"Life Incidents," than the thought of going
back or copying so much from my father's
journal; but different ones having expressed
the pleasure they felt in reading these sketches,
prompted me to continue them so far, but it
would be useless to expect much of it to be
printed in this little paper.  The history of his
missionary life, in connection with his brethren,
is one of deep interest, and I had hoped ere
this to have seen it published in book form for


[Column 1]
the benefit of others besides his family. A 
number of them, with myself, having heard his
mind upon the subject, considered it not only
a pleasure, but a duty that we owe to him, to
see that his name and his works are kept in
honorable remembrance, to be handed down to
his numerous posterity, we therefore employed
E. W. Tullidge, the author of the "Life of
Brigham Young," etc, believing this to be the
wisest course in a pecuniary point of view that
we could adopt. After we had expended con-
siderable money to accomplish this purpose, 
and it was prepared for the press, there arose
unlooked-for obstacles, which prevented, or de-
layed its publication, and most of them have
despaired of receiving any recompense, and
consider their money thrown away. One hun-
dred dollars was all the ready money I had, 
and I gave that freely towards it, and it has
often been reiterated in my ears that the money
had better been spent some other way; but I do
not consider it lost, but like bread cast upon the
waters, after many days it will return; and if it
should not, I gave it for a good purpose, and
consider it a very small sum when compared 
with the debt I owe to my father.  
	Besides a true record of his travels and pub-
lic life in the vineyard, it contains much that
has never been published, also many pleasing
and interesting reminiscences and incidents in
connection with his family, which no pains 
were spared to gather up to make the book in-
teresting and desirable. The style of the
author is peculiar to himself, which we often 
criticised to his face, and were allowed to make 
some few alterations; but as far as my father's 
history is concerned, I feel satisfied that it is
held sacred by him, as is the memory of the
man whose name he has never ceased to love
and revere. I shall sketch but little more
from my father's history before I return to the
scenes in Nauvoo. 
	On my father's return from his second mis-
sion to the Eastern States, he found a great
change had taken place in Kirtland; the spirit
of getting rich was prevailing in the midst of
the Saints. He and his brethren were grieved
to see that a spirit of apostacy had crept in
among them. Some of the Apostles were dis-
affected, and were seeking to overthrow the
work which they had previously been engaged
in. My father describes the scene; he says: 
	"We were grieved to see the spirit of specu-
lation that was prevailing in the Church; trade
and traffic seemed to engross the time and at-
tention of the Saints. Wen we left Kirtland
a city lot was worth about $150; but on our
return. to our astonishment the same lot was
said to be worth from $500 to $1,000, accord-
ing to location; and some men who when I left
could hardly get food to eat, I found on my
return to be men of supposed great wealth. 
In fact, everything in the place seemed to be
moving in great prosperity, and all seemed de-
termined to become rich; in my feelings they 
were artifical or imaginary riches. A bank
was also established, called the Kirtland Safety
Society, in which myself and most of the
Twelve were appointed directors. This bank
issued paper to a considerable extent, This
appearance of prosperity led many of the
Saints to believe that the time had arrived for
the Lord to enrich them with the treasures of
the earth, and believing so, it stimulated them
to great exertion; so much so, that two of the
Twelve, Lyman E. Johnson and John F. [-]oyn-
ton, went to New York and purchased to the
amount of twenty thousand dollars worth of
goods, and entered into the mercantile business, 
borrowing considerable money from Polly
Vose and other Saints in Boston and the re-
gions round about, and which they have never
repaid.
	"This state of things did not continue long, 
for our enemies, being filled with jealousy and
hatred, drew upon the bank till money began

[Column 2]
to fail; and in proportion as adversity came up-
on us, the faith of many began to fail, and be-
ing filled with the spirit of speculation, they 
ran greedily into the world, erred from the
faith and joined our enemies. Some who were
entrusted with the bank robbed it of a consid-
erable amount, which was palmed upon us as 
a means to overthrow us; also a counterfeit, 
which was said to have been issued from the
bank. Those of integrity in the Chuch re-
placed the robbed money at the expense of all
they had; I may also add that a greater speci-
men of integrity was never known among men. 
Warren Parrish, who was a clerk in the bank, 
afterwards acknowledged he took twenty thou-
sand dollars, and there was strong evidence
he took more." 	*	*	*
	"This order of things increased to such an
extent during the winter, that a man's life was
in danger the moment he spoke in defense of
the Prophet of God. During this time I had
many hours and days of sorrow and mourning, 
for my heart sickened to see the awful extent
that things were getting to. The only source
of consolation I had was in bending my knees 
continually before my Father in Heaven, and
asking Him to sustain me and preserve me
from falling into snares, and from betraying
my brethren as others had done; for those
who apostatized sought every means and op-
portunity to draw others after them. They also
entered into combinations to obtain wealth by 
fraud and every means that was hellish. At
this time I had many dreams from the Lord, 
which kept me from falling into the snares
which I desired to escape; one of them I will
relate: I dreamed that I entered into the house
of John Boynton, in which there was a panther; 
he was jet black and very beautiful to look
upon, but he inspired me with fear. When I 
rose to leave the house he stood at the door, 
with the intention to seize on me, and seeing
my fear he displayed his beauty to me, telling
me how sleek his coat was, and what beautiful
ears he had; and also his claws, which appeared
to be of silver; and then he showed me his
teeth, which also appeared to be silver. John
F. Boynton told me that if I made myself
familiar with him he would not hurt me; but
if I did not he would. I did not feel disposed
to do so and while the panther was displaying
to me his beauty, I slipped through the door
and escaped, although he tried to keep me
back by laying hold of my coat; but I rent
myself from him." 
	"The interpretation of this dream was liter-
ally fulfillhd. The panther represented an
apostate who I had been very familiar with, 
and is well known by thousands, though I will
not mention his name. I felt to thank the 
Lord for this dream and other intimations that
I had, which, by his assistance, kept me from
falling into snares."  
	My father, in his journal; speaks of Brother 
Willard Richards, who had come to Kirtland
with his brother Levi. Brother Willard had
read the Book of Mormon, and came to inquire
further concerning "Mormonism." My father 
writes: 
	"Dec 31, 1836, I was present when Elder
Brigham Young baptized my friend, Willard
Richards, in a tributary of the Chagrin River, 
east of my house, at twelve o'clock, midnight, 
having assisted my brethren in the afternoon
cutting through the ice for that purpose, and
assisted at his confirmation. In a few days
afterwards I met him in one of the streets; 
while talking on the spiritual affairs of the
world, being full of prophecy I prophesied in
the name of the Lord that I should yet go on 
a mission to the shores of Europe. Brother 
Richards asked, 'Shall I go with thee?'  and I 
said unto him, 'Yea, in the name of the Lord, 
thou shalt go with me when I go.'"
	[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TALK.

		HOMESPUN.

   Well, girls, I am always glad to see you.  
You want me to talk, do you?  I am glad you
do, for I have been thinking to-day about your
future lives, and wishing I could smooth some 
of the cobble stones of misfortune out of your
daily paths.  I know you are mostly girls who
attend Mutuals, but as a rule the advice you
get there is general.  Now, my dears, you know,
and I know, that although you have a desire
to be good, honest girls, your ambition is
mainly to "have fun" and to succeed in get-
ting the sweetheart of your choice.  We are
accustomed, and in fact obliged, to work in this
Territory, and have no time and less inclination
to read Harriet Martineau, or even Robbie
Burns.  We read the EXPONENT and occa-
sionally a novel, and fill up the remainder of 
our minds with trifles.  Of course, girls, I 
don't expect you to develop a taste for study
through my chat. but let me beg of you to try
and know something of one subject, at least. 
   Wouldn't you like to be as intelligent and
respected as Sister E. R. Snow?  You can at
least make an effort.  Just set yourself to learn
something.  Study the Bible, Book of Mormon, 
anything to be exercising the mind.  Its no
use to read a book, then never think of it
afterwards.  Take it up, and at the same time
take up your mind and set it at the desk of de-
termination, and above all, think.  I know
how it will be- at first you will read, "In the
beginning;" then, when you have reached the
fourth verse your mind will have slid down the
lap of time, and will be picking the apples of 
Idle Fancy in the vast garden of the Present, 
But commence again.  Treat yourself as a 
disobedient child, box your mind's ear; and fix
your mind's eye on the page before you.  Now
coax that truant, Fancy, to help you work.  
Paint out in vivid colors the picture conjured
up by the majestic words- the vast, palpable, 
throbbing darkness, the brooding quiet, as the
unformed mass swings through eternity.  Ages
pass, and the still, powerful voice calls "light,"
and it is born with a mighty throe of Mother
Earth.  Ages roll on, aud by the Divine Will
the waters stealthily creep away from the 
broad ribs of the mountain peaks, and at the
close of the second day the land is divided from
the roaring, sweeping seas.  Go on with this
panorama, and let Imagination place the pic-
ture in the frame of Reality; and when you
have finished the chapter, lo!  you have thought.  
Your mind has brushed away the cobwebs of
neglect and opened one tiny door and stored
carefully up a treasure.  Don't stop here, then, 
but keep on.  And another thing, if you fondly
imagine one can make up one's mind and the
thing is done, you will be rudely taught better.  
You must know, my dears, my experience has
been that when Homespun says she will, that
relentless tyrant, Circumstance, says she shan't. 
I am not one of those doughty warriors who
have only to say "I will," and it is accom-
plished.  Quite the contrary; through every
possible crevice is poked an excuse into my too
willing hand. and these same excuses are the
wickedest little imps- after I have taken them
to my bosom, and the time comes when the
opportunity is gone they immediately fly out
of my reach and sit in a row facing me, with a 
most ungrateful grin on their faces, and chorus
at me, "Ah, you might as well have done it, 
for you could have dispensed with us." But
shall I tell you what to do even in trying to
cultivate your minds?  Let the pure spirit of
prayer enter the gateway of your heart, and
fold you about with the sweet mantle of hu-
mility, and with humble words bear your wish 
to the feet of God.  Ask Him to help you to
concentrate your minds, to quicken your intel-
ligence, and behold, it is done.  Good night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOMEWHERE.

I see adown, the shadows of long years,
	The faint, dim outlines of a dreamy land,
And glit'ring thro' the pearly realm of tears,
	There seems reflected on that far-off strand,
The keenest hopes and joys my life has known,
And silent griefs, which I had borne alone.

I dream'd not that the passion of an hour,
	Could leave its impress in the realm of space,
Or that an angel hand had skill and power,
	The ideal picture of a life to trace;
And true to realistic thoughts and fears,
Preserve the record of the hidden years.

We know not all the mysteries of carth,
	Nor how with good and ill our lives are woven;
We cannot solve the secret of our birth,
	Much less recall the sciences of heaven,
Nor what we saw, and heard, before we came;
We do not even know our former name.

And yet somewhere there must be silent force,
	Which acts upon the soul with subtle skill;
We cannot see the process of its course,
	Nor can we bend it to our feeble will;
But true to life, reflection there will be,
And sometime, we shall know the mystery.

And those who've suffered most, and silent kept,
	Will see in that bright mirror, heaven's blue,
How wrongs and evil doings which have slept,
	Will penetrate the heart of ages through,
And in the light of an eternal dawn,
Expose the pictures, which our life has drawn.
									EMILE.


LIVING  LINKS:
OR 
SPIRITUAL  AND  TEMPORAL
BY  AVONDALE.
CONTINUED.
 Is it not strange  that  professors  of  religion,
who  call  themselves  Christians, should  perse-
cute the  Latter-day Saints? So the  Pagans*
persecuted  the  disciples  of  Jesus  Christ  an-
ciently, whom they called "Christians," as men
now call his  followers  in the Chruch of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints "Mormons." Strange
that  history  should  thus  repeat  itself  so ex-
actly!
	Mr. Missionary Unipod  had  an  intense an-
tipathy to the followers of Joseph Smith, with-
out knowing the reason why;  in this respect he
was  not  alone  among  professing  Christians.
The  conversion  of his  son  to  "Mormonism"
only increased  the  zeal  of this  gentleman  in
the  direction  of  antagonism  to the obnoxious
Latter-day Saints, of which  spirit the mission-
aries subject to his influence naturally partook.
	"Could you  not  find  any  denomination of
Christians to  ally yourself with without going
to these 'Mormons?'" asked the missionary  of
his  son,  as  though  the  Mormons  were  not
worthy  of  the  name  of  Christians.  "These
Mormons" was  spoken  in  a tone  of derision,
which the good man would  not have indulged
in had  he known  that the  Latter-day Saints
are believers in that same Jesus Christ that the
missionary  himself  extolled  so highly -- that
same Jesus who  in  his day was hated, as were
his  followers, for  the  truth's  sake, and  at last,
slain for the testimony of Jesus.

*The Pagans were heathens who lived in the
days of  the  early  Christians;  they  were  the
last  to  receive Christianity.  Pagan sacrifices
were  denounced  by edict  in  385 (by Theodo-
sius)  and  the  heathen  temples  closed, their
shrines and sacrifices were abolished. But Pagan
ceremonies  were  revived  in  the Christian
churches in the beginning of the fifth century,
and with them  the  dark  ages  of  Christianity
were  commenced  and  perpetuated. Then
Christianity become a  fashionable religion, as
it is in various forms to this our day.

	"Father," said  the  Mormon  convert,  "You
know nothing of the inner life of that religion
which  the  world  is  pleased  to  call 'Mormon-
ism,'  or  you  would  not, you  could not oppose
it;  the  very spirit  of  that Gospel  which Jesus
taught is incorporated into every article of our
faith."  "Your  faith,"  replied  the  father, "is
man made;  Joseph  Smith  was a money digger,
profligate and profane, pretending to have reve-
lations  and  the  visits  of  angels, even  of our
Savior Jesus Christ himself."
	"Father, you  have  listened  to  the  voice of
the  enemies of  Joseph Smith,"  replied his son,
"and not  to  his  friends, those who know him,
who have  received the  Gospel he was the hon-
ored  instrument  of  restoring  to  man.  Were
you to listen to the enemies of Jesus Christ, he
was 'a gluttonous  man  and  a  wine-bibber, a
friend  of  publicans  and  sinners.'  You would
not  countenance  the  acts  of  men who stoned
Stephen becasue the heavens were opened to
him, and  'he, being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost,
looked up steadfastly into  heaven, and saw the
glory of God, and  Jesus standing on the right
hand of  God.'  You used to tell me, years ago,
that  'Jesus  is  coming  to  reign  on the earth,'
that 'the  prayers  of the  Saints  are to prevail
and  to  be  answered,' that  'the  kingdom  will
come, and his will be done on the earth as it is
in  heaven.'  How can  his  kingdom be estab-
lished  without  his  authority?  How  can  his
will be done  on  earth 'as it is done in heaven,'
unless the plan is revealed from heaven? Surely
you will  concede  to  Jesus  the right to restore
the Gospel, and that He had the right to choose
his own instrument.  Joseph Smith was a man
of large faith in God;  he prayed for revelation
from heaven, and God  appeared  to  him, with
his  Son  Jesus Christ, and  the  authority was
given to Joseph Smith to organize the  Church
of Jesus  Christ upon the earth again, as it ex-
isted  when  established  by  Jesus.  As  to the
humble position occupied by Joseph Smith, and
his  lack  of  the learning  of  the  age, the Jews
preferred  similar  charges  against  Jesus; they
challenged  his  authority: 'How  knoweth  this
man letters, having never learned?'  Jesus an-
swered  them,  and  said:  'My doctrine  is  not
mine, but his  that  sent  me.  If  any man will
do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,
whether  it  be  of  God, or  whether  I speak of
myself.  He  that  speaketh of himself seeketh
his  own  glory;  but he  that  seeketh his glory
that sent him, the same is true, and no unrigh-
teousness  is  in  him.'  The  Prophet Joseph
Smith always  honored  Jesus in  all his minis-
trations; he  never  took  glory  to  himself, but
gave all the  honor to God."
	"What a  pity  it  is,"  said  the  missionary,
"that  so  much  beautiful truth is embodied in
'Mormonism;'  it  is  this that deceives the igno-
rant and unwary."
	"Father," said the  Mormon convert, "it is a
system of truth, planned in the heavens before
the world was, for  the salvation of all the hu-
man family."
	"Well," said  the  missionary  father  to  his
Mormon son, "I believe you are sincere in your
religion, and I will pray for you;  I have prayed
for you  for  years, you  have  been remembered
at the  Throne  of  Grace, that  you might be able
to assist  in  the  great work in which I and my
fellow missionaries are  engaged--to preach the
Gospel  and be  numbered with  me in the Lon-
don City Mission."
	"Father," replied  the  son, overcome  by the
spirit of love  manifested  in  the words of his
father,  "your  prayers  are  answered;  I  have
embraced  the  Gospel, I have  lifted  up  my
voice in the highways and byways of this great
metropolis, calling  on men  to  have  faith  in
God and in our Lord Jesus Christ, to repent of
their sins  and be baptized for the remission of
sins, to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by
they laying on of the hands of the Elders; and
although I have been met and opposed by some
of  the  missionaries  of  your  society,  as  have
many of my brethren  who  have been engaged
in preaching the Gospel, I have  rejoiced in my
labors, I have  realized that  your prayers have
be answered  in  my  behalf.  And  when  I
came to tell you, at my last  visit, that I had
received  the  truth, it was that I might cheer
your  heart  with  the  glad tidings  that I had
heard and obeyed the Gospel!"
	To these conversations between the mission-
ary father and his "Mormon" son many listened
attentively, and very few became angry;  when
the love  of  God fills  the bosom, and the peace
of God, which passeth all understanding, takes
possession  of  the  heart, there  will be  no ten-
dency  to  hate.  If no  other  good  can be  di-
rectly  traced  to  these  interviews, ever after-
wards  the  "Mormon"  missionaries,  in  going
forth  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  the  streets of
London, they were not opposed by the brethren
of the London City Mission.
	Could we  but  realize the breadth and com-
prehensiveness of the Gospel, we should all see
the necessity of this great Latter-day work, to
bring  to  pass  the  purposes  of  God,  as  made
known  to  the  ancient  fathers. "In thee, and
in  thy seed,  shall  all  the  nations of the earth
be blessed;"  this was the promise to Abraham,
and  renewed  to  his  offspring, the ancient pa-
triarchs.  This  is  why  God  has again spoken
to man, and  sent his angel to carry out his de-
signs -- those of  blessing  the  entire  human
family, "to  turn  the  hearts  of  the fathers  to
the children  and the hearts of the children  to
the  fathers."  Such  is  the  work begun by the
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  these  days, and  it
will be carried on to its final consummation !
		To be Continued.


ESSAY ON THE WORD OF WISDOM.

The Word of  Wisdom was not given ex- 
pressly as a commandment, but the Lord gave
it more as advice to his children, the same as
our fathers or mothers would give us good ad-
vice, telling us if we would observe it we would
be blessed. It is said that the Saints who do
keep this principle will be blessed with health
and strength, and shall find wisdom and trea-
sures of knowledge, even hidden treasures, and
the destroying angel shall pass by them. In
the revelation it says it is a principle with
promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak
and weakest of all Saints, who are or can be
called Saints; therefore, it seems to me that
there is not one of us but what can observe this
principle and obtain the blessings promised if
we try. I have read that the Lord tells his
servants to do nothing except He gives them
power to do it, if they will obey; and I believe
He would not tell us to do anything except it
would be for our good. I have heard many
people say they cannot give up tea, tobacco, etc.,
but I know that it only requires the will, with
the faith that the Lord will help them (which I
know He will if they ask Him), and think that
it is only for their own good. I believe the
Lord is always ready and willing to bless more
than we are ready to receive, and that He does
bless more than we do really think; but we are
always more ready to listen to the opposite
spirit. It seems to me where there is one spirit
to do good, there are always two to do evil,
which keeps us always striving and trying to
overcome our weakness.		M. A. C.


﻿The National Woman’s Suffrage Association
will hold its Thirteenth Anniversary in Tre-
mont Temple, Boston, Mass., Thursday and
Friday, May 26 and 27.
	Mrs. A. J. Crocheron’s book of poems, en-
titled "Wild FIowers of Deseret” is now in the
hands of the printers,


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.	"
THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, . . EDITOR.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Saturday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	MAY 1, 1881.


VISIT TO MORGAN.
	On Saturday morning, April 23, in company
with Pres.Eliza R. Snow Smith, we started for
Morgan to attend the Conference of Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
The Conference was well attended, house crowded
with attentive listeners at each meeting.
	Mrs. Lydia Rich makes a most excellent Presi-
dent of Relief Societies of the Stake. She is
quite equal to the position and possesses genu-
ine ability, combined with humility, which
fits her for the important work. The reports of
branch orgainizations R.S. were very encourag-
ing. The Y. L. M. I. A. Stake organization is
presided over by Mrs. Jane Toomar, and seems
to be in a prosperous coudition. Mrs. Harriet
Welsh has charge of the Primary Associations
of Morgan Stake, which are in a flourishing con-
dition. At the Conference the reports from
all parts were excellent. In the North Morgan
branch, during one quarter, the children of the
P. A. donated 548 Sunday eggs; A motion was
made at the late Conference that the children
appropriate all their donations during the next
six months to emigrate an orphan child from
England. Mrs. Lydia Rich told the children
she would adopt the child and take it into her
own especial care. The child will certainly have
an excellent home and the best of training.
	We attended one R.S. meeting at North Mor-
gan, Mrs. Elizabeth Worlton presiding. There
were a large number of brethren as well as sis-
ters present.
	Pres. W.G. Smith and his Counselors, Patri-
arch Mc'Bride of Richfield, and several Bishops
and Elders attended the meetings of the sisters.
We returned home Tuesday morning, having
remained over night in Ogden. Sister Eliza did
a great deal of public speaking during the three
days we were absent, and enjoyed herself very
much. She has traveled through nearly all the
settlements of the Saints, and many of them
over and over again, and it is her delight to be
among the people and aid by her influence and
earnest labors to promote the interests of Zion.
	On Saturday evening, while at the residence
of Brother S. Francis, we were surprised by a
serenade of the string band, who, although only
lately in practise as a company, perform admir-
ably. We tender them our sincere thanks for
the sweet music and the compliment. We were
also serenaded by the brass band, while at Bro.
Toomar's, which is under the able management
of Bro. Bull, of Morgan. They played some
soul-stirring airs, and we also tender them our
grateful thanks for the honor.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. Butler, widow of Gen. Butler, now occu-
ples the position of warden of the Utah Peni-


tentiary, formerly held by her late husband. It
is said she acquits herself ably in the post as-
signed her.

	MRS. Elvira S. Barney, of Salt Lake, will gradu-
ate as M. D. at Ann Arbor, Mich., in June next.
She attended the Woman's Medical College in
Philadelphia for one year previous to entering
the lists at Ann Arbor. She is a woman of
strong determination, unflinching purpose and
sterling integrity, and ought to succeed in any
undertaking upon which she sets her mind.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the Relief
Society and Primary Conference of Davis Stake
on Friday, April 22. The Conference was well
attended; three meetings were held, two of the
Relief Society and one of the Primary. Mrs.
Sarah I. Holmes, President of the Stake R. S.
presided with her usual quiet dignity. Pres.
Wm. R. Smith and Counselors, Anson Call and
C. Layton, were present and spoke most encour-
agingly to the sisters and children. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson, of this city, also addressed the
meeting in a very able and instructive manner.

	BY letter received from Miss Mattie Paul
Hughes, who graduated last June at Ann Arbor
as physician and surgeon, we learn she has also
<x graduated="" with="" honors,athe-tlpnal="" sqhpo,9f="" elocution="" and="" oratory,="" in="" philadelphjjj;i="" $hq="" ,.ig.="" winning="" her="" own="" way="" to..success="" by="" her,persist.="" a="" tent="" effort="" fixed="" determination,ayfiatakel'="" great="" pleasure="" watching="" the="" progress="" of.thisi="" self-helpful="" young="" woman,="" we="" are="" surejbhr.="" many="" friends="" fellow="" students="" here="" willijoin.id="" ha="" congratulating="" upon="" successful="" rfe-w="" suit="" of="" herearnest="" labors="" so="" huy="" add="" smany="" ’="" good="" wishes="" for="" future="" career="" path’she="" '="" has-="" chosen.="" she="" has="" but="" very="" recently'enfercj="" pennsylvania="" university,="" which="" opened="" its="" doors="" to="" men="" women="" alike,="" mis3="" hughes,="" salt="" bake="" girl,="" entered="" with'="" one="" hundred="" gentlemen—the="" only="" lady="" class.="" rejoice="" prosperity,="" sin-="" cerely="" jhope="" may="" attain="" highest="" excel-="" lence="" possible="" profession,="" believo="" possesses="" requisite="" ability.="" mr.="" archibald="" forbes,="" renowned="" populareondon="" war="" correspondent,="" delivered="" two="" intensely="" interesting="" lectures="" theatre="" this="" city,="" evenings="" april="" 28-and="" 29.="" forbes="" was="" suffering="" from="" severe="" cold="" lameness,="" obliged="" sit="" while="" speaking.="" he="" his="" first="" lecture,="" graduated with honors, at the National School of
Elocution and Oratory in Philadelphia. She is
winning her own way to success by her persis-
tent effort and fixed determination. We take
great pleasure in watching the progress of this
self-helpful young woman, and we are sure her
many friends and fellow students here will join
us in congratulating her upon the successful re-
sult of her earnest labors so far, and add many
good wishes for her future career in the path she
has chosen. She has but very recently entered
the Pennsylvania University, which has opened
its doors to men and women alike, and Miss
Hughes, the Salt Lake girl, has entered with
one hundred gentlemen—the only lady in the
class. We rejoice in her prosperity, and sin-
cerely hope she may attain to the highest excel-
lence possible in the profession, and we believe
she possesses the requisite ability.

	MR. Archibald Forbes, the renowned and
popular London War Correspondent, delivered
two intensely interesting lectures in the Theatre
in this city, the evenings of April 28 and 29.
Mr. Forbes was suffering from a severe cold
and lameness, and was obliged to sit while
speaking. He opened his first lecture, "Royal
people I have met," by saying he had, during
the past ten years, made "seven distinct cam-
paigns, five in Europe, one in Asia, and one in
Africa." He gave forcible and graphic descrip-
tions of several great men of each nation as he
had seen them, under the peculiar circumstances
of war and battle grounds. The second lecture,
"The Inner Life of a War Correspondent," gave
him more opportunity to display his ability in
painting vivid and thrilling life pictures. Those
who heard him will have a conception of the
danger and risks of life and limb to which one
is exposed who writes the war news for the pnb-
lic journals which the people read quietly by
their fireside, or at the breakfast table. Mr.
Forbes is very pleasing in appearance; he has a
wonderful fountain of language, and his style is
sufficiently humorous to make him eminently at-
tractive to his audience.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Benjamin Disraeli! Queen Victoria, desiring
to honor one who had proved himself a faithful
and efficient friend and servant, both to herself
and England, elevated him to the Peerage by
the title of Earl Beaconsfield; but Disraeli's the
household word by which the country will hand


down one of her faithful servants to posterity.
By that name he patiently and perseveringly
trod the road, step by step, to fame and honor,
until he stood at the right hand of his sovereign,
and next to her in authority.
	Over thirty years have passed since the papers
gave to the public the thrilling, impassioned,
fervid speeches of this marvelously gifted man!
and yet, withal, sound policy and common sense
were the basis of the same. There was a strong
opposition and party feeling existing against
him. What was the cause? Would men, sena-
tors, great men, stoop so low as to envy him? or
was it because the blood of Abraham flowed in
his veins? We have no time to trace out the
cause—suffice it to say it existed, and men in
that august assembly, when he first arose to ad-
dress them, forgot to be gentlemen, and actually
laughed him to scorn! thrice he arose, and they
rudely silenced him; then he sat down, and with
a quiet dignity saying the memorable words,
"Gentlemen, you will not hear me now, but the
time will come when you shall hear me!" His
prophetic nature made him calm; he knew his
plane was a rising one, and he had the charac-
teristic endurance of the royal line of Judah. He
verified Milton's superb assertion, "They also
serve who only stand and wait." He waited,
but never forgot to work; and at last came the
"hiring," and the wages with it, and the sup-
port and admiration of a large, influential part
of England, and the entire confidence and ap-
preciation of his sovereign, who often sent for
him for private conferences, and was no doubt
refreshed and strengthened for her arduous du-
ties by his bold, uncomprising policy, and by the
inimitable language in which he ever clothed
his ideas. His prophecy was now fulfilled, they
did hear him, and bowed the knee to him also,
for he was now Premier of England. Methinks
"they" heard him then! Yes, they heard him
gladly; his prophetic words were verified. His
last speech in the House of Lords, on Lord Lyt-
ton's motion with regard to Candahar, lacked
none of the vigor of other times; "it was spirit-
ed, frank, and had many touches of the old in-
extinguishable humor, which used to illuminate
the dullness of House of Commons debates like
flashes of summer lightning." And in his last
severe illness,he spent some of the intervals from
suffering in correcting, with the assistance of
Lord Barrington, that very speech; he seemed
anxious that it should go forth to the world as
correct as he could make it.
	Oh, Death! here is thy sting! This Palladium
of England, its Parliament, Constitution, Cabi-
net and Court, has passed away, and the coun-
try mourns her brilliant Statesman and her hon-
ored Patriot! We too have seen our great men
pass away, and we know how we mourned their
loss. When a luminary is extinguished, we
must feel the darkness!		H. T. K.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WEDNESDAY, April 20, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
12th Ward, Mrs. Ellen Clawson presiding. The
exercises were all well rendered, and a marked
improvement is noticeable. The numbers have
also greatly increased during the lasr year, and
it is easy to perceive that Mrs. Clawson and her
very efficient Counselors, Miss Annie Davis and
Miss Julia Druce, are using their best efforts to
make the P. A. interesting, attractive and in-
structive.

	TUESDAY, April 19, we attended the second
anniversary of the Primary Association of the
20th Ward in this city. A bazar was fitted up
at one end of the hall with a variety of articles,
ornamental and useful, all made by the little


folks. It was quite an artistic affair. The exer-
cises of the meeting were conducted by Mrs.
Emma Toone in an efficient and dignified man-
ner, and although there were one hundred and
fifty children in the room, the most perfect or-
der was preserved throughout the entire meet-
ing. There were recitations, essays, songs, organ
solos, dialogues, and speeches by the visitors,
among whom we will make honorable mention
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Presendia
L. Kimball, also T. B. Lewis, Superintendent
of schools, and C. R. Savage, Esq. During the
exercises a presentation was made to Mrs, Toone
of a motto, handsomely framed, by Miss Louisa
Simmons, in the following words:
	Dear President, as a token of our esteem and
appreciation of your valuable labors and unvary-
ing kindness as the President of the Primary
Association of the 20th Ward, we ask you to
accept this motto. It will be of increased value
to you from the fact that it is the workmanship
of your granddaughter, and with every stitch is
woven our faith and hope that the God in whom
we trust will bless you and the children of this
Association, and the hope of Israel everywhere.
	The work was neatly executed by Miss Geor-
giana Toone. We made several pages of notes,
which we shall publish hereafter.

	FRIDAY, April 15, we had the pleasure of at-
tending the second anniversary of the Primary
Association of the 11th Ward in this city. It
was the first organized in Salt Lake City, and
only preceded by the one in Farmington. There
was a very large attendance of children and a
goodly number of the parents. The Bishop was
also present a part of the time. On the plat-
form were Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, Zina D.
Young and Presendia L. Kimball, and many
others who are also aiding in promoting the in-
terests of these organizations. The exercises of
the meeting were conducted in an efficient man-
ner by the president, Mrs. Louie Felt, who cer-
tainly deserves grea[-] credit for her perseverance
in training these little ones. There were songs,
recitations, essays, etc., Lizzie Parsons, a little
thing six years old, sang sweetly, in a clear and
distinct voice, "Nobody's Darling." Two little
daughters of C. W. Penrose sang very nicely in-
deed, quite as well as many young ladies could
have done. But the principal feature of the oc-
casion was the presentation of a wreath of hair
flowers, elegantly framed, by Laura Denney, a
child only seven years old, who came forward
and addressed the audience briefly, then turning
to Sister Eliza with a modest little curtsey, de-
livered, in a clear and forcible manner, a speech
written for the occasion by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, which occupied perhaps seven minutes.
Towards the close, two very little children, a
boy and girl, came forward and handed her the
wreath, which she very gracefully presented to
the honored lady, who was so completely taken
by surprise she could scarcely reply. The wreath
is formed of a lock of hair from each child in
the Association, and in the center is a single
stem of flowers, composed of locks of hair from
the President and her Counselors, with their
photographs artistically arranged inside the
wreath. Sister Eliza, in a voice choked with
grateful emotion, spoke a few words to the chil-
dren, and thanked them for the honor con-
ferred upon her, and assured them she should
hold the gift very dear to her heart and remem-
ber them all when she looked upon it. Several
ladies expressed their delight in the training of
the young. Little Louie Felt, four years old
sang, in a rich and melodious voice, "I'll be a
little Mormon." Master Johnnie Sears pro-
nounced the benediction.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 181


Primary Hymn Books for sale at this Office.


THOMAS EDGAR WILLIAMS.

	Little Tommie, as we always called him in
loving tenderness, was born July 27, 1873. He
was the second son of the late Thomas Williams
and Zina Young Williams, of Salt Lake City,
and grandson of the late President Brigham
Young and Zina D. Young. July 17, 1874, his
father died. Three years ago his mother re-
moved to Provo, in order to be with her little
sons, and oversee their education herself. Little
Thomas has been for three years past a regular
and diligent scholar in the Brigham Young
Academy in that place. He has made rapid
progress in his studies, and in the principles of
the Gospel. His affectionate disposition and
gentlemanly ways, although only a child, won
for him the kind feelings of his teachers and
the sincere love of his schoolmates. April 17,
Easter Sunday, his cousins from Salt Lake City,
seven of them, darling boys, had the last day of
enjoyment with little Thomas. On the morn-
ing of the 18th he was attacked with diphtheria,
and on the 22d, at 2.30 p. m., at his home in
Provo he passed peacefully away, and left us to
enjoy the society of the blest and pure. The
sweet smile that lingered on that exquisitely
lovely face, seemed to say "be comforted, all is
right, my papa wants me." The sorrowing young
mother and loving little brother, his companion
and playmate, are almost broken hearted, but
they trust in the living God, who knows what
is best for us all, and who doeth all things well.

						ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

	Resolutions of respect to the memory of
Brother Thomas Edgar Williams, who died at
Provo, April 22d, 1881' adopted by the Students
of the Brigham Young Academy, April 25, 1881.
	Whereas, God has seen fit to call from among
us one of our loved and respected friends and
brothers, in the person of Thomas Edgar Wil-
liams:
	Resolved: That we, his schoolmates, have sus-
tained the loss of a valued friend, who had be-
come endeared to us by the many traits of truth
and purity which his character has manifested.
Resolved: That we sincerely condole and sym-
pathize with his afflicted family in their heavy
loss.
	Resolved: That these resolutions be spread
upon the minutes of the Academy, and a copy
be furnished the Territorial Enquirer for publi-
cation, and our brother's sorrowing family,

	THANKS.—Mrs. Zina Young Williams wishes
to thank her relatives and friends for their kind
favors and condolence in this her sad bereave-
ment; they are truly appreciated by her.

"Our joys when extended will ever increase,
Our griefs when divided are hushed into peace."


OBITUARY.

	It is with deep regret that we record the death
of one of our beloved sisters. Janet Heaton
John was the daughter of William and Chris-
tina Sinclair. She was born June 11, 1843, at
Trenent, Haddingtonshire, Scotland; was bap-
tized Oct. 28, 1854; emigrated to America in 1856,
and to Utah in 1863. In 1857 she was married
to John Heaton, by whom she had nine children.
In 1873 her husband died, leaving her with the
care of a large family till the fall of 1879, when
she was married to William John. She was a
kind and affectionate mother, a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint, and an active member of the
Relief Society of this place, having held the of-
fice of Secretary for a number of years previous
to her death. She died March 3, 1881, of puer-
peral fever; her babe survived her but two days,
and was buried with her. She leaves a husband,
seven children and a host of friends to mourn


her loss. May she rest in peace and come forth,
in the morning of the first resurrection.

						ELIZA A. HALL.
	West Portage, Box Elder County.

	Died, at Alpine City, March 23, 1881, Cather-
ine Nash, in the sixty-eighth year of her age.
Deceased was born July 23, 1813, at Ashton
Common, Wiltshire, England; emigrated to
Utah in 1854. She had suffered for several
weeks with rheumatism, and upon the night of
the 21st was taken with a paralytic stroke, which
caused much pain and deprived her of the use
of her left side, and affected her speech.
	Sister Nash has for many years held the office
of teacher in the Relief Society, which office
she well maintained up to the time of her death,
and died in full faith of the Gospel, beloved by
all who knew her. Her remains were followed
to their last resting place by a long procession of
her friends from this and surrounding settle-
ments in carriages and wagons. The sisters of
the Relief Society walked in procession, followed
by the Young Ladies' and Primary Associations.
She was loved by all, both old and young. She
leaves two sons and three grandchildren, who
deeply mourn her loss; also a numerous circle of
friends.
	We miss her, but feel assured that our loss is
her gain.					MARIA ADAMS.

	Died, at Taylorsville, S. L. Co., Utah, January,
1881, Jane Knopp. Deceased was born at Rich-
bury, Essex, Eng., May, 1798; emigrated from
Sockett Heath, Little Thurrock, Essex, in 1855;
stayed in Philadelphia, and emigrated to Utah
in 1860. Sister Knopp was an exemplary wo-
man, a true Latter-day Saint, and an active
member in the Relief Society. She resided for
some time in Wasatch County, and wherever
she was on all occasions delighted in her religion,
as a humble follower of Jesus. She died in full
faith of the Gospel.


AMANDA SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	"As I returned from the woods where I had
fled for safety to the scene of slaughter, I found
the sister who started with me lying in a pool of
blood. She had fainted, but was only shot
through the hand. Farther on was Father
Mc'Bride, an aged, white-haired revolutionary
soldier; his murderer had literally cut him to
pieces with an old corn-cutter. His hands had
been split down when he raised them in suppli-
cation for mercy. Then one of the mob cleft
open his head with the same weapon, and the
veteran who had fought for the freedom of his
country in the glorious days of the past, was
numbered with the martyrs. My eldest son,
Willard, took my wounded boy upon his back
and bore him to our tent. The entire hip bone,
joint and all were shot away. We laid little
Alma upon our bed and examined the wound.
I was among the dead and dying; I knew not
what to do. I was there all that long, dreadful
night with my dead and my wounded, and none
but God as physician and help. I knew not but
at any moment the mob might return to com-
plete their dreadful work. In the extremity of
my agony I cried unto the Lord, O Thou who
hearest the prayers of the widow and fatherless,
what shall I do? Thou knowest my inexper-
ience, Thou seest my poor wounded boy, what
shall I do? Heavenly Father, direct me! And
I was directed just as by a voice speaking to me.
Our fire was smouldering; we had been burning
the shaggy bark of the hickory logs. The voice
told me to take those ashes and make a solution,
and saturate a cloth with it and put it right into
the wound. It was painful, but my little boy
was too near dead to heed the pain much.
Again and again I saturated the cloth and put
it into the hole from which the hip joint had
been ploughed out, and each time mashed flesh
and splinters of bone came away with the cloth,
and the wound became white and clean. I had
obeyed the voice which directed me, and having


done this, prayed again to the Lord to be in-
structed further; and was answered as distinctly
as though a physician had been standing by
speaking to me. A slippery elm tree was near
by, and I was told to make a poultice of the roots
of the slippery elm and fill the wound with it.
My boy Willard procured the slippery elm from
the roots of the tree; I made the poultice and
applied it. The wound was so large it took a
quarter of a yard of linen to cover it. After I
had properly dressed the wound, I found vent to
my feelings in tears for the first time, and re-
signed myself to the anguish of the hour. All
through the night I heard the groans of the suf-
ferers, and once in the dark we groped our way
over the heap of dead in the blacksmith shop, to
try and soothe the wants of those who had been
mortally wounded, and who lay so helpless
among the slain.
	"Next morning Brother Joseph Young, who is
still living to testify to this terrible occurrence,
came to the scene of bloodshed and massacr[-].
'What shall be done with the dead?' he asked.
There was not time to bury them, the mob was
coming on us; there were no men left to dig the
graves. 'Do anything, Brother Joseph,' I said,
'except to leave their bodies to the fiends who
have killed them.' Close by was a deep, dry
well. Into this the bodies were hurried, eighteen
or nineteen in number No burial service, no
customary rites could be performed, the mob
were lying in ambush ready waiting the first op-
portunity to diapatch the remaining few. All
were thrown into the well except my murdered
boy, Sardius. When Brother Young was assist-
ing to carry him on a board to the well, he laid
down the corpse and declared he could not throw
that boy into the horrible grave. It was indeed
too much for one whose nature was so tender
and whose sympathies were ever strong in the
hour of sorrow. He could not perform the last
office for one so young and interesting, who had
been so foully murdered and so my martyred
son was left unburied. 'Oh, they have left my
Sar[-]ius unburied in the sun,' I cried, and ran
and covered his body with a sheet. He lay there
until the next day, and then I, his own mother,
horrible to relate, assisted by his elder brother,
Willard, went back and threw him into this rude
vault with the others, and covered them as well
as we could with straw and earth."

To be continued.


182	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JOURNEY TO TIBERIAS.

	Tuesday, Nov. 9. Left the Orphanage before
day-break, Mrs. Gilbert and our teacher,
Nasra, with a trusty man riding a mule. At
first it was very cold, but as the sun rose it
grew warmer, and was at last so hot that we
began to talk of the 9th of Nov. at home, and
wonder what people would think of it if they
could be suddenly transported into our places.
We passed Kep Henna, the supposed Cana of
Galilee, and went tramping on and on, having
settled down in an order that was regulated
not by our own wishes so much as by the pe-
culiarities or predilections of our animals. The
man leading the way, except when his mule,
which was young and untrained, backed into
us, threatening to upset us all, and only resum-
ing his place after an obstinate struggle; then
Mrs. Gilbert, because her mare would not keep
up unless some one was behind to whip it; then
I, because my whip was long enough to reach
Mrs. Gilbert's mare, and then Nasra, because
her horse, being ambitious and always seeking
to lead the procession, did not require any
whipping up.
	At 10.30 we alighted at Lubeya, under the
shade of some olive trees, and explored the
lunch basket in the silent endurance of the
heat, dust and flies, the only variety being that
every few minutes one of the horses would
stand stock still to aim a deliberate kick at
some one particular fly, that was more trying
to its patience than the rest. It is a weary
road along through the country, all around as
arid and desolate as it is possible to conceive,
but it is as certain as anything can be in this
land, that this very road was trodden by the
feet of the Blessed One whenever he would go
from Nazareth to the Sea of Galilee. It was

[Column 2]
no use trying to fancy the surroundings of that
time, they were certain to be very different
from the present. Every now and then we
met a lonely traveler, that reminded me of Ja-
cob: "With my staff I passed over this Jor-
dan;" or a family group that would have re-
called the flight into Egypt, only that the wife
was never riding, but mostly carrying a burden
almost as heavy as that of the donkey. After
six hours riding we saw the glint of water at
the foot of the hills we had been earnestly
watching; a few paces more, and the whole
lake lay before us. We could call up before
our mind's eye a few of the wondrous scenes it
had witnessed, and I was lost for a while in the
past, till the difficulties of the road recalled me
to the present. We had a descent of 1,000
feet to make, among the black, volcanic rocks
of this region that are such a contrast to the
glaring white limestone of Nazareth. We saw
a shepherd going before his flock of sheep, a
sufficiently rare sight for us to notice it—we
see hardly anything but goats generally. We
passed what they called the Mount of Beati-
tudes, and glanced from it to Safed, the city
set on a hill, which had been in view a great
part of the way. Arrived at Tiberias, we
sought the hospitality of the monks of the
convent, and were glad of an hour's rest before
the meal which they set about preparing for
us. An hour before sunset we went out to get
a sketch of the town. We have learned that
the first desideratum for this work is a quiet
spot, where children and beggars won't find
us, and this time we managed to get into such
a retired corner that we only had the company
of one woman. She had many questions to
ask Nasra about us, and when she had finished,
Nasra took her turn, found out that she was a
Moslem, and then tried to tell her what had
happened here to make this lake so interesting
to us. She went away saying, as they all do,
"God has given us one religion, and you an-
other; ours is good for us, yours for you." We
were glad to go to bed as soon as we had made
an agreement with the master of a boat for an
excursion the next morning to the rival Ca-
pernaum and Bethsaida. The mixture of lan-
guages everywhere is sometimes amusing, some-
times anything but that. Here the monks
talk German and Italian—I can deal with them,
but when the Arabs come in and complicate
matters; Nasra has to come to the rescue.
	Wednesday, Nov. 10. Boat ordered at day
break, but we could not get our breakfast to
start before seven. The boat was the rough-
est, most ramshackle old thing ever seen afloat;
there was no place to sit comfortably, and we
were perched up at the end with no rest for
our backs, and our feet dangling. The pros-
pect of this for six hours was not cheering,
and when somewhat later Mrs. Gilbert had an
attack of sea sickness, she asked me whether I
meant to give in this description, which I was
writing at the time, the sentimental or realistic
view of things; and certainly there are two
views of journeys in this country, very differ-
ent from one another. The present view is
mostly of intense discomfort, of the necessity
of bracing oneself up to endurance ad. lib.;
and of a certainty that you would never, under
any circumstances, do the same journey over
twice if you could help it. But this view
fades with time, and the memory only retains
the sentiments, which at that time were over-
powered by the physical experiences; such has
been the case to-day. I am finishing now at
the convent, and feel much more capable of
taking the aesthetic view than I did when I
wrote the first sheet in the boat.
	After three hours of such rowing as would
send an English oarsman into fits, which with
the help of a sail brought us to Sell-Hum, a
distance of perhaps four miles, we most gladly
went ashore; anything was good for a change,
though we only found heaps upon heaps of

[Column 3]
ruins—splendid columns, capital bases, which
on chipping we found to be of exquisitely
veined marble, interspersed among blocks of
the dark, volcanic rocks of the region. We
only stayed ten minutes, as the boatmen were
in a hurry for the first time since we started,
so we make a dash to get a bunch of oleanders
and anoluer plant, the only green things about
the place, and commence the return via Beth-
saida. Here there is a little life, for there is a
watermill turned by a stream from the interior,
and about it a few donkeys and men are stand-
ing; but beyond this there is nothing but ruins.
It is near noon, and still very hot, and poor
Nasra has had her turn at sea sickness, but I
am hoping that we shall get home before it
comes to my turn, although I have a headache
from yesterday's fatigue. At Khan Unizele
we saw the most picturesque piece of rock of
any we have passed. I remarked that it was
steep enough for the scene of the destruction
of the swine, and the boatman answered it was
called "the rock of the swine;" and this is con-
firmed by an Italian guide book. But I am
inclined to think that it was on the other side
of the lake. We do not land at Khan Uni-
zele, but what we can see of it decides the
question in our own minds that it is not Caper-
naum. Next we pass Magdala, and then we
come to Tiberias again, and land at 2.30, after
having been 7 1/2 hours on the lake, and never
wishing to be on it again. Dinner had been
ordered at one, and had been waiting since that
time; we were almost past doing justice to it,
but a cup of tea, manufactured with the help
of an Etna, sets us up, so that we order our
horses round and start again at four to the
south end of the lake. We don't get as far as
we wish, as our man says the places are dan-
gerous after dark. As we hesitate he says
somebody was killed here a little while ago.
This decides the question; so as we have no in-
tention of running risks, we turn back, getting
two little pencil sketches as we sit on our
horses, and re-enter the convent just at sunset.
After supper I write up the journal, Mrs.
Gilbert does some of the sketches, and Nasra
puts the flowers in the paper to dry. Horses
ordered for seven to-morrow.
	Nov. 11. We left Tiberias before seven; stopped
a little way above the town to get one more
sketch and commenced a long, weary climb to
gain the level, a long tramp, then another climb
to the top of Tabor. Extensive building going
on at the Latin convent here; fine mosaic pave-
ment of old cathedral lately discovered. To
bed early, but could not sleep, owing to barking
of dogs and a stampede among the animals fast-
ened just outside the door. Horses ordered for
seven.
	Nov. 12. Started before seven, walked first
part of the way, too steep to ride; found some
cyclamen already sprung up since rain. At
length, after a long tramp, we reach Nazareth.
					CLARA J. BROOKE.


HAPPINESS

	Of all truly expressive words, the most
sought after, the most talked about, the least
understood, is happiness. Many and varied
are the opinions as to what happiness consists
in, and as many and varied are the roads
chosen in the persuit of it. As gold, or wealth,
is thought by the majority of the people to be
the most powerful ingredient in the sweet com-
pound of happiness, I will invite my readers
to lay aside all thought of worldly associations,
by which we may be biased in our judgement,
and take observations. By the way, I think
observation a true method for learning, and
one within the reach of all.
	Well, let the long line of money lovers pass
in array before us; there are two classes of
them—those who hoard up money, and think


the possession of it alone happiness, if they
could only obtain enough of it, and those per-
sons who crave for money to procure ease, self-
indulgence and prominence among their fellow-
beings. The first shut out all happiness by
hardening their hearts against sympathy, and
even fair dealings, in order to more effectually
amass riches. Their condition is rank avarice,
the twin sister of fanaticism—it knows neither
bounds nor satisfaction, and their dissappoint-
ment is their everlasting inferno.
	The second class, not having shut out all
kindly feelings for their fellow-beings, on the
contrary, being very much attached to them,
as necessary to their ease, comfort and ag-
grandizement, enjoy some degree of happiness,
while youth and health accompany wealth;
but as soon as old age with its infirmities over-
takes them, the enchantment under which they
have lived bursts like a bubble, revealing to
them the vast eternity for which they are to-
tally unprepared, and leaving them nothing
but disappointment and regret.
	Riches, then, are not the mainstay of happi-
ness, but a good servant in its cause, if under
the direction of a wise master.
	Observation teaches me to look for happiness
among the classes of comparatively humble
life; The young man who carves his own way
to prosperity, by frugality, industry and steady,
studious habits, is made happy in the respect
and confidence he creates around him; he no-
tices his neighbor's errors only to steer clear of
them; his noble aspirations buoy him up before
difficulties and obstacles, in the encounter of
which the slothful fall an easy prey. He sees
the autumn of his life set in full of satisfaction
for the labors he has performed, and at peace
with himself and his God he has no dread of
the opening of a future life. The same refers
also to women, although in a different sphere.
	The woman who shirks the respensibilities
which her Allwise Creator has imposed upon
her, misses the true source of her happidess.
The frivolous pleasures which she prefers to
the performance of honorable and sacred duties,
will cause her very desolation. Girls who
spend their precious time in scanning the fash-
ion books and reading trashy novels, and try-
ing to ape the heroine of a dime novel, grow
up into giddy women, who talk of the duties
and responsibilities of a wife and mother as
slavery and drudgery. Comforting and helping
our life companion and protector, slavery?
Training up sweet babyhood into noble man-
hood and womanhood, drudgery? I would
that every woman was blessed with such a task!
There is no drudgery in laboring for those
whom we love. Choose for your partner an
intelligent, honest, God-fearing man, bestow
the confidence and respect upon him that you
wish to be the recipient of, and never fear but
happiness will come to you in daily install-
ments, even in the midst of misfortune and
sickness; for a true woman is happiest when
she can bless and happify. There is sweetness
even in sorrow well endured, and sublime
satisfaction in the consciousness of duties faith-
fully performed.				E. C. E. F.
	Morgan City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 183


[Column 1]
WOMEN PHSYSICIANS.

	The Public Ledger, of Phil., has an editorial
entitled "The Doctor Crop," and states that
the medical institutions of that city have
turned out within one week 422 graduates. Of
this number nineteen are ladies, and it is wisely
remarked that women physicians have their
own province, and that "It is not they who in-
terfere with the masculine practitioners, as the
wisest of these now agree, but are aids, com-
plementary, and even essential helpmeets in
the proper advance of gynæcology."
	The same paper gives an account of the An

[Column 2]
nual Commencement of the Woman's Medical
College of Philadelphia, and speaks of the
valedictory of Prof. Rachel L. Bodley (Dean
of the College) as being "a valuable contribu-
tion to medical literature." "In this Dr. Bod-
ley made what is in many respects a new de-
parture for such occasions, her theme being an
exhibit to the new graduates of the work ac-
complished by their Alma Mater in the thirty
years of the existence of the college, as exhib-
ited in the careers of her 276 daughters sent
out as medical graduates during that time. To
enable herself to speak with precision, Dr.
Bodley sent to each of the 244 surving gradu-
ates (thirty-two had died in the thirty years) a
circular containing eight questions, to which
she solicited answers. The questions were de-
signed to cover the prominent features in the
experience of the medical women graduated
by the college, in the practice of their life-
work—its professional character, its pecuniary
rewards, its social status, its teaching work, its
membership in medical societies, and finally
that important question in Sociology touching
the influence of the study and practice of medi-
cine upon woman's relations as wife and
mother. Of the 244 surviving graduates, an-
swers were received from 181, and of this num-
ber 151 are in active practice as doctors; the
remaining thirty having given up for various
reasons, among which are domestic duties, phi-
lanthropic work, other business, poor health,
retired old age, and in some instances no rea-
son was assigned. The rest of this interesting
story is given in Prof. Bodley's own words."
The second question, relating to the predomi-
nating character of the medical practice of
those actively engaged, is answered as gynæco-
logical predominating; showing that woman's
greatest work is among women.
	The third question, concerning the social
status of the woman physician, brings forth
encouraging replies, for out of 151 who answer
this question, 144 report cordial recognition.
	To the fourth interrogation fifty-nine are en-
gaged either in hospitals, asylums or medical
schools.
	The fifth question relates to the monetary
value of the medical practice per year, and is
answered by seventy-six ladies. The average
income is found to be $2,907.30 each.
	Question sixth relates to the work for which
woman is pre-eminenily fitted, that of medical
teacher; fifty-four answer this question affirma-
tively. Among these are professors and teach-
ers in the medical schools of Philadelphia,
New York and Chicago.
	The seventh interesting question relates to
their membership in medical societies. Sixty-
six reply in the affirmative. "The professional
ability of many of these ladies has been recog-
nized by election to membership in more than
one State or local medical organization. Sev-
enty-three different medical societies in all
throughout the United-States, have thus hon-
ored women."
	The Ledger speaks of the eighth and last
question as "the curious question," which is
worded thus: "What influence has the study
and practice of medicine had upon your do-
mestic relations as wife and mother?" Prof.
Bodley here lets the statistics speak for them-
selves. "The answers ot the fifty married
ladies who respond to this question tabulate as
follows: Influence, favorable, 43; not entirely
favorable, 6; unfavorable, 1.
	"The song of domestic life,as I have listened
with ear attent, has been sung in no minor
key. In the melody (as the tabulated state-
ment shows) are a few discordant notes, but
these are such that a master might throw in to
enhance the harmony of his strain."
	The Professor quotes in full a number of the
answers to the last question; we will cite but
two, those of our two Utah lady graduates of
that institution. "As a wife, my duties have

[Column 3]
never been interfered with; as a mother, I have
been incalculably benefitted." "My practical
experience has demonstrated what my student
life indicated, that professional and domestic
duties are not incompatible.		E. R. S.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

CENTREVILLE.

	The Annual Meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of Centreville was held March 26, 1881.
Present on the stand, Bishop Nathan Cheney
and Counselors, Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers, Presi-
dent of the Primary Associations of the Stake,
and her Counselors, Mrs. Ann Dustin, Presi-
dent of the Bountiful Association, and Counsel-
or; also of the P. A. of the Ward. After the
opening exercises, the minutes and reports were
read and accepted. The Scripture alphabet was
then repeated by the Association, and was fol-
lowed by songs, recitations, dialogues, etc. Af-
ter which the brethren and sisters spoke very
encouragingly, and gave much good instruction
and advice.
	Members enrolled, 131; average attendance,
75; meetings held during the year, 41; number
of books in library, 5; cash received[-] $8.00;
cash disbursed, $5.15; Amount in Treasury,
$2.85.
					E. C. PORTER, Sec'y.

LIVERPOOL.

	First Annual Report of the Relief Society
in connection with the Liverpool Branch of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	On December 29, 1879, a number of the
sisters of the Liverpool Branch met at the
house of Elder Scott Anderson (Branch Presi-
dent). Elder William Budge, President of the
European Mission, and Elder James L. Bunt-
ing, President of the Liverpool Conference,
were present. President Bunting opened the
meeting with prayer, after which President
Budge delivered a very interesting and instruc-
tive address, fully explaining the work done by
Relief Societies in Zion, and their incalculable
value as an auxiliary agency in advancing the
work of God.
	Elder Bunting said he would be delighted if
the sisters could see their way to form such a
society; after which, on the motion of Elder
Anderson, the Society was duly formed. Sister
E. F. Johnson was appointed President, or-
dained to her office by President Budge; Sister
Bennet First Counselor, ordained by President
Bunting; Sister Anderson Second Counselor,
ordained by President Budge; Sister Mary Jane
Anderson Secretary, ordained by Elder Bunt-
ing.
	It was resolved to hold weekly meetings,
and at once to enter upon active work by vis-
iting every sister in the Branch; this was con-
tinued nearly the whole year, and a noble effort
was made to induce all to attend to their duties;
and some little relief was afforded to the very
poor. The amount at the disposal of the so-
ciety for the year was only $6.37; and of this,
$2.18 was paid for tracts, which were carefully
distributed from house to house; $3.13 was
given to the sick and poor, and 12 cents was
paid for a minute book, leaving 90 cents in the
hands of the Treasurer.
	In presenting briefly their first annual report
the Relief Society cannot adequately express
their gratitude to their Heavenly Father for
what little good they have been enabled to ac-
complish. They have had many difficulties to
encounter; they commenced with a member-
ship of eight, and during the year five were
added; of these three have emigrated, one has
left the city and one has apostatized. Most of
the members have pressing household duties to


peform, but there has been a willingness to per-
form any duty evinced by nearly all the mem-
bers, which must eventually result in much
good. Going forth in our womanly weakness,
but in the strength of Almighty God, we are
resolved to do our duty, realizing that our
Father has commanded us to cast our bread
upon the waters, promising that it shall return
after many days. Submitted in all Christian
love by
				E. F. JOHNSON, Pres't,
				M. J. ANDERSON, Sec'y.


184	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A DISTRESSED WRITER.

	I have had a pamphlet sent to me entitled
"The Legal Prevention of Illiteracy." I dare
say it is a very able pamphlet, but I have not
read it. It is not illiteracy I want to prevent,
but literacy! I long for some patent method
of convincing every man, woman and child
who is poor, unhappy, or wants pin money,
that they cannot run into literature pell mell,
and make money at will. Above all, I should
like a legal penalty imposed upon every one
who sends a "first effort" to me. It is an equal
"effort," and by no means my "first," for me to
read their poetry, and for them to write it. I
say invariably, and I say it again here, that if
the Angel Gabriel were to write a book, and
ask me for my candid opinion of its merits, I
would not give it to him. I am fast becoming
a misanthrope from the amount of trash gar-
nished with neither sense, grammar, rhyme nor
meter; that my fellow creatures perpetrate
with a view to fame and fortune. Will any-
thing ever convince this crowd of imbeciles that
to write even decently demands previous culti-
vation, information and common sense; or that
real genius is like any other diamond, and
needs careful cutting and polishing. I suppose
not.—Atlantic Monthly.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	Howard was very angry. he was not a
Mormon, and believed their doctrine to be a
"pack of nonsense." People might believe as
they liked so long as it did not interfere with
him, but he considered that they were now in-
terferiug in a most unwarrantable manner, and
he had no sympathy with their feelings. If
Mary would not go she must take the conse-
quences, he would not try to lighten them. So,
taking the wagons and stock and all the pro-
visions made with the money sent by his brother,
with everything he could possibly carry away,
he left her and returned to California. How-
ard was some years older than Jesse, and a wid-
ower. Feeling that it was not good for a man
to be alone, he laid siege to the heart of a sus-
ceptible young widow with four dear little boys.
Herself and her father's family were preparing
to leave the valleys. Thinking, no doubt, it
would prove a blessing in the matter of ways
and means, she graciously accepted his propos-
als, and they were married. She dutifully went
with her husband, who, before reaching home
was so thoroughly disgusted with her conduct,
that he made provision for her to go with her
father's family to another part of the State,
while he went on, a wiser if not a happier man.
	When he was gone and the excitement was
over, Mary had time for reflection. She felt
that Jesse would be very angry with her for
daring to decide in a matter of so much im-
portance, against his wishes, but she put her
trust in God, and prayed Him that her burden
might not be more than she was able to bear.

[Column 2]
Jesse had given everything to his partner, who,
with a view, perhaps, to future possibilities, had
built the house for Mary on his own land. He
claimed it as his now, and she had no thought
of disputing the claim, although it left her
without a shelter for herself and helpless fam-
ily. He was not willing that she should stay
there, even for the few short months that would
intervene before she could hear from her hus-
band. A friend offered her the use of a dilapi-
dated house he had moved out of. She accept-
ed it, and by taking a couple of boarders man-
aged to subsist through the summer months.
But oh, the agony of that long summer! Would
Jesse come, would he send her means, or what
would he tell her to do? His business would
no doubt prevent his coming, and she might
have to wait several years for his return. The
months wore away, and no word came. The
mails were slow in those days, and letters were
a long time reaching their destination even in
summer; in winter the mountains were impassa-
ble. She had sent a letter by mail, thinking it
would reach him before Howard did, and take
the loving words which she knew he would not
carry; for he had left her with a heart full of
anger, and no doubt, instead of cooling, it would
increase with the distance.
	The cabin she lived in could hardly be called
a shelter, for the loose boards overhead let in
the water when it rained, and the walls were in
a ruinous condition; she could not live there
through the winter. She had no money and no
source of income; her provisions were nearly
exhausted, and wood scarce and hard to be got.
If Jesse failed her, what should she do? Her
spirit revolted at the thought of becoming a
charge on the Church. Slowly the summer
months passed by, and September reminded
her that winter was drawing near, when at last
a letter reached her from Jesse.
	Howard had arrived, and putting his own
construction on Mary's conduct, had inflamed
his anger and aroused his jealousy, by telling
him it was for some other man that Mary had
forsaken him, as he termed it. He was hot-
tempered, and poured forth his wrath in no
stinted terms. Abusing Brigham Young and
the Church, and everybody he thought in any
way connected with her detention. He said
she should no longer bear his name, nor claim
his support. Not a dollar more would he ever
send her nor her disobedient children. Minnie
was old enough now to choose for herself, and
she had chosen to stay with her mother; but
Nettie was young yet, and her mind was not
influenced by her surroundings, he would take
her, let the consequences be what they might.
He demanded a divorce, and signed it with his
blood.

To be continued.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt, and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
[-]be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1881.	No. 24.


MISTAKES.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Who does not make mistakes? If there is one
Who feels no vain regrets for ought he's done,
Who would not fain recall some things he's said,
Or joy to unravel some entangled thread,
I'd like to know him, and become his friend,
And in his company some seasons spend,
That I might learn the laws which he hath kept,
And strive henceforth to step where he hath step'd.

I have this sample in the Son of God,
And He has plainly marked the path He trod;
I need not err, the pattern is complete,
'Tis my own weakness where I failures meet.
But oh! what charity should here prevail,
Since mortal strength is ever prone to fail;
How constant, too, should be the fervent call,
Lord, help us! save us, or we perish all!
*		*		*		*		*		*
									LULA.


[Column 1]
THE VICTORIAN ERA.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Back steps are sometimes necessary to propel
us forward, and it seems I rather deal in this
mode of proceeding for I find I must retro-
grade a little in this era of Victoria. I have
spoken in my last section of Prince Albert vis-
iting England, and the association of the cous-
ins; but the Queen took an opportunity to in-
form her Uncle Belgium that she thought her-
self too young for any engagement, and wished
all such to be waived for two or three years.
Prince Albert was also notified to this effect,
she being little more than eighteen, with the
weight of a great and mighty empire upon her
shoulders. Of course, all had to obey this de-
cision; and it seemed a wise one. In October,
1839, Prince Albert and his brother again vis-
ited England their destination being that fine
old castle of Windsor, built by the Empress
Maude, which received the young Princes, and
the Queen herself received them at the top of
the royal staircase, amid all the magnificence of
the noble domain, as though they had been
Emperors. A noble circle of visitors were as-
sembled to meet them, who were all on the qui
vive to see how the royal cousins bore each oth-
er's society. Prince Albert was then a fine-
grown, handsome young man, with a counten-
ance indicative of his character—gentleness,
deep thought and high intelligence were
stamped upon his expressive features. All were
at once charmed with his appearance and man-
ners, which bespoke high purpose and con-
scientiousness. The visit proved a happy one.
The brothers had arrived on the 8th of Octo-
ber, and though it was understood that all
love-making was prohibited, about the 15th a
change had come; still it was no small matter
to address the Queen regnant of England, the
path was an intricate one; what had to be said
must be said by her, not by him—a necessity
of etiquette. The Queen sent for him to her
boudoir. He is ushered in by a footman, and
the door is closed. Then of course propriety
did not cease, but probably extreme etiquette
did, love told his own tale and was intelligible
to both, and when they emerged from that
room arm in arm it was visible to all that the
halo of love encircled them, and they had be-
come one!
	And now another trying scene had to be

[Column 2]
gone through, in which she was the principal
actor—she had to meet her Lords in council,
to announce to them her intention to receive
Prince Albert as her Consort, and felt it her
duty to apprize them of her decision; feeling,
she added, that she would be increasing the
happiness and prosperity of her country by
such a step, etc. Imagine, my young readers!
these were unique and mighty ordeals for a
girl of eighteen to pass through. But in all
such great events, it was remarked in every
paper throughout the country, how collected
and how dignified was her deportment at such
times, the only indication of emotion was her
extreme pallor; and at her coronation the dia-
mond stomacher she wore trembled glitteringly
betraying the pulsation of her whole system.
Though in the midst of a crowd of loving sub-
jects, she yet literally had to stand alone through
all. Think of it, and bless the girl for her coura-
geous nobility!
	I will here relate a circumstance that was
lovingly reiterated at the time all through the
country, as a trait of her womanly amiability.
At one part of the coronation, when she had
passed all the ceremonies, the crown placed
upon her head, and she was seated alone upon
the throne, the great officers of state make
their obeisance to the sovereign kneeling on
one knee; the dais on which the throne was
placed had to be ascended by two or three steps,
and a very old and infirm nobleman slightly
tripped and nearly fell. The Queen actually
impulsively sprang from her seat as though to
help him. Of course, in a moment attendance
was at hand, and all went on as though noth-
ing had happened; but the action was lauded
by all, far and near. Yes, Victoria has ever
been a natural woman!
	The childhood of Queen Victoria had been
spent in comparative seclusion, and without os-
tentation of any sort. Her mother the Duch-
ess of Kent, was a wise, judicious parent, and
knowing her grand and responsible future, pre-
pared and educated her for her high position.
Of course she had every assistance from the
most learned and exalted characters; but for
her moral training she was indebted to her
mother. And as a daugther she was most ex-
emplary to the latest hour of her life. In
every important event she considered her
mother's feelings; even when the poor wretch,
Oxford, fired a pistol at her, as she and Prince
Albert were riding in one of the parks in a
pony phaeton, the Prince clasped her in his
arms, exclaiming, "Thank God, you are safe,"
she said, "Drive me to my mother's house, that
she may first hear the news from me!" How
lovely the child in the woman, was exhibited
in this desire. They, of course, immediately
drove to the Palace at Kensington, and she
joyfully and even playfully related the event
to her mother. Prince Albert was almost
overcome with contending emotions, as well he
might be; yet she desired at the trial of the
imbecile that his life might be spared, and as
far as consistent her merciful desires were car-
ried out. Thrice her life was attempted at that
time, but in all cases she would have no life
taken for the deed.

The quality of mercy is not strained,

*		*		*		*		*		*

It becomes the monarch better than his crown,
It is an attribute of God Himself;
And earthly power doth then show likest God,
When mercy seasons justice!"—SHAKESPEARE.

[Column 3]
	There is real courage in Victoria. Like
Elizabeth, she has impressed herself upon her
people and her court. Libellous attacks have
been made upon her, but she has endured them
calmly and quietly. Her children are not un-
worthy of her, and they hold her sacred as
their Queen-mother. Princess Beatrice, her
youngest daughter, is an example to all daugh-
ters, of whatever grade; she has devoted her
young life to her as her companion, reader, at-
tendant, and as it were, her shadow. Princess
Alice was an angel in disguise within the fam-
ily circle—the watchful friend and assistant of
all; but she has passed away to join her la-
mented father in the realms of peace and joy.
	The death of Prince Albert was in one sense
a death-blow to the Queen. She has ever since
seemed to exist under a cloud, though the voice
of the country has somewhat aroused her from
her apathy, and of late she has in some degree
thrown off the incubus that enthralled her, but
every anniversary of that sad day she holds
sacred, visits the Mausoleum with her children
and one or two select friends, and her private
chaplain, and they strew the choicest flowers—
elegant wreaths, crosses, and bouquets—over
the tomb containing those loved ashes. A sa-
cred service of prayer is also always observed,
and the day is one of meditation and seclusion.
Within this Mausoleum is a sarcophagus, made
by the Queen's order at the time; it has two
recesses for two coffins, the Prince is laid in one,
and all know who is intended to occupy the
other. In death they will not be divided.


"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."

	This prolific subject is intelligently and
truthfully treated upon in one of the leading
journals of the day, the "North American" Re-
view, by President George Q. Cannon. The
article has been largely commented upon in
other journals and newspapers, and it will no
doubt be the means of enlightening many "who
sit in darkness" on the "Mormon" question.
Strange to say, there is still gross ignorance in
regard to Utah, its people and institutions, and
there are many who seek to complicate the
subject by willful misrepresentations, to further
their own purposes and destroy the influence of
those who have made the desert a desirable
dwelling place. They would hinder the "Mor-
mon" people from enjoying the privileges of
American citizens, representing them as a na-
tion of foreigners, holding ideas entirely at va-
riance with republican institutions. The writer
in the Review speaks of the large proportion of
men and women of Puritan, or New England
lineage. It is true, that go where you will in
Utah, in the smallest and most remote settle-
ments, you are sure to find a goodly proportion
of Yankees, or people from Ohio, New York
and Pennsylvania. In considering the nation-
ality of those who hold positions of importance
in women's organizations, it is a remarkable
fact that we find a very large percentage from
the Eastern and Middle States. But we as a
people do not recognize these facts in a religious
point of view, and those who embrace Mor-
monism, women as well as men, renounce their
allegiance to king, queen, foreign potentate and
powers, and identify themselves at the earliest
possible moment with the government of Amer-
ica, the country of their adoption.
	One of the leading journals in the East, in
speaking of Mr. Cannon's article, says: "He


gives a man's views and ideas upon the subject
of plural marriage, but no woman participates
in the debate, which is so emphatically a wo-
man's question—a question of the home." The
solemn protest of the thousands of women who
assembled in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in Jan-
uary, 1870, and in the Theatre in the fall of
1878, and spoke in unmistakable terms upon
the platform, and also voted upon resolutions
sustaining plural marriage, was certainly as
strong a point as could be made in any debate
upon the subject. It was the testimony of
wives and mothers, whose practical experience
entitled them to speak intelligently. Several
of these representative ladies had been married
long before they embraced "Mormonism," and
were fully acquainted with domestic life as it
exists in the world. It was not a radical, en-
thusiastic meeting, but a very large number of
ladies met in sober earnest, to give sincere ex-
pression to their faith, sentiments and prac-
tices in the marriage relation, and it was most
emphatically "the question of the home." The
speeches at the Theatre were reported verbatim,
ten thousand copies were published in pamphlet
form, the women paying the expense of print-
ing, etc., and they were sent out in all direc-
tions. This is not all; women can give as good
and as sound reasons on this subject as men
can, and are as zealous to sustain its practise.
							E. B. W.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

CONTINUED.

	My father says: "I had frequently felt a de-
sire to visit the shores of Europe, and believed
that the time would soon come when I should
take leave of my own country and lift up my
voice to other nations, and warn them of things
which were coming on the earth, and make
known to them the great things which the Lord
had brought to pass; yet it never occurred to
my mind that I should be the first commis-
sioned to preach the Everlasting Gospel on the
shores of Europe, and I can assure my friends
I was taken by surprise when I was informed
by the Prophet Joseph, who came to me June
4th, being the Sabbath day, while I was seated
in the front stand above the Sacrament table,
on the Melchisedec side of the Temple in Kirt-
land, who opened the door and whispered in
my ear, 'Brother Heber, the Spirit of the
Lord has whispered to me, saying: Let my ser-
vant, Heber, go to England and proclaim my
Gospel, and open the door of salvation to that
nation.' Feeling my weakness to go on such a
mission, I asked the Prophet if Brother Brig-
ham might go with me; he replied he wanted
Brother Brigham to STAY WITH HIM, for he
had something else for him to do. In a few
minutes afterwards Hyrum Smith came; he
also opened the door of the pulpit and informed
me of my appointment."
	"The idea of being appointed to such an im-
portant mission was almost more than I could
bear up under; I felt my weakness, and was
nearly ready to sink under the burden which
was placed upon me, and I could not help ex-
claiming: 'O Lord, I am a man of stammering
tongue and altogether unfit for such a work!
How can I go to preach in that land which is
so famed throughout Christendom for learn-
ing, knowledge and piety—the nursery of re-
ligion—and to a people whose intelligence is
proverbial?'"
	"However, all these considerations did not
deter me from the path of duty; the moment I
understood the will of my Heavenly Father, I
felt a determination to go at all hazards, be-
lieving that He would support me by His Al-
mighty power, and endow me with every quali-
fication that I needed; and although my family

[Column 2]
were dear to me, and I should have to leave
them almost destitute, I felt that the cause of
truth, the Gospel of Christ, outweighed every
other consideration."
	"I was requested by Joseph to retire to El-
der Rigdon's after meeting, where the First
Presidency would meet and set me apart for
the mission."
	"When the Presidency came and were about
to lay hands on me, Elder Orson Hyde stepped
in, and partaking of the Spirit of God while
hearing what was going on, said: 'Brethren, I
acknowledge that I have sinned before my God
and you, and I beg of you to forgive me.' The
Presidency rejoiced and praised the Lord at
this manifestation of repentance of Brother
Hyde, who said, if they found him worthy, he
desired to accompany me on my mission to
England, or go on any other mission. The
Presidency then laid hands on me and set me
apart to preside over that mission, and confer-
red great blessings upon my head; said that
God would make me mighty in that nation in
winning souls unto Him; angels should accom-
pany me and bear me up, that my feet should
never slip; that I should be mightily blessed
and prove a source of salvation to thousands,
not only in England, but America. After
which, Elder Hyde was set apart, receiving
similar blessings; also Prest. Joseph Fielding
was blest and set apart for the same mission.
	"After being called on this mission, I daily
went into the east room in the attic story of
the Temple, and poured out my soul unto the
Lord, asking his protection and power to ful-
fil honorably the mission appointed me by his
servants; that the God of Joseph and all the
holy prophets and apostles that were before
him would be with me by the administration
of his holy angels, and that I might have
power so to live that all the blessings that had
been conferred upon me in that house might be
fulfilled, as I candidly believed that they
would."
	"At this time many faltered in their faith;
even some of the Twelve were in rebellion
against the Prophet of God. John F. Boyn-
ton said to me, 'If you are such a d—d fool as
to go at the call of the fallen Prophet, Joseph
Smith, I will not help you a dime; and if you
are cast on Van Dieman's Land, I will not
make an effort to help you.' Lyman E. John-
son said he did not want me to go on my mis-
sion, bnt if I was determined to go he would
help me all he could; he took his cloak from
off his back and put it upon mine.	*	*	*
Brothers Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Sen.,
Brigham Young, Newel K. Whitney and oth-
ers said, 'Go and do as the Prophet has told
you, and you shall prosper and be blessed with
power to do a glorious work.' Hyrum, seeing
the condition of the Church, when he talked
about my mission wept like a child. He was
continually blessing and encouraging me, and
pouring out his soul in prophecies upon my
head; he said, 'Go, and you shall prosper as
not many have prospered.' "
	"A short time previous to starting I was laid
prostrate on my bed from a stitch in my back,
which suddenly seized me while chopping and
drawing wood for my family, so that I could
not stir a limb without calling out from the se-
vereness of the pain. Joseph, hearing of it,
came to see me, bringing Oliver Cowdery and
Bishop Partridge with him; they prayed for and
blessed me, Joseph being mouth, beseeching
God to raise me up, &c. He then took me by
the right hand and said: 'Brother Heber, I
take you by the right hand in the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth, and by virtue of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, I command you
in the name of Jesus Christ to arise, and be
thou made whole.' I arose from my bed, put
on my clothes, and started with them, and
went up to the Temple, and felt no more of the
pain afterwards."

[Column 3]
	"Elder Willard Richards having returned
from his mission the day before, I met him on
the street and told him: I am now ready to
fulfil the prophecy spoken through me last
January, as I intend to start for England to-
morrow; and I wanted him to go with me.
Considering himself involved in business with
Brother Brigham, he did not believe he could
go; but upon consulting Presidents Hyrum
Smith and Sidney Rigdon, and Brother Brig-
ham agreeing to take charge of the business
responsibilities, he was set apart at 6 p. m. by
Brothers Hyrum and Sidney to accompany
the mission to England."
	P. S. In what I said in May 1st concerning
my father's biography not being published, I
did not wish to throw any blame upon Mr. Tul-
lidge, and fearing that some may possibly think
so, I consider it no more than right that an ex-
planation should be given. He was the worst
disappointed, and the only one that I felt sorry
for; he was poor, and my father's family com-
paratively rich, though some had their property
in a shape not to be easily handled or turned
into money. My mother's youngest son, Solo-
mon, was the first to propose having our fa-
ther's biography written by Tullidge, as he had
just read Brigham Young's, and he gave liber-
ally towards it, and he has never regretted it.
When it was mentioned to Heber he readily
donated largely.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	EMILE de Girardin, the noted French jour-
nalist, is dead.

	DR. Lewis Swift, at the Warner observatory
at Rochester, N. Y., discovered a new comet on
the morning of May 6.

	YALE College has organized a class for ladies
resembling the "Harvard Annex." Lectures
will be given by Prof. Sumner, Williams and
Brewer.

	A NEW college of Egyptology has been es-
tablished at Cairo, Egypt, by the French gov-
ernment. The study of Arabic art and litera-
ture and hieroglyphics is the object.

	THE Alabany Morning Express says there is
a man in that city, whose name coold be given
if needful, who openly declared "if his wife
voted he would kill her." Women vote on
school questions in the State of New York, that
was what called forth this demonstration.

	THE thirteenth annual convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will be
held at Tremont Temple, Boston, Thursday and
Friday, May 26 and 27. Among the eminent
speakers are Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Belva
A. Lockwood, Anna Garlin Spencer, Rev. Olym-
pia Brown Willis, Harriet H. Robinson, Rev.
Frederick A. Hinckley, Lillie Devereux Blake,
May Wright Sewell, Elizabeth L. Saxon, Har-
riet B. Shattuck, Martha M'Clellan Brown,
Elizabeth Avery Meriwether, Susan B. An-
thony and others. Three sessions daily at 10
A. M., 2.30 and 7.45 P. M.—Ex.

	GEORGE Eliot's husband accredits only one
portrait of her, a carefully finished front view
crayon of the head, for which she sat many
times in 1867, to Frederick Burton. Rajou,
the celebrated etcher, is re-producing this for
her personal friends, and the etching will be
reproduced in an early number of Scribner's
Monthly, by courtesy of Mr. Cross. All other
portraits, except one by Laurence, which will
not be engraved, the Athenaeum says, "are not
merely not authorized, but strongly condemned
by Mr. Cross." The wood-cut of George Eliot
in the May Harper's is, nevertheless, an inter-
esting picture, and its likeness is warranted by
Kegan Paul.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


STARS AND FLOWERS.

The heavens are studded with gems to-night,
	With glistening gems of beauty rare,
As if they were eyes of celestial light,
	Kindly and tenderly watching there.
Some sparkle with brilliance fair and bright,
	Encircled at times with a halo of light;
While others appear to our finite eyes,
	Of paler hue and inferior size.

In the shady lanes of my English home,
	The honeysuckle's pure and fragrant bloom
Peers out from above the topmost bough,
	Affording pleasure to high and low.
The birds and bees sip the nectar rare,
From out the cells of the climbing plant;
Then flutter away thro' the scented air,
	And twitter their joy in a tender chant.

But we need the daisy and violet sweet,
	That nestle down in the grass at our feet,
They whisper, in accents soft and mild,
	Of love and joy to the little child.
Welcome each tiny blade and flower,
	In shady nook or on sunny brow;
Thrice welcome to those who have not power
	To gather them from the "topmost bough."

And some there are in the world of thought,
	Whose light shines forth like the stars above;
The world is richer for truths they've taught,
	The earth more fair for their words of love,
And some whose light is of paler hue,
	That is seen and felt by only a few,
Yet is of the same celestial fire,
	The same sweet spirit has tuned their lyre.

'Tis a glorious thing to be great and wise,
	To labor for all the human race,
To vindicate those the world despise,
	And bring all nations face to face.

The humble and meek need not despair,
	The field is large and the vineyard wide;
The worker is needed everywhere—
	In the shady lanes and rough wayside.
Yes, workers are needed in every home,
	For such as these there is always room—
To guide the feet of the erring youth,
	And scatter the seeds of love and truth.

If all the stars were brilliant and bright,
	The flowers climbed to the ivy's height,
And none for the little ones low and sweet,
	The picture would be incomplete.
							ESTHER A. BENNION.
April 10, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONTINUED.

	In Rome, once the Capital of the world, and
still celebrated for its art galleries and many
antiquities, Sister Eliza spent five days, travel-
ing with a guide who was a lecturer and pro-
fessor of Archaeology, which was of great bene-
fit to her. In this grand old city she visited,
among other places of special interest, the Vati-
can Palace, residence of the Pope. Our young
people may read a true and interesting descrip-
tion of this magnificent palace in the "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists." Among
other remarkable places visited in Rome, she
mentions the Cemetery of the Capuchins, where
she saw "millions of human bones assorted and
arranged, some in arches,* others symmetrically
formed into niches, where other bodies were
placed in a reclining position;* some of these
arches were crowned with severel rows of
skulls.* Everything, the chandeliers, candle-
sticks, etc., were made of bones." After care-
fully going over the most noted places and cu-
riosities of Rome, the party left for Naples,
arriving Jan. 25, where they visited Hercula-
neum and Pompeii, and a portion of the party
ascended Mt. Vesuvius; Sister Eliza tells us her
"ambition was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder at a lower point." She
styles Naples "a city of pomp and beggary."

[Column 2]
	From Naples the party went by rail to
Brindisi, from there by steamer to Corfu, an
island belonging to Greece. Sister Eliza says
the condition of many of the Grecian women
living in the country is that of "beasts of bur-
den. From Corfu the party embarked at mid-
night, Feb. 2, on an Austrian Steamer, Saturno,
and reached "Alexandria on the morning of
the 6th. She says the voyage was delightful.
On board the Steamer, she wrote a poem en-
titled "Sunrise on the Mediterranean," from
which we make an extract:

"We mounted Saturno's deck to see
	A grand, magnificent scene—
The rising sun in its majesty,
Diffusing its goldeu sheen.

"A charming precursor first appeared,
	In volumes of golden rays,
Increasing their splendor till all aronnd
	The horizon seemed to blaze.
*		*		*		*		*
"The sparkling waves of the sea below,
	The blazoning over head,
The horizon wrapped in a buruing glow,
A thrilling enchantment spread."

	No doubt such a woman as Sister Eliza
would have many peculiar feelings and thoughts
in crossing the Mediterranean, so connected
with the life of Jesus and the Apostles. It
must have been a great satisfaction to one of
her religious nature to visit the Holy Land.
In Alexandria she began to feel that every-
thing was foreign, though the perfect "medley
of nations, religions, costumes, colors and dia-
lects," with the curious appearance of the city
and its surroundings made it specially inter-
esting.
	The next place of note was Cairo. Here
she saw the Khedive and many places of Scrip-
tural interest. From Cairo they went to Suez,
via the Red Sea, then back to Ismalia by rail-
way where they took steamer for Port Said.
From thence on board the Vesta of the Aus-
trian Lloyd line of steamers, and anchored off
the coast of Jaffa: At Joppa they commenced
tent life,after the Eastern manner, and traveled
with pack animals and on the backs of don-
keys, etc. Sister Eliza walked some distance
to see the "house of one Simon, a Tanner, sit-
uated by the sea side." Here was this veteran
woman, wife of the Latter-day Prophet, in the
country of sacred story, wandering through
groves of lemon and orange trees, treading on
"consecrated ground," where once trod our
blessed Savior and his Apostles, and where the
charm of his presence lingers still. She trav-
eled over the "beautiful plains of Sharon, and
encamped at night at the entrance of the val-
ley of Ajelon." Next day they rode through
the valley, and journeying on through those
world-famous places, they arrived in due time
at Jerusalem, where they visited the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, and in the vicinity, the
Pools of Solomon, the Tomb of Rachel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan River, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc. In Jerusalem Sister
Eliza seems to have been in a poetic mood;
"The Dead Sea—a Monument" was written
there. The poem opens thus:

"Though 'dead,' it is a living monument.
'Tis peerless, archless, towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embellishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine."

	It has been truly said by a modern author,
Sister Eliza possessed the Hebraic genius of in-
spiration, and no doubt this was fully aroused
by the subjects which presented themselves
during her journey over that memorable Jew-
ish land. Her prophetic vision opened to the
future, the re-building of Jerusalem, and con-
templated its coming glory in striking compar-
ison with the past. In fact, her soul seems to
have been wonderfully wrought upon, and as a
daughter of the House of David, of the royal
line, she bursts forth in song and apostrophizes

[Column 3]
Jerusalem. After speaking of its departed
glory, its historic name and character, its
wealth, its fame and grandeur, the curse under
which it had rested, etc., etc., she prophecies of
its future magnificence, and says:

"Thy sun has not forever set—
	God has a great design,
And will fulfil his purpose yet,
	Concerning Palestine.
The appointed hour will surely come,
	According to his will,
For God with faithful Abraham
	His covenants to fulfil.
*		*		*		*		*
"Thy walls shall be of precious stones,
	Thy gates of richest pearl;
And on thy tow'ring battlements
Shall sacred banners furl."
*		*		*		*		*

	There was something in Sister Eliza's visit-
ing Palestine not apparent to the careless ob-
server, and it was in fulfilment of prophecy.
Her tour through the Holy Land was a mission,
and she had the spirit of it, as one ever does
when called to carry out some sublime purpose
pertaining to the latter-day work.
			To be continued.


CHARITY—HOW DEFINED.

	Being told in Holy Writ that Faith, Hope
and Charity are the fundamental principles of
the Gospel, and that the greatest of these is
Charity, we find it quite requisite to under-
stand its true definition. And especially when
we measure ourselves by the pattern our Savior
has given to become qualified for the Celestial
kingdom. We naturally suppose Charity to
consist in giving of our goods to the needy; but
we begin to feel that we are mistaken, when
we read St. Paul's version as given in 1st Cor.,
13th chapter and 3d verse. He says: "And
though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor,
and though I give my body to be burned, and
have not Charity, it profiteth me nothing." It
seems, then, there is a way of performing these
duties without the Gospel, for instance, the
law of Moses may be kept with a vengeance; a
man may return an injury filled with hatred
and revenge, and at the same time be keeping
the law of Moses. But the higher law, this
law of our Savior, cannot be kept in this way.
To be acceptable to God, our Charity must be
given in love and humility, or it is as the
preacher saith, "vanity of vanities."
	Our Savior looked upon the Pharisees (who
sounded a trumpet before giving alms) in the
same light, because they sought the praise of
man and were destitute of genuine love for
their fellow-man, who was made in the image
of his Maker.
	We learn from this that our duties are not
acceptable to God, our Father, unless per-
formed in the true spirit of the Gospel of Christ,
which is love; as we also read in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, page 387, verse 41,
requires love unfeigned; also in Galatians, 6th
chapter and 7th verse, the Apostle says, "Be
not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatso-
ever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
For he that soweth to the flesh shall reap cor-
ruption; but he that soweth to the spirit shall
reap life everlasting." Accordingly, true
Charity is the love which Jesus had when He
cried with a loud voice, "Father, forgive them,
for they know not what they do." Also Ste-
phen, when stoned to death, cried out, saying:
"Lord, lay not this sin to their charge;" and
when he had said this he fell asleep. He knew
that an evil spirit had enraged them and
blinded their eyes. When we become fully ac-
quainted with the power that a wicked spirit
has upon the mind, will we not have fervent
Charity for our Father's family? I believe
our mission to earth is to become acquainted
with both the evil and the good.
						M. E. KIMBALL,


188	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	MAY 15, 1881.


WOMEN STORING GRAIN.

	It is a well known fact that the women in Zion
are laying up wheat against a day of need. This
benevolent enterprise was commenced in the
fall of 1876, and from that time until the present
the sisters in their various organizations have
felt it both a duty and a privilege to donate and
take care of grain. All those who have read our
little paper will remember the editorial in Octo-
ber 15, 1876, which was written according to offi-
cial instructions on this subject.
	At the Jubilee Conference the sisters agreed
by vote to loan the wheat—but the Bishops were
to be the responsible parties in the affair, and re-
ceipts given for wheat loaned were to have the
signature of the Bishop of the respective local-
ity. It was woman's part of the blessing of the
poor in the Jubilee year, and the same quantity
of wheat was to be returned again into the pos-
session of those who had charge of it.
Now, the question has been sprung, "Are the
sisters to keep on lending the wheat? and, Can
they have so much on the bushel for lending it,
as the farmers do who are in the habit of lending
to each other?" No such counsel has been given.
Were the Saints to pursue this course, the
wheat might be lent out just at the time when
some unforeseen need might arise, and the bread
stuff be wanted for the emergency.
	The wheat was to be kept stored up, until it
was called for by the presiding authority of the
Church, and it was not proposed to traffic in it.
Exigencies may require it sometimes to be used
or lent, but in all cases it must be regulated by
presiding authority.
	It certainly is a great labor, and will be more
so as the quantity of grain stored increases year
after year; but the way will open for the sisters
to fill this important mission, if they persevere
and do not become weary in well doing. Al-
ready storehouses and bins have been built in
nearly all the settlements, and others are mak-
ing efforts to erect suitable buildings for the
same purpose. It was an original idea, to be
sure, that women should store grain, but they
have succeeded in accomplishing a great deal, by
littles, and much remains to be done in the fu-
ture. In the meantime, take care of that which
you have, and add to it all that you consistently
can, instead of disposing of it in any other ways.
Let us not relax our efforts in this laudable un-
dertaking, for assuredly the day is coming when
wheat will be more precious than gold. It is
really something unknown in the past history of
nations, for women to be engaged in preparation
for famine, but this mission has been given to
the sisters in this day and age, and it is no doubt
for a wise purpose. There is every prospect for a
bountiful harvest this year, and let the sisters,
those who labor for Zion and her interests at
home, redouble their exertions to increase the
quantity of wheat in the women's storehouses.


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has now completed
the ninth year of its mission. During that time
it has visited thousands of homes in America,
Europe, Asia and the islands of the seas.
Wherever it has gone we trust good seed has
been sown, for its aim has been to inculcate cor-
rect principles, to promote the growth of educa-
tion among all classes, and aid in the onward
march of progression. Woman's mission is di-
verse from that of man; she has not been called,
except in rare instances, to go out among the na-
tions to preach the Gospel, but by the aid of the
pen many of the sex have borne strong and ear-
nest testimonies of individual and general exper-
ience, which are recorded in the columns of this
little paper, and will stand as a witness of the
work of reformation which the time and season
seem to demand—she is thus enabled to address
thousands at once, instead of a small audience.
The labors of women in various organizations are
here justly represented. The rights of women
to a legitimate place in all the departments of
life, political and social, are discussed, as its
motto truthfully declares—"The Rights of the
women of Zion, and the rights of the women of
all nations." Thus let woman speak for herself
to the heart of her sister-woman everywhere,
strengthening the weak and comforting the sor-
rowful, and let the EXPONENT still be a messen-
ger of truth and light, practically sustained by
actual effort, that it may be a blessing in the fu-
ture as it has been in the past to the mother in
her home, to the Elders in their labors abroad,
and in many a nook and in homes, where no
Elder could gain admittance.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE "Ogden Herald" comes to us regularly as
an exchange, and we are well pleased with its
appearance and contents. It was issued first
May 7, and we have no doubt of its success as
the newspaper of Weber Co. Its editor, John
Nicholson, Esq., has had considerable experience
in journalism, and will no doubt be able to make
the "Herald" lively, newsy and interesting. We
welcome its appearance gladly, and hope it "may
live long and prosper."

	WE have received several new exchanges with-
in the last few months, nearly all favoring wo-
man suffrage, some edited by men, some by
ladies. The "Colorado Antelope," published at
Denver, is a woman's paper, though one would
scarcely guess it by the name. The editorial de-
partment is very ably conducted by Mrs. C. M.
Churchill, who seems to be almost too liberal in
her views towards "Mormons" to please those
who are so anxious to destroy the peace and
happiness of the founders of Utah. Mrs.
Churchill is certainly a woman of stamina, and
does not stand in fear of Madame Grundy. Suc-
cess to the "Antelope!" We are very proud
of it.

	The "Western Woman's Journal" comes to us
from Lincoln, Neb., fresh and new, in monthly
magazine form, containing sixteen pages. It is
full of interesting matter. Its motto that of
Neb.—"Equality before the Law," also, "An Ar-
istocracy of Sex is Repugnant to a Republic."
It is edited by Erasmus M. Cornell, but has
several ladies on the staff as Editorial Contrib-
utors.

	"The New Era," "The Ægis," "The Scientific
Man," "The Western Light," "The American
Sentry,"—all welcome, and all advocating their
respective views on popular questions, all, no
doubt, promoting an increase of enlightened
thought in this busy, work-a-day world.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOW is the time to subscribe for Volume Ten
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Let woman sus-
tain the voice of woman in the press.

	SISTER Lucy A. Johnson, of Kanab, writes to
"Sister Eliza" that the P. A. had a party on the
9th ult. They have 158 names enrolled, with
130 average attendance. The R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A., as well as the Primary, are in a pros-
perous condition.

	MEDICAL LECTURE.—For the benefit of a
medical student about to graduate at Ann Arbor,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will give a lecture, which
will be a continuation of the one given in the
Theatre some time ago. It will probably take
place in the Social Hall on Tuesday afternoon,
May 24, exclusively for ladies.

	BY private letter to President E. R. Snow
Smith, from Mrs. Wilmirth East, we learn that
the Relief Societies in the Eastern Arizona Stake
of Zion are in a flourishing condition, under the
presidency of Sister East. She states there are
five organized wards, with sufficient members to
admit of Primary organizations, which they ex-
pect will be attended to this coming summer un-
der the direction of Pres. Jesse N. Smith.

	AT the 20th Ward P. A. Anniversary, held
on the 19th ult., there were a variety of things
on exhibition which have been made for the
Children's Fair, which will be held in S. L. City
sometime in September next. These articles
were all of the children's manufacture, neatly
executed, and certainly the little folks deserve
encouragement. There were baskets and vases
of flowers made of wool and of wax, many pretty
varieties; also mats, tidies, pincushions, pillow-
cases, dolls dressed and mottoes worked, all by
the little girls. There was a handsome bracket
made by a little boy, and several other pieces of
work well finished. The exercises were well ar-
ranged. Miss Celia Sharp recited "Whistling
in Heaven," Misses Emily Sharp and May
Mitchell sang "The Lover and the Bird," Master
Owen read "Address to Little Boys," Kate
Romney recited "Father, now the day is past,"
Misses Georgiana Toone and Nettie Gibson sang
"Little Sunshine," Belle Solomon, essay on
"Obedience," Masters Wm. Phillips and John
Sharp dialogue about a pocket book, song, Mary
Romney, "The Child's Unfinished Prayer,"
reading, Master Knight, "Obedience to Parents,"
Ida Sansome "Robin's Complaint," Eliza Knight
"Jane's Evening Prayer," organ solo, Emma
Lyon, dialogue by six little girls, essay on "Good
Behavior," Alice Phillips, Master Joseph Decker
sang "Trust the Children, Never Doubt Them,"
he is a very little fellow, and performed his
part admirably, and he has a sweet, rich voice;
Maggie Calhoun recited "Little Children may
be Useful," Georgiana Toone recited "The Mar-
tyrdom of the Prophet," by Mrs. M. J. Tanner;
there were other songs, recitations and essays
and singing by the Association, all well rendered.
Miss Kate Miller presided at the organ during
the entire afternoon. Everything was done
well and in order, and reflects great credit upon
all who took part in the arrangements.


CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	In September there will be a Children's Fair
held in this city, under the auspices of the Presi-
dency of the Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake. The Presidents of the different branches
in this Stake are expected to take an active part
in aiding to make the FAIR a success. All kinds
of articles, useful and ornamental that can possi-
bly be made by the little folks, they should be
encouraged in making. There is no doubt it will


be a grand affair. The Fair at Farmington last
year surpassed anything which had been antici-
pated, but we expect this will be much larger as
the children have already had some few lessons
in getting up bazars in their respective wards.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189


OBITUARY.

	Died in Centerville, April 16, 1881, Mrs. Re-
becca Chandler Ford. Deceased was born in
Great Grand, Huntingtonshire, England, Dec.
23, 1814, was the daughter of Elizabeth and
William Chandler. June 23, 1834, was united
in marriage to John Ford. In 1850 she was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and in 1854 emigrated with her hus-
band and family to Salt Lake City, where she
passed through various scenes of privation and
trial, but was ever firm and steadfast in her
faith. She came to Centerville in 1855, and has
resided here ever since.
	Sister Ford had eleven children, seven of whom
are living, three daughters and four sons. She
leaves quite a posterity upon the earth, seven
children and twenty-eight grandchildren. She
was an affectionate wife and an exemplary
mother; her loss is keenly felt. Her sickness
lasted twenty-four days and her sufferings were
great, all of which she bore with patience. She
frequently spoke of death, but always with
calmness and resignation. Sister Ford was in
the best sense of the word a woman of God. Her
life has been faithfully devoted to the advance-
ment of his kingdom and doing good to her
brethren and sisters. Her faith in the princi-
ples she had espoused was unbounded, and her
fondest hope and desire was that her children
should ever revere, sustain, uphold and advocate
Mormonism. She was of a gentle disposition,
and great faith. Was a member of the Relief
Society of the Centerville Ward; has always
been active, energetic, even zealous in the per-
formance of every duty pertaining to the relief
of the poor and the needy, the orphan and the
fatherless. She has lived and died the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and has passed away in
glorious hope of a part in the first resurrection.
She has joined the hosts of friends behind the
vail who are looking forward to a re-union with
those who remain. She will be deeply mourned
by her posterity and many friends and acquain-
tances, and her memory will be proudly cher-
ished by those who knew her many virtues, her
loving disposition and honorable life.

"Vain are the trophies wealth can give—
	Her memory needs no sculptured art;
She's left a name, her virtues live
	Like shining tablets on the heart,"

						KATE M. CHASE.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., April 1, 1881,
Mary Elizabeth, daughter of William and Susie
Hawks, aged 1 year and 27 days.

Oh, how sad to part with our dear one,
	Little Mary, so gentle and sweet,
In all her sufferings so patient,
	So loving, angelic and meek.

								M. L. W.


ON MARRIAGE.

	I have long wished to write something to the
young readers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Al-
though I am a long way from you, and may
never be permitted to greet you in your meet-
ings, or your homes, yet I have an ardent desire
to talk a little to you, and give you some advice
upon obedience to parents, especially in refer-
ence to marriage, which is the turning era in the
life of the young, and much depends upon a wise
choice, a union of purpose, and where there is


need of trust and strength to guide. I would
say to my young brothers and sisters, with the
experience of forty years I have never known
one happy marriage that was contracted in oppo-
sition to parents (that were parents in the true
sense of the term). No doubt there have been
rare instances where parents have wished, nay
commanded their children to marry persons
when their only motive was money, or aggrand-
izement, but such cases are exceptional indeed.
Let me say something more to you, be ye not
unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for
it is not right in the sight of your Father in
Heaven.
	Oh, that I had the voice of an angel,that would
penetrate to every ear and every heart of the
young people of the world, and more especially
those in Zion, born heirs to the Holy Priesthood.
Nev[-]r marry against your parents' wishes and
sanction; if you do, you will live to heave the re-
gretful sigh and to lament in bitterness your dis-
obedience. Remember what I tell you is truth.
You want first to seek God and his favor, then you
will be led to do right and guided securely in all
things. I will tell you some of my experience.
When I first heard the Gospel I was thirteen
years of age; young, innocent and ambitious. I
believed it. Do you think I embraced it? No, I
did not; my pride forbade me to give up the
honors and popularity of the world, and follow
that despised people called "Mormons." Do
you suppose I would acknowledge then that I
believed "Mormonism?" No. But I have lived
to heave the regretful sigh, to repent in dust and
ashes my pride. What is my pnnishment now,
think you? It is to look back upon a lost life,
and to rep[-]at over and over again the saddest
words that e'er were said, "It might have been."
Would to God you could realize it as I do, with-
out the terrible experience!
	My dear young brothers and sisters, live the
religion of your fathers and mothers, and you
will never be sorry, or regret it when you are
old. I know that the Latter-day Gospel is true,
and if you receive and retain it, you will be
saved in the Celestial kingdom. You will be
happy here and hereafter. If you would but
hearken unto the commandment, obey your
parents in all things, for that is well pleasing
unto your Father in Heaven, you will never re-
gret it in this life nor in the life to come. I be-
seech you, in the name of Jesus, as one who has
suffered from the folly of disobedience, to heark-
en unto what I have written. I want your
prayers in my behalf, that I may yet be permit-
ted to gather with the Saints. I am here in the
midst of unbelievers, those who are full of preju-
dice, and all manner of lies are circulated against
the Saints. I never have an opportunity of even
seeing an Elder. The EXPONENT is a great
comfort and blessing to me. My mother and
myself are the only persons that believe in the
Latter-day work in this section of the States.
Our families and relatives are all opposed to us,
yet our faith is strong.
				Yours truly,
									TRUTH.


THE SISTERS AT ORDERVILLE.

	Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. Young, ac-
companied by Sister Minerva Snow of St. George,
visited Orderville, arriving on the 16th of Feb-
ruary, and stayed until the 21st; during which
time they held five meetings, organized three
Primary Associations, and said a great many in-
structive and encouraging things to the people.
We are truly thankful for the visit of our sisters
and for the Primary Associations which they
organized. We have long felt the need of some
means of getting our children more completely
under our control. Their visit has been benefi-


cial also in the way of awaking the sisters of the
Relief Societies to a sense of their duties as
Mothers in Israel and helpmeets to man in his
great work of saving souls. Our children will
long remember the kind words of Sisters Eliza
and Zina, and we all hope to meet them soon
again.
			LOUISA C. SPENCER, Pres't R. S.
			HANNAH C. HOYT, Sec'y.


AMANDA SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	"After disposing of the dead the best that we
could, we commended their bodies to God and
felt that He would take care of them, and of
those whose lives were spared. I had plenty to
do to take care of my little orphaned children,
and could not stop to think or dwell upon the
awful occurrence. My poor, wounded boy de-
manded coustant care, and for three months I
never left him for a moment night or day. The
next day after the massacre, the mob came back
and told us we must leave the State, or they
would kill us all. It was cold weather; they had
taken away our horses and robbed us of our
clothing; the men who had survived the battle
were wounded; our people in other parts of the
State were passing through similar persecutions,
and we knew not what to do.
	"I told them they might kill me and my chil-
dren in welcome. They sent to us messages
from time to time, that "If we did not leave the
State they would come and make a breakfast of
us." We sisters used to have little prayer meet-
ings, and we had mighty faith; the power of
God was manifested in the healing of the sick
and wounded. The mob told us we must stop
these meetings, if we did not they would kill
every man, woman and child. We were quiet
and did not trouble any one. We got our own
wood, we did our own milling, but in spite of all
our efforts to be at peace, they would not allow
us to remain in the State of Missouri. I ar-
ranged everything, fixed up my poor, wounded
boy, and on the first day of February started,
without any money, on my journey towards the
State of Illinois; I drove my own team and slept
out of doors. I had four small children, and we
suffered very much from cold, hunger and fa-
tigue; and for what? For our religion! In this
boasted land of liberty the edict went forth, deny
your faith, or die. I recollect some of the names
of the men who took part in this scene of blood-
shed and slaughter. There were two brothers
named Comstock, Wm. Mann, Benjamin Ash-
ley, Robert White, and one by the name of
Rogers, who took an old scythe and cut an aged
brother, who had been a revolutionary soldier,
all to pieces."
	"I leave it to this honorable government to
decide what my damages are. My husband
and son killed, another wounded nigh unto
death—for I verily believe only the power of
the living God preserved him—stripped of all
that could make life desirable, my horses, my
goods, and even my pocket book taken from me—
the hundredth part of my sufferings can never
be told in words; but there is One above Who
knows all things, and into whose hands I commit
my cause.
	"I once asked one of the mob what they intend-
ed when they came upon our camp; he answered
they intended to kill everything that breathed.
I felt the loss of my husband greatly, but re-
joiced that he died a martyr to the cause of
truth, instead of having apostatized. He went
full of faith and in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. As for myself, I had unshaken confidence
in God through it all. I had been personally ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph, and knew
him to be a man of God, knew his works and
his unblemished character, and this knowledge
buoyed me up under every trial and privation.
The journey to Illinois was a hard one, but the
Lord was with me in passing through those try-
ing scenes. In Quincy, Ill., I found friends who
took me in and supplied my wants for a season.
As soon as I could I commenced teaching school,
which brought me in means sufficient to supply
the wants of my family
	"In the year 1839 I married again, to a man
bearing the same name as my deceased husband
(Warren Smith), though they were not in the
least related. He was also a blacksmith, and
our circumstances were prosperous. We went
to live in Nauvoo, and remained there until
after the exodus. By this marriage I had three
children, Amanda Malvina, who died in Nauvoo,


at the age of nine months; also Warren Barnes
and Sarah Marinda, who are still living, the
former at Lehi, the latter at Hyde Park.
	"I remember accurately the occurrences that
transpired in Nauvoo. The dreadful death of
the Prophet and Patriarch, the gloom that hung
over the fated city, and the heavy grief and sad-
ness that rested upon the people who so truly
loved them.
	"I enjoyed the privilege of seeing the Temple
finished, and of receiving therein the blessing
of holy ordinances. Willard, my first-born son,
also had his endowments in that Temple, and
came out among the first who left there; was
one of the Mormon Battalion, who were called
to go to Mexico while en route to find a resting-
place for the Saints.


190	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF  SOCIETY REPORT.

FAVORSHAM, ENGLAND.

	Extract from a letter received by Secretary S.
M. Kimball,  from  Elder  Edward King, Kent,
England:

	"The  Favorsham  Relief  Society is  a live in-
stitution, its  members  are  energetic and trying
to live as becomes Latter-day Saints;  the Society
consists of twenty officers and members.  The
sisters have done a good work the past winter in
hunting up and relieving the poor.  The official
members  visit  among  the  Saints,  instructing
them  to  be  prayerful and live near to God, ac-
cording to the knowledge they have received.
	On the 21st ult. the Society held a semi-annual
Conference;  much  of  the  time  was occupied 
with reports, a  synopsis  of which  was  sent to
the London  Conference.   The  President, Sister
Ann Cornford, is a woman  worthy  of  the  confi-
dential  support  of  her  sisters  in Zion.  At the
close of the  afternoon meeting a social tea, pro-
vided by the President and her Counselors, was
enjoyed, and in the evening  the  Relief Society 
held a joint session with the Priesthood of Fav-
orsham  Branch, Brother  J. A. Jennings and I
taking part.   Bro. Jennings is doing well in the 
ministry; I can truly  say the Spirit of the Lord
was with us on this occasion, and I feel sure that
the result of the meeting will be increased unity
among the Saints here.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

KANAB STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the R. S. of
Kanab Stake convened in the Kanab School
House March 11, 1881, Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Besides the presidents of
the various wards, we were privileged with the
presence of Apostles F. M. Lyman and John
Henry Smith, and a number of the leading
brethren of the Stake.
	Meeting opened by singing "Once more we
come before Thee now." Prayer by Coun.
Lucy A. Johnson. Sang, "O awake, my slum-
bering minstrel." The presidents of the sev-
eral wards gave good verbal reports; said their
societies were prospering, the sisters were doing
their duty, trying to live their religion, and
helping one another. Pres. H. Bunting felt
pleased in having the presence of Apostles Ly-
man and Smith, and so many of the brethren;
hoped that we would be benefitted by their
counsel. Presidents H. E. Spencer, James L.
Bunting and Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun.,
gave the sisters some very wise counsel, encour-
aged them to good works and to live the lives
of Latter-day Saints.
	Apostle J. H. Smith said, "I have listened
with pleasure to the remarks of the sisters. It
is a matter of great interest to meet with those
who are laboring for the upbuilding of society.
The mission of woman is one of the greatest
and noblest on earth. She has much to do in
fashioning and framing the minds of men. To
a great extent she molds the minds of our poli-
ticians and statesmen. She is constantly in
the presence of her children, and what woman
makes up her mind that her cdildren shall be,
to a great extent they will be; and as she de-

[Column 2]
termines, so shall society, communities and na-
tions be. If the women of the Latter-day
Saints block the wheels of Progress, it is a hard
struggle for the men; on the other hand, if
they determine that their sons and daughters
shall assist in the consummation of the great
and glorious work of the latter days, it is in
their power to fit and prepare them for that
work. How careful should our daughters be
trained, that they may carry with them in
their future life every virtue of their mother.
Show me a mother that is neat and orderly,
and I will show you a race of sons and daugh-
ters who will follow her example. Whatever
mark I may make in life, I owe that to my
mother. Sisters, so train your daughters, that
should they be in the company of ladies of the
outside world, they can give a reason for the
hope that is within them. Never allow them
to go from home without you know where they
are and what company they keep. Teach them
the nature of their organization. Teach them
so that they would prefer to be broken at the
rack than that their pure bodies should be pol-
luted; and the fathers teach the boys the same.
If you do this you will be blessed in your old
age, and your children will be your pride and
glory. They will grow up around you as
bright buds and blossoms. If you take the op-
posite course they will leave you, and your sor-
row will be great. It is a source of pleasure
to me that the sisters are doing much good.
Let us wear homemade clothing; make your-
selves beautiful with the workmanship of your
own hands. Adorn your minds with intelli-
gence—that is the principle we are after. I
would rather have true knowledge and true
science than all the riches of this world."
	Apostle F. M. Lyman said: "The remarks of
the sisters are good; if you are diligent and put
them in practice they will be a benefit to you.
It is well for the sisters and brethren to labor
together in the training of their children. It
is true that the molding of the destinies of
men depend very much on the mother; yet I
hold that it is a great thing for the children to
have a good father, and for the sisters to have
a good husband. If there are two or three
wives, he should be a very good man. Still, I
admit that a great responsibility rests on moth-
ers. We should see that our wives and daugh-
ters are intelligent, for we cannot expect intel-
ligent children from ignorant mothers. The
virtue of woman should be a body guard to
her. She should so carry the impress of that
virtue on her countenance, that her very pres-
ence could quell the rudest of men; and
guarded by that virtue she could travel around
the world and be sacred from insult among the
most base."
	The Apostles also gave much good counsel
to the brethren.
	Pres. Bunting felt the time had been well
spent. Wished the sisters to treasure up the
good counsel they had received and profit
thereby. Conference adjourned for three
months, to be held at Mt. Carmel. Sang, "Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation." Dis-
missed by Apostle F. M. Lyman.

PAROWAN.

	The first yearly Conference of the Parowan
Stake was held in Cedar City Feb. 13, 1881,
President Ellen W. Lunt presiding. After
opening exercises; minutes of previous Confer-
ence were read by the Stake Secretary, also sta-
tistical and financial reports from the different
branch societies. The representatives gave
very encouraging verbal reports of their prog-
ress, also very good counsel and much good
general instruction.
	Elder Thomas Durham spoke in a very in-
teresting manner on the subject of Music.
Hoped to see the time when it would be more
extensively cultivated in all our institutions.

[Column 3]
	President Henry Lunt and Bishop C. J.
Arthur said they were greatly pleased to hear
and see the marked improvement our sisters
were making, and gave us some very excellent
instructions. Referred to the exhibitions
given by the Primary Associations as being
very pleasing and conducive of much good.
Urged the sisters to subscribe more liberally
for the EXPONENT.
	Statistical and Financial report for the Stake
R. S., for the year ending Feb. 12, 1881.
	Statistical: Teachers, 51; members, 326: total
officers and members, 377; meetings held, 86;
average attendance, 72; subscribers for EXPO-
NENT, 16.
	Financial: On hand at date of last report,
$43.05; Property, $1,834.25 1/2; wheat, 116 1/2 bu.
Receipts, cash, $85.60; property, $118.80; wheat,
40 bu. Disbursements: poor, cash, $49.37;
property, $48.50; emigration, cash, $21.30;
Temple, cash, $36.75; property, $32.25; home
industries, $14.25; building purposes, cash;
$69.40; property, $10; on hand at present date,
cash, $40.50; property, $1,945.56; wheat, 377
bu., 32 lb.

JANE P. MACKLEPRANG, Cor. Sec'y.

CANTERBURY, NEW ZEALAND.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—I take great pleasure
in handing you a report of the Canterbury
Relief Society. Although we are few in num-
ber, and away, yes, so very far away from head
quarters, and surrounded by the wicked world,
who point the finger of scorn at us and cast
our names out as evil, yet for all that we feel
to go ahead and do the best we can, and help
all we know how, and be honest and true to
God, our religion and ourselves, and by thus
doing, and working to gain the reward that is
promised to the faithful.
	The seventeenth monthly meeting of the
Canterbury Relief Society was held in the
house of Sister Johanna Larson, March 7, 1881.
After the usual opening exercises, the minutes
of last meeting were read and accepted. There
was a good attendance. Bro. N. H. Groes-
beck, the missionary from Utah was present,
from whom we received some valuable instruc-
tions. The sisters here are at all times on hand
to do what is required of them for the pro-
gression of the work in this land and the build-
ing up of Zion.
	Our Statistical and Financial report for the
quarter ending March 7, is as follow: Mem-
bers, 12; officers and members, 14; meetings
held last quarter, 3; average attendance, 8;
WOMAM'S EXPONENT taken, 3.
	Financial: On hand December 6, cash, £3,
18s. 3d; receipts last quarter, 18s. 3d; dis-
bursed to the poor, cash, 7s; missionary, cash,
£1. 4s. 3d; cash for clothing for missionaries,
£2. 7s; on hand March 26, cash, 18s. 3d.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT,
		Respectfully,
				JOHANNA LARSON, Pres't.
				ELIDA LARSON, Sec'y.

TOOELE.

	The Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele Stake was held
in Tooele City March 12 and 13, 1881, Mrs.
M. A. Hunter presiding. Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters P. L. Kimball, M. I. Horne,
S. M. Heywood and R. B. Pratt. The Con-
ference was conducted as usual, except there
were no reports, the Secretary being absent.
	After usual opening exercises—singing, and
prayer by Bishop Atkins—Sisters Kimball,
Horne and Heywood each addressed the sisters,
giving motherly and encouraging counsel, ex-
horting them to become intelligent on all sub-
jects and seek to fulfil every duty and obliga-
tion in life, and to beware of evil influences.
Referred to the great and good work being


done in the various organizations towards the
higher education of woman. Dr. R. B. Pratt
also made some excellent remarks, and Bishop
Atkins said he had been edified by the instruc-
tions of the sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Associations
held their Conference, which was well attended
by children and parents, Mrs. R. Williams
presiding. Reports and minutes were read by
the Secretary, Mrs. E. Broomhead. The Presi-
dent asked the children questions, which they
answered promptly. Sister Heywood then
asked them some questions, and gave them
some very good advice as to the course they
should pursue in order to become great and
good. Sister Kimball cautioned the children
never to neglect their meetings, to be obedient
to parents and teachers, and always speak the
truth. Sister Horne said she could see a
marked improvement in the children since they
had been organized; told them not to use to-
bacco, nor drink liquor of any kind, but be
orderly and punctual and honor their parents.
Spoke upon faith, and gave some illustrations
by telling them circumstances of the power of
God manifested in healing the sick. Dr. Pratt
also occupied a few minutes in speaking to the
children.
	The next morning was very stormy, but the
sisters visited the Sunday School, and after the
exercises were over addressed the children.
In the afternoon the Young Ladies’ Conference
convened. After the Sacrament was adminis-
tered, the reports were read by Secretary Miss
E. Broomhead, and Mrs. Ann Tate, President
of the Y. L. M. I. A. Tooele Stake, made some
introductory remarks. Tooele City Associa-
tion was represented by Miss Primrose Waters.
Sisters Heywood, Pratt, Kimball and Horne
made suitable remarks to the young. Presi-
dent H. J. Grant commented most favorably
upon the good teaching of the sisters, and said
if we could practise these good instructions in
our lives, it would be worth a great deal. Tes-
tified to the great influence young girls could
have over young men; said they could start a
reformation in morals and their labors would
not be in vain. Sister Tate said in conclusion
she felt thankful for the good instructions of
the sisters, and hoped they would sink deep
into every heart. Conference adjourned till
the middle of June; to be held in Grantsville.
Benediction by James Dunn.
							ANN TATE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS.

	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—Although
young, and inexperienced in the art of com-
mitting my thoughts to paper, still, as a mem-
ber of the Church of which your valuable pa-
per is an able advocate, I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to lend my aid, as far as I
am capable, towards sustaining everything that
tends to strengthen our cause. It is to the
young that I wish more particularly to speak,
as it is they who should be guarded the most
from the many snares that are laid for their
feet.
	I have often been led to reflect that our
young folks do not appreciate the many bless-
ings that are showered upon them. This is
true in many things, but I will mention but
one at present, which to me assumes gigantic
proportions when I look around and see the
evidences of their neglect. As a general rule,
the children born in these mountain districts
are strong and healthy dnring the early period
of their lives. This generally continues until
they get to the age when they think they must
enter “society;” and from this time until they
enter wedlock their lives are a round of gaiety
and pleasure; or so they generally esteem it at
the time, but after this, when they assume the
responsibilities of wife and motherhood, they

[Column 2]
reap the full reward of their folly. This is
more applicable to the girls, but when carried
to excess has a degenerating effect on both
sexes.
	About the first thing a girl thinks she must
do, before going out into society, is to encase
herself in a pair of stays, which every person
who knows anything of the human frame will
aver is most injurious. By this method she
succeeds in cramming her heart, lungs, liver,
etc., into as small a space as possible above her
waist, and her stomach, bowels, etc., below,
thus misplacing and injuring every internal
organ of her body, and laying the foundation
for many diseases in the future, that she little
dreams of now. I was told by an M. D. only
a few days ago that she had met with more fe-
male complaints in her little practice here, in
proportion to the population, than she had in
the old country; and she attributed it to danc-
ing and tight lacing.
	How often, girls, have you gone to a party
dressed, probably in much thinner clothes than
you are used to wearing every day, and very
likely in a condition that should have prompted
you to remain home and get rest and quiet?
How often have one and all of you danced till
you could hardly set one foot before the other,
and your clothes so wet you could almost
wring the perspiration from them? Nor does
the story end there. From the ball room out
she goes into the cold night air, with very
likely improper and insufficient wraps, and if
she is one of the fortunate ones who possesses a
lover, an hour or two is the least they can allow
for a confidential little chat, and this must take
place either at the gate or in a cold, perhaps
damp, room, for fear of disturbing the family,
Who can wonder that after such an ordeal, re-
peated so often, our girls lose their bright eyes,
rosy cheeks and elastic step, and become lan-
guid, hollow-eyed and sickly? You need not
start, girls, you know it is the truth in many
cases, and more or less in nearly all. I know
it is the truth, for I have been through the
mill and can see the folly of it now, and can
see where many, very many, of our sufferings
might be relieved if we would take proper
care of our bodies while they are developing
into womanhood. You may deem me radical
in my ideas, but experience, study and obser-
vation teach us a great many truths. I believe
recreation to be as necessary as food and drink
to the human being, but nature’s laws will
not be outraged without repaying tenfold the
insult offered to her dignity. It therefore be-
hooves us, my young sisters, to study her laws,
and for our own interests, as well as future
generations, to succumb to them.
								DIXIE.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	This was a terrible blow for Mary, who
scarcely knew how strong her hopes had been
until they were dashed to the ground. He
said he would take Nettie from her; it added a
terrible fear to her other distress. What means
he would use to accomplish his purpose she did
not know, and she lived in daily fear that the
child might be stolen. She consulted her
friends, who told her that if not divorced he
might claim her by law, but if divorced and
appointed as the child's guardian, he could not
take her in that way.
	She accordingly presented Jesse's letter to
the court and procured a divorce on his de-
mand. It seemed to her the only way to do,
she must give him a bill if he wanted it, even
though it broke every tendril of her heart

[Column 2]
asunder. She could not part with her child,
her youngest, her pet. What could Jesse do
with her, away off among strangers, with no
tender mother to care for her. She was a deli-
cate child, and many times Mary had watched
over her when death seemed very near, but,
putting all other considerations aside, the
mother love was strong, and she would never,
never part with her child. That decided what
she otherwise might have lingered over, and
the bill was procured which separated her for-
ever from Jesse. She had always loved him
with a pure and strong affection. She had
borne the separation with fortitude so long as
she thought she should see him again, and if
her heart sometimes failed and the time seemed
long, she would read his loving, hopeful letters
and try to think that perhaps he was doing for
the best; he was working for her and her chil-
dren, and a generous portion of this world's
goods was very alluring, yet she would rather
share his company with poorer prospects. But
he was lost to her now forever, and her heart
cried out in her loneliness and desolation and
refused to be comforted.
	She was cast adrift, without anchor or guide,
without hope or comfort, alone among stran-
gers; but she had her religion and her God.
She had no relatives in Salt Lake to lean upon,
she had left them all behind when she deter-
mined to follow the fortunes of the Church.
Father, mother, sisters and brothers—all were
left so far off they were as dead to her, seem-
ingly, as if the grass was growing over them.
They had plead with her to stay where she
could have home, friends and comforts, for
they felt as though she was going to her doom,
in leaving the dear home ties and family circle
forever. "And for what a fate?" said they; "to
suffer and perhaps perish in the wilderness, in
a strange land, among a strange people." The
Mormon Church was gathering from all na-
tions, and beyond their general belief in reli-
gious professions, they had no sympathy in
connection with her people, and they begged
Mary to stay with them a while, and if Jesse
would go, let him prepare a home before taking
her. She would not listen to them. Jesse was
her guide and God was her strength; she would
share his fate, whatever it might be. And
here she was, and Jesse had gone and left her
alone. He could accuse her of being false!
she, who had never thought of any other man
except as he comprised a part of the great
Father's family; she, whose every pulse had
beat for him; who had suffered toil, privation
and care patiently for his sake; who had
strengthened him in his weakness, and com-
forted him in his sorrow; the mother of his
children, the partner of his life. And he
could doubt her! could even accuse her of de-
siring to leave him that she might get another
husband. The thought itself was too hnmil-
iating, and the injustice of it smote her as with
rod of iron. He surely never would have been
so cruel had it not have been for Howard; he
could not have thought such things about her.
Howard had vowed vengeance when he left
her in his anger, and this was the means he
had taken—to part them by prejudicing Jesse’s’
mind against the people, which would make
him reluctant to return, and create jealousy
against Mary. He had succeeded too well,
and she felt that her heart and hopes were
crushed forever.
	Salt Lake, in those days, did not afford many
facilities for women to support themselves,
Mary had never learned the lesson of self-
helpfulness, and she was not fitted for hard
labor. A lady, no doubt kindly disposed, of-
fered to give Minnie employment as maid of
all work, and the Church held out its kindly
arms, making provision, through the Bishops,
for the poor. Minnie was not strong, and
Mary, who had been raised to be served and
not to be a servant, felt how great a change
had come into her life. She could not think of


her tender, graceful child, just budding into
womanhood, leaving her, she must have the
comfort of her child's presence, and the thought
of being dependent on the Church was indeed
dreadful.
			[To be Continued.]


192	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I read your valuable paper with interest, and
many an article finds an echo in my heart;
and I often think, how often is our path
through this world of care and sorrow made
pleasant by an exchange of ideas, a kindly
word dropped here. a smile there, and a little
self-sacrificing to please others.
	As I muse this evening, my mind reflects
back just two years to-day. How vividly I
call to mind the kindness of my brothers and
sisters, which I hope I may never forget and
with your permission I will relate it—perhaps
it may bring comfort to some of my sisters
who are liable to pass through like circum-
stances, and make them feel they are surround-
ed by kind friends.
	Two years ago my husband was called to go
on a mission to Germany. The time for his
departure was drawing nigh. One day, while
busily engaged in preparations for his journey,
my thoughts and hands busy, at times I would
feel sad, and my aching heart would seem to
say, Oh, can I shoulder this responsibility—be
both a father and mother to my little ones?
But it was but for a moment; my thoughts
would ascend to my Heavenly Father, asking
Him to aid and assist me, and thanking Him
that we were counted worthy to help just a lit-
tle in the noble work. And in the ups and
downs of the past two years, I have found Him
a true friend and comforter. But I am forget-
ting my story. I was just ironing the last shirt,
when a brother stepped in and invited us to
supper at six o'clock punctually at his house.
I cheerfully accepted. At the appointed time
we were ready. My husband and I sat talking
a few minutes about his near departure, when
one of the children called out, "Oh, ma, the
band is coming to our house." Imagine our
surprise, as we stepped to the door, to see some
of the Stake Presidency, our Bishop and
Counselors, headed by the Martial Band.
Without ceremony we were told to follow, so
on we went, the band playing. As we drew
near the meeting house, on one side of the
street stood members of the Relief Society,
and on the other the Y. L. M. I. A., who
greeted us. Still we passed on, not knowing
where we were going, until we entered the
meeting house, where were two long tables
filled with the bounties of life, and surrounded
by our brothers and sisters. They seated us,
and after the blessing was asked told us to par-
take; but I was too full to eat. After supper
we spent the evening in dancing, recitations,
singing and speeches, and I have never expe-
rienced such a spirit of good feeling as was
there manifested, nor will I ever forget the
kindness shown us there; and in the past two
years it has often comforted me, for I felt I was
among friends, and they have since proven
themselves such.
	Oh, how little do the world know of the true
happiness of serving the living God, and try-
ing to live our most holy religion! God grant
when my husband returns our labors may be
accepted, and we will still go hand in hand re-
joicing in the great and grand work of the last
days.							ANNA.


"Living Links" and "Life Incidents," will
be concluded in the next issue.

	"The Wild Flowers of Deseret" will short-
-ly be issued from the Juvenile Inztructor Office.


LETTER.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	I have been reading an excellent paper on
the Higher Education of Women, which held
so high an ideal for us poor mortals to reach
in order to be truly intellectual, that I am al-
most tempted to say, I will write no more.
What few little waifs I have written shrink
out of sight in the broad blaze of such genius
as is possessed by Mesdames De Stael, Eliot and
Sands. My tiny buds of thought wither and
look unspeakably mean. But listen—Rea-
son speaks. Who read the giants of litera-
ture? The cultivated few. Who read the
daily, weekly, monthly papers? The thought-
less masses, of whom I am one. Shall I not
sit in the gates and point the way to the fair
temples above, because I cannot reach my weak
hands up to grasp the ponderous key? Must I
sit sullenly down and refuse to hold a helping
hand to aid the climber who, down, still far-
ther down than I, but feebly walks among the
rubbish and debris? Because, forsooth, I may
not ever reach the lofty top and hear the glori-
ous music peal from crag to crag, nor smell
the freshness of the flowers divine, may I not
upward point the way to one, who, catching
the refrain, is fired to struggle on and cling to
that strong, mental staff, an aim in life? No;
I'll be myself an earnest worker, and with
voice and pen will seek to waken fruitful thought
in heedless youth—to elevate myself, and
through the force of my example, linked with
searching words, portray to those around me
the beauty of a studious life.
							SALOAME.


SURPRISE AT KANAB.

	March 21, 1881, the teachers of the R. S. of
Kanab Ward gave a surprise to Sister Emily
J. Lewis, on her birthday. At 7 P. M. about
fifty of the brethren and sisters entered her
house, laden with the good things of life. Most
of the brethren, as well as some of the sisters,
made some short, pithy speeches, compliment-
ary to Sister Lewis. Spoke of her kind heart
and the great good she had done in her posi-
tion as President of the teachers, and in labor-
ing among the sick. Sister Lewis showed her
appreciation of the surprise in a few humble
remarks. We spent a very pleasant evening,
and retired to our homes mutually benefitted.
							M. E. L.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE, and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and co[---]sion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Reparied on short notice. Orders from
the country, promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box [-]06, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flanels, 		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 	Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION, PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, [-]41.

