
Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 32	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1903	No. 1


CONTENTS.
President Bathsheba W. Smith...........................	1
Declaration of lndependence Fast Fading Away	1
Notes and News..................................................	1
Visiting and Holding Meetings..........................
	.......................................Ann C. Woodbury	2
Anniversary Celebration..........Caroline B. Pratt	2
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting........A. Wadrop	2
Mother’s Work—Alpine Stake............................	3
Mrs. Logan and Clara Barton.............................	3
History of the Relief Society..............................
	.....................................Emmeline B. Wells	6
Obituaries...........................................................	7
A Good Woman Gone...................Rachel Isaacs	7
R S Reports.........................................................	7
Art Notes..........................................A. M. S. H.	8
Items from Spring City............Maria M. Jensen	8
EDITORIAL—The New Volume, Thirty-two...	4
	In Memoriam..............................................	4
	Reunion Thirteenth Ward R. S...................	4
	Birthday Anniversary..................................	5
	A Happy Gathering.....................................	5
	International Press Women.........................	5
	Editorial Notes............................................	6
POETRY—Womanhood...Ella Wheeler Wilcox	1
	Loving Thoughts.................Lydia D. Alder	3


WOMANHOOD.
She must be honest, both in thought and deed,
Of generous impulse, and above all greed.
Not seeking praise, or place, or power or pelf,
But life’s best blessings for her higher self,
Which means the best of all.
			She must have faith,
To make good friends of Trouble, Pain and Death,
And understand their Message
			She should be
As redolent with tender sympathy
As a rose with fragrance.
			Cheerfulness
Should be her mantle, even tho’ her dress
May be of Sorrow’s weaving.
			On her face
A loyal nature leaves its seal of grace,
And chastity is in her atmosphere.
Not that chill chastity which seems austere⁠—
(Like untrod snow peaks, lovely to behold
Till once attained⁠—then barren, loveless, cold).
But the white flame that feeds upon the soul
And lights the pathway to a peaceful goal.
A sense of humor, and a touch of mirth.
To brighten up the shadowy spots of earth;
And pride that passes evil—choosing good.
All these unite in perfect womanhood.
				ELLA WHEELER WILCOX.


PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
SPEECH AT WEBER STAKE REUNION.
	Aunt Bathsheba Smith was called upon
and spoke briefly as follows:
	“President Smith has told you the truth.
I know that the endowments are given now
the same as they were given by Joseph
Smith the Prophet. He was present with
us and lectured and talked with us after we
had received our first ordinances, and I
have met him many times at councils which
were held and he told us many things and
explained them to us, showed us how to
pray, and how to detect them when true or
false angels came to us, and many other
true things he taught us, and he instituted
the endowments through the Lord, and it
was not Brigham Young or any one else.
I know he was a true prophet of God and
this knowledge could not be stronger if an-
gels were to come and talk to me. I know
he never taught a thing that was wrong, and
if we obey him we will receive celestial
glory and without we will not. I bear this
testimony and it is true, for I worked in the


Nauvoo Temple and in the Endowment
House and in the Salt Lake Temple. This
is the first day I have left the Temple to go
anywhere since Sister Zina’s death. I was
at the first meeting when the Relief Society
was organized in Nauvoo and I enjoyed
the teaching of the Prophet and tried to
profit by it and to teach my sisters. Brother
Smith, I guess this will do?”
	President Smith: “Did Brigham Young
reveal plural marriage?”
	Sister Smith: “He did not. God re-
vealed it through the Prophet Joseph
Smith. I have tried to be one with my
husband and I was just as happy with him
as any woman could be, for I loved him
dearly and I knew why he practised the
principle of plural marriage. He knew it
was a principle of exaltation, and I wished
him to receive as great an exaltation as any
one, and I expected to share it with him.
If I lived my life over again, I do not know
that I could better it, though I have more
experience now.”
	Sister Smith then related a dream she
had concerning her husband and also some
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph when
she was a young girl. Continuing she
said, “God bless us all and keep us in the
line of our duty, that we may live our lives
in earnest and receive the glory and exalta-
tion we seek. Amen.”


DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE FAST
			FADING AWAY.
CERTIFIED FAC SIMILES BEING PREPARED.

	Washington, D. C.—The most precious
original document in the world today is the
American Declaration of Independence.
This sacred piece of paper represents the
sentiment and spirit that have characterized
the beginning and progress of this wonder-
ful Government. Besides being the great-
est statement of political rights ever penned,
it shines out as a literary gem without a
parallel, considered from any point of ex-
cellence.
	It is a great misfortune to the nation that
the original Declaration of Independence
has been fast fading of recent years.
Though it has been locked in the steel
vaults at the State Department in Washing-
ton, away from the light, for a long time,
the fading continued until now hardly any
of the writing can be read.
	Fortunately a number of years ago when
the fading first commenced, the Govern-
ment prepared an exact fac simile of the
original. This reproduction is still in the
possession of the Government. Thousands
visit the State Department every year to
see it. The Original Declaration is never
exhibited.
	A number of fac similes are now being
prepared, with the view of having at least
one placed in every county of the different
States and Territories. Hereafter, then, it
will not be necessary to journey to Wash-
ington to see the State Departments fac
simile. Every community will have a copy
just like it.


The artists are now at work on the re-
quired number. Each specimen is to show
at the bottom the official certificate of the
State Department under seal, with the sig-
nature of Secretary of State John Hay, at-
cesting that it is an exact fac simile of the
Original Declaration of Independence.
Every specimen will be numbered, and
registered in the name of the person to
whom it is sent. 
	The document measures about 30 inches
long and 22 inches wide. The fac simile 
is surrounded by a border composed of the 
coats of arms of the original States and 
both sides of the great seal of the United
States, all exquisitely done in about eleven
colors.
	The work of the artists on these handsome
specimens is past criticism. As mere pic-
tures they will be highly esteemed and in a
few years will no doubt be considered very
valuable. But their chief value lies in the
fact that the fac simile portion will be an
exact counterpart of the grand document in
which our sturdy ancestors boldly pro-
claimed to the world the rights of man, and
to the upholding of those principles pledged
their lives, their fortunes, and sacred honor.
							Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Cassandra Southwick, the persecuted 
Quaker girl of early colonial days, who is 
the heroine of one of Whittier’s poems, is 
to have a monument erected to her mem-
ory.
	Patti sang for charity in Rome not long 
ago, and the concert brought $20,000.
“Home Sweet Home” was sung at the re- 
quest of the Americans in the audience, and 
at the close she was recalled nine times. 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe and Mrs. Mary 
A. Livermore were given a breakfast at 
the Tuileries in Boston on May 2, by the 
Massachusetts D. A. R. Almost every 
chapter in the State was represented, be- 
sides the Colonial Dames, Daughters of the 
War of 1812, Children of the American 
Revolution, etc. It was a brilliant occa-
sion. 
	Mrs. Ingeborg von Bronsart lately cele- 
brated the fiftieth anniversary of her debut 
as a musician. She appeared before the
public for the first time as a pianist at St. 
Petersburg in 1853. After her marriage to 
the manager of the Royal Theatre at Han- 
over in Germany she gave up the profession 
and devoted most of her time to composing. 
Besides a large number of songs and of 
compositions for the piano, ’cello, and vio-
lin, she has composed operas that were very 
successful One of them, “Jery and Bate-
ly,” has been given at fifteen different thea-
tres; another, “Hiarne,” at five. A new 
one will soon be finished. Mrs. Bronsart is 
also the composer of the march, “Kaiser
Wilhelm I,” which was played at the 
opening of the Woman’s Exposition at the 
Chicago Fair.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
VISITING AND HOLDING MEETINGS.
	The presidency of the Relief Society of the
St. George Stake with Miss Eva Cannon of
the Y. L. M. I. A. and Brother A. C.
Woodbury as driver, left St. George to
visit the settlements on the Rio Virgen
River, April 20, 1903.
	We arrived at Leeds at two o’clock and
held meeting with the Relief Society,
Counselor Angel presiding. Here the con-
dition of the ward seems to be at a stand-
still. The policy seems to be to discourage
wine making, as it is such a menace to
the morals of our young people; it is con-
sidered best to cultivate raisin grapes. The
soil here is well adapted, to the Malaga
grapes, which make fine raisins and would
be no injury to the settlement where they
are sold. Wherever wine is sold it is a
curse, and I don’t believe the blessing of
the Lord goes with it. We have been gath-
ered here from the nations of the earth to
serve the Lord and rear our children in
righteousness, and I consider when we
raise anything that demoralizes them, we
are not building up the kingdom of God.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Toquerville and held a meeting with the
Reliet Society at 6 o’clock p. m. We had
a good meeting and were nicely entertained
by President R. J. Spilsbury and her
counselors.
	On the 21st we traveled on to Virgen,
where we met with the Primary at ten
o’clock a. m., Sister Stratton presiding.
We had a nice meeting and had dinner at
Sister Stratton’s.
	At two o’clcok we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Sariah Workman presiding.
She wished to resign, and was honorably
released, having been president for twenty-
five years. A vote of thanks was given
her for her faithful labors. Sister Mary
Hinton was chosen to preside with Mary
Beebe and Mary Reeves as counselors.
Sisters Woodbury, Morris and Bleak gave
the sisters good advice and encouraged
them in the good work they were engaged
in.
	Sister Woodbury talked on the benefit of
the silk industry for the little girls to be
taught when they were young and they
would grow up with it. Angus Woodbury
bore his testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. Eva Cannon advised the young peo-
ple to become acquainted with the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to live so that their
example would be worthy of imitation.
	We went on to Grafton and held a Relief
Society and Primary meeting combined at
6 p. m., as this is a small settlement. The
sisters urged the people to consider the re-
sponsibility of directing their children, as
they were in their charge, and they would
be held accountable for them until they
were eight years old. We had not come to
teach them anything they did not know,
but to urge them to their duties as mothers
in Israel. Brother Ballard and others en-
couraged us in the work. We spent the
night with Sister Ballard and counselor.
	As we travel up this river we are amazed
at the amount of work that has been done
in dugways and ditches, but the country
now is smiling with verdure.
	The 23rd we went on to Rockville at ten
a.m. and met with the Primary and had
nearly seventy-five children present. Sis-
ter Farnes presided. The people are trying
to do their duty.
	At two p. m. we met with the Relief
Society, Sister Mary Stout presiding. The

[Column 2]
sisters imparted such instructions as they
were moved upon to give and then went
on to Springdale, where they met with the
Primary at six p. m. We had a houseful of
parents as well as children, it is a prolific
country for children.
	This morning (23) a flood came down
this fork of the river, it was quite a [-]ight
to see a flood come without a cloud in the
sky; the day before had been warm, and I
presume the snow had been melting. A
couple of men and boys caught some of the
w[-]od as it passed. Here the air is delight-
ful. This is as far as the settlements go.
	There is a stretch of country above called
Zion, to which their is no outlet. It is a
romantic place, the scenery is magnific-
ent. They have a wire tramway partly
built, they run staves down it to make bar-
rels, and if they ever get a sawmill on top
of the big tract of country that is covered
with timber, they can run the lumber
down, and save hundreds of miles of travel.
They have cut steps in the hillside where
they drive their cattle up. It would aston-
ish you to see them go up. We met with
the Relief Society and had a houseful of
men, women and children. Bishop Gifford
met with us in both our meetings. We
have a very good people here, they will not
sell their hay, if they have surplus, until
their brethren are sure of enough to get
their crops in. We partook of President
Rusch’s hospitality, and at one o’clock p.
m. we started for Toquerville, where we
held Primary meeting at 6 p. m., President
Adelaide Savage presiding. We had a very
enjoyable time and met with a nice lot of
children here. We were entertained by
President Spilsbury and her counselor.
	On the 24th we went on to Leeds and at
ten a. m. met with the Primary, Counselor
Stirling presiding. The good qualities of
the EXPONENT were spoken of and sub-
scribers sought. President S. Harris enter-
tained us at dinner.
	We then went to Harrisburg and held a
Primary meeting at three p. m , President
Mary Laney presiding.
	We arrived at St. George at 6:30 o’clock,
having been away five days and held
twelve meetings. We had an enjoyable
time and trust the people we have met
have been stirred up to their duties.
ANN C. WOODBURY.


ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	The sixty-first anniversary of the organ-
zation of the Relief Society was appropri-
ately observed by the six branches of the
Relief Society of Provo. A meeting was
held in the Tabernacle at 2 p. in., at which
President Mary John presided and the fol-
lowing program was rendered:
	Singing, “Praise to the man," etc.
Prayer by Sister Marilla Daniels. Singing,
"Redeemer of Israel."
	An address by President David John.
	Recitation, “How Leah and I Parted,"
by Miss Pearl Daniels.
	“Great Men have Great Mothers,” by
Sister Emma Jensen.
	Song by Miss Estella Gray.
	“Relief Society Work," by Sister Sarah
E. Cluff.
	An address by Prof. Edwin S. Hinckley.
	Song by Mr. John Johnson.
	An address by Sister Marilla Daniels.
	Singing, “Oh, my Father." Benedic-
tion by Sister Elizabeth Brown.
CAROLINE B. PRATT, Sec.


LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Meeting held Saturday, May 9, 1903, in 
the 14th Ward Hall, Counselor E. J. 
Stevenson in the chair. Minutes read and 
approved. Singing. Prayer by Counselor 
Elizabeth Webb. Sister Stevenson made 
opening remarks to mothers concerning the 
sacredness of the sacrament, exhorting the
sisters to teach their children what it meant 
and the spirit and manner in which to par- 
take of this, the Lord's supper; she also re- 
ferred to the kind reception of President 
Jos. F. Smith, while absent on his visit to 
St. Louis and Kansas City. 
	Congregation joined in singing a hymn. 
	President M. Isabella Horne then ad- 
dressed the sisters in her tender, motherly 
way. Advised all the wards in the Stake 
to hold peace meetings on Monday, May 18. 
She then referred to the time when Presi- 
dent Brigham Young organized the Re-
trenchment Association for the good of the 
people; alluded to the past years in Zion, 
how dry and desolate the country was, 
and how the people were tried with poverty,
related how the crickets came down and de- 
stroyed the crops, and the sea gulls came in 
flocks and devoured the crickets; the people 
were happy, after all, and trusted in the 
Lord, and they were blest, she often won-
dered if this people appreciate the blessings 
we enjoy. Sister Horne said she believed 
the winding up scene to be near at hand, 
the people are being warned and should 
prepare for the changes that are to come; 
urged all to be faithful. She testified that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and 
spoke of the great instructions he had given 
to the people. 
	Sister Sarah Phelps thought much de- 
pended upon the women of Zion, they 
should not follow the fashions of the world, 
but take care of their strength and give it 
to reading the scriptures and note the ful- 
fillment of prophecy. 
	Sister Elizabeth Paul advised the sisters 
to visit the sick and afflicted, comfort and 
bless them, in this work she had great joy. 
	Sister Julia C. Howe, said we should set 
good examples before our children, we 
should uphold and venerate our leading 
men and women, advised all to seek wis-
dom and never speak against the Lord’s
anointed.
Sisters Jacobs, Morris, Reed and Gard-
ner bore faithful testimonies, and gave ex- 
cellent advice to mothers. 
	Sister Morris sang that beautiful hymn, 
"O, Jesus the Giver."
	Sister Henrietta Smith spoke upon the 
work for the dead in the Temples of the
Lord,thought we should go forth in love to 
do this work. 
	Meeting adjourned, singing, Doxology.
Benediction Sister M. W. Wilcox. 
AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


A brilliant company of men and women
distinguished in art, literature and science,
with some prominent in society and court
circles, lately assembled in St. Petersburg
to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the day when certain Russian women doc-
tors took their degree. Two ministers of
the crown waxed especially eloquent on
the significance of the movement of women
physicians. One of them spoke with grati-
tude of the intellectual and broad-minded
influence of his mother, who so conquered
the prejudices of her day as to be appointed
inspector of the women medical students.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LOVING THOUGHTS.
TO BATHSHEBA W. SMITH ON HER EIGHTY-FIRST
BIRTHDAY.
Some lives though beautiful,
Grow fairer day by day,
And like the sun's last rays,
In glory fade away.
I.
O, noble lady, stately, fa[-]r,
With snows of time upon thy hair,
And patience written on thy face,
That adds a charm, a pleasing grace,
Around thy life dear mem'ries cling,
Though oft a pang, or tears they bring.
The years with all their pain and loss,
Their diverse ways or heavy cross,
Have lain but lightly on thy heart—
A crowning sweetness they impart.
II.
REMINISCENT.
In time of youth a prophet came—
All honor to his blessed name—
And thou didst hear a prophet's voice,
It touched thy heart, thou didst rejoice
With Saints thou dwelt in loved Nauvoo,
To them and prophet ever true.
III.
FAREWELL, FAREWELL NAUVOO!
The Temple City now is left,
And wandr'ers of their homes bereft,
Turn westward in the hope to find,
The place that Joseph had in mind,
O, blessed home, these mountain vales,
Where mem'ry oft repeats the tales
Of anguish, sorrow, long since past,
Of friendships true until the last,
Sad reminiscences oft told,
The scenes portray—their truths unfold.
IV.
RELIEF SOCIETY—NAUVOO AND NOW.
Relief Society is named⁠—
That now in all the world is famed⁠—
And Bathsheba, thy name is there,
But thou'rt alone, the rest O, where?
Then eighteen did the prophet call,
To organize for women all.
Alone thy testimony stands,
The rest crossed o'er the golden sands
With Joseph are united now,
Crowns of the righteous on each brow,
Among all women thou art great,
Though left on earth so desolate.
Elect—a lady—Zion’s Queen,
Upon t[-]y brow, there rests serene,
A diadem of priceless worth,
A treasure God-giv'n to the earth,
'Tls love; and love of daughters fair,
Is thine, and they thy burdens share.
V.
IN THE HOLIEST PLACE OF ALL,
A Priestess in the Temple grand,
Where kinsmen meet, for kindred stand;
'Tis there a halo rests on thee
That brings such sweet tranquility—
O, thou art blessed, beloved one,
Those faithful workers there among!
The throngs arrayed in raiment fair,
Are Zion's Saints; the Temple's pray'r
Wafts ever, ever on and on,
Till they're redeemed, that e’er will come.
And as thy days so tranquil are,
Like music floating from afar,
So may they be till open wide
The gates shall be and then beside,
A great High Priest, thou art his bride—
Thou’lt enter there, e’en side by side.
Hand clasped in hand, O, glorious scene,
When clothed in robes of glist’ning sheen,
The Saints all meet, rejoicing then—
They wear the victor’s diadem—
Forgotten all earth's troubled dreams,
No more to cross its wild ravines—
The jov, the bliss of worlds unknown,
Are their's who bow before the throne.
LYDIA D. ALDER.
May, 1903.


MOTHERS’ WORK.

	ALPINE STAKE.

Lesson I.—Whom Shall our Daughters
	Marry?
	(a) Whom shall our daughters
	marry?
	(b) At what age shall they marry?
	(c) Marriage and its advantages.
	(d) The law of choice.

Lesson II.—The Young Wife:
	(a) Life without health a burden.
	(b) Health essential.
	(c) Means to promote health.
	(d) Pleasure in moderation necessary
	to health and happiness.
	(e) Evil effects of fashionable dress-
	ing.
	(f) A wife’s work.

Lesson III.—Pre-existence of Spirits:
	(a) Read and dwell on the beauties
	of the hymn “O my Father, Thou that
	dwellest.”
	(b) Refer to Job, 12th and 38th
	chapters; Heb. 12: 9; Rev. 12: 7-12;
	Eccl. 12: 7; also to the Compendium,
	page 179; Doc. and Cov. sec. 93.

Lesson IV.—Pre-natal Culture:
	(a) An important subject. Why ?
	(b) Effect of influences upon the un-
	born child.
	(c) Mothers should know themselves
	and be wise in all things—diet, bathing,
	clothing, exercise and sleep.
	(d) The right to be well born.
	(e) A God-like privilege.

Lesson V.—Infants and How to Care for
	Them:
“A rose with all its sweetest leaves yet folded.”
	(a) Care a vital question.
	(b) Cleanliness an incentive to
	health.
	(c) Bathing, clothing, diet, exercise
	and sleep. Teach baby to go to sleep
	naturally.
	(d) Effects of frightening the child
	into going to sleep, etc.

Lesson VI.—Nursing and Weaning:
	(a) Effects of wrong diet on the
	milk. Avoid all stimulants.
	(b) Regularity in nursing and its re-
	suits,
	(c) Why should the baby not nurse
	in the night?
	(d) Time and method of weaning.

In preparing these lesson, reference can
be made to the following books: Miss Har-
rison’s “Child Nature,” Riddell’s "Child
Culture,” the Latter-day Saints’ Church
History and the “Child’s History of Joseph
Smith the Prophet.”


[column 1]
MRS. LOGAN AND CLARA BARTON.

	The “crime of getting old” is a subject
ably treated by Mrs. John A. Logan in the
New York American, and it relates to the
atrocious treatment America’s Florence
Nightingale is receiving at the hands of
persons totally lacking in patriotism, ap-
preciation of services rendered, and court-
esy.
	Mrs. Logan says:

	This country is now being treated to an exhibi
tion of this spirit of the relentless demand of im

[column 2]
patient ambition to step into an exalted position,
made so by the self-sacrifice and untiring devo-
tion of a woman to the cause of humanity. The
excuse is that she is too old, not that she is too in
firm or in any sense unequal to the duties of the 
position she holds; not that she is not honest; not
that she does not know more about the work than
any other person in the Union; not that she has
not rendered a faithful accounting; not that she is
lacking in experience, beginning the work as she
did in her teens; but some one has decided that she
is too old to continue at the head of a great organ-
ization, notwithstanding the fact that she was its
founder and has made it what it is today in this
country. She has made an immortal name in the
service of her country and humanity, and must
give some one else a chance. The methods must
all be changed.
	A vigorous person of uncertain age must sup-
plant Clara Barton as president of the Red Cross,
a position she has filled for twenty years without
fee or reward, personally directing the work on
the field in more than twenty fields of disaster, in-
cluding those at Mount Vernon, Illinois, in Kan-
sas, in the Johnston and Mississippi River Floods,
at Charleston in the Armenian and Russian fam-
ines, in Cuba, at Galveston, and in other fields.
She exhibited almost superhuman ability, will and
strength in the comprehension of the needs of each
case and also by her endurance and executive
skill.
	Her successor is to be paid a salary out of the
funds of the Red Cross. Business men say they
must manage this organization on business princi-
ples, and yet not one of them could have made the
money which Miss Barton has had for distribution
go as far or do as much good to as many persons
as she has made it. In their efforts to retire her
they have added so many years to her life as to
make her an octogenarian in their ambitious argu-
ments. If the controversy continue a while long-
er, they will, undoubtedly make her a centenarian.
No suggestion is made to provide any kind of a
testimonial for her gratuitous service to humanity
since her girlhood, or to furnish her even a roof
over her head, though many European countries
have decorated her with medals studded with
precious stones Her own country proposes
to turn her out. as General Sherman said, “to
browse around the rest of her days.”
	We are not advised that the persons engaged in
this warfare upon Miss Barton have contributed
anything beyond initiation fee and annual dues
to the support of the Red Cross Society, or have
ever given one single days gratuitous service in
the field or elsewhere in legitimate Red Cross re-
lief work. They have spent their time in warring
on Miss Barton and bringing the society into dis-
repute, failing in their one opportunity, during her
absence last year, to do anything until other pro-
visions had been made in the emergency. No
other instance of any catastrophe that had occurred
since the establishment of the Red Cross in the
country can be found in which Miss Barton did
not respond immediately. Before any other ar-
rangements could be made she was on the ground
with her efficient force, distributing relief to all
sufferers. It remains to be seen whether or not
Congress and the people will entertain memorials;
thus sanctioning this attempt to despoil Clara Bar-
ton of her fair fame and name at the behest of a
disgruntled few.
	Florence Nightingale had no such fate, though
her service was never equal to that of Miss Bar-
ton. Is there not some soul in Congress to rise in
his place and propose a defence of this defenceless
woman, and name a gratuity to her for the rest of
her life that will place her beyond the petty rival-
ries and jealousies of any incorporated body, and
that will give her the well-earned peace and com-
fort she needs? We boast of our generosity and
lead in philanthropic work everywhere. Why ig-
nore the one woman who is the personification of
American generosity and benevolence. and who
commands the respect and confidence of the world
as an American gentlewoman?

	[ED.—Why withold the rose to the liv-
ing, which is more than sumptuous wreaths
to the dead?]


In New York the popular branch of the
Legislature has just passed, without any
opposition, a bill to grant tax-paying women
in all the third class cities of the state the
right to vote upon questions of local tax-
ation. This right is also possessed by the
women in about a dozen of the third class
cities under their special charters.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903


[Column 1]
THE NEW VOLUME THIRTY-TWO.
	June has come again and with its advent
many things transpire and many anniver-
saries are celebrated and also very many
weddings. It has been said, and we are
inclined to believe it is true, that there have
been more marriages solemnized this June,
1903, than ever before in any preceding
month of June. At any rate June is to
most people the favorite month of all the
months.
	Salt Lake City, the Mecca of the West,
puts on its best and most becoming attire
in June, roses in the hedges, roses by the
wayside, roses on the hill tops, in the gard-
en, on the lawns, wherever you turn,
are roses, roses for the sick and poor, in the
hospitals, the sickrooms and even the dead
are literally buried in roses.
	It was in the beautiful month of June
that our dear little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, came into existence, and every
June since has added a year to its age. Now
it commences its thirty-second volume. In
that time much has been accomplished,
great changes have taken place in various
parts of the world; certainly progress has
been made along many lines of thought and
action in our own and other lands.
	The cause of woman has grown wider,
larger and stronger since that first issue of
the paper in June 1872. Development on a
large scale has manifested itself and the
EXPONENT has been helpful in its advance-
ment of breadth and culture. Especially
has this been so in the establishment and
extension of the Relief Society, the greatest
organization of women in all the world. In
its pages from first to last the history of this
society is given, much of it in detail.
	The biographies of the greatest women
in the Church are recorded in its columns;
and short stories, (true ones) poems and
essays, written by the sisters young and
old, express with more or less exactness the
sentiment and feeling pervading the home
life of the women of the Church, also rem-
iniscences and experiences of the early days
of the Latter-day Saints.
	It cannot be amiss to say that this little
paper has been a household help that it has
come into the home with words of good
cheer, with the spirit of peace, bringing
encouragement to the weary, stimulating
the faith of the weak and urging them to
the performance of everyday duties.
	The EXPONENT has been a messenger of
the Gospel to those afar off, telling the
wondrous truths of salvation in simple lan-
guage, easily understood, explaining wom-
an’s work in the home, with the children,

[Column 2]
teaching lessons of love and devotion, vir-
tue and goodness in simplicity with earnest-
ness and sincerity, that cannot fail to reach
the hearts of those who peruse its pages
from time to time
	The EXPONENT has always been kept
free from details of sin and crime. It has
striven for a higher plane of thought and
purity of purpose.
	It is greatly to be desired by those inter-
ested in the best welfare of the work of the
Relief Society that those who are engaged
in promoting its interests will try to in-
crease the circulation of the EXPONENT in
order that it may be more independent and
self-supporting, and that its outward appear-
ance may be materially improved. All
these things require money and the sisters[-]
if they realize the importance of a paper of
their own, which stands for the best ideals
and principles, should be anxious to have a
magazine which they would be proud to
send out to the people as an evidence of
good taste and business ability, filled with
truth and messages of love and good will
and enlightenment to women of the world.
	May the year be a prosperous one, sub-
scriptions so increase that there will be no
occassion to plead for better support for the
paper that stands for the women of Zion,
proclaiming truth and righteousness and
every principle that tends to a higher and
better life in the home, the State and the
nation and especially in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
ANNA SEARS WELLS.
"Think not alone of what the Lord has taken,
Thou, whom His love hath of some joy bereft,
But in the moments thou art most forsaken,
Think what His love hath left.”
	It is difficult to write consolingly of one
taken from the home where husband and
children are left mourning, and, as it were,
desolate, seemingly bereft of the light and
beauty of the home life. Yet submission
to the divine will is the only condition in
which we can find peace. “The Lord gave
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” To try and real-
ize this in its true sense is the highest at-
titude man or woman can reach in the deep-
est affliction that can come. To be
passive and invoke the Spirit of the Lord,
the Comforter, is to attain a state of tran-
quility that will bring “the peace that
passeth understanding,” to the human soul
in the hour of deepest sorrow. We in our
human weakness cannot know how the
Lord works out His will with men and
women here in this earthly probation. We
can only trust in Him “who doeth all
things well.”
	The Palmist says, “Wait on the Lord; be
of good courage, and He shall strengthen
thine heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.”
"Leaning on Him make with reverent meekness
His own thy will,
And with strength from Him shall thy weakness
Life’s task fulfill.”
	Whatever the Father demands of us, He
will give us the strength and the courage
to bear, if we trust wholly in Him, and lis-
ten to the still small voice within us and
commune with the Lord in prayer; and
though the way seems dark, light will
come, the light of His countenance through
faith in His loving and tender care.
"She is not dead but sleepeth.”

[Column 2]
	A wife and mother has gone from the
sight of those who loved her dearer than
life itself, but the blessed hope of meeting
her again is strong in the hearts of all
whose human love was precious, and how
much greater will it become in reaching up
to the celestial heights to which she has at-
tained. Only a little while and a reunion
will take place where there is no more part-
ing or sorrow forevermore. And trusting
in this hope of a glorious resurrection
hereafter, they will take up the life work
and go forward, with sublime faith in the
eternal covenants that unite husband and
wife, children and parents with ties that
can never be broken, that will endure for-
ever.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Anna Sears Wells, wife of Joseph S.
Wells, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of June 1, 1903, after a brief but severe
illness, was born in Caldicott, England,
December 22, 1863, and was the daughter
of the late John Sears and his wife, Sarah
Wagstaff Sears While Anna was a babe,
in the year 1864, Brother and Sister Sears
left their home in England and gathered to
Zion, coming here in September of that
year. Anna grew to womanhood in the
Spirit of the Gospel, always attentive to re-
ligious duties and devoted to her home and
parents.
	As a child she was industrious and fond
of household occupations; she made several
quilts when quite young, quilting and put-
ting them together in a variety of patterns.
Some of these given to members of the fam-
ily are still kept as heirlooms.
	She was married to Joseph S. Wells in
the Logan Temple. March 14, 1888, Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells, father of the bride-
groom, performing the ceremony which
united them for time and all eternity.
	Sister Anna Wells was a devoted wife
and home-maker. Her home was her
heaven and a haven of rest and peace to her
husband and little ones. She has left be-
hind five beautiful children to the care and
protection of a husband she loved with an
undying affection.
	Alice, the eldest, is now in her fourteenth
year, and gives fair promise of every
womanly grace and attribute to gladden
the home life of her father and the younger
children. Herman Joseph, the eldest son,
is a thoughtful boy eleven years of age.
Byron Sears, nine years old, Richard Harris
is seven, and baby Geneva is four years old.
	One can scarcely imagine a young mother
full of maternal love, with these sacred ties
binding her to an earthly home, with a de-
voted and loving husband, actually desiring
to be liberated from earth; and yet it is true
of this young woman. She had seen the
world beyond in vision during her moments
of agonizing pain; she had seen the glory
of the infinite and she told her husband
solemnly she must go, and requested him
to dedicate her to the Lord. It must have
taken almost superhuman courage to com-
ply with such a request, yet it was done as
she had urged, and soon after the sad part-
ing came, and her beautiful spirit took its
flight “to the morning-lit land.”
	Sister Anna Wells was literally buried in
flowers, and she has entered now the holy
city, and those, who are left behind toil on
through storms and darkness until
“He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REUNION THIRTEENTH WARD R. S.
	Relief Society of the Thirteenth
Ward in this city, on Thursday, May 28,
1903, held a reunion and banquet of the
former officers and those who had been
recently appointed at a ward conference
held Sunday evening, May 17. The new
officers are Amy A. Thomas, president,
Agnes Anderson and Emily Neibaur, coun-
selors; Florence Grant, secretary and treas-
urer. These officers with their corps of
teachers and members gave the entertain-
ment as a sort of testimonial of respect and
esteem to those who had labored so long and
faithfully in the Relief Society of the ward
—notably the late president, Rachel R.
Grant, who was appointed by Bishop Ed-
win D. Woolley, April 18, 1868, and had
served in that capacity over thirty-five
years. Her first counselors were Annie T.
Godbe and Margaret T. Mitchell, Elizabeth
H. Goddard secretary and Annie L. Musser
treasurer. Later Emmeline B. Wells was
chosen assistant secretary. Other changes
were afterwards made, the resignation of
Mrs. Annie T. Godbe necessitating the first
change. Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was
chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Musser, the
treasurer, after a faithful discharge of her
duties was called away by death, and Mary
W. Musser was selected as her success-
or. Afterwards Mrs. B. W. Smith moved
to the 17th ward and Mrs. Lydia Ann
Wells was made first counselor. Mrs. E.
B. Wells moved to the 18th ward and Miss
Fannie Woolley was chosen assistant secre-
tary. Mrs. Musser moved to the 1st ward
and Relief C. Atwood was chosen to fill her
place as treasurer. Mrs. L. A. Wells moved
to the 18th ward, Mrs. Louisa Spencer was
made first counselor and Mrs. Sophia Long
was chosen to fill the vacancy. Mrs. Relief
C. Atwood moved to Sugar Ward and Mrs.
Mary Grey was made treasurer. Subse-
quently Mrs. E. H. Goddard resigned her
position as secretary on account of failing
health, having served more than a quarter
of a century, and Miss Fannie Woolley was
set apart as secretary. When Miss Woolley
was called to go upon a mission, Mrs. Amy
A. Thomas was made secretary, which po-
sition she filled until the reorganization of
the Society, May 17, 1903.
	During all these changes President Rachel
R. Grant held the position to which she
had been called and set apart in the spring
of 1868, making a long record of good
works and gaining the love and esteem of
all with whom she has associated, including
three Bishops, viz., Edwin D. Woolley,
Millen Atwood and Nelson A. Empey, in
this multiplicity of labor, temporal and
spiritual, she has given perfect satisfaction.
	It may well be said of Sister Grant that
she was true and faithful, economical yet
benevolent and possessed unusual executive
ability; the scripture quotation will justly
apply to her:
	“She stretcheth out her hand to the poor,
yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the
needy.”
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom
and in her tongue is the law of kindness.”
	Two of the officers called to act in the
society have passed away from this earth,
having finished their work here, Sister
Annie L. Musser and Elizabeth H. God-
dard; the others are still living and were
most of them present at the celebration in
the assembly rooms in the 13th ward.
	Mrs. Amy A. Thomas, the newly elected
president, presided, and on the the stand

[Column 2]
were the general president of the society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, and the presi-
dent of Salt Lake Stake, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde, of
the General Society aud others. Counselors
Sarah Jane Cannon and Clara C. Cannon,
of the Salt Lake Stake, were also present,
and Sister Relief C. Atwood, who like
other former officers was present, and in-
vited to the stand.
	President Amy A. Thomas had prepared
reminiscences of the society which she read;
they were interesting and valuable as his-
torical facts.
	The speakers were Sisters Rachel R.
Grant, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isabella
Horne, Relief C. Atwood, all over eighty
years of age, Lydia Ann and Emmeline B.
Wells, Louisa K. Spencer and Sophia Long
	Bishop N. A. Empey made a few re-
marks and commended in the highest terms
the labors of the society and spoke of his
high regard for Sister Grant and those who
had been laboring so long and asked all
those who had known, the Prophet Joseph
Smith to rise and be counted.
	Elder A M. Musser added a few words
in his most gracious and happy manner.
There were a number of others who would
like to have spoken, but the refreshments
were waiting in the Relief Society hall up
stairs and the meeting adjourned to partake
of the sumptuous repast. The affair was a
perfect success and the sisters may be heart-
ily congratulated on the delightful enter-
tainment.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Maria W. Richards Wilcox was celebrated
on June 17, by the Relief Society of the
14th ward in this city of which she is presi-
dent. Sister Wilcox is also corresponding
secretary of the Relief Society of the Salt
Lake Stake having been appointed to that
office when the board was organized in
1877. Sister Wilcox has also been one of
the constant workers in Salt Lake Temple
since it was opened in May, 1893. She has
filled all these places with diligence and
faithfulness, and with honor and credit to
herself and those associated with these or-
ganizations, Her life has been one of use-
fulness, she has a large family of her own
who rise up and call her blessed.
	The party was held in the Relief Society
hall of the ward and was a very enjoyable
affair Counselor Margaret Y. Taylor pre-
sided and the teachers and committee as-
sisted in making it a success in every re-
spect; the decorations which were mostly
of lovely June roses, were very prettily
arranged and the hall was a picture in it-
self, one large bowl containing seventy-six
beautiful roses, one for each year.
	There was music, instrumental and vocal,
and some short speeches. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith made a brief address and
remarks were made by Sisters Lucy W.
Kimball, Minerva E. Richards, Mary P.
Richards, E. B. Wells and some others, all
of whom expressed love and admiration for
Sister Wilcox and a desire that she might
live to continue her labors for many years
to come.
	Sister Wilcox responded in a very happy
manner to the congratulations of her num-
erous friends.
	There were of her family Dr. C. F. Wil-
cox and wife, Dr. Edwin Wilcox and wife,
and Frank Wilcox and wife, also two


daughters, Ella W. Hyde and Mrs. Asper.
Delicious refreshments were served to the
many guests and delightful conversation
and interchange of greetings and good
wishes. During the exercises a handsome
easy chair and cushion were presented to
the honored president by the members of
the Relief Society.
	The EXPONENT adds its hearty congratu-
lations to Sister Wilcox, who is one of its
staunch supporters and hopes that the re-
maining years of her long and useful life
may be full of joy, love and happiness.


A HAPPY GATHERING.
	The Author’s Club gave a reception at
the close of the year (to usher in the sum-
mer vacation presumably) to about one
hundred guests. The “Little” mansion,
the family residence of Major Feramorz
Little and family, and during a period of
years the scene of many festive occasions,
was made very attractive on that Monday
evening, June 8; colored lights outside in
the shrubbery gave the place an inviting
appearance, and inside a band of music in
the spacious hall discoursed sweet strains of
favorite melodies; flags and bunting were
artistically draped in the entrance and over
the stairway and the parlors were not lack-
ing in elegant furnishings nor in paintings
of rare value and other tasteful ornamenta-
tion, and the fragrance and beauty of
roses and sweet flowers made the whole
“house beautiful,” There was dancing in
one of the parlors in which many of the
ladies and gentlemen participated, and
seemingly it was a delightful pastime.
Bishop Empey whom we remember as a
notable “caller” in years gone by, gave his
assistance, his voice ringing out fresh and
clear. The guests flitted from room to room,
many of them talking over old times,
and the hostess, Mrs. Little, and the presi-
dent, Mrs. Roberts, and the young ladies
who served the fruit punch in the most
genial way, made every one happy and for-
getful of care and anxiety.
	In the course of the evening the facetious
B. S. Young gave some of his famous reci-
tations and Miss Babcock, who is a cele-
brity in that respect, also rendered humor-
ous pieces.
	There were present Elder B. H. Roberts,
Bishop O. F. Whitney, Major R. W.
Young, President Joseph T. Kingsbury, of
the University of Utah, Prof. W. Stewart
and wife, Prof. Merrill and wife, Judge S.
Stewart and wife, Attorney Stewart and
wife, Hon. W. W. Riter, Regent of the
University of Utah, Prof. Byron Cummings
and other notable people.
	It was perhaps the most enjoyable affair
of the kind there has ever been since the
organization of the Author’s Club. There
has been a reelection of officers and Mrs.
Eliza Bennion, of Taylorsville, is president
for the ensuing year.


INTERNATIONAL PRESS WOMEN. 
	The International Press Women’s Union
held its annual banquet in the banquet hall 
of the Ebbitt House, Washington, D. C., 
May 26, 1903.
	“During the serving of the menu, from 
9 o’clock until midnight the ladies held 
sway, and there was an almost continuous 
flow of roasts and toasts and witty disserta-
tions on various subjects of special interest 
to the women, which served to keep the


merriment at a high pitch throughout the
evening. More than a hundred pen women
and their guests participated in the feast of
food and fun. The speech making was
confined entirely to the feminine sex, the
seven or eight men present being silent
spectators of the proceedings. Among the
guests were many ladies well known
throughout the country for their achieve-
ments in the realm of art and letters, each
of whom contributed a speech, a poem or a
toast to the characteristic program.
	Preceding the banquet the guests were
received in the red parlors by Mrs. Mary S.
Lockwood and Mrs. Ellen S. Cromwell,
and a social hour was spent in the ex-
change of greetings
	“The supper table was in the form of a
horseshoe, and within the curve were nu-
merous palms and tropical plants, while the
the tables were decorated in pink peonies, roses
and carnations. Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood,
president of the International Press Union,
occupied a seat in the center of the outer
curve and presided over the proceedings of
the evening.
	“The address of welcome was made by
Mrs. Lockwood, who refered to the signifi-
cance of the occasion, and told several
amusing stories relating to unnamed mem-
bers of the organization. Her welcome was
responded to in seven different languages
by Miss Frances Graham French, president
of the Woman’s National Press Association,
who spoke for each of the nations in which
the International Press Union has affilia-
tions. Mrs Hannah B. Sperry, president of
the District Federation of Woman’s Clubs,
spoke for the absent members of the union.”
	The business meeting was held on the
following day and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
has been officially notified by letter from
the secretary of the International Press
Union, Mrs. Mary M. North, of her unan-
imous re-election one of the vice-presidents
for the ensuing term of two years. Mrs.
Wells was elected one of the vice-presidents
at the annual meeting held in Washington
in 1901, at the Riggs House, where she was
present and also Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	It is a noticable feature of the Union, and
in fact its main object is to become ac-
quainted, by correspondence and otherwise,
with pen-women of other countries, authors,
poets, etc. The letters from foreign lands
are always an interesting part of the pro-
gram of the meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	There are fifty Stakes to be visited annu-
ally by officers of the Relief Society or mis-
sionaries officially appointed. So far in 
this year the conferences that have been 
visited are Granite Stake, Uintah, Pan-
guitch, Nebo, Box Elder, San Luis, Emery 
Oneida, Salt Lake, Pocatello, Malad, Sevier, 
North Sanpete, South Sanpete, Cassia,
and Benson.
	The sisters who have visited are Presi-
dent B. W. Smith, Counselors Annie Taylor
Hyde, Ida Smoot Dusenberry; Elizabeth
Williams, Carrie S. Thomas, Rebecca E.
Little, Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Mary T.
Smith, Alice S. M. Horne, Phebe Y. Beatie,
Margaret A. Caine, Ellis R. Shipp, L. L.
Greene Richards, Lydia D. Alder. Only
sixteen Stakes so far and leaves thirty-four
more to be visited during the remaining
four months of the season.


The mothers’ work is beginning to be a
delight and pleasure in the several
Stakes and wards where it has been
properly understood. Women of intelli-
gence and ability have been invited to give
the lecture, and others to assist in discuss-
ing, commenting, or explaining so that
more benefit may be derived from the in-
formation contained than would be if not
discussed afterwards. In some places the
president gives the lecture out in parts to
more than one sister, for instance the sub-
ject is given to the principal person to
prepare a lecture, (a) to another sister (b)
to another (c) to another. This is all left
to the discretion of the president of the
society who is expected to take entire
charge of the meeting. It is well to have
the lecture advertised well through the
ward beforehand and all the women in
the ward young and aged invited.
	We have several articles left over for the
July number that will be of interest to our
readers. The Relief Society Reunion of
Jordan Stake, which was a most enjoyable
gathering, including the banquet and in-
deed all the exercises, one essay will be
published in full. The Old Ladies’ Party,
given by Mrs. Frank J. Cannon, of Ogden,
the annual meeting of the Daughters of the
Revolution, and the meeting of the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers at the Bee Hive in May
and June 24. We also have for publica-
tion minutes of Relief Society confer-
ences from one or two Stakes in Zion and
 plan of lectures from Alberta Stake for
mothers’ work, Brigham Young’s birthday
celebration, Mrs. Jennings Temple sisters’
party, the graduating exercises and recep-
tion of the nurses’ class under Dr. Margar-
et C. Roberts and Emma Empey.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.
(Continued.)
	When the Latter-day Saints were obliged
to leave the City of Nauvoo and journey
Westward to an unknown land, the society
could not operate as an organized body and
the meetings were necessarily discontinued,
though the sisters continued their benevo-
lent work whenever and wherever an op-
portunity presented itself, and many were
in need of kindly acts and works of charity
and sympathy, for those were the days of
toil and suffering, of scarcity and hardship.
There were few gifts to bestow, but many
lessons of patience and resignation to be
learned in the school of experience.
	Early in the settlement of these valleys
in the Rocky Mountain region, organizations
were formed, a natural outgrowth or con-
tinuation of the parent organization in Nau-
voo, for the same spirit and sentiment still
existed and was soon brought into active
exercise. During all this time the sisters
never lost sight of this institution as it had
been established, nor the promises made to
them of its future greatness, by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith
	Among the foremost heroines of that
eventful time should be indelibly engraven
on the minds of the women of today and
coming time, the names of Sisters Vilate
Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Mary Fielding Smith, Diantha
Billings and others now passed away.
	These noble mothers in Israel with

[Column 2]
kindly deeds and loving words inspired
many a fainting heart with faith and cour-
age and ministered temporal and spiritual
blessings to hundreds of the daughters of
Zion, whose paths were not strewn with
roses, but were full of thorns and fiery
trials and needed their encouragement.
	Early in the settlement of the valley in
1851 and in 1852 the sisters had temporary
organizations of the Relief Society in
several wards and surrounding places, and
although all the Saints were comparativeiy
poor, yet they helped those in greater need
and fed and clothed the wandering Indians
whom the Latter-day Saints have ever thus
tried to conciliate. The writer very well
remembers a Relief Society of this tempor-
ary kind in the 12th and 13th wards of the
city, where she had the opportunity of at-
tending working meetings for sewing, quilt-
ing, etc., when a very young woman with
two babies.
	In 1855, when in a more settled condi-
tion, President Young called upon the Bish-
ops to organize a Relief Society in each ward
and gave Sister Eliza R. Snow a mission to
assist them in organizing, and to take with
her Sister Zina D. Young as her counselor.
Of some of these branches, as far as we
know, there is no record, but Bishop Abra-
ham Hoagland, of the 14th ward in this
city, organized a Relief Society, September
17, 1856, and appointed Sister Phebe W.
Woodruff president, and she chose for her
counselors Sister Mary Isabella Horne and
Lucinda Southworth, Kezia D. Pratt secre-
tary and Agnes Hoagland treasurer. There
were also committees appointed at the time.
Visiting committee: Leonora Taylor, Grace
Richardson, Ellen Parker, Rhoda H. Rich-
a[-]ds, Elizebeth Pixton, Matilda Wards-
worth, Nancy A. Stevenson, Lucinda
Southworth, Agnes Hoagland.
	Appraising committee were the president
and her counselors
	Superintendents of work committee:
Lucy L. Van Cott, Sarah B. Farr, Agnes
Hoagland.
	There were enrolled 108 members includ-
ing the officers, all of whose names are in
the possession of the writer. They formu-
lated the following by-laws:
	1. The name of the society shall be the
Fourteenth Ward, (Female now obsolete)
Relief Society.
	2. It shall be controled by a president,
two counselors, a secretary and treasurer
chosen by the members who shall choose
such officers as may be deemed necessary.
	3. The object shall be the relief of the
destitute unemployed and all whom it may
have power to relieve or do good unto in
unison with the counsel of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	4. Those wishing to become members
may be admitted on the recommend of any
member by a vote of any meeting regularly
called.
	5. Members will be expelled from the
society for non Christian like conduct, by a
majority of votes of any regularly organized
meeting.
	6. These by-laws may be increased,
amended, annulled or added to at any time
considered necessary by a majority of the
members.
FIRST REPORT.
	Organized 17th day of September, 1856.
Commenced and carried on our operations
in a time of scarcity and under trying cir-


cumstances until the 28th day of March,
1858, about one year and six months, dur-
ing which time we have received from mem-
bers of the society in contributions of mon-
ey, wearing apparel, provisions, etc.,
amounting to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	$346.05
Quilts on hand and for sale. . . . . .	100.00
Overplus for work and property. .	101.12
					Total	$547.17
Paid out to poor in the ward . . . .	$213.77
Paid to our brethren of the army .	43.75
“	“	H. C. Company . . . .	63.65
“	“	P. O.  Fund . . . . . . .	6.00
“	“	Quilts to Temple . . .	100.00

		Total disbursements	$547.17

	Just about the same time Bishop N. V.
Jones organized a Relief Society in the 15th
ward and chose Sister Lydia Granger presi-
dent; and Bishop Seth Taft also organ-
ized on in the 9th ward and appointed
Sister Harriet Taft president, etc. Other
societies were also organized, one in the 8th
ward by Bishop Lorenzo D. Young of which
Sister Zina D. Young was treasurer; but
Johnston’s army coming here and the move
South, as a direct result of it occurred in
1858, which interrupted the regularity of the
work of the society wherever it had begun,
and it was not until after the return of the
people to their homes and when order was
again restored that the society was more
perfectly and permanently organized.
	It would be interesting to give many of
the incidents of those early days, what the
sisters did to raise means and even to do
plain sewing and quilting, old cotton stock-
ing legs were raveled to get the yarn to
sew with, also knitted and crocheted lace,
and very small bits of calico were used to 
make quilts. Later on in the sixties Sister
Eliza R. Snow, Sister Zina D. H. Young
and others began visiting through the coun-
try places to help organize and show the
inexperienced sisters how to conduct their
meetings.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			OBITUARIES.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Lucinda Richey.

	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to call
from this life our beloved sister, Lucinda Richey,
in her seventy-seventh year, be it
	Resolved, that we humbly acknowledge the
wisdom of an Overruling Power, who doeth all
things well, in the loss of our aged sister, who was
a comfort in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife
and mother, a true Latter-day Saint, and a most
faithful worker in the Relief Society, being its
pioneer president for twelve successive years.
	Resolved, that we strive to carry out her wise
counsel, follow her noble example, especially in
never speaking ill of any one, and cherish in our
hearts that love for her which she so truly won.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, one be placed on the
Relief Society record, and one sent to the EX-
PONENT for publication.
				LIZZIE B. PATTERSON,
				ANNA M. MALLORY.
							Secretaries.
	St. Johns, Arizona.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Mabel Clair Johnson.

	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit to re-
move our sister, Mabel Clair Johnson, from our
midst, and
	Whereas she was a loving wife and mother, a
true Latter-day Saint and an earnest, faithful
worker in the different organizations of the Church

[Column 2]
and in the ward to which she belonged, therefore
be it
	Resolved, That while we grieve to lose her, and
while we mourn with the bereaved husband and
relatives, we bow in submission to the decree of
onr Heavenly Father and say “Thy will, and not
ours be done.”
	Resolved, that we will endeavor to live lives
that will make us worthy to meet her in the life
beyond the grave.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
given to the bereaved husband and a copy be sent
to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
				ESTHER OPENSHAW,
				LEVINA BRIMHALL,
				REBECCA JOHNSON,
			Officers R. S. Nephi Ward.

			MARY ANN GREEN.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the death of our
beloved sister, Mary Ann Green, who departed this life,
May 24, 1903, aged sixty-five years, after a lingering Illness
of twelve months and thirteen days, which she bore with 
great patience and fortitude. She was an earnest worker
and labored as a teacher in the American Fork Relief Soci-
ety, she was also an officer in the Primary Association for
a number of years. She took great delight in laboring
with the children, and although she never had any of her
own, she raised two by adoption and was a true mother
and a wise counselor. She had great faith in the ordin-
ances of the Gospel and remained faithful as long as she
lived. She leaves a husband, the two adopted children and
grandchildren to mourn her loss, and we realize she has
gone to enjoy a rest prepared for the faithful and in full
hope of a glorious resurrection.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Resolved, that we her colaborers in this great work of
love express our appreciation of her example.
	That we emulate her noble traits of character, of faith,
and charity, and her devotion to her religion.
					EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
					ALICE T. STEELE,
									Committee.

		FANNY CLAYSON QUIGLY.

	To the memory of Fanny C. Quigly who died
December 2, 1902, of consumption.
	She was born at Payson, August 1, 1867, and
lived a faithful life in the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. She was married to Brother
John Quigly in 1894, who preceded her to the
spirit world in 1894. She was the mother of two
sons, the youngest dying in infancy, the eldest
survives her to mourn the loss of a loving mother,
	She was a member and teacher of the Payson
First Ward Relief Society, in which she was an
earnest worker among the sick and afflicted.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call from our midst by the hand of death our be-
loved sister and friend, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we recognize in her death the
loss of a true friend and colaborer in the Payson
First Ward Relief Society.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be entered in the
Relief Society record, also a copy be presented to
the bereaved son and one printed in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT.

	“Death softly came and bore away
		A sister true and tried,
	In the calm twilight of her days
		In faith and hope she died.
	She suffered long, then calmly bent,
		To meet death’s fatal blow
	An arrow sure in mercy sent,
		To sufferers here below.”
						AMY HANCOCK,
						M. A. ROSS,
						J. A. HANCOCK,
								Committee.

			ELIZABETH MAYHO.

	Died at her residence, Fourth Ward, Provo City, Utah
May 30, 1903, Mrs. Elizabeth Mayho, beloved wife of
Henry Mayho, and daughter of William and Ellen Oller-
ton Houseon.
	Deceased was born in Preston, England, May 2, 1859,
emigrating with her husband and family to Utah in 1897,
residing in Nephi for six months, removed to Provo where
they have since resided. She leaves a husband, two sons
and two daughters to mourn the loss of a most exemplary
wife and kind and affectionate mother. She was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1885, in Preston, England, since which time she has
labored earnestly and faithfully for the advancement of
the kingdom of God, and to establish truth and righteous-
ness upon the earth, always ready to bear her testimony to
the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Her house was always open to the traveling Elders and
missionaries as many brethren testified at her funeral ser-
vices, speaking feelingly of her as their “English Mother in
Israel.”
	As a teacher in the Relief Society of Provo, Fourth
Ward she was ever at her post of duty, visiting, counseling
and admonishing the sisters, deeming no labor too arduous
but performing the same with love and cheerfulness. She

[Column 3]
was a devoted friend to the poor and needy, a wise coun-
selor in her family and among her friends.
	Therefore we, her colaborers of the Relief Society, in
meeting assembled, feel to emulate her many virtues and
noble traits of character, of faith and charity, and to hold in
remembrance and high esteem her name. She died as she
lived, true to her covenants, with the hope of a glorious
resurrection, therefore we feel to offer to her memory the
following resolutions:

			RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT

	Whereas, in the providence of our Heavenly Father, He
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved sister, Eliza-
beth H. Mayho, and
	Whereas, we her colaborers in the Relief Society, feel
that we have lost a true friend and worker in the great
cause, be it, therefore,
	Resolved, that we tender our love and esteem and our
heartfelt sympathy to her husband and family, and condole
with them in their sad bereavement, while we submit to
the will of an Alwise God who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, that we spread these resolutions on the society
records, and present a copy to the family and also to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
						MARGARET M. WATSON,
						EMMA J. BENNETT,
						JANE B. SNYDER,
										Committee.


A GOOD WOMAN CALLED HOME.
	It has pleased our Heavenly Father to
call from our associations, Sister Martha
Ann Davis, wife of Brother Heber H.
Davis. Our beloved sister and coloborer
will be sadly missed from our ranks.
	Sister Davis served for several years as
first counselor in the Primary organization
of this ward, teacher in the Sunday School
and teacher in the Relief Society. We tru-
ly sympathize with her husband and family
in their sad bereavement.
	Sister Davis was most energetic and
persevering in the discharge of her arduous
duties, faithful to every trust until pre-
vented from attending to her duties by
suffering.
	As a Society we sincerely mourn her and
we earnestly pray our Heavenly Father to
bless Brother Davis and his young daugh-
ters, and may the Lord bless the babe left
without a mother’s loving care, may it be
blessed with life and with its Sister Inez
follow in the footsteps of their mother. God
bless them.
RACHEL ISAACS,
President 16th ward R. S.


R. S. REPORTS.
PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Report of Relief Society conference held
in Escalante, May 29, 1903, commencing at
10 a. m. President Elizabeth DeLong pre-
siding.
	We had with us two visiting sisters from
Salt Lake City, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp from the
General Board and Sister L. D. Alder and
representatives from the different wards.
	Conference opened by the choir singing.
Prayer by Stake President David Cameron.
Continued by singing. Minutes read and
roll called, showing representatives from
seven wards, two being presidents.
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave a short
report of the Stake, had not been able to
visit as she should on account of the hard
winter.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron reported
Panguitch Ward.
	Escalante Ward was reported by Nancy
Riddle.
	President Elizabeth DeLong, by request
of the president of Circleville Ward, re-
ported that ward.
	Henriville Ward was reported by its
president, Sarah T. Littlefield.
	Sister Alder spoke at some length, giving
us some very good instructions on mothers'


work and the raising and training of chil-
dren. She bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel and that Joseph Smith was a
true prophet of God.
	Sister Shipp then spoke on the great re-
sponsibilities resting upon us as wives and
mothers of the Latter-day Saints, rights of a
child, responsibility of motherhood, and
having unity love and kindness in the fam-
ily.
	President David Cameron was very
pleased with the good instructions which
we had received. Spoke a short time on
training children and responsibility of par- 
ents.
	Bishop Schow felt to endorse the remarks
that had been made, thought the Relief
Society work of great importance and many
responsibilities were connected with it.
	Minutes read and approved. Conference
adjourned until two p. m. Closed by sing-
ing, and benediction by Bishop A. P. Schow.
	Conference reconvened at two p. m. by
choir singing. Prayer by Brother Thomas
Heeps. Continued by singing.
	Sister Collings gave a report of Kingston
Ward, Miss Wilson reported Hillsdale
branch.
	President Elizabeth DeLong spoke on
Relief Society work and benefits of reading
good books.
	Counselor Alice Jane Cameron spoke on
motherhood and controling our children.
	The General and Stake officers of the Re-
lief Society were presented before the peo-
ple to be sustained, by Secretary Margaret
Haycock.
	Sister Shipp spoke on doing our duty,
effects reading has upon the mind, force of
example, education of mothers, paying
tithing.
	Sister Alder spoke on testimony bearing,
workings of Satan, the world’s opinion of
the “Mormons” and preparing ourselves
for the duties that are before us, and the
great knowledge of the Prophet Joseph.
	Brother Henry Barney felt the impor-
tance of the Relief Society, the great in-
fluence the women of the Latter-day Saints
have over the world and the great work de-
volving upon the members of the Relief
Society.
	Minutes read and approved. 
	President Elizabeth DeLong gave out
a notice that there would be a meeting for
the young people at 7 p. m.
	Closed by singing. Benediction by
Brother Almy Barney.
	Conference reconvened at 7 p. m. with
singing, and prayer offered by Brother
George Wilson. Continued by singing.
	Sister Alder spoke to the young people,
her subject being “Our Creation and Our
Mission to Earth.”
	Sister Shipp spoke on “Marriage and the
Responsibilities of Married Life.”
	President David Cameron spoke on “The
Honor of Young Men.”
	President Elizabeth DeLong thanked the
sisters for their visit and very good instruc-

[Column 2] 
tions and stated that conference would be
adjourned until some future date.
	Minutes read and approved. Closed by
singing. Benediction Bishop A. P. Schow.
			MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of the Uintah Stake held May 9, 1903,
President Sarah Pope presiding.
	Singing, “O, ye mountains high.” Pray-
er by Counselor A. K. Bartlett. Singing,
“Come, Oh Thou King of kings.” Minutes
of forenoon session of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah Pope made a few open
ing remarks.
	Counselor James Hacking thought it a
great mission to be a mother in Israel.
Parents should draw their children to them
by love and kindness, thought the mothers’
work would be a great benefit.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff, from Salt
Lake, felt to endorse the remarks of Presi-
dent Hacking. It is our mission to save
souls, and if we can save our children in
the kingdom of God what a consolation it
will be. We should teach the children to
work and to keep the Word of Wisdom, we
should always have a prayerful heart.
	Meeting adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Benediction by Counselor James
Hacking.
	Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, as usual.
	The following wards were reported in
good condition: Vernal, Glines, Naples,
Mill ward and Mountain Dell. The statistical
and financial report of the Stake was read
and the general and local authorities were
sustained.
	Sister Emma S. Woodruff read a letter of
instruction to the missionaries which she
had just received from the General Board.
Thought if we would send missionaries to
the different branches we would be very
much benefitted. Advised the sisters to gath-
er all the grain they could and keep it on
hand. Read the minutes of the organization
of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, also instructions given at the 6th,
13th, and 16th meetings. Thought we
should not burden one sister with all the
offices but divide them up. Asked the
Lord to bless all.
	Brother Nelson Merkley felt to endorse,
what had been said. Thousands of souls
have been made happy by the sisters of the
Relief Society, was glad that we had moth-
ers’ work in the society.
	Brother Don B. Colton thought the in-
struction that had been read was enough
of itself to fully pay us for coming to meet-
ing. Spoke of the sisters administering to
the sick and of the great mission mothers
could perform among the young people.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett said a few
words in regard to our Church school, felt
willing to labor wherever she was called
urged the sisters to lay up grain.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah Pope made a few closing
remarks encouraged all to treasure the good
counsel they had received, bore a faithful
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel,
said a few words in regard to the Womans’
Building in Salt Lake City.
	Conference adjourned for six months 
Singing, “Praise ye the Lord. Benediction
by Brother Colton.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3- Main Street.


ART NOTES.
	Mr. J. T. Harwood, of this city, now in
Paris, has recently sold his water color en-
titled “The Young Mechanic.” The buyer
is John Wanamaker, of Philadelphia. It is
very unusual to sell a picture out of the
French Salon, and Mr. Harwood is to be
congratulated on his merited good fortune.
	Mrs. Harwood is painting some studies in
brass and copper, Miss Louise Richards,
Miss Rose Hartwell, and Miss Sawyer, Mr.
A. B. Wright, Lee G. Richards and Honri
Young are to be in the country districts
near Paris for the summer.
	Mr. Harwood and Mr. Richards (son of
L. L. Greene Richards) and Honri Young
exhibited in the recent French Salon, of
which we are very proud. It is good to see
Utah’s sons and daughters go to the art
centres and add to their native ability, the
culture and training of the Old World.
						A. S. M. H.


ITEMS FROM SPRING CITY. 
Dear Editor:
	Sister Mettie Maria Nielso[-] one of our 
dear sisters, died over a year ago, and as 
she was a subscriber for the EXPONENT 
and was a faithful member in the Church, 
and ever ready to help the needy, we miss 
her very much. 
	Our Relief Society is in good working 
order with good, energetic officers at the 
head. We have the mother’s work in its 
infancy and hope it will grow and be a suc-
cess. I was very much pleased in reading
the testimonials of the true character of Sis-
ter M. I. Horne and would that the same 
could be said of some of us. 
	The EXPONENT has been a great help to 
me, and would be to every mother if they 
were only converted to its merits. I pray 
the Lord to bless you in your noble efforts 
to do good. 
		Your sister in the Gospel, 
				MARIA M. JENSEN.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

				Vol. 32	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903	No. 2


CONTENTS.
A Beautiful Thought.....................E. B. Wells	9
The Past and Present...............Delila Gardner	9
Obituary..........................................................	10
In Memoriam....................................E. B. W.	11
Notes and News..............................................	11
Mothers’ Work................................................	13
Birthday Anniversary.....May Booth Talmage	15
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting.....A Wardrop	15
R. S. Reports...................................................	15
EDITORIAL—Pioneer Park..........................	12
	Pope Leo XIII.........................................	12
	Relief Society Nurses’ Class...................	13
	Relief Society Reunion...........................	13
POETRY—Angels Unawares.A. T. Crocheron	9
	Faith..........................Emmeline B.Wells	11


ANGELS UNAWARES.
I was all alone, and a bright Welsh lad
Had come the chores to do,
After the sun had sunk from sight,
And his own day's work was through;
For my own dear ones were far away
As duty had bade them go;
One in the far off city's streets,
And one by the Jordan's flow;
And so, I lighted the evening lamp
And set forth our evening fare,
And all unconscious, I set the plates
For my boys who had been there.
"My!" said the bright Welsh lad to me,
"Angels are coming tonight!
You've set four plates, and we're only two,
Let the wind blow! we're all right."

Then Ithought: Perhaps in the fairy lore,
We had learned in the Old Country,
There might be truth, and cheerful felt
Fo such goodly company.
And I thought: Let our converse be tonight,
Such themes that our guests will stay;
Their gentle presence inspire our dreams,
And guard us, 'till mornings ray.
I wondered, too, whom those guests might
	be;
O, parents and sister dear,
Could I know 'twere you, how sweet the
	night
Though the wind blow cold and drear.
But though it were kindred or angel sent
To view and report the scene,
Or for some guardian purpose meant—
'Twas a blessed thing, I ween

And today my heart has sung a song
Of gratitude, faith and love,
(Believing the omen) and hope that oft
They will come from their homes above,
Whether my table is set for them,
Or whoever may be here—
O, blessed ones come! Henceforth I wait
With a welcoming sincere.
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, Sep. 24, 1903.


[Column 1]
ABEAUT FUL THOUGHT.
OLD LADIES' ANNUAL PARTY.
	For ten consecutive years Mrs. Frank J.
Cannon of Ogden (wife of ex-Senator Frank
J. Cannon, popularly known in and about
Washington, D. C.) has given a party dur-
ing the summer season to the "Grandmas"
of Ogden City. She devotes herself to their
entertainment during the entire day, sends
carriages to bring them to her hospitable

[Column 2]
home, and when the day is over and they
wish to return, looks after each individual
to see that they are properly cared for and
driven home again. It really is a beautiful
thing and Mrs. Cannon deserves the bless-
ings these dear old ladies shower up-
on her, with their prayers and good
wishes. The dinner prepared for them is
as good and tastefully arranged as if they
were the finest guests in the land, and they
are waited upon by Mrs. Cannon's charm-
ing daughters and young relatives and
friends with the most careful attention to
every want expressed, or anticipated.
	The young ladies play and sing for them
and the old ladies sing and recite and have
a most enjoyable time.
	Perhaps the most distinguished guest
present on the occasion this year, Thursday,
June 25, was Mrs. Jane S. Richards who,
although she has reached four score years,
is still young in spirit and mentally and
physically capable of managing the busi-
ness affairs of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion, as well as looking
after the moral and spiritual interests of
those over whom she presides. Her voice
and appearance are like those of a young
woman; she spoke a few words of greeting
and appreciation to the company on the
day of this unique gathering.
	Sister Ann E. Browning, a veteran in
the Church and a strong type of the En-
glish character, aged seventy-three, gave
two recitations entitled "Maria in Heaven"
and "A Woman's Question."
	Another sister, whose name I do not now
recall, gave "His Mother's Sermon," from
"The Bonnie Brier Bush."
	Sister Isabella Wilson recited a poem,
"Joseph Smith, the Prophet."
	Brief speeches were made, significant of
the honor shown to the aged and the times
in which we live, by Sister Cannon, mother
of the Senator, and Sister E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City. Hon. Frank J. Cannon
made an eloquent address, very complimen-
tary to the aunties and grandmothers, who
were much gratified to be thus remembered
and honored.
	Indeed it was a happy day for all and
one never to be forgotten by those who
participated in its pleasures Ice cream,
cake and other delicacies were served to all
before parting, and then came the good
byes, which bring the thought, "When
shall we all meet again?"
	The ladies present whose names we re-
call, were Sister Mary Black, 87 years, who
heads the list; Sisters Jane S. Richards,
and Elizabeth P. Davis, of Salt Lake City;
Elizabeth Kingsford, Ruth M. Larson,
Emma Wright, Eliza Barlow, Mary Butler,
Charlotte Leavitt, Olive Ann Farr, Rachel
Porter, Ann E. Browning, Hannah Batley,
Ann Martin, Harriet Stringam, Isabella
Neilson, Sarah West, Catharine Horrocks,
Emma Melvin, Henrietta Lamont, Eliza-
beth Greenwall, Mary Ann Odell, Phebe
Jane Bingham, Harriet C. Brown, Mary
Hiller, Sarah Jane Packard; these are
among the older sisters; younger sisters,
although most of them are grandma's, were
Martha H. Brown, Charlotte E. Driver,

[Column 3]
Maria S. Stevens, Sarah J. Cannon, Har-
riet E. Woodmansee, Eliza T. Cannon,
Emily L. Shurtliff, Belle Thompson, and
Miss Rose Canfield and the young ladies
who sung for the party and waited upon
them. The writer was also present and de-
sires to say she enjoyed the society of these
dear sisters at Mrs Cannon's party, which
is not only a beautiful thought, but delight-
ful in its practical development.
E. B. WELLS.


THE PAST AND PRESENT.
MARINDA BATEMAN.

	We will now let our minds travel back to
a time almost fifty years ago when there
were no people or houses south of Salt
Lake City, but we travel along and come
to Gardner's mill, down near the banks of
the notable Jordan river, and when we see
a mill we naturally know there is a miller
and by inquiry we find there is a miller
here and that he has a rosy-cheeked daugh-
ter. She is not like the girls of the present
with their fancy embroidery and fine
laces, but is taught to card and spin, to
cook, wash and iron and everything that
will help to clothe and feed the numerous
family of the miller, but she looks just as
winning to a tall, dark-complexioned youth
who wears jeans pants and linsey over-shirt
and his hair oiled sleek, roached in front
and turned under at the end--who comes
wooing the miller's daughter and it ends in
a marriage. She becomes a farmer's bride
and they start in life together while young,
with empty hands but willing hearts.
	Years glide by, children come to them,
with plenty of work. She is chosen president
of the Relief Society, her husband is called to
the Muddy on a mission, she is released to 
accompany him. The mission falls through,
they are released, she does not go but still
goes along in her quiet way. Trials come,
sometimes smiles, sometimes tears, years
pass and with them come changes. She is
again chosen president of a Relief Society
which she fills with honor until January 21,
1900, she is chosen Stake president and the
present shows us the tall farmer and the
miller's daughter, not so young, but just as
smiling and happy, still true to each other
and their God, and we would venture to
wager, if the Relief Society board had not
forbidden us gambling or raffling or any-
thing of the kind, now that she is fifty-five 
years of age, if you would bring her the old-
fashioned spinning wheel she could spin a
broach or reel her knots and make a skein
of yarn and color her madder, logwood and
blue-dye in the same old way and be proud
of it, too. And may her numerous family
rise up and call her blessed and be proud to
own the miller's daughter for their mother.
May she live long to counsel her sisters and 
help to take care of the sick and the afflicted.
	We forgot to add that she is known all
over the Stake, for the children say she 
brings awful nice things to mama in her
little satchel.
	HILDA LARSEN.
	Years ago in dear old Sweden there was


[Column 1]

born a sweet little Swedish "Flicka." She
like all of her people was raised to work
and be industrious and self-sustaining.
	She joined the Church in an early day,
came to Utah a young and blushing maiden
and captivated the heart of one of our best
citizens. They were married and settled
here in this lovely city in which we have
met today. For twenty years she took ac-
count of all the nickels and dimes and each
bar of soap and yard of calico received by
the Relief Society of Sandy, for she held the
exalted office of secretary. She was chosen
counselor to Sister Bateman in the Stake,
January 21, 1900, which office we know
she will fill with honor. We know she has
always been found, tried and true and we
hope to see her good-natured face smiling
among us as the years and days go by and
we would just give her a word of advice,
if she don't be a pretty good girl she had
better, for we know there is one of the
High Council always has his eye on her.
AGNES CUTLER.
	Away back in Scotland there was born
one day a dear little Scotch lassie. When
quite small her parents joined the Church
and like many others gathered to Zion and
settled in Salt Lake City. She, like our
president, learned the fine art of spinning
and coloring, and her joyous laugh rang
out as she spun the skeins of yarn to help
to make the beautiful flannel and linsey
ball and reception dresses that were worn
at that time.
	The lassie, when she was very young,
decided that she would choose an occupa-
tion, and she went into the Cutlery business
and settled on the beautiful banks of the
Jordan. Life to her was not all summer
and the bitter was mixed with the sweet,
but she was always cheerful; her com-
panion was taken and she was alone.
	After awhile she chose another trade, she
became a Cooper. For various reasons this
proved a failure and she went back to the
Cutlery business. Twice she has been
chosen president of the Relief Society and
she has filled the position with honor. She
was chosen counselor in the Stake January
21, 1900, and as the years go by may we
always have our Scotch lassie to cheer and
comfort us, and may the Cutlers and Coop-
ers increase and the Jordan Stake honor
and appreciate her worth, and we know she
can always spin us a good yarn if she hasn't
her spinning wheel.
ELIZABETH GARDNER.
	We will not go back so far now, but only
to a time when a merry little girl came to
gladden the home of one of the pioneer
families of the historic town of dear old
West Jordan. She came, grew, went to
school, played, romped and had a merry
time until she thought it time to settle
down and one of our handsome Utah boys
came along and she chose her trade and she
has been a Gardner ever since; she also
was chosen our Stake secretary on January
21, 1900, and she has written minutes,
called rolls and puzzled her brain since
then; she too has had her joys and sorrows, 
but as a mother and grandmother, old
father time has dealt lightly with her and
we see her today apparently smiling and
happy, and may she still continue to be our
secretary until her hair is gray and her eyes
are dim with years. 
EMILY WHITE.
	We remember a long time ago seeing a

[Column 2]

 tall, slender, sweet young English girl
come from Salt Lake City to West Jordan
on a visit to relatives and with her a neatly
dressed young man. After awhile we heard
that the Mills had turned White and after
awhile we heard there were some more 
White Mills and that they had all moved
to the illustrious city of Sandy, where we
hear of her from time to time, always as-
sociated with good works and kind deeds
in the Primary Association and in acts of
charity, and like the rest there has been
many sad pages in her life, but may she al-
ways find joy and comfort in keeping in the
path of her duty, and may the love and re-
spect of her children be her crowning joy.
She was chosen assistant secretary of the
Stake, which position she now holds.
AGNES CUSHING.
	Not so very long ago, judging from the
sweet and youthful face smiling before us,
there was born in the town of historical
Draper a little girl who lived, played and
went to school as the most of our girls do
until she became of an age to choose for
herself. Although her pathway may not
always have been strewn with roses we
know that we can say with truthfulness,
she has always, ever since she has chosen,
had a nice cushion to lean upon. She holds
the reponsible position of treasurer, and we
haven't heard of her being over-burdened
yet with cash, but may she live long and
have strength given her to carry every bur-
den she may have placed upon her shoul-
ders, and may her pleasant face always be 
found among the Relief Society workers.
And as she adds the small cushions to her
store already on hand, may they prove a
blessing and a comfort to her. Bu, hon-
estly, we don't care how heavy the Relief
Society bags may become. 
ARAMINTA E. EGBERT.

	We remember the rosy-cheeked, happy
girl in the good old childhood days, when
she used to climb trees, hunt hens and birds 
eggs and romp and play, in school one of
the gayest of the gay, and a sad tease to
her teachers Her lot, too, was cast on
the bonnie banks of the Jordan. Time
changes all things, and in time a suitor
came, and she thought "It is not good for
man to live alone," so she gave her heart
and hand to our worthy Bishop. We don't
think she has taken any more bird's eggs,
but we know she has taken care of Egberts
ever since.
	We appreciate her worth and feel glad
she was chosen Relief Society aid. May
she still live a life of usefulness and be as
she has always been, a true friend to the
poor and needy, and be a comfort in time of
sorrow and trouble. And may all her little
Egberts find a warm nest in her heart, and
we will see that she takes good care of our 
Bishop. 
ELIZABETH DAY.
	Away back in merrie England, once up-
on a time, a little girl came to gladden her 
parent's hearts.
	Her parents joined the Church, then there
was the gathering to Zion, and the long,
weary journey with ox teams across the plains.
	She, too, came to Draper. After a time
she began to think that there was one Day
that was better than all the rest, and as the
days passed by, she chose to be the second
Day, and has been ever since. She has led

[Column 3]

a life of usefulness and has filled many
faithful positions and has been loved and 
respected by neighbors and friends. She,
too, is Relief Society aid, and may her life
be spared and as her Days increase may she
always find comfort and joy.
LEAH DAY FITZGERALD.
	Some time back in the early 50's, there
was born, in the beautiful city of Draper,
to a family of our worthy pioneers, a sweet
little girl whom they called Leah. She,
like all the rest of "Utah's best crop," was
free and easy and led a useful and helpful
life and was a joy and comfort to her friends.
	When she became a blushing maiden
there came a tall schoolmaster a wooing,
which soon terminated in a wedding, and as
there was no Rachel in the family, there
were no disappointments, and we never
heard that he worked seven years for his
Leah, and we don't know as the "big
schoolmaster" ever turned night into day,
but we do know one thing that he did turn
one Day into a Fitzgerald, but be that as
it may, we know she is an aid in our Relief
Society board. And may she be, as she al-
ways has been, true and faithful and take
good care of the school teacher. If she
don't we will report her to one of the stake
presidency.

	These are our Relief Society board, judge
them for yourselves, and may they live 
long and be happy and united and have
many reunions, especially if they will give
us plenty of good things to eat and drink.
DELILA GARDNER.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY. 
AT REST. 
Sister Eliza B. Schutt passed away on the 30th 
day of May, 1903. She was born in Hull, York-
shire, England. March 26, 1837. She came to 
Stirling about four years ago and was a faithful 
Latter-day Saint. 
Sister Shutt was chosen as second counselor to 
Sister Miller in the Relief Society of Stirling, 
Alberta, Canada, and was a faithful worker in 
every respect. She was one of those choice, brave, 
beautiful spirits who was ever ready to assist in 
building up the kingdom of God, and making 
peace everywhere. We all feel to mourn her loss, 
as there were few like her. She was so kind to 
every one, and her life was one of usefulness. If 
there was ever any one in trouble she was the first 
to go and help, cheer and comfort, helping to make 
the burden as light as possible. 
Those who watched over her in her last sickness 
say she suffered as few do. She was so brave to 
the end, never flinched from the severe pain which 
she was called upon to pass through, but was very 
kind and considerate to those around her. In her 
greatest agony she called her family to her bedside 
and with all firmness and meekness to our Father in 
heaven, blessed them with a mother's blessing 
never to be forgotten. 
She was full of faith to the last; the testimony 
of all who knew her is that her life was one of un-
swerving fidelity to God; that there was never any 
doubt in her mind regarding the Church and king
dom of God. 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her to 
a higher sphere, and we will miss her as a wise 
counselor, 
Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the 
bereaved daughters and cherish her memory and 
emulate her works of benevolence and charity. 
Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be 
sent to her daughters, also the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication and be placed upon the records of 
Stirling Ward Relief Society. 
LUCINDA MILLER, 
MARY E. HARDY, 
JANET FADDIES, 
Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FAITH.
Lord give us faith to trust in Thee,
Whatever sorrows may betide:
Attune our hearts in unity,
That in Thy love we may abide.

Strengthen our faith, that we may live
According to Thy sacred word;
Thy Holy Spirit freely give
We pray Thee, O most gracious Lord.

O, may we seek for light divine
To shine upon our onward way;
Make us, O Lord, more truly Thine,
Renew our courage day by day.

Help us to consecrate to Thee,
Our time, our talents, all our wealth; 
Make of our efforts harmony,
And give us joy, and peace and health.

However dark the days may be,
Though storms are fierce, and rude the
blast,
O, give Thy Saints the victory,
Through faith to overcome at last.

A wondrous power the Saints possess,
Who seek for wisdom from on high,
Proclaiming truth and righteousness,
Whatever dangers may be nigh.

Lord give us mighty Faith to stand
Valiant for Zion, and for Thee,
Till Right shall rule in all the land, 
And Peace abound from sea to sea. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS. 
July 23, 1903.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM. 
CAROLINE YOUNG CANNON.
"A mother's love--how sweet the name!
What is a mother's love?
A noble, pure and tender flame,
Enkindled from above."
	There is no love like the love of a mother,
ask the wisest and best of men, or women
either; the one memory that lives of all
childhood's hours, is the memory of the
tender, patient, long-suffering, untiring
mother. It gives men faith in womankind
and trust in all things noble and high.
"Youth fades; love droops; the leaves of friendship
fall,
A mother's hope and love outlives them all."
	An ideal mother was Mrs. Cannon, tender
and yet not over indulgent, her heart was
in her home and she was by birth and cir-
cumstance a Latter-day Saint, believing in
all the principles, revealed through Joseph 
Smith, the prophet, in these Latter-days
for the salvation and exaltation of the hu-
man family. 
	Mrs. Caroline Young Cannon was the 
daughter of President Brigham Young and
of his wife, Emily D. Partridge Young.
The grandparents on the maternal side
were among the first who embraced the 
Gospel in the early days of the Church;
her grandfather, Bishop Edward Partridge,
was the first Presiding Bishop of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bishop
Partridge was a Massachusetts man, born 
raised in the Berkshire hills; his wife
was also of the same good old Puritan
stock, and the fact is well known that
President Brigham Young's family were
also Puritans, his father, John Young, a 
revolutionary soldier. 
	Caroline Young was the second daughter
and third child of Brother Brigham and
Sister Emily Young, and was born in this
city, February 1, 1851, in one of the humble
homes of those early days, on the corner 
where the Alta Club now stands.
	Sister Caroline Cannon had the best of 
d
[Column 2]
she, like her noble mother, was valiant for 
the truth, possessed of sterling integrity
and steadfastness in the principles of truth 
and right But she has gone from this
sphere of usefulness; called home when
everything seemed hopeful and promising
for a future in which she would see her
younger children grow to manhood and
womanhood under her protecting care and
wise guardianship.
	Sister Cannon was the mother of twelve
children and has nine now living, five sons
and four daughters, one son and three
daughters married, seven grandchildren.
	One son and two daughters died in their 
infancy and no doubt she has joined them
ere this, never more to be separated, these, 
with her husband, father, mother and a 
host of loved ones gone before, we can and
do believe welcomed her on the golden
shore where there is life forevermore.
	A wife and mother has much to do in the
care of a home and rearing a family, but
there comes in most woman's lives a time
when she feels to take hold of some of the
duties outside the home, and because of 
these the home life itself is often broadened
and made better. Sister Cannon arrived at
that period, and though reluctant to come
before the public, she was willing to take
part in doing, if not in speaking. She was 
a charter member of the Utah State Society
of the Daughters of the Revolution, and
enjoyed the meetings very much, she had
given one or two very able and instructive
papers on patriotic subjects. Her loss will 
be deeply felt in the ranks of the D. R., as 
she was counted one who always bore her
part in whatever there was to do.
	In August, 1901, when the president of
the Relief Society of Cannon Ward re-
signed, having been called to fill a position
in the Stake Board, Sister Caroline V. Can-
non was elected president, and has been
very successful and efficient in this active,
benevolent and charitable work. Sister
Cannon has entertained much in her home, 
especially during the last ten years, and 
has been an admirable hostess. The
Daughters of the Revolution met in her
home for their Thanksgiving meeting last
November, and she has more than once
entertained the Relief Society of the ward
and these have been occasions of more than 
ordinary interest. 
	Sister Cannon was also a charter member
of the Daughters of the Pioneers, an organ-
ization now in its third year and one that
gives promise of being of great historical
value to the State of Utah.
	But we shall see her no more in our
gatherings, she has gone from our sight,
yet we shall cherish her image in our 
hearts. 
"Though lost to sight to memory dear."
	Of her youthful days much might be
said. She was one of the girls in Presi-
dent Young's family that were designated
"The Big Ten," at the time when the
famous "Lion House" was full of life and
cheerfulness and beautiful girls and fine
young men, sons and daughters of that re-
nowned man among men, Brigham Young.
	Sister Caroline Young Cannon departed
this life, Thursday, July 2, 1903, at ten
minutes to one o'clock p. m. Her death
was primarily the result of rheumatism and
secondarily of ulceration of the throat
which had seriously affected vital parts of
her body.
	Her demise was not unlooked for towards
the last of her illness, she had made a brave
[Column 3]
fight for life, and mighty faith had been
exercised in her behalf, but when all failed
the dearest of her loved ones, young and
tender, tried to be reconciled to the inevit-
able.
"They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one. 
As their weary feet touch the shining strand,
	One by one, 
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the
mead,
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
	One by one."
	The funeral services were held on Sun-
day, July 5, at her own residence; the
sweetest flowers were banked here and
there in all available places, and there were
many exquisite floral designs, gifts of lov-
ing friends and of members of the family.
	The services were conducted by Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon. Vocal music by a male
quartette was inspiring and yet sweetly sad. 
President Joseph F. Smith and his counsel-
ors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund,
were present, also Apostle John Henry
Smith, Rudger Clawson and President Sey-
mour B. Young, of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies, and other Church dignitaries.
The remarks of the several speakers were 
comforting and encouraging to those bowed
down with the terrible loss of one so near
and dear.
	The pall bearers were her brothers, sons
of President Young, except one, her nephew
Richard W. Young. She was literally
buried in flowers.
	"So He giveth His beloved sleep."
Dear Carlie, she was greatly beloved
by her many friends. She possessed an at-
tractive personality, and drew about her a
circle of friends who admired her many
sterling qualities of head and heart. But 
we who realize something about a future
state, know, if we are faithful, we shall
meet her again in that beautiful home
where sin or death cannot enter.
	"We, too, shall come to the riverside,
	One by one,
	We are nearer its waters each eventide,
	One by one."
		E. B. W.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
Lady Glentworth is the only centenarian
in the British peerage. Her hundredth 
birthday, celebrated recently, found her in 
good health and in possession of all her 
faculties. She still manages her own 
estate at Marham in Norfolk, every detail 
coming under her personal cognizance, and 
her papers are signed in a firm, clear hand. 
In a gracefully worded letter of thanks 
to Andrew Carnegie, Queen Wilhelmina 
expresses her appreciation of the princely 
gift for the establishment of a palace and 
library worthy of the Court of Arbitration. 
She says: "May the Palace of Peace, which 
will owe its existence to your munificence, 
remain throughout time the imposing 
symbol of the humane endeavor to solve 
the differences between nations by peaceful 
means. Your contributing so largely to-
wards the realization of this end is a noble
deed, which I and my people appreciate the 
more highly because an international decree 
having placed the seat of the Court of 
Arbitration in this country, the Nether-
lands considers itself the guardian of the 
idea of peace which it was the aim of the 
Hague Conference to see fulfilled." --Ex


12 WOMAN'S EXPONENT 
Woman's Exponent. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher. 
Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts. 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple 
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1903


[Column 1] 
PIONEER PARK.

It is gratifying to the old settlers in this
city to have had the historic Pioneer Square
thrown open to the public, on Pioneer day
of this year, as a place for recreation and
restfulness, to those who choose to take ad-
vantage of it, but it will at present be most
beneficial to the people in that vicinity.
The park was really dedicated July 24,
1898, but there have been so many opposing
schemes, and attempts to use it for financial
benefit that it seemed almost as if the dedi-
cation had been set aside, or lost sight of, in
the pressure brought about to make it a
depot or thoroughfare of some sort.
It is ardently hoped and desired by those
who value the historic points of interest
that this pioneer park may be made beauti-
ful, and that something may be erected
there to tell the story of this famous spot
of earth, to the children of the future, a
story of the struggles of the pioneers who
founded Utah.
Many of the descendants of the men and
women who came to the Great Salt Lake in
those early days do not in the least realize
what their parents endured in settling this
desert land. If there is one spot that will
mark the heroism and strength of character
of that valiant band of men and women
who spent the first winter in the Fort, it
ought to be made beautiful and attractive, a
place of interest. There are but few people
today who lived in the Fort during that
eventful period and in a few years more
there will not be any, and it would be
lamentable not to leave that one square as
a memento of the time and the events that
transpired then that were of such a marvel-
ous nature.
The story of the thrilling account of the
gulls is one that can never fail to show the
miraculous intervention of Providence and
the mighty faith of the heroic band. The
Harvest Home on August 10, 1848, as de-
scribed in story by our sisters who partici-
pated therein, is worthy of being commem-
orated in song, to be set to music and
handed down to be sung by their posterity
to the latest generation of time.
The Daughters of the Pioneers, who are
collecting and preserving everything pos-
sible of that period, will, we trust, some of
them, see that these things are made object
lessons for the benefit of the people of the
State. They have already planned much
work creditable to the cause, but if some-
thing really tangible could be erected on
the memorable square, if it was only a
fountain or a monument to these pioneer
women whose names we venerate, or to the

[Column 2]
women who lived within the Fort before
the city was laid out and the homes built,
it would be an achievement worthy the
daughters of that noble sisterhood. Some
permanent structure that would be useful
as well as ornamental and historical,
that could be accomplished by the contri-
butions of a large number of the real des-
cendants of the pioneers, not alone of ’47,
but to the limit stated in their Constitution.
This is merely a thought, but could it be
made a practical matter of fact it would
give the Daughters of the Pioneers a great-
er prestige than anything the writer can
think of, because it would stand as a monu-
ment to perpetuate the fortitude and endur-
ance of these wise and sagacious women
who were willing to make the sacrifice of
leaving their homes, their worldy sur-
roundings, everything near and dear, for
the sake of their religion, which was more
to them than life itself.
How the Lord has blessed and prospered
them, and the land for their sake, and how
wonderful in the eyes of all nations has
been the transformation from the desert to
the beautiful cities, towns and villages,
farms, orchards and gardens, none know so
well as those who came in that early time
and lived among the sage brush in the alkali
desert.


[column 1]
	POPE LEO XIII.

	The last few days previous to the death
of the Pope newspapers were full of ac-
counts concerning the Pope’s condition,
but now he has gone, and the great struggle
for life which he fought so courageously is
over, and we hear on all sides encomiums
of praise and commendation of his long
and eventful career of usefulness and per-
severing habits, of industry and labor for
the good of the church in which he de-
voutly believed, and for which he would
make any sacrifice possible, that it might
obtain strength and influence in and for the
world of mankind.
	There can be no doubt of his superiority
of ability and intellect and he had the
grandest opportunities possible to any man
—let him be king or potentate.
	What he has written would fill volumes,
would be a library in itself. It is doubtful
if there will ever be another pontiff so cele-
brated and so greatly beloved and honored.
He was certainly one of the greatest and
grandest men of the nineteenth century.
History must record with gratitude and
pride the splendid character and attain-
ments of this hero of the Catholic Church,
who has labored to elevate mankind, to
bless humanity, to bring peace to the world.
How strong he was in the right as he
viewed it, how valiant for righteousness!
How beautifully and unostentatiously he
modified the wrongs he grieved to see per-
petrated! Surely the world is better for
such a man. Lowell says:

“Great truths are portions of the soul of man; 
Great souls are portions of eternity.”

	He will be sincerely mourned although
he had far outlived his contemporaries.
	Great men like him are indeed models
for nations. His vast storehouse of learn-
ing was used for the benefit of the people
in whose interest and for whose advance-
ment he sought diligently.
	Pope Leo made friends by his kindly
manner, his courteous bearing; he im-
pressed all whom he met with his strong

[column 2]
personality, though he lived the simple 
life of an ascetic. His power for actual
work was most extraordinary and aston-
ished all who were aware of what he really
accomplished. He had wonderful diplo-
ma tic and administrative ability, and was
therefore admirably fitted for the high posi-
tion he occupied so many years.
	Pope Leo was born March 2, 1810, at
Carpineto. His name was Joachim Vin-
cent Raphael Lodovico Pecci, he was the
son of Count Domenico Lodovico Pecci and
of Anna Prosperco Boazi, she was the
daughter of a noble Valscian family living
in the ancient city of Cora, a woman of ex-
traordinary ability and strength of char-
acter. She belonged to the Third Order
of St. Francis, an association founded to
bring men and women closer to the Church.
He was fairly nurtured in the heart of the
Catholic faith and accustomed to listen to
the story of the life of St. Francis Assissi as
related by his mother.
	After receiving many honors, in his
thirty-third year Gregory XVI appointed
him apostolic nuncio or papal ambassador
to the kingdom of Belgium. He soon
found favor with King Leopold and it was
at this time that he showed such wonderful
shrewdness and tact, particularly in deal-
ing with secret societies that were under-
mining the faith of the people. In this he
had the assistance of Queen Louise Maria,
who was a devout Catholic.
	His later life is better known, he was a
marvel in many respects, even to his clos-
est associates.
	Such men leave the impress of their
greatness upon the age. Now thousands
crowd to do him honor, to gaze upon his
features, but life is transitory and the great
and noble must perish as well as the poor
and humble.
	Pope Leo’s spirit took its flight at 4:04
p. m., July 20, in the Vatican at the re-
nowned city of Rome, Italy. The news
soon spread to all parts of the world. Great
ceremony followed and prayers and masses
and chants and requiems will be kept up
until all the rights pertaining to the death
of the head of the Roman Catholic Church
have been observed. It is very splendid
and imposing, and will make a deep im-
pression upon the minds of the populace
who are more or less influenced by symbols
and colors and parade, but when one con-
trasts it with the death and lack of cere-
mony of the blessed Savior of the world
one cannot help but think, “All is vanity.”
	The dear old Pope is at rest, it will not
and cannot concern him, it is the new order
of things since the days of Christ and his
Apostles Pope Leo’s rest is sweet after
the battle he so valiantly fought. The
music of the churches is sweet to the peo-
ple who mourn for him, but the celestial
music that floats through the realms of para-
dise far surpasses human voices, and the
prayers and benedictions he hears not,
though they may comfort those who still
toil on the earth searching for wisdom and
for truth.

“Strong to the end, a man of nerve, from out the
	strife he passed;
The grandest hour of all his life, was that of earth 
the last." 
	So true are these grand words of our own
poet, Whittier.
	And so are these:

“Beyond the poet’s sweet dream lives,
The eternal epic of the man."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES' CLASS. 
The graduating exercises of the Relief
Society Nurses’ Class of seventy-five stu-
dents who have been receiving instructions
this year, were held in Barrett Hall of the
L. D. S. University, June 24, 1903, Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, the instructor, and
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, superintendent, in
charge. Certificates were handed to each
graduate and addresses were made by Dr.
Roberts, Mrs. Empey, President B. W.
Smith and President M. I. Horne and
several other ladies and gentlemen. It was
a most interesting occasion and very grati-
fying to the superintendent, the instructor
and to Mrs. Beatie, the secretary, who,
with the other two ladies, has been unre-
mitting in her exertions to bring about the
desired success.
In the evening a reception was given
the nurses at the residence of Bishop and
Mrs. Beatie to which the friends and
patrons of the nurses' class were invited.
Delicious refreshments were served by
the nurses, assisted by other young girls.
There was also music, and recitations by
Miss Babcock, and some other features to
give variety and pleasure to those assem-
bled in honor of the nurses, who with their
pretty white caps and aprons, flitting from
room to room, gave the affair a dainty
and picturesque appearance.
Of the guests of honor there, were the
General Relief Society President, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake, Emmeline
B. Wells, editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Sis-
ters Emma S. Woodruff, Lucy W. Kim-
ball, Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Edna L.
Smith, Maria V. Dougall, Catharine Layne,
Eliza K. Woolley, and Bishop N. A. Em-
pey, Elder B. H. Roberts, Elder W. B.
Dougall and Prof. J. W. Miller.
The evening was delightfully spent in
conversation and congratulations to the
graduates, who go from here to their
homes in the several Stakes of Zion into
the states and territories adjacent to begin
the practical work of nursing the sick and
ministering in this beautiful calling with
tender and loving care to the afflicted ones,
with the skill and gentleness they have
been taught, carrying the influence of this
beautiful mission into the homes of the
people wherever it may be their lot to min-
ister from time to time.
The EXPONENT wishes them God speed
in their labors and may they be a blessing
wherever they go, realizing how grand and
noble is the work to which they have been
called and set apart, and what it may mean
to them in their own development and to
the welfare and well-being of the Saints,
wherever this beautiful spirit may extend.


MRS. JENNINGS’ TEA PARTY.

	Mrs. Wm. Jennings, whose capabilities
as a hostess are known far and wide, gave
one of her unique afternoon “Teas” at
her new residence on the corner of Second
and B. Streets, in this city, on Friday, June
26, at 4 o’clock p. m. Fifty ladies were
invited and nearly all responded. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with
flowers, mostly roses and carnations, and
the tables with snowy linen, rare china,
silver and cut glass were elegant in appear-
ance, and the delicate flowers, charmingly
arranged, added to the delicious viands.
	Mrs. Jennings is an admirable entertainer


and has wonderful tact in making her
guests happy, and on this occasion each one
was presented with a pretty fan, a most
suitable gift for a summer day.
	At the tables small, and large, the ladies
were grouped together pleasantly, and
when all were seated a blessing was asked
upon the food, the home and the hostess by
one of the distinguished sisters, President
Bathsheba W. Smith. Sisters M. Isabella
Horne, Julina L. Smith, Sarah Jenne Can-
non, Lydia Ann Wells, Amelia F. Young,
Ellen Barton, Annie Taylor Hyde, Susan
E. Smith, Charlotte F. Richards, Eliza T.
Cannon, Susan P. Brooks, Sarah R. Smith,
Martha G. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall, Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Edna L. Smith, Lydia
D. Alder, Maria W. Wilcox, Agnes Swartz,
Ella W. Hyde, Martha T. Cannon,
Hannah C. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams,
Alice K. Smith, Sarah A. J. Cannon, Min-
nie J. Snow., Susan H. Wells, Mary T.
Smith, Marian Beatie, Ann E. Groesbeck,
Sophia Sharp, Phebe Y. Beatie, Myra Y.
Rossiter, Annie Dinwoodey, Rachel R.
Grant, Emma A. Empey, Sarah Din-
woodey, Lizzie Sharp, Eunice Foster,
Rachel Patrick and others, including the
writer. The sisters whose names appear are
nearly all workers in the Salt Lake Temple.
The music, both vocal and instrumental,
was very fine and greatly appreciated.
	Mrs. Jennings parties are always very
enjoyable and this one was no exception to
the general rule. A spirit of harmonious
sociability pervaded the gathering. As we
journey along through life we find that to
meet our friends even casually is a kind of
satisfaction, that we come to appreciate
greatly in this busy work-a-day world.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REUNION.

The Relief Society of Jordan Stake had
an interesting reunion in the meeting house
at Sandy, Tuesday, June 23, commencing
at 10 a. m. Exercises opened with singing
“We thank Thee, O God” Prayer was
offered by Elder Samuel Bateman. Sing-
ing, “Israel is calling.”
Address of welcome by President Mar-
inda Bateman, who had charge of the cele-
bration, assisted by other officers and com-
mittees. Sister Bateman’s address was a
hearty welcome to all present and a few
words of congratulation to her numerous
aids and helps in the Relief Society work;
she also appreciated the presence of Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and the sisters
who were with her from Salt Lake City.
Sister Ellen Turpin, West Jordan, gave
a recitation entitled, “Some Stern Facts
Worth Knowing.” Mary Nelson, of
Draper, recited “Don’t Go.” Remarks,
Counselor James Jenson. Recitation, Miss
Mary Smart, Union Ward. Song, Miss
Anna Hanson. Select reading, Sister Maria
Goff, “Religion.”
President Bathsheba W. Smith was
pleased with the invitation to be present on
such an auspicious occasion: it was rather
difficult for her to get away from the Tem-
ple to do much visiting in the Relief Soci-
ety. She complimented the Saints there on
having such a beautiful hall to meet in, and
spoke of having looked at the minute book
of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, after
Sister Larson had given the invitation, and
then told them of some of the beautiful
sayings of the Prophet Joseph; said she felt
Sister Eliza R. Snow had kept correct min-
utes. Sister Smith said many good things,
even though she spoke briefly, and she also
blessed the assembly.
Sister Crane, of Harriman, read a chap-
ter from Abram Kimball’s life, which was
a strong testimony of the truth of the Gos-
pel.
Sister Delilah Gardner read an excellent
essay, “Past and Present,” which we have
given in full in this paper.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Inter-
mission.

BANQUET.

[Column 2]
As many as could be seated in the large
hall below repaired thither and were seated,
about one hundred in all, President B. W.
Smith and President Marinda Bateman at
the head of the table where about fifty were
seated, all women, with two or three ex-
ceptions. The tables were profusely dec-
orated with flowers, mostly roses, the frag-
rance most delightful to lovers of beauty.
Every delicacy of the season adorned the
festive board. Elder Willard Snow pro-
nounced the blessing upon the sumptuous
repast. The tables were refilled again and
again until all assembled from all over Jor-
dan Stake had partaken of the bounteous
supply that had been provided by these
good sisters, who abound in works of love
and kindness.
President Bateman called the assembly
together and the program was continued,
first by singing “Let earth and heaven
agree.” Remarks upon Relief Society
work and testimony concerning Joseph the
Prophet, Sister E. B. Wells, after which
President B. W. Smith added other remarks
concerning the Prophet Joseph. Song, “I
am thinking of my mother," Sister Garridet.
Recitation, “Jamie,” Miss Mabel Butler.
Remarks on the great work of the sisters in
the Relief Society by Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde, she also read the missionary let-
ter prepared by President B. W. Smith for
the sisters who visit the Relief Society con-
ferences in the several Stakes of Zion. Song
by the Young Ladies from Butler. Mrs.
Sarah Wilson Harrison, of Sandy, recited
“Joseph Smith, the Prophet,” a poem pub-
lished long ago in the Millennial Star, very
good and suitable to entertainments of this
kind. Remarks, Elder Samuel Bateman,
very appropriate and interesting. Duet,
Young Ladies of Sandy. Remarks on
practical matters and suggestion pertaining
to Relief Society labors of timely interest,
by Sister Clarissa S. Williams, daughter of
President George A. Smith. Elder James
Jenson, select readings from Caudle Lec-
tures.
Altogether, the reunion was from the be-
ginning to the close replete with good
things, and should awaken a wider and
more definite interest in the work of this
grand benevolent organization of the women
of the Church. Already great things have
been done by the few, now is the time for
greater things by the many.


MOTHERS’ WORK.

ALBERTA STAKE OF ZION, WEST DISTRICT.

	Sentiment:—And God created man in His own
image, male and female created He them, and
said unto them, be fruitful and multiply and re-
plenish the earth. Gen. i: 28.

Lecture I.—Mother Know Thy Mission:

	Her environments and life to be in accord
with the desire to be spiritually, morally,


[Column 1]
mentally and physically prepared for this
holy mission of parentage.

	Sentiment:—Put on the whole armor of righteous-
ness, that we may be able to stand against the
wiles of the adversary, for we wrestle not against
flesh and blood, but against the powers of the
darkness of the world. Eph. vi: II.

Lecture II.—Motherhood:

	Must be studied from the highest stand-
ards for the development of her offspring,
that she may impart to it the grandest char-
acter possible.

	Sentiment:—The hand that rocks the cradle
rules the world.

Lecture III.—The Baby:

	What shall we do to have our babies
healthy, happy and develop with good
habits?

	Sentiment:—Example is better than precept.

Lecture 4. —Home:

	The child’s heaven if made so by the par-
ents bright and loving influence. Teach
and practice cleanliness, order, and a proper
regard for the rights of children.

	Sentiment:—Honor thy father and mother which
is the first commandment with promise.

Lecture V.—Obedience is Heaven’s First
	Law:

	Let this be the keynote, and love the
power to bring into the lives of our family
a reverence for parents Priesthood, and
sacred things.

	Sentiment:—A sound mind in a sound body.

Lecture VI.—Hygiene in the Home:

	Diet, dress, exercise and cleanliness.

Lecture VII.— Word of Wisdom:

	Its influence on parents and children.

	Sentiment:—As the twig is bent, so the tree in-
clines.

Lecture VIII.—The Transition of Nature:

	The bud must bloom—maidenhood.

Lecture IX.—Healthful Dress for Young.
	Girls:

	Fashions, how far to follow them.
Spiritual, physical and mental development.

Lecture X.— Value of Moments:

	How to use them.

Lecture XI.— The Necessity of Reading
	Proper Literature:

	Also of studying and understanding the
Gospel plan.

Lecture XII.—Review of Subjects:

	The influence and blessing of a good wife
and mother.

	Mary L. Woolf, Rhoda C. Hinman, Jane
Hinman, Lydia Brown, Elizabeth Ham-
mer, Sarah B. Daines, Committee.
	Zina Y. Card, Chairman.

		MORGAN STAKE.

First Lecture:

“God help us parents all to live aright,
	And may our homes all love and truth unfold,
Since life for us no loftier aim can hold
Than leading little children to the light.”

[Column 2]
	What kind of women should we be as
mothers in Israel?
	(a) Strong physically and mentally.
	(b) Example better than precept.
	Why?
	(c) Deportment to husband and chil-
	dren. Women must honor and obey
	their husbands, as the husbands’
	do their God and the Priesthood.
	Thus we teach by example the first
	law of heaven—obedience.

Second Lecture:

	A perfect woman nobly planned,
	To warn, to comfort and command.

	Home environments, and its influences.
Spiritual environment.
	(a) Each day should properly begin
	with prayer; peace, love and con-
	tentment come from within.
	(b) Temporal environments. Influence
	of order in the home. Cleanliness.
	(c) Economy of time and means.

“Count that day lost whose low descending sun,
Views from thy hand no worthy action done.”

Third Lecture:

	The preparation and responsibility of
motherhood.
	(a) The thoughts of the mother, her
	faith and daily life.
	(b) The wardrobe, the room and care
	for the infant.
	(c) The little one, its growth physic-
	ally, spiritually and intellectually.

	As the twig is bent, the tree’s inclined.

	Of all earth’s affections, pure undefiled,
Is the love and devotion of an innocent child.

Fourth Lecture:

	The rights of the child in the home. The
child a sacred trust or gift from God.
	(a) Exchange of confidence between
	mother and child.
	(b) Pay strict attention to proper
	questions and give suitable answers.
	Due respect for the child’s feelings.

	“Too much indulgence has spoiled many a child,
too much love not one.”

Fifth Lecture:

Child’s duty at home and abroad.
	(a) Why do children lie, steal, profane
	the name of Deity and use slang?
	(b) Methods of counteracting these
	evils.
	(c) Late hours, its effects. Evils of
	children on the streets or away from
	home at night. Respect for public
	property. Compare the cultivation of
	childhood to the cultivation of flow-
	ers; the neglect to the neglected
	flower bed.

Sixth Lecture:
	
Boyhood and maidenhood.
	(a) Special care now required in re-
	gard to dress and health.
	(b) Give special religious training in
	order that they may honor the Priest-
	hood
	(c) Assist them in selecting proper
	companions and books.
	(d) Courting and marriage in the
	Church so as not to be deprived of
	the blessings of the Gospel.

	The path of duty is the path of safety.

	Sarah L. Eddington, Annie Clark, Lav-
nia Stewart, Committee.

[Column 3]
	Lydia Rich, president, Martha Tonks,
Mary J. Welch, counselors. 
	Sarah J. Francis, chairman of com-
mittee.

		BENSON STAKE.

Lecture I.—Divinity of Womans Mission:
		(a) First command given to Adam
	and Eve Gen i: 28.
		(b) Woman as a helpmate Gen. ii:
	28; Juvenile Instructor. Vol. 38, No.
	12.
		(c) Woman divinely chosen to be a
	mother Gen. xvii: 15-20; I Nephi ii:
	14-21.
		(d) Mission of woman further ex-
	plained: 1. Joseph Smith’s instruc-
	tions at the organization of the Relief
	Soeiety. 2. Address to the Relief Soci-
	ety, April 3, 1903, by President Jos.
	F. Smith—WOMAN’S EXPONENT, Vol.
	31: 23-34

God bless woman, for to her has been given,
To people the earth with the roses of heaven. 

Lecture II.—Home:

		(a) What constitutes a home.
		(b) An ideal home. As a pattern,
	Doc and Cov. Sec. 109: 8, 9.

“Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam,
Be it ever so humble, there’s no place like home;
A charm from the sky seems to hallow us there, 
Which seek through the world, is ne’er met with
	elsewhere.”

Lecture III.—Arrangement of the Home:

		(a) Comfort:— Young Womans’ Jour-
	nal Vol. 13, Nos. 1, 2, 10, 11, 12.
		(b) Economy of money, time,
	strength—Young Woman’s Journal
	Vol 13.
		(c) Convenience—Young Woman’s
	Journal Vol. 13, No. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
		(d) Play room—Young Woman’s
	Journal Vol. 13, No. 12.

	The best conditions for securing an artistic home
are the combination of taste, good judgment, n-
genuity, with industry and little money.

Lecture IV.—Habits in the Home:

(a) Good.
		(a) Regularity of meals.
		(b) Regularity of rising and retir-
	ing, Doc. and Cov.
		(c) Order and neatness.
		(d) Word of Wisdom.
		(e) Proper language.
		(f) Courting: true, false.
		(g) Unselfishness.
(b) Bad.
	Form only good habits, that ye may have none
to reform.

Lecture V:

		(a) Respect to husbands Eph. v:
	22-25.
		(b) Respect to parents 5th com-
	mandment.

	As the wife respects the husband, so the child
respects the father.
	As Christ is the head of the Church, so man is
the head of the woman. 

VI.—Religious Devotion in the Home:

	(a) Time and place. 
	(b) Method of adopting.
	(c) Need of inspiration.


Sacred song invites the Holy Spirit. 
	Prayer invokes the blessings of God. 
	Knowledge obtained by hearing the word of 
God establishes faith in a child for Him and His 
works. 
	Faith once firmly rooted is not easily shaken. 
				—Extract, Francis M. Lyman. 

	PRESIDENT REBECCA C. RAWLINS,
	SECRETARY MARIA POND,
									Com.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY OF SISTER
			HOWE.

	Aside from the joyous festivities of the
wedding, there is perhaps no other social
gathering which gives more genuine pleas-
ure or greater satisfaction than the family
reunion, when the bride and groom of
former days are no longer peering into the
expected future of “What will be,” but are
gazing with pride on “What has been and
what is.”
	Such an occasion was the one arranged
by the children of Sister Julia C. Howe, on
the 17th of June last, in honor of the 80th
birthday of that estimable lady.
	The rooms were beautiful with their pro-
fusion of roses, whose fragrance pervaded
every nook. A delicious repast was served,
after which the company was grouped upon
the lawn to be photographed. Four gener-
ations were represented in the gathering
and it was the first time they had ever
been all together at one time.
	The evening was pleasantly spent in
social conversation by the elders, and games
by the young people. Many and hearty
were the good wishes expressed for the
guest of honor, whose life has been such a
beautiful example to all who know her.
					MAY BOOTH TALMAGE.


. LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular ladies meeting held in the
14th ward assembly rooms, Saturday, June
30, 1903, was well attended, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding. After the usual
exercises of singing, prayer and reading of
minutes, Counselor Stevenson addressed
the meeting. She believed in giving honor
where honor was due, referred to the many
good sentiments in the hymns we sing, said
she had recently visited San Luis Stake in
Colorado, the people there were greatly
blessed of the Lord and spoke of their grati-
tude they enjoyed reading the EXPONENT.
She urged the sisters not to follow after the
fashions of the world,but teach our children
to appreciate what they have and not find
fault; spoke feelingly of the terrible cala-
mities taking place nowadays in the world,
hoped the Saints might be spared.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas took pleasure
in hearing the testimonies of the sisters,
and spoke of the different opinions of peo-
ple regarding the Gospel, she felt it to be
the greatest riches we could have, and that
we should seek to have faith in God.
	Sisters Seamen, Read and Williamson
bore testimonies, also Sister Brown thought
we should improve our talents while here
and make a good record.
	Congregation sang “Who are these ar-
rayed in white.”
	Sister Jane C. Young said we ail come
here for a certain purpose, we should find
out what it is and do the work, it is not
good for the people of God to have much
riches, our children should not complain,
for the Lord is displeased with us if we do.


She urged the sisters to lay up grain, fo
she felt impressed it would be needed.
	Sisters Davis, Harvey, Gardner and
Jane James bore excellent testimonies.
	Sisters Fowler, Campbell and Nelson
felt to appreciate the blessings of the Gos-
pel, they had explained them to many
strangers.
	Sister Mary P. Silver urged all to trust
in the Lord and use the consecrated oil in
times of sickness and not put so much trust
in the doctors, but go to the Lord for help
at all times.
	Sister Hague said she had prayed to the
Lord to know the right way, and she was
at last converted by a Mormon missionary.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball spoke of the
Temple work, she and her brother and sis-
ter had officiated for ten thousand three
hundred and two persons, of their dead;
she urged all the young people to be mar-
ried in the Temple and receive their bless-
ing there. She quoted the sayings of
Peter, the Apostle,concerning the work for
the dead.
	Meeting adjourned with singing, and
benediction by Sister Frances Smith.
				AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


[column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
	BINGHAM STAKE.

	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of the Bingham Stake of
Zion, held at Lewisville, Idaho, on Satur-
day, May 9, 1903.
	There were present of the presidency:
Sister Emma J. Bennett, President Elvira
Steele, Counselors Anna Rockwood and
Elizabeth Brunt.
	Meeting at 10 a. m. Singing, “Redeem-
er of Israel.” Prayer by President Jas. E.
Steele. Singing, “Glorious things of thee
are spoken.”
	President Bennett in her opening re-
marks prayed that the Holy Spirit might be
with them during the meeting, and all have
an enjoyable time together.
	President Hannah Coles, of the Milo
Ward reported the society as being in har-
mony with their Bishop; owned their own
granary and lot, and were all united.
	The Grant Society was reported by Sister
Bramwell, who stated they, were united
with the Bishop and were all doing the
best that they could. President Margaret
Shippen reported the Eagle Rock Ward Re-
lief Society as having an excellent band of
sisters; believed all were trying to do their
duty.
	President Lucy Casper reported the Annis
Ward as having had considerable sickness,
so that they have not been able to do very
much, until now, when they had started
again.
	Iona was reported by President Mary
Herbert. Their society had lately been re-
organized on account of their president
having moved from the ward. Were in
very good condition.
	The Leadville ward was reported by
Counselor Gilchrist, who stated that they
had a very energetic band of sisters.
	President Margaret Clark reported the
Rudy Society, stating that they tried to help
the poor and sick as much as possible; had
loaned some of their grain, teachers were
all doing their duty.
	President Melissa Barrett stated that the
Willow Creek Ward had been faithfully
looking after their poor and sick and doing
the best they could.

[column 2]
	Rigby society was reported by Sister Cor-
don as being prosperous; teachers were
alive to their duty, owned their own lot
and granary.
	President Nelson reported the Howard
society as building a granary, sewing for
the poor and needy.
	Counselor Steele enjoyed her labors; en-
couraged all to do their duty, to attend
meetings, adding that by making a little
extra effort and exertion we could all do so.
Upheld Sister Bennett as an example, be-
ing a woman who had a large family, but
who nevertheless always attended to her
duties.
	Counselor Rockwood was pleased with
the reports given. Impressed upon the sis-
ters the necessity of holding their officers’
meetings; her labor was a source of joy to
her.
	Meeting closed by singing, “O, say what
is truth ?” Benediction by Brother Bybee.

	Afternoon session. After the usual open-
ing exercises, President Bennett spoke con-
cerning the keeping of proper records and
encouraged the secretaries in their labors,
advising them to be faithful and careful in
their records.
	The names of the general and local offic-
ers were then presented and unanimously
sustained.
	Sister Lucy Steers, aid to Stake Board,
reported the Blackfoot society as holding
their meetings as regular as possible all
were united.
	Menan Ward Relief Society was reported
by Sister Stevenson, who stated that their
society was free from debt, had good teach-
ers and a very good society.
	The yearly report of the society was
then read by Assistant Stake Secretary
Kate Bennett, and also the treasurer’s report
by Treasurer Alice Boomer.
	Sister Gilchrist then sang a solo, “O,
blest was the day.”
	Counselor E. Brunt was very sorry over
the fact that they were to lose Sister Ben-
nett as president of the Stake Relief Soci-
ety. She had known her now for many
years and had learned to love her and her
labors in the Stake. Eulogized the benefits
that she had brought to the society, and the
efforts that she had expended in the up-
building of it. Hoped that all would sus-
tain those who would be called to succeed
her. Exhorted the mothers to educate
themselves so that they could properly train
their children. Reminded all to listen to
the counsel given to them from time to
time.
	Sister Julia Dabell, aid to Stake Board,
bore testimony to the worth of the labors of
their president, and regretted to learn that
she would have to leave the society.
	President James E. Steele explained that
owing to the fact that Sister Bennett had re-
moved with her husband and family back
to Utah, it was their painful duty to release
her from her office here. Stated that it
was a source of regret to him to see Sister
Bennett leaving, as she had been an untir-
ing and faithful worker in the society.
Enlogized her zeal and constant attention,
and stated that she had been able to accom-
plish wonders; her duties to the society had
always been paramount with her, and be-
lieved that she left a society that was equal
to any in the whole of Zion, and he was
proud of its standing. Praised the unceas-
ing energy of the sisters, adding that they
accomplished what they set out to do.
	Sister Bennett said she felt full of sorrow,


[column 1]
not over the fact that she was to be
released from her position, but because of
having to part with the sisters, all of whom
she had learned to love, and not know-
ing when she should have the pleasure of
meeting them again. Said she had rejoiced
exceedingly in the work and was grateful
for having had the pleasure of laboring in
the society here in this Stake. Gave a brief
report of what the society had accomplished
during the past eight years, which spoke
splendidly for the efforts of the sisters. En-
couraged all to do their duty, to live near
to the Heavenly Father and earnestly asked
all to faithfully asssist her successors so
that they might be able to do the utmost
possible for the work of the Lord. Asked
for the faith and prayers of all in her behalf.
	A vote was then taken and carried that
the society would present from their Stake
fund $20.00 to the building fund of the
Ricks Academy. Sister Bennett then, in
behalf of the officers and members of the
Bingham Stake Relief Society, presented to
President Steele $20 00 to this fund.
	President Bybee stated that he had known
President Bennett for many years, nearly
eight, and had nothing but good to say of
her; that she had always been at her post.
Said it was a mission of this country to ad-
minister peace to the world, and that it was
the mission of the Latter-day Saints to
spread the truth. Said that Sister Bennett
in leaving had the good wishes of the entire
Stake. Hoped that some good sister
would be selected to take the place vacated
by Sister Bennett. Encouraged all to live
righteously, to assist the poor and the sick.
	The name of Sister Elvira Steele was
suggested for the office of Stake President
of the Bingham Stake Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Stanger regretted
the fact that they were losing such an ener-
getic worker as the present president had
been, but he hoped that her good acts
and deeds would always be remembered.
	Stake President Steele spoke concerning
the Academy, and asked all of their support.
Asked all to be liberal and broad-minded
and not forget that they were God’s chil-
dren and were dependent upon His mercy
for their existence.
	Sister Steele said she hoped that she
would be able to fill the office. 
	Sister Bennett thought a wise selection
had been made in calling Sister Steele to
the office that she had vacated. She was
sure the sisters would give Sister Steele their
support.
	Sister Bennett was then honorably re-
leased from the duties of Stake president of
the Bingham Relief Society and given the
hearty thanks of the Latter-day Saints of
this Stake for her earnest efforts and labors
in its behalf.
	Sister Steele was unanimously elected to
the position vacated by Sister Bennett, and
was set apart for that office, Brother Bybee
being mouth. After the close of the meet-
ing Sister Annie Rockwood was set apart

[column 2]
as first counselor to Sister Steele, and Sister
Elizabeth Brunt as second counselor, by
Brothers Steele and Stanger, respectively.
	Sister Cordon, of Rigby, felt impressed
to say a few words in behalf of the Acad-
emy. Said nothing was to be compared
with the education of a Latter-day
Saint, and that to her the true education of
her children was uppermost. Mentioned
that the Rigby Society had held an enter-
tainment, and had cleared $35.00 for the
fund.
	Meeting closed by singing “How firm a
foundation.” Benediction by Brother Don
Walker. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	JENSINE JOHANNESEN, Sec.

	NEBO STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Tabernacle, Sister Lylus C. Page presiding.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer
was offered by Bishop Loveless of Payson
1st ward. Singing.
	The roll was then called. Minutes of
morning session of last annual conference
were read.
	Sister Page was pleased to greet so many
this morning. Welcomed all to our con-
ference, gave a report of the labors of the
Stake officers. The statistical and financial
report was read.
	Sister L. D. Alder was very glad to
meet the brethren and sisters It had been
a great many years since she was there.
She was pleased to hear the reports and
said. “Sister Smith sent her love to you
all, although she could not be present. She
feels the heavy burden placed upon her and
needs the faith and prayers of the sisters to
build up and strengthen her in her labors.”
	A song was rendered by Miss Holt, of
Spanish Fork, “The Song My Mother
Sang.”
	Sister Wilcox said she was here as a mis-
sionary in the Relief Society, had been a
member for many years. Spoke of the
teachers, what a noble work they have to
perform. The sisters should have the
spirit of the Relief Society work at heart.
Spoke of the organization of the Church,
and of the Relief Society, it is the grandest
organization for women. Motherhood is
the noblest aim a woman can have. Heart-
ily wished that Sisters Smith and Wells
could have been here with us today, so that
we could have heard them speak. Sister
Smith is the only one living who belonged
to the first Relief Society. Felt the very
best when she was keeping the command-
ments of the Lord. This is a blessed work.
	Sister Page said we would have an offic-
ers’ meeting after this meeting; invited all
to stay to lunch.
	Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Pickering.
	The officers’ meeting was held at one
o’clock. The sisters gave us all some very
good instructions.
	Afternoon session was called to order by

[column 3]
Sister Page. Singing, “How firm a found-
ation.” Prayer was offered by Sister Eliza-
beth Wall.
	Singing, “Jesus once of humble birth.”
Minutes of afternoon session of annual con-
ference were read.
	Sister Wilcox said that if the sisters
would pray for the presiding officers it
would greatly benefit them and help them
to bear the responsibilities placed upon
them. Spoke of prayer and the benefit of
it. Related an incident of a little girl
having her prayer answered. The wise
mother is the one who teaches her child to
love and respect things. Teach the chil-
dren to be kind to animals. It is a blessed
thing when girls and boys can be taught
pure things at home. Influences are not
always of the best nature. Children who
are taught to be truthful will be very apt to
grow up pure and truthful. Prayed that
the mothers in Israel would have power to
control their children.
	Sister Alder then thanked the sisters for
the kind treatment they had received and
wished them all good bye, as they had to
leave on the afternoon train. Hoped to see
them again.
	An essay on “Child Culture” was given
by Sister May Markham of Spanish Fork.
	A song was rendered by Emma Worsen-
croft, of Payson 1st ward.
	Brother Elsworth said he felt that we had
a good spirit, had enjoyed the meeting very
much. Wished every father and mother
in the Stake could have been at these meet-
ings and have heard the instructions. Our
children have been given too much liberty,
we should have something for them to do.
	Recitation by Sister Lucy Dixon, of
Payson 2nd ward.
	General and Stake officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.
Conference was then adjourned until Sep-
tember 18, at Salem. Singing, “The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning.” Benediction
by Stake Counselor Eliza Dixon.
	HATTIE WRIDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.  TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of

Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel. 2002.



Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-	
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also childrenwho are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name,subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier,
Nos.1-3- Main Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 32
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1903
No. 3


CONTENTS.
Mary A. Burnham Freeze.......Lillie T. Freeze	17
Mothers’ Work................................................	18
A Voice from Richfield.....Hannah M. Ogden	18
Peace Meetings.....Alice Smith Merrill Horne	19
Lecture Given in Cannon Ward...L. G. Davey	19
History of the Relief Society.........E. B. Wells	21
A Pleasant Surprise,................................Com.	21
R. S. Reports...................................................	22
Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting......A Wardrop	24
EDITORIAL—The Day in Which We Live....	20
	Annual Meeting D. R...............................	20
	Editorial Notes.........................................	21
POETRY—The Relief Society.........E. R. S. S	17
	Love............................................Selected	19


THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

It is an institution formed to bless
The poor, the widow and the fatherless;
To clothe the naked and the hungry feed,
And in the holy paths of virtue lead.

To seek where anguish, grief and sorrow are,
And light the torch ot hope eternal there;
To prove the strength of consolation’s art
By breathing comfort to the mourning heart.

To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where
Sad mis’ry dwells, and wake up pleasure there,
With open heart to extend the friendly hand;
To hail the stranger from a distant land.

To stamp a with’ring impress on each move
That virtue’s noble self would disapprove;
To put the tattler’s coinage scandal down.
And make corruption feel its scathing frown.

To give instruction where instruction’s voice
Will guide the feet and make the soul rejoice,
To turn the wayward from their recklessness,
And aid them in the path of happiness.

It is an order fitted and designed
To cultivate and elevate the mind;
To seek the needy in their lone abode
Supply their wants and lead them up to God.
							E. R. S .S.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT, July 1, 1872.


[column 1]
	MARY A. BURNHAM FREEZE.

	Among the Latter-day Saints are many
remarkable women—not famous for genius
nor distinguished for that exquisite culture
and polish that is the result of generations
of classical education and the discipline in
graceful ease that wealth and leisure afford,
but many are remarkable for their inheri-
tance of noble characteristics and virtues
bequeathed to them from long lines of
honorable and distinguished ancestors and
they have demonstrated the possession of
heroic courage and firmness, irrepressible
energy, trusting faith and religious fervor,
while blending with, softening and beauti-
fying all, is native refinement, purity and
simplicity that makes womanhood lovely.
	Among this type Mary A. Freeze holds
an honored place, her lineage is traced back
to the year 1200, and the Burnham family
have a record of the same. They descended
from the Normans and the family was at
one time very renowned and wealthy.
Among them are Doctors of Law, Doctors
of Divinity and literary people one of whom
writes of  “the service of gold, their equip-
ages and household appointments and of
the grandeur brought with them from their

[column 2]
ancient and noble halls of England.” They
have traced their genealogy to the nobility
of England and prove an inheritance of
royal blood. Three brothers came to
America at an early date, one settling in
Vermont and two in Massachusetts. Their
descendants took part in the Revolutionary
War, also the war of 1812, and several of
them were officers in the late Civil War in
America. Major John Burnham was a
member of the Continental Army formed on
the banks of the Hudson River. George
Washington was the first president and
Major Burnham had his certificate of
membership with Washington’s autograph
suspended upon the wall of his home in
Derry, N. H.
	Coming down to more recent date, we
find that James Lewis Burnham, of Ver-
mont, was minister of a church called Chris-
tians, but after hearing the principles of the
Gospel explained by an Elder of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he was
convinced that he had no authority to
preach until he was babtized by immersion,
received the Holy Ghost by the laying on
of hands and was ordained to the priest-
hood as were the Apostles in ancient days.
He married Mary A. Huntly, of his own
state, and after they had accepted the reli-
gion both were convinced was right, moved
to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1843. Three sons were
born, and Mr. Burnham contracted a
cold while preaching in the open air, and
in 1845, four days previous to the birth of
their daughter Mary, (the subject of this
sketch) he died of hemorrhage of the lungs.
What a trying period for the young widow,
left alone in a destitute condition with no
relatives near to render assistance! But
the Saints with whom she had cast her lot
for the Gospel’s sake were true friends in
the hour of need and she preferred to remain
with them in the depths of poverty, to re-
turning to her relatives in the East who
proffered her every assistance if she would
return to them.
	In February, 1846, the famous exodus of
the Saints from Nauvoo began, and this
frail widow with four little children took
up her toilsome march across the plains.
Truly,

	“Man for holy conscience sake,
	Many sacrifices makes.”

	After six years of delays, dissappoint-
ments and untold hardship and suffering,
she reached Salt Lake City, already a bright
oasis in the great American desert. She
soon moved to Richmond, Cache County,
where Mary, despite all her disadvantages,
had grown to a stately and charming bru-
nette, with a wealth of undeveloped char-
acter. A veritable rough diamond, which
James P. Freeze, a new convert to the
Church from Philadelphia, was not slow to
recognize, and at the age of seventeen Mary
became his wife.
	In 1863 they removed to Salt Lake City.
Possessing native intelligence, a generous
soul and well defined characteristics of a
religious and social order Mrs. Freeze
was soon chosen as a leader among her sex.
Her own sad experience with poverty and

[column 3]
her keen sympathy with the suffering and
unfortunate, made her a valuable member
of the Relief Society in whose interests she
has ever faithfully labored.
	For over twenty-five years Mrs. Freeze
has been a presiding officer in the Mutual
Improvement Association of Zion and for
nearly twenty years has presided over the
branches of that association in Salt Lake
Stake (County) with a membership of three
thousand young women. Though frail in
body her labors have been arduous and un-
ceasing, with undaunted energy and perse-
verance she has most cheerfully battled
against obstacles and willingly sacrificing
the personal ease and comfort which be-
came hers at marriage, in the interest of
those whose spiritual, mental and moral
development was entrusted to her care. She
has traveled extensively in the state in the
interest of the Relief Society in connection
with her Mutual Improvement work and
the constant presence of the dear, faithful
mother, over eighty years of age, in her
home, has made all this zealous public
labor possible. From both lines of parent-
age, Mrs. Freeze inherits strong religious
and intellectual tendencies, a most amiable
disposition is one of nature’s best gifts to
her, she has a cheerful magnetic presence
her own great faith inspires others, her un-
bounded hope encourages and her sweet
charity draws all hearts toward her. As a
public speaker sound in doctrine, earnest
and enthusiastic in expression. While her
persuasive attitude wins souls to the cause
so dear to her own heart. As an evidence
of the loving respect in which she is held by
her colaborers a surprise testimonial was ten-
dered her in June, 1894, by the officers of
all the associations over which she presides.
In decribing this unprecedented event, the
Young Woman's Journal says:

	Long before the hour of commencing the hall
was ablaze with electric light, while the floral dec-
orations and bunting were of the most elaborate
description. Amid sweet strains of music Mrs.
Freeze entered the crowded hall, and when seated
on the platform she was treated to a veritable
shower of flowers and a hearty round of applause
from the audience, who had risen to their feet en
masse. Many of the most prominent men and
women in the Church had met to do her honor and
Joseph F. Smith, a nephew of the great Latter-
day Prophet, and one of the First Presidency of
the Church, uttered the following very liberal senti-
ment: “It is really necessary that we should
have public-spirited, active women to labor in the
cause of women, as well as to have public-spirited
active men to labor in the general interests of the
people at large   I feel and have felt for a long
time to honor and respect Sister Freeze, as also
the labors of Sister E. S. Taylor and her associates
in the Mutual Improvement work throughout the
territory of Utah. Their labors have resulted in a
great deal of good, and there is yet a great deal to
be accomplished by them. Therefore it is very
pleasing to me to see this demonstration of affec-
tion on the part of the sisters, to Sister Freeze 
while she is yet with them.
	I believe in that principle, in that sentiment of
paying respect and showing honor to those to
whom honor and respect is due while they yet live,
and therefore I heartily respond in my feelings
and approve of the very pleasing and overwhelm-
ing demonstration manifested tonight. Surely she
has reason to feel grateful and yet humble before
the Lord for this mark of respect—profound re-
spect. I can only say to Sister Freeze that there 
is no greater or more noble work to which old or


young women upon the earth can devote them-
selves than that work which has engaged, for so
many years, her care and attention.

	The subject of this sketch is the mother
of nine children, six of whom are living
firm in the faith of the Gospel, which their
mother has so carefully instilled into their
hearts. And her intense love of music and
gift of sweet voice are inherent in her chil-
dren.
	That she possesses literary ability is told in
many sweet poems of faith and love which,
amid all her busy cares have occasionally
slipped into the publication of some of our
best literature, but as an entertaining cor-
respondent among family and friends her
talents shine with the brightest lustre.
	Such lives of unselfish devotion, such un-
tiring energy, such trusting and unbounded
faith in God, such examples of purity and
noble thinking and still nobler living are
a mighty force in the regeneration of the
world making the approach of the Millen-
nium possible.

LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHER'S WORK.

BANNOCK STAKE.

Lecture I.—How Mothers Should Care for
	Themselves During Maternity, and how to
	Prepare Themselves for Confinement:

		(a) Proper clothing. Sanitary condi-
	tions. Evils of the corset.
		(b) Diet, etc.
		(c) Condition of the mind Proper
	books to read

Lecture II.—Care of Infants From Birth
	Until After Teething:

		(a) Proper clothing; benefits of
	woolen clothing.
		(b) Proper feeding and evil effects
	of patent medicines and drugs.
		(c) Care of children during teething.

Lecture III.—Care of Young Girls While
	Coming into Womanhood:

		(a) Benefits of pure air and exercise.
		(b) Evils of fashionable dressing.
		(c) Evils of keeping late hours and
	being deprived of proper amount of
	sleep.

Lecture IV.— When Shall Our Daughters
	Marry:

		(a) Proper age.
		(b) A wife’s duty.
		(c) Evils of race suicide.
		(d) Necessity of prayer.

Lecture V. —Necessity of Unity in the
	Family:

		(a) Confidence between parents.
		(b) Gaining the confidence of the
	children.
		(c) Leading exemplary lives in the
	home.
		(d) Necessity of teaching the chil-
	dren the Word of Wisdom.

Lecture IV.—Self-Culture for Mothers:

		(a) Choice of good literature.
		(b) Proper language and patience.
		(c) How to entertain our children at
	home. 
		(d) Music in the home.

	Committee on program: Sisters Rosa B.

[Column 2]
Knowles, Amy Tune, L. S. P.            ah
Gibbs.

MARY ROBERTSON, Cor. Sec.


SEVIER STAKE.

Lecture I.—Object of Existence:

		(a) To benefit humanity and to gain
	eternal life.
		(b) Love an attribute of God, im-
	planted in the human race for a holy
	purpose.
		(c) Marriage a divine covenant for
	the propogation of the race. "Be fruit-
	ful, multiply and replenish the earth."

Lecture II.—Parenthood:
(a) Prenatal influences. Our duty
	to God to produce the best of our kind.
	The right of the child to be well born.
		(b) Unity, love, chastity and loyalty
	should be the binding links to mortal 
	parenthood.
		(c) Seek knowledge from all good
	sources, truth, wisdom and the Holy
	Spirit as a gift from God. "Seek first
	the kingdom of heaven and its right-
	eousness and all else shall be added
	thereunto." False ideas of the mar-
	riage vow and its consequences.

Lecture III.—Motherhood:
(a) Motherhood a sacred duty of a
	wife, her duty to prepare herself with
	knowledge best suited to the develop-
	ment of the child and comfort of the
	home. Be able to direct and control her
	own powers and be an example in all
	virtues and conduct. Should have
	some medical knowledge. Ever seek
	to be cheerful in the discharge of her
	duties.

Lecture IV.—Infancy:
(a) The forming of proper habits
	should begin at the cradle.
		(b) Best methods of bathing.
		(c) Best food and feeding, sleep,
	clothing, cleanliness, and encourage
	simplicity in dress.
		(d) Remedies for infants' ailments.

Lecture V.—Childhood:
(a) Physical development, to walk,
	sit, stand and cultivate a pleasant
	voice; respect for house of worship; re
	spectful conduct towards all public
	teachers, whether religious or not; teach
	to pray; teach the Gospel by example;
	to speak no evil or speak lightly of
	those who teach, or God's anointed.

Lecture VI.—Childhood (continued):

		Moral development: Restrain all evil
	tendencies; bad conduct; impure
	speech; disrespect to aged parents or
	associates; respect others' rights and be
	subject to all lawful or social demands.

Lecture VII.—Childhood continued):
Chastity: In speech, in act exert a
	strong home influence; sacredness of 
	the body, keep it pure for the Spirit of
	God to dwell in; think no evil; moth-
	ers be extremely watchful and seek at
	all times to have the confidence of the
	child. Teach the child the sacred laws
	of life before he gains evil knowledge
	from evil minds.

[Column 3]
Lecture VIII.--Childhood (continued):

		Social home life: Respect to par-
	ents and other members of the family;
	to hired help; company; be orderly;
	wait on self, not infringe on rights of
	others; polite at table; kindness and
	unselfishness; obey quickly; converse
	on intellectual subjects, events, etc;
	never indulge in making sport of
	others' weaknesses or misfortunes.

Lecture IX.—Childhood (continued):

		Social public life: Politeness on the
	street and at all public places; a social
	duty not to be boisterous or rude; ap-
	ply the golden rule; at gatherings
	of any kind should be quiet, attentive
	and respectful during all exercises; at
	dances or socials should be lively but
	not boisterous. genteel and courteous
	in all acts; "To be happy make others
	happy;" speak no evil of associates;
	be confidential and frank but not a
	tattler; children's parties or socials
	should not be held late at night. (Ref.
	Doc. and Cov.)

Lecture X.—Childhood (continued) :
Social public life (continued): Seek 
	good companions; be honest as friends;
	not being envious or deceitful; let chil-
	dren have associates; social duty to be
	clean of speech, person and clothing;
	habits of good dressing, not gaudy or
	extravagant, but clean and neat; dress
	for the occasion, for work or play;
	punctuality in performing every pub-
	lic duty; all young people should be
	chaperoned at evening gatherings;

Lecture XI.— Childoood (continued):

		Government: Mutual occupation of
	parents; control self; govern by love;
	administering of punishment, when 
	and how; children's rights in the home
	to recreation, when studying or per-
	forming a duty; parental authority
	should not be greater than parental
	love.       H. M. JONES, Ch. Com.


A VOICE FROM RICHFIELD.
Dear Editor:
It is not often anything is heard through
your interesting columns of our Relief
Society in Richfield, therefore we thought
we would tell something of our doings on the
61st anniversary of the organization of the
Relief Sociely.
On the 17th of March, 1903, the members
of our association met at their hall at two
o’clock, where a very interesting program,
commemorative of the day, was carried out,
after which delicious refreshments were
served by the committee in charge. A
dancing party at the Star Pavilion, which
was a social as well as a financial success,
closed the day’s program.
Our Relief Society is ably managed by
our president, Sister Agnes B. Thurber and
her aids, they are zealous workers and en-
joy the confidence of the sisters in general.
Ever desiring the success of the Relief
Society throughout the world and the suc-
cess of the Exponent in particular.
Very Truly,
Hannah M. Ogden, Sec.


Miss Ida M. Tritt has been elected
treasurer of the New York and Queens
County Street Railway.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVE.

Love stooped to one that captive lay,
	Fettered and prone, and broke the bars;
And led him to the dawn of day,
	The morning stars.

Love found upon the battle edge
A coward fleeing from the strife;
And sent him forth, his heart in pledge,
	Valiant, through life.

Love touched dumb lips that could not pray,
	And lo, they uttered prayer and song;
Love hath so subtle sweet a way,
	Love is so strong.

That, come he with an angel face,
	Or come he with a flaming sword,
Where’er he makes his dwelling place;
	All heaven is poured.

SELECTED.


[Column 1]
PEACE MEETINGS.
 [Copy of the report sent to the chairman of the
National Peace Committee for the U. S., Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.]

Report of Peace Demonstrations held
under the auspices of the N. W. R. S. and
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the year 1903, May
18:
Number of meetings. 138.
Number of speakers and persons taking part on
programs, 827.
Number present, 15, 374.
Resolutions adopted.
Tone of meeting, enthusiastic for peace and
arbitration.
 Response of ministry earnest and helpful.
Respectfully submitted by,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE,
Chairman Peace Committee for N. W. R. S.
CHRISTINE SMOOT TAYLOR,
Chairman Peace Committee for Y. L M. N. I. A.
Salt Lake City, August, 1903.

Mrs. Horne’s letter to Mrs. Sewall:
I have the honor to report the Peace Demon-
strations for the year 1903, held, (in accordance
is with your instruction as chairman ot the National
Peace Committee) by the National Woman’s Re-
lief Society, in cooperation with the National
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association.
We have delayed sending this report, as our
organizations are so widely scattered and the more
societies last year were not heard from until after
the reports were made to you. We are pleased to
note an increase over last year’s peace meetings
in number and attendance and possibly in enthu-
siasm. The demonstration extended throughout
Utah, Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Wyom-
ing, New Mexico, Montana, and Oregon in the
United States, while there were some in Canada,
and a few in Old Mexico.
Mrs. Christine Smoot Taylor and myself ap-
pointed as a state committee, or rather as an ex-
ecutive committee for 1903, the presidents of
Stakes of the organizations which we represent.
To them is very largely due the success of this
year’s work. The societies over which these sis- ters preside are, in most cases, widely scattered
and to meet each, even once a year, necessitates
from the Stake president hundreds of miles of
travel by team, often over bad roads; but unflinch-
ing courage and determination to perform the
duties of the office characterize these noble women.
No wonder, then, that the presidents of the
societies responded so willingly to the call of their
superior officers and we are pleased that even in
isolated hamlets peace meetings have been held
and regularly reported to us.
An interesting fact in connection with these
sparsely settled districts is that every person pres-
ent takes part in the program. One report says:
‘The families are widely scattered but all turned
out to the Peace Meeting. Number of speakers in
favor of peace, ten; number in attendance, eigh-
teen.”
I wish you had the time to look over some of our
letters which I send under another cover, that you
might glean an idea of the enthusiasm of the local
committees, as well as the peace assemblages.
Perhaps a third in attendance were men and
they took part on the programs in about that pro-
portion.
A very prominent feature ef our programs is
good music. We have urged this with the thought
that nothing seems to bring our audiences so com-
pletely in harmony as does fine music. Many re-

[Column 2]
ports show the presence of brass bands, glee clubs,
choruses, quartettes and the best vocalists our
mountains afford (which we are thankful are not
few) while often whole audiences have joined in
singing a hymn—America seeming to have been
the favorite.
On the 18th of May the peace colors were quite
in evidence, and our own sego lily, symbol of
peace and purity, was gathered from the moun-
tains and formed part of the decorations.
The ministry, and officers and teachers of Sab-
bath Schools have responded generously to the
call made upon them to introduce into their dis-
courses and lessons the spiritual side of the peace
and arbitration question.
Our orators and statesmen, soldiers and lawyers
have responded generously to invitations to ad-
dress audiences. The press has opened it’s columns
to us and the people have shown an interest, in the
movement by attending the peace meetings. Some
choice bits of poetry have been written for the oc-
casion and we cannot but feel that the whole
movement has been to us educative and inspiring
all along the line, and that it is particularly in
unison with the mission of our Relief Society
work; for our duty is to nurse and heal the sick
administer a balm to the broken-hearted and in-
jured; to bless and comfort and cheer, and to re-
lieve distress; to lay out the dead and to do all
good works that are in our power to perform, one
especial call being to educate mothers in proper
knowledge of the requirements for growth and
development of their offspring, physically, ment-
ally and spiritually, therefore our hope is in har-
mony and our prayer for peace as it has ever been.
The aged but active president of our National
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, (who is the
only living charter member of this, the oldest or-
ganization of women) wrote in her journal while
crossing the plains with ox-teams, the following:
‘‘Aug. 21, 1849. About four o’clock this morn-
ing William Babbit arrived in camp with the mail
from the valley (Salt Lake City). We were highly
pleased to get good news  *    *    *   In the after-
noon he (William Babbit) addressed us on the sub-
ject of “Organizing a State in the Mountains,
Where the Saints May Live in Peace Under the
Laws and Constitution of the United States.”
This note may be interesting to you, as it has
never before been published or given in public.
Please find enclosed report for 1903.
Very sincerely yours,
ALICE SMITH MERRILL HORNE.
Chairman Peace Commitee for N. W.  R.


[Column 1]
LECTURE GIVEN IN CANNON WARD.

Lecture III.—The Latter-day Saint Mother
and Child. A Life in Harmony with the
Gospel is the Perfect Example.

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benev-
olent, virtuous and in doing good to all men.

Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long upon the land that the Lord thy God
giveth thee.

In our two last previous lectures we have
had laid before us the beginning of mother-
hood and thoughts upon the early care and
training of the child, now in our third lec-
ture we approach a time when the greatest
possible care must be observed by the par-
ent, for other associations and surround-
ings besides the home must be considered,
and we as parents, to a great extent, are
responsible for the actions of our children.
Parents have a wonderful work to perform,
especially Latter-day Saint parents in try-
ing to rear their children in the proper way,
to teach them the fear of the Lord and the
love of the Gospel, and remembering al-
ways that “Example is better than pre-
cept.” The children of those parents who
try to live a life in harmony with the Gos-
pel are generally prayerful, humble and
obedient. Our beloved poetess, Eliza R.
Snow, said, “It is no trifling thing to be a
Saint in very deed, to stand upright, nor
bow, nor bend beneath the heavy pressure
of oppressiveness.” If we desire our chil-
dren to become true Latter-day Saints we
must first set them the example, and guard

[Column 2]
against doing anything ourselves which we
would not have them do. In keeping the
Word of Wisdom, revering the Sabbath,
attending our prayers and meetings, paying
our tithes and fast offerings and generally
obeying the laws of the Gospel, we set an
example worthy for our children to follow;
and in the neglect of these laws ourselves
we give them the excuse that they have
seen their parents negligent, and never fully
realized the necessity of being so strict.
It is in the little every-day occurrences in
the home where the parent and the child
mingle confidentially and socially that there
is the greatest need of care both in our
actions and our words. If we wish our
children to be truthful and honest we
should be truthful ahd honest ourselves,
especially with them and never let them
find us lacking in our promises. Children
do not easily forget when a parent fails to
keep a promise and sometimes the faith in
the mother or father which before was per-
fect may be shatt[--]ed by a broken promise.
The article of faith given us by the
Prophet Joseph says: “We believe in being
honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous
and in doing good to all men,” and just so
sure as we practice in our own lives those
attributes can we hope with confidence to
see our children follow in our footsteps
and lead a goodly life; but there are stumb-
ling blocks and falterings in life’s pathway
and we cannot hope to attain the goal of
perfection without much strife and labor,
but we can study ourselves the true princi-
ples of the Gospel that we can teach them
intelligently to our children. The promise
given by our Father in the fifth command-
ment, “Honor thy father and thy mother
that thy days may be long in the land
which the Lord thy God giveth thee,” is a
promise of beauty, for who does not cherish
life and enjoy the beauties and delights of
the world, and if we would have our chil-
dren obedient to us we must be obedient
not only to our earthly parents, but to our
Father in heaven.
It is indeed a pleasure to see an obedi-
ent child and no doubt all mothers
strive to teach obedience, but some are
more successful than others, probably be-
cause nature has given them more patience,
but we can all strive to inspire our children
with a love for obedience, virtue, honesty
and truth, by prayer and faith, and by giv-
ing them not only the best example we
know how, but an unfaltering and perfect
love to brighten and to cheer, to help and
to guide them on life’s way, remembering,

“Life is only bright when it proceedeth
Towards a truer, deeper life above,
Human life is sweetest when it leadeth
To a more divine and perfect love."

LIZZIE G. DAVEY.


Miss Caroline L. Greisham, a clerk in
the Civil Service Bureau, has been detailed,
as a result of recent disclosures of violation
of the Civil Service regulations, to make a
tour of inspection among the large post-
offices of the country and to act as a sort of
“postmaster’s adviser.” Her principal
duty will be to interpret the Civil Service
regulations to the officials and point out
any oversights or neglect to enforce them.
Miss Greisham has before her a mission of
considerable delicacy, but she is a woman
of tact who will try to preserve amenity
and avoid needless conflict.


20
WOMAN'S EXPONENT


Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE D. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1903.


[Column 1]
THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE.
	Most people will agree with the writer
this is a momentous age, and that there is
is much to be accomplished in so short a
time, and so many events transpiring that
bring with them work and responsibility,
that one is almost dazed by the accumula-
tion of what must be accomplished in a
given time.
	No wonder the phrase “a strenuous life”
has become proverbial. But after all is it
worth while ? One cannot help thinking it
is positively wrong, yet we rush on just the
same; it is the tendency of the age, and we
drift into these ways of rushing and hurry-
ing. We partake of the spirit of our sur-
roundings perhaps; there are so many cur-
rents of electricity brought into exercise to
promote and propel this and that enterprise
and undertaking that men and women,
it may be unawares, are trying to keep pace
with the elements around them. More
work can be done by machinery run by
electricity, and yet there seems to be no
leisure for the workers, after all; however
there is more work to be done, the luxur-
ous ways of living and of dressing create
work, and then there are more people, and
there are various reasons why there is more
work than formerly.
	We look back to the more primitive way
of living and wonder how we did so much
work, and yet taking hold of the matter
seriously we do more work now as a whole
than we did then, even if we do talk about
the spinning, weaving and dyeing, the sew-
ing and darning that have all gone out of
fashion now, save perhaps the darning,
when we buy mostly ready-made clothing,
and what sewing is done machinery helps us
to do quickly.
	Can any body tell us what use is made of
our time? We ourselves are busy, all our
friends are busy, even the doctors and law-
yers are hurried, and we are all, more or
less, in the habit of saying, we have no time
to visit. Will some wise acre answer these 
questions? We even let those we love drift
away from us, because we do not have time
to sympathize with them in their affairs, and
know how they feel and ho w it fares with
them in this workaday world.
	Is there a way to economize time and
make our lives more desirable, both to our-
selves and others ?
	By the bye, it is not only women who
have this feeling that they are not doing all
they ought, but men complain that they
have scarcely time to become familiar with

[Column 2]
their own families and none for their neigh-
bors.
	As Latter-day Saints we really do more
than almost any other people, at any rate
we are apt to think so, and in some re-
spects we certainly do. We give time to
the public in a general way certainly, and
some read and study a great deal; formerly
women read comparatively little, and as for
study it was only the simplest rudiments,
nowadays homes are filled with reading
matter and every family has newspapers
and so far so good, and the people as a
whole are more intelligent than heretofore.
Women especially, to say nothing of men,
who certainly have more bachelor degrees
(and there are also more bachelors) and
also several other kinds of degrees, as well
as numerous titles. Women have taken up
various kinds of work not known in the
past history of the world, and then Latter-
day Saint women have Temple work extra
from all other women. This is a beautiful
work and one that is uplifting in its nature
and tendency and very satisfying. It could
scarcely be otherwise. It is a delightful
thought that our sisters in the Church can
go to the Temple dedicated to the Lord and
officiate there for the living and the dead
and find such joy and consolation as no one
can know who has not been in these holy
places.
	It is to be ardently desired that the spirit
of unrest or hurry, or whatever it is that is
prevalent now, may not plunge people into
a very serious state of ill manners, or lack
of good fellowship,which would certainly be
lamentable, but that in course of time the
folly of being so regardless of common civil-
ity may cause the majority, at least, to re-
turn to the old method of greeting one’s
friends and neighbors, and that the tele-
phone fashion of saying “Hallo” will go
out of fashion with cultured people and
that young girls and young men will be
more “proper” and ceremonious to each
other than to accost each other as they do
nowadays with a loud “hallo” when they
happen to meet on the street, or even in
what they term “polite society.”
	A little more consideration for another’s
feelings, and perchance even a little more
regard for etiquette (that some people pre-
tend to despise) might give more genuine
pleasure than so much familiarity in man-
ner and freedom in speech.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
	The annual meeting of the Utah State
Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held on Wednesday, June 10, 1903, at 3 p.
m., in the society headquarters, Templeton
Building, in this city.  The room was
draped in the society colors—blue and
buff—and their handsome new flag dis-
played conspicuously for the occasion.
Yellow roses, also red and white, and car-
nations, etc. in abundance gave a festive
appearance to the place of meeting. Regent,
Mrs. Julia M. Farnsworth in the chair.
	After prayer, reports were given by the
several retiring officers and then followed
the election of officers for the ensuing year:
Regent, Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney Sears;
first vice-regent, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie;
second vice-regent, Mrs. Myra Y. Rossiter;
secretary, Miss Catharine Wells; assistant
secretary, Miss Mabelle Snow; correspond-
ing secretary, Miss Florence Scholes;
treasurer, Mrs. Carlie Y. Cannon; registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall; historian, Mrs. E.


B. Wells; chaplain, Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth.
	At a special meeting held July 3, for the
transaction of important business on account
of the demise of the treasurer, Mrs. Eliza-
beth R. Wright was appointed to fill the
vacancy caused by the sudden death of Mrs.
Caroline Y. Cannon, and the society ex-
pressed their great sorrow at her loss in fit-
ting terms and decided to send a floral em-
blem and to attend the funeral services in a
body.
	The first regular meeting of the society 
after the summer vacation will be held on
Wednesday, September 16, at the residence
of the regent, Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney
Sears, at Thorndike, East Waterloo, at 3 p.
m., the usual hour, and it is desired that
there be a full attendance of officers and
members.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The pen sketch of Sister Mary A. Freeze
given in this number of the woman’s paper
was written about seven years ago; and
since that time Sister Freeze has done much
public service. She has been released
from presiding over the Young Ladies’
Associations in Salt Lake Stake and is a
member of the General Board of the Y. L.
M. I. A., and travels extensively in the
several stakes of Zion. She is a pleasing
and interesting speaker and is a great
favorite, not only as a speaker, but as a
friend. Her mother is still living at the
ripe age of eighty-eight years.
	The stakes of Zion which have had
official visits from the General Board of the
Relief Society since April, are as follows:
Granite, President Bathsheba W. Smith and
Counselor Annie T. Hyde. San Luis, Sisters
Susan Grant and E. J. Stevenson. Uintah,
Sister Emma S. Woodruff. Emery, Couns-
elor Annie T. Hyde and Sister Mary T.
Smith. Box Elder, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Carrie S. Thomas. Malad, Sis-
ters Clarissa S. Williams and Hattie B.
Harker. Panguitch, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and Sister Lydia D. Alder. Salt Lake,
President B. W. Smith and Counselor
A. T. Hyde. Oneida, Sisters E, J. Steven-
son and M. A. Caine. Cassia, Sisters M.
A. Caine and L. L. G. Richards. Pocatello,
Sisters Susan Grant and M. A. Caine. Utah,
President B. W. Smith, Counselor Ida
Smoot Dusenberry and Sister E. B. Wells.
Nebo, Sisters Elizabeth S. Wilcox and
Lydia D. Alder. Sevier, Sisters Phebe Y.
Beatie and Alice M. Horne. South Sanpete,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sis-
ter Rebecca E. Little. North Sanpete, the
same sisters. Alpine, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and Sister Carrie S. Thomas. Juab,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sis-
ter M. A. Caine. Jordan, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp and L. D. Alder. Bear Lake, Sisters
E. J. Stevenson, L. D. Alder. Star Valley,
same sisters. Bannock, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Sister Emma S. Woodruff. Fre-
mont, the same sisters. Woodruff, Sisters
E. B. Wells and H. B. Harker. Benson,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister
Carrie S. Thomas. Davis, President B. W.
Smith and Counselor Annie T. Hyde. San
Juan, Sister E. B. Wells. Cache, Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards and Sister S. J. Can-
non. Hyrum, the same sisters. Alberta,
Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry and Sister
Rebecca E. Little. Wayne, Sister Margaret
A. Caine. Bingham, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp


and Sister Lydia D. Alder. Wasatch,
Sisters Sarah J. Cannon and Hattie B.
Harker. Summit, the same sisters. Mill-
ard, Sisters E. B. Wells and L. D. Alder.
Union, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Sis-
ter Emma S. Woodruff. Teton and Big
Horn, the same sisters; Snowflake, Sisters
Clarissa S. Williams and Priscilla Smith.
St. Johns, the same sisters. St. George
and Kanab, Annie W. Cannon. Stakes not
yet visited or the appointments made are:
Beaver, Parowan, Tooele, Weber, Morgan,
St. Joseph, Maricopa, Juarez, and Josepa
Colony.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.
NAUVOO, ILL, Thursday, March 24, 1842.

	[A paragraph ftom the history of Joseph
Smith.]
	“I attended by request the Relief Society
whose object is the relief of the poor, the
destitute, the widow and the orphan, and
for the exercise of all benevolent purposes.
Mrs. Emma Smith has taken the presiden-
tial chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
and Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland are her
counselors; Mrs Elvira Cole is treasurer.
and our well-known and talented poetess.
Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was
a very numerous attendance at the organ-
ization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable
ladies; and we are well assured from a
knowledge of those pure principles of bene-
volence that flow spontaneously from their
humane and philanthropic bosoms, that
with the resources they will have at com-
mand, they will fly to the relief of the
stranger, they will pour in oil and wine to
the wounded heart of the distressed; they
will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow’s heart to rejoice. Our
ladies have always been signalized for their
acts of benevolence and kindness; but the
cruel usage they have received from the
barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto pre-
vented their extending the hand of charity
in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst
of their persecutions, when the bread has
been torn from their helpless offspring by
their cruel oppressors, they have always
been ready to open their doors to the weary
traveler, to divide their scanty pittance with
the hungry, and from their robbed and im-
poverished wardrobe, to divide with the
more needy and destitute; and now that
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess
facilities that they have not heretofore en-
joyed, we will feel convinced that with
their concentrated efforts, the condition of
the suffering poor, of the stranger and the
fatherless will be ameliorated. We had
the privilege of being present at their or-
ganization and were much pleased with
their “modus operandi,” and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly par-
liamentary in their proceedings.”

	Resuming the history of this society, its
first permanent organizations here in the 
valley, we can only mention a few whose
record has been kept and who have for-
warded reports to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
during the first year of its establishment as

[Column 2]
a repository for doings of women. The first
mention made is of a small society in Ogden,
Amelia M. Frodsham secretary. In the
same paper, June 1, 1872, there was a brief
report from the South Ward of Provo of a
a meeting at which President A. O. Smoot
and Bishop Follett were both present and
made remarks; Sister R. A. Holden, Presi-
dent and Lucy W. Kimball, secretary. In
No. 3 of the paper there is a report from
the Sixteenth Ward, Salt Lake City, at
which Elder Joseph F. Smith made an ex-
cellent speech, also Sister Zina D [---]ung
and others. The secretary, Siste Presendia
L. Kimball stated that during the four
years since the society had been organized
cash receipts, merchandise and produce had
amounted to $729.65, of which $201.86 had
been disbuised for charity, leaving $527.79
in the treasury; of this one item was $50
which was donated to assist the emigrants.
We know without reference to books that
the Fourteenth Ward in Salt Lake City
was one of the first permanent organizations
and that Sister M. Isabella Horne was
president and Sister Elmina S. Taylor was
secretary. In the Fifteenth Ward Sister
Sarah M. Kimball was president and Sister
Susan M Moore, secretary. In the First
Ward of this city, Sister Miriam G. Chase
was president, and in the Second Ward,
Sister Nicolena Olson, president. In the
Thirteenth Ward Sister Rachel R. Grant
president and Elizabeth H. Goddard secre-
tary. Seventeenth Ward, Sister Marinda
N. Hyde president and Lydia D. Alder
secretary.
	We are aware that the twenty wards in
Salt Lake City were permanently organized
and in working order during the years 1867
and 1868, also in several parts of Salt Lake
county, in Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Cache,
Bear Lake, Summit, Wasatch, Utah, Juab,
Sanpete, Sevier, Millard and other counties;
perhaps every county in Utah and some
outside during these early years. However
it must be understood that there still existed
what with all propriety might be termed
a central board of the original society as or-
ganized in Nauvoo; all the officers were
here and could be referred to except the
president, Sister Emma Smith. Eliza R.
Snow held the records and the original
book which is now in the possession of the
General President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith.
	It would be impossible were we in pos-
session of the facts, to give a sketch of each
society in detail, but we would say now in
passing that the receipts and disbursements
given here of the Sixteenth Ward are in all
probability about the same as of the society
in other wards. Meetings were held usu-
ally semi-monthly, one of these each month
being a working meeting, and in those days
the sisters often carded wool aud spun yarn
and knit socks, especially was this the case
in country districts,considerable means was
raised in this way, home made socks sold
well to mountaineers, cattlemen, sheepmen,
etc. Quilts and rag carpets were always
on hand and could generally be disposed of
to good advantage, those were among the
staple articles made by the sisters, but a
great variety of other things were done to
raise money for charitable purposes.
	In the centennial year, 1876, when the
great celebration was held in Philadelphia,
the Relief Society as a whole undertook
to make a showing of its work and products.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was appointed for Utah
to make an exhibit of woman’s work and

[Column 3]
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells secretary, with a
full committee of ladies. The women of
the Territory in all the several counties
worked with a will to raise means and to
prepare such exhibits as would be creditable
and acceptable to the general committee at
headquarters.
	Failing to obtain space in the Centennial
Exhibit in Philadelphia for all the articles
prepared by the women of Utah, a
Woman’s Fair was opened in the old Con-
stitution Building in Salt Lake City, of
which Sister Eliza R. Snow was president
and Louisa A. Ashby Secretary.
	This gave an opportunity to the women
of Utah to display the articles made for the
Centennial, and especially the home-made
silk, which was quite a novelty.
	Hundreds of people going and returning
from the Centennial in Philadelphia visited
Salt Lake City and the Woman’s Fair, and
many articles were disposed of advan-
tageously.
	From this fair grew the Woman’s Co-op
Store, of which Miss E. R. Snow was
manager several years. The fair and the
store were outgrowths of the Relief Society,
as was also the Deseret Silk Association.
The Silk Association was organized June
15, 1875, Sister Zina D. H. Young presi-
dent. Sister Zina had been an earnest
worker for sericulture from its first incep-
tion in Utah. One who knows cannot help
saying that she did more for the silk indus-
try the first few years than any other single
person. The Relief Society throughout
this mountain region in its various branches
took shares in the silk industry to establish
it and it was an adjunct to the society, prop-
erly speaking; the sisters encouraged it in
every possible way; they also maintained
in a small way several other industries of a
practical character; straw-braiding was one
of the employments which was fostered
and encouraged in the society, hats and
bonnets of home-cured straw were popular
and young girls were taught to braid
in the working meetings of the society.


A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
	The officers and members, of the two
branches of the Relief Society of the West
Weber Ward joined in a surprise given to
President Frances B. Dance on her seven-
tieth birthday. So Tuesday, May 26, the
sisters and a few brethren met at the ward
meeting house, prepared and set tables with
the bounties and luxuries of life, then
awaited her coming, it being the regular
meeting day of the society. As she opened
the door the congregation sang “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” She was
then escorted to her seat at the table. There
were between seventy and eighty persons
who partook of the bounteous feast spread
before them. After all were satisfied, the
tables were cleared and the meeting com-
menced.
	After the usual opening exercises, Sister
Sarah J. Wilson read an original poem in
honor of President Frances B. Dance. Her
counselor, Sister Alvard, in behalf of the
sisters of the West Weber Society, presented
her with a token ot respect, and Sister S. J.
Wilson in behalf of the members of the
Taylor Relief Society, gave her a present to
show the love and esteem in which she is
held by all the people of the ward. Ever
since she left her native land, England, she
has made her home in West Weber, about


thirty years. She has been faithful in at-
tending to all the duties required of her.
	The program rendered consisted of songs
and short speeches, given by the brethren
and sisters, all wishing her many happy
returns of the day, each one felt that the
time had been well spent in showing her
that her labors were appreciated. This
happy event dosed by all singing the Dox-
ology, and benediction was pronounced by
Sarah J. Wilson.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R.S. REPORTS.
			UTAH STAKE. 
	A very interesting conference of the Utah
Stake Relief Society was held in the Stake
Tabernacle, Provo, Friday, July 10, 1903,
President Mary John presiding.
	There were present besides the Stake
Presidency, aids and representatives of var-
ious branches, General President Bathsheba
W. Smith, her counselor, Ida Smoot Dusen-
berry, and General Secretary Emmeline B.
Wells, from Salt Lake City.
	These sisters gave some excellent instruc-
tions and very able addresses on Relief
Society work. Encouraging reports were
given of ten branches of the Relief Society
in the Stake, and remarks by the two
young ladies who have completed the
nurses’ course at Salt Lake City.
	At one o’clock a delicious dinner was
served in the old Tabernacle to the visiting
ladies.
	The Spirit of the Lord was enjoyed dur-
ing both. sessions, and all returned home
feeling encouraged and benefitted. Had it
been known such distinguished visitors
would be present the attendance would un-
doubtedly have been more than double.
		MABEL WARNER, Sec pro tem.

			BANNOCK STAKE.
	Our Relief Society conference was held
at Soda Springs, July 20, 1903.
	Present on the stand was President Mary
A. Call and Counselor Rosie B. Knowles of
the Stake Presidency.
	It was an afternoon session and was con-
vened at two p. m. There was a little mis-
understanding about it, as we did not ex-
pect to hold our conference till a few days
later; but President Joseph F. Smith and
several brethren from Salt Lake being in
attendance at quarterly conference, Presi-
dent Louis S. Pond kindly gave us the
afternoon, so we held conference then.
	We had a good attendance, all the presi-
dents being there to report except two.
	President Jos. F. Smith gave good in-
struction and offered some timely advice
which if followed out would make us better
women.
	President Lewis S. Pond gave a few en-
couraging words.
	Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Annie T.
Hyde, from Salt Lake, were the principal
speakers and gave us much good counsel
and advice, the subjects being especially for
the Mothers’ Work, teaching the young
mothers the true responsibility of mother-
hood. Truly it was a time of rejoicing
which we know well how to appreciate.
		HANNAH HATCH, Stake Sec.

			DAVIS STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Davis
Stake was held at Farmington, July 30,
1903.
	Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Annie

[Column 2]
T. Hyde were in attendance, also President
John W. Hess and his counselors, J. H.
Grant and Jos S. Clark, the Stake officers
of the Relief Society, Brother Jacob Miller
Bishop Muir and others of the brethren.
The twelve branches of the society were
represented by their presidents, except two.
	During the forenoon session of conference
Presidents Susan Grant, J. W. Hess, Bath-
sheba W. Smith and seven of the local
presidents addressed the meeting. The
Spirit of the Lord was there in rich abun-
dance. At the close of the forenoon meet-
ing it was announced that dinner would be
served in the vestry.
	July 25th being Sister Susan Grant’s
seventy-first birthday, the officers of the
Relief Society in Davis Stake desired to
show at this conference their appreciation
of the labors of the devoted little woman
who presides over them.
	Counselor Jane Holt made the presenta-
tion speech and Counselor Mary S. Clark
placed lovingly around the neck of Presi-
dent Susan Grant a handsome fur.
	Sister Grant thanked the sisters feelingly
and with emotion for the honor bestowed.
	One hundred and seventy-four partook of
the bounteous repast which had been pro-
vided by the Relief Society of Farmington,
which was ample. The tables looked love-
ly with their fruit, flowers, etc and the
waiters were some of our most beautiful
young ladies, officers of the Mutual and
Primary Associations of Farmington.
	The afternoon session began at 2:30 p.
m. After the opening exercises and re-
ports by the presidents, Sisters Annie T.
Hyde, Bathsheba W. Smith and Susan
Grant addressed the congregation, speaking
words of wisdom and inspiration.
	Brother J. H. Grant expressed his great
appreciation of the honor and esteem shown
his “little mother,” as he lovingly calls
her.
	It was a day long to be remembered.
The feeling of brotherly and sisterly love
was very apparent.
		M. E. KNOWLTON, Sec.

		ST. JOHN’S STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of St.
John’s Stake of Zion was held in the Acad-
emy building at St. John’s, Arizona, May
22, 1903.
	On the stand were Apostle M. F. Cowley
Elder Kelsch, the Stake presidency, Stake
officers of the Relief Society and other lead-
ing sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises the
business, minutes, annual reports, etc.,
verbal reports from four branches in the
Stake were given. Reports showed the
average below that desired. In some
places it was due to carelessness, in others
on account of scattered condition, though the
sisters feel well in the Gospel.
	President E. L. S. Udall said: “Since
our last conference we have visited all the
branches of the Relief Society in the Stake,
which took about three weeks time. We
found the sisters in the various settlements
attending to their duties and the average
attendance in the small settlements is great-
er than in the larger ones. We know the
sisters are accomplishing a good work and
the Lord will bless them for it. We sent
one of our sisters to Utah to take a course
in nursing and hope much good will result
from it.”
	President David K. Udall suggested that
the sisters extend an invitation to the breth

[Column 3]
ren to attend the Relief Society conference
if they desire to have them present. “I at-
tended a conference of the Relief Society in
Salt Lake City in April and made some
notes of it. It was stated there that wheat
can be kept eight years without changing.
President Smith said to the sisters ‘Be good
wives and mothers.’ Sisters, improve your
opportunities and if you will I promise you
that you will be blessed with the Spirit of
the Lord.”
	Song sung by Margaret Jarvis, Ethel
Farr and Mary E. B. Farr, with guitar ac-
companiment.
	Elder Kelsch said: “The Relief Society
work is a great one. I have heard this is a
good place to raise beans. If you could not
store grain you could store beans, and you
would not have to change them. We have
been told famine would come aud we do not
know when, so we ought to be prepared for
it. We have been warned of the judgments
of the Lord which will come. We should
have the Spirit of the Lord with us and
have it in our lamps when the Savior
comes, not be asleep spiritually, but be pre-
pared to meet Him at His coming.”
	An instrumental piece was rendered by
Sister Anna L. Anderson.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley was the last speak-
er, he said in substance: “We have been
taken good care of since we came here,
especially by the sisters. I expect to make
a report of you, brethren and sisters, when
go back to Salt Lake City, and it will
be a good report. I have felt well since I
came and felt at home. The sisters are a
great factor in building up this country and
the Lord will bless you for it, and your
salvation is sure providing you endure to
the end. This organization is not to get
you out of place, but to get you in place,
that you may be better wives and mothers
and enable you to work together better as
sisters; to work for the benefit of mankind,
to minister to the sick and perform other
labors in that capacity. I’d like to ask the
brethren to do all in their power to get the
sisters to their Relief Society meetings, so
that when I come again there will be a bet-
ter average attendance. It is a good thing
to have a good wife. The sisters have
their part to play as well as the men. There
are some women who do not stand by their
husbands, who do not do their duties as
wives. Since the coming of the Prophet
Elijah to the Kirtland Temple, the people
of the world have been writing genealogies.
They have been keeping genealogical rec-
ords, but they do not know why. The
Spirit of the Lord moved them they could
not rest day nor night till it was accom-
plished. By this means we have been able
to get the names of our ancestors to work
for in the Temple.
	“The teaching of a mother should be
such that it will remain with the children
through life that no matter what tempta-
tion comes in their pathway, the teachings
of that mother will remain with them and
keep them from sin.” Related the circum-
stance of a man who had all the temptations
of a life of vice placed before him, but when-
ever he was about to yield, the image of his
mother came before him and kept him from
yielding. “Brethren and sisters, if you
ever get into the Celestial Kingdom of our
God and are brought before the judgment
seat of God, and there it is known that you
have a son or daughter in outer darkness
through any neglect of yours, you will not
be permitted to stay there. Mothers, you


[Column 1]
will be responsible for what you teach
your children. I say unto the sisters, if
you will unite your faith, the curse will be
removed from this land, and this land will
be blessed for your good. God bless you.
Amen.”
	Congregation sang “Praise to the man.”
Benediction by Elder E. N. Freeman.
		MARY E. B. FARR, Stake Sec.

			GRANITE STAKE. 
	The 12th quarterly conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Granite Stake of Zion was
held in the Forest Dale meetinghouse, May
12th, 1903. Meeting was called to order at
10 o’clock by Counselor Mary P. Young.
Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great
Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Patrina Jen-
sen. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Present on the stand were the
following named presidents: Sugar, Sarah
B. Gibson; Wilford, Eliza White; Farmers,
Sarah Turnbow; Forest Dale, Patrina Jen-
sen; East Mill Creek, Ann Eliza Neff; Big
Cottonwood, Emily Stevenson; South Cot-
tonwood, Sister Labram; Hunter, Char-
lotte Nielson; Grant, Sister Bird; Murray,
Sister Brown; Taylorsville, Elizabeth Pix-
ton; also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Counselor Annie T. Hyde, of the Gen-
eral Board, Mary A. B. Freeze, Margaret
Roberts and Margaret P. Young as visitors,
also President Frank Y. Taylor, of the
Granite Stake.
	Assistant Secretary M. B. Winder then
called the role; minutes of last conference
read and approved.
	Mary P. Young then made a few open-
ing remarks and welcomed the sisters on
behalf of President Emma S. Woodruff,
who was away on duty.
	We then listened to a number of the
presidents make their reports and gave very
interesting accounts of their relief work,
particularly of the good the missionaries
are doing. The work of the teachers and
the sisters who are called to labor in the
Temple, it being the aim and object of the
president, Sister Emma Woodruff, to
have two sisters from each ward sent
under the direction of the Relief Society to
the Temple to work for the dead, and they
are to give their time free of charge for
three months and then others are sent in
their stead, most of the branches of the
wards have done this and hope all will con-
form to this request in the very near future.
	President Sarah A. Thurber reported
that their society had kept two sisters in
the Temple almost continuously since it had
been opened.
	President Eliza B. Neff said if we had a
desire to do good many opportunities would
be presented. That they had an increase of
twenty members in their society.
	President Pixton thought our main ob-
ject was the relief of the poor, the destitute,
the widow and orphan.
	A ladies trio from Forest Dale then sang
a selection.
	President Petrina Jensen, President
Stevenson, President Brown, Counselor
Brockbank, Sister Moody, of Arizona, and
Aid Elizabeth C. Taylor, all gave short
talks and very timely instructions on the
storing of wheat in the days of prosperity,
doing all we can towards the erection of
our new Stake house; also said that we are
to be judged by the books, therefore we
should have our names enrolled in all three
associations.
	Singing, “Glory to God,” after which

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Brother Dunster.
Then all repaired to the Old Farm House,
where the tables were spread with the
bounties of the earth for all present. Din-
ner was prepared by the sisters of Forest
Dale
	Afternoon session. Meeting was called
to order. Singing, “High on the moun-
tain tops.” Prayer, Sister Mary A. Freeze.
Singing, after which President F. Y. Tay-
lor addressed the sisters for a short time in
relation to their duties. He felt to honor
good men and women; that we should seek
to save souls and be willing to work and
carry our part of life’s burden; to be hum-
ble and meek and prayerful; that it was
our duty to bind up the broken hearts
and comfort those who are sad.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said we
should set a good example, speak kind
words and teach children correct principles
in their youth, and be sure and teach them
to pray for the authorities, that they would
be more apt to honor them when they grew
up.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde then read some
instructions for the missionaries when they
travel among their associates. The Relief
Society sisters are to be as ministering
angels. We are to keep the Sabbath day
Holy, attend to family prayers as well as
secret. Should be obedient to those placed
over us, as we expect our children to be
obedient to us.
	A duett was then sung by Sister Maria
B. Winder and Miss Lottie Owen.
	Sister Maggie Roberts: “The Relief Soci-
ety is the grandest organization on earth for
women, the young mothers should join
themselves with the Relief Society. I
know what happiness it is, because I have
tried to be useful.” Spoke of the infidelity
that is growing up among our young peo-
ple, that they do not have the faith of their
parents. Spoke of the necessity of keeping
the Word of Wisdom, and should live very
near our Heavenly Father.
	Closing remarks by Counselor M. P.
Young, and meeting adjourned for three
months.
	Singing, and prayer by Sister Brinton.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Salt Lake
Stake convened June 6, 1903, in the Assem-
bly Hall, President M. I. Horne presiding,
Counselors S. J. Cannon and C. C. Cannon,
and Julia C. Howe M. W. Wilcox and M.
C. Hull, of the Stake Board, being present.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Sister Maria W. Wil-
cox. Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Minutes of March conference read and ac-
cepted.
	President Horne said she wished to urge
the sisters who have been called to this work,
to appreciate the privilege of doing
ing this very important work, felt every
branch should be represented at the confer-
ences. Spoke of the best books: Brother
Maeser’s book, “Home and Fireside,”
Juvenile, Instructor. WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
Era and Young Woman’s Journal are par-
ticularly recommended.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon: “We can usual-
ly be present at our meetings if we make
an effort. Parents who are Latter-day
Saints make the best wives and mothers.
Said do not try to be too flowery in these
lectures that are given, but let them be

[Column 3]
given in humilty that daughters may be
prepared for wives and mothers and leaders
among their sex. Spoke of preparing our-
selves for the trials we have to meet each
day.
	Sister C. C. Cannon felt we had talented
women in our wards. Always feared she
could not rear her children in the world, as
they were not born in Zion. Spoke of the
sin and temptation around us and the neces-
sity of constant care.
	Sister Hull was going on a little journey
of pleasure and expected to do a little mis-
sionary work, sang “Only Remembered.”
	Sister J. C. Howe felt we were ignorant
of the purposes of God in placing us here.
Spoke of the promises to the children of Israel
in keeping the commandments and the fatal
results if they do not. Felt these auxliary
organizations are helps that all may be edu-
cated in the Gospel. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer and the importance of teach-
ing and training the children.
	Sister Wilcox said. “Let us be remem-
bered by what we have done, let us order
our lives.”
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, Doxology.
Benediction, Sister E. Webb.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock by
congregation singing “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Prayer by Sister Lucy
W. Kimball. A quartette from the Temple
choir then sang. Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and accep-
ted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson exhorted all to be
honest, true to each other and their God,
cultivate union in the home, try to be better
women, teach our children. Spoke of the
need of cleanliness and of family prayer.
Felt if we had kept the Word of Wisdom
there would not be the sickness there is to-
day. Felt it was grand to have so much
parent study, hoped hygiene would be 
taught in our Relief Society everywhere.
	President B. W. Smith spoke of Temple
work.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read from the
Bible. “You have done these things,
sisters, and will receive of these blessings,
blessed is he who is faithful unto the end.
Christ said ‘Follow me,’ if we can do these
things eternal life is ours. Think no evil,
everything is accomplished by love, be gen-
tle and kind to our children, never turn a
child away.”
	Singing by a quartette from the Temple
choir.
	Sister Lucy Kimball spoke of the changed
ordinances and broken covenants of some
of the different churches. She had dedi-
cated her life to the work of God; was com-
forted that we can have the blessings we
earn, and no one can take away the bless-
ings we do earn. Spoke of the power in
prayer and the love the Prophet Joseph
Smith had for it, also the regularity in
which President Heber C. Kimball engaged
in it.
	Sister Elizabeth Webb felt thankful for
the society work. Let us have charity and
love, wished more young mothers belonged
to the society, also spoke of Temple work
	The revelation to Emma Smith was read
and some remarks were made upon it.
	President Horne said, “There is much
talk on the theory of raising children, but
put them into practice, be careful in fault-
finding, etc., the Spirit of God never stays
with us if we complain.”
	Adjourned for three months. Singing,


[Column 1]
Doxology. Benediction, Sister M. W. Wil-
cox.
JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the
St. Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, in
the Academy chapel, June 5, 1903, with
Stake Aid Mary K. Taylor in charge. After
singing, and prayer by President Andrew
Kimball, the minutes of previous confer-
ence were read and adopted. Roll call
showed an attendance of two Stake and ten
ward officers. President Elizabeth Layton,
Secretary Salina Phillips and Aid Eliza
Walker were excused on account of sick-
ness.
	Aid Mary K. Taylor felt her inability in
conducting a Stake conference. Missed Sis-
ter Layton and counselors.
	The reports of the respective presidents of
the different wards showed that they were
holding meetings regularly, with an in-
crease in the average attendance. Most of
the societies have commenced the Mother’s
Work. Some of them by the advise of the
presiding brethren of their wards sold their
wheat in the spring when prospects were
good for a bountiful harvest, but before the
grain had matured a bug came and de-
stroyed much of it. The consequence is
they have the cash for their wheat on hand
awaiting an opportunity to buy again.
	President Andrew Kimball did not feel
to excuse the sisters for their non-attend-
ance this morning, except those who are
detained on account of sickness. "Presi-
dent Johnson and I met with Sister Layton
this morning and completed the organiza-
tion which has been so broken up through
death and the removal to other localities of
some of the officers. Sister Layton was
very desirous of attending the conference
but it was impossible for her to do so."
	President W. D. Johnson: "I was one
of the Stake presidency when the Stake
organization of this society was effected in
June, 1883. Have attended, with one ex-
ception, every Relief Society conference in
the Stake ever since that date." Explained
that the Stake presidency advised Sister
Layton to choose for her counselors and
secretary sisters residing in the same ward
with herself. He then proceeded to pre-
sent the the names of the new officers which
were as follows: Olive Kimball as first and
Salina Phillips second counselors; Fanny
Kimball secretary, with Samantha Folley
assistant; and Josephine Cluff treasurer;
Emma Coleman, aid. All were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister Taylor thought we had an excel-
lent organization The Relief Society is a
it great help to the priesthood. Was pleased
with the reports from the different wards.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m,. Singing,
"Prayer is the soups sincere desire." Bene-
diction by Patriarch John Taylor.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., as per
adjournment. Singing, "Redeemer of
Israel." Prayer, President C. M. Layton.
Singing, "O ye mountains high.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Jennie Cluff, late of Guatemala,
was pleased to be with the sisters in con-
ference. Had a delightful trip. The eye
can scarcely conceive of Central America as
a tropical climate. The people are very
kind, pleasant and hard working. Where
ever we go, whether among the rich or
poor, we can do good if we are so inclined.
	Patriarch John Taylor thought the sisters
were doing a good work and we should feel
proud of them. Always took pleasure in
meeting with the Relief Society sisters,
	Laura Nuttall, Stake president of the Y.
L. M. I. A., was deeply interested in Relief
Society work. Was pleased with the re-
ports, but thought if we had a greater desire
to do our duty in every particular, there
would be a better report. Should sustain
our presidents and be as willing to accept
their instructions as they are to give them
Our children do not always have the proper
example set before them by their parents.
Mothers, teach your daughters that there is
no greater honor than becoming a wife
and mother. Ask the Lord to help us to
understand our duties and perform the
same.
	Sister Coleman was very much interested
in all the auxiliary organizations. Com-
pared our conditions with those of ancient
Israel in our waywardness and neglecting
o[-]r duties.
	President Andrew Kimball was much in-
terested in the report of the Mothers’ work.
Fathers be considerate of mothers.
thus teaching your children by example the
lesson of kindness and self-sacrifice. Heads
of families see to it that you have at least a
year’s provisions on hand. The prophecy
of Heber C. Kimball that a barrel of flour
would be worth a barrel of gold has not yet
come to pass, but [-]ould as surely as it was
uttered. God grant that we may be pre-
pared for these emergencies.
	President C. M. Layton endorsed the in-
structions of the meeting. Ours is an every-
day religion. We are trying to be good.
Be charitable, do not find fault with each
other, especially those in authority. We
are abundantly blessed, have no hardships
compared with the people of the world.
Encouraged parents to take better care of
their children.
	Singing "Love at Home." Benediction
by Sister Fanny Kimball.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS

Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of

Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel. 2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-	
	ings accounts.	
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos.		Main Street.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Hall, July 25, 1903, President
M. Isabella Horne presiding. After the
usual exercises of singing, prayer and read-
ing of minutes, President Horne addressed
the sisters upon the purposes of the Lord
in dealing with His people, and felt we
were not the judges in these matters and
should not find fault with the priesthood
or the dispensations of Providence, should
teach our children to keep holy the Sabbath
day and not go to places of amusement on


the day set apart for, rest and public wor-
ship; referred to her own childhood days
and the sincerity of her father concerning
the Sabbath. Realized the great responsi-
bility of mothers for the actions of their
children.
	Sister Maria Barnes, Farmer and Martha
Morris each bore faithful testimonies, and
Sister Morris also sang a hymn; she felt we
should appreciate the good instructions
given by Sister Horne.
	Sister Amy A. Thomas was glad she
had been born and raised in the Church,
knew the Lord heard and would answer
our prayers concerning our children.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon, Sister Nellie
Bemont and Mary P. Silver bore testimony
and spoke feelingly of the young people of
Zion.
	Sister Castleton had visited the Primary
and M. I. A. in Idaho and spoke of the
good reports and large attendance at the
meetings.
	Sister Margaret A. Romney felt thankful
for the Relief Society and appreciated the
good band of sisters over whom she pre-
sided.
	Sister Frances Smith, Hague, Luff and
Williams, also Sister Rachel Leatham bore
excellent testimonies of the Gospel, its
healing power and their joy in baptism for
the dead.
	Singing, Doxology. Meeting adjourned
for one month. Benediction by Counselor
Sarah Jenne Cannon.
			AMELIA WARDROP, Sec.


Miss Elizabeth Porter Gould, of Boston,
poet of the Massachusetts Floral Emblem
Society, has just published an interesting
little book entitled, “John Adams and 
Daniel Webster as Schoolmasters.”
	Miss Jessie Gibson, of Indianapolis, Ind.,
who was recently graduated from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has
just entered into partnership with her
father, and is the first woman architect in
Indianapolis.


<Margaret E. Baird>

									Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

			Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1903		No. 4


CONTENTS.
Simplicity.....................................E. R. Snow	25
In Memoriam..................................................	26
Report from Tooele Stake.....Lillian Gillespie	26
Notes...............................................................	26
The Baby............................................J. Q. C.	27
The Leaves Are Falling...................Aunt Em.	27
Notes and News..............................................	27
History of the Relief Society........E  B. Wells	29
Mothers’ Work................................................	39
Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.......................Lillie Freeze	31
R. S. Reports...................................................	32

EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference.....	28
	Zion is Growing......................................	28
	Editorial Notes........................................	28
	D. R. Society...........................................	29 

POETRY—Bathsheba W. Smith....................
		.........................Emmeline B. Wells	25
	The Conflict.........Addie Hurd Richards	27


BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
THE ELECT LADY.
I know thee well, thy sterling worth,
And thy pure heart, so free from guile,
Thy rich inheritance of birth,
Thy girlish fancies, as erstwhile
Thy youthful days fled on apace,
Giving thee symmetry and grace.

And riding over hill and dale
Mounted on horseback, bridle free,
Facing the storms of wind and gale,
Thus gaining health and energy—
To brave life's battles, and to be
Fitted for thy great destiny,

The Gospel came to thee in youth,
And thou wert ready to receive
The welcome tidings of the truth,
And in those principles believe.
Which to a Prophet had been given,
Reveal’d through messengers from heav'n.

A youthful lover came to woo
The fair young Bathsheba for wife,
A faithful man, honest and true,
One to be trusted throughout life;
Soon plighted vows were interchanged.
And wedding nuptials were arranged.

Two souls who lov’d each other well,
United truly, heart and hand,
To found a home wherein to dwell.
Where love should rule, the one command,
Together ever, come what may,
To journey on along life’s way.

Sweet were the hours at eventide
When labor o’er, the day’s work done,
They sat together side by side
And planned the future for each one,
That might be given to them here,
The children, they might have to rear.

In peace the years sped swiftly by.
Though many changes with them came;
Travels and journeyings; thereby
A rich experience and honor’d name,
A life replete with happiness,
Treading the path of righteousness

I would this story I might give
In verse befitting such a theme.
That through the ages it might live
A synonym of “love’s young dream,”
Fulfilled in part while dwelling here,
To finish in another sphere.

I saw her when a fair young bride,
Again with baby in her arms,
The happy father at her side,
Her face all radiant with charms,
That mother-love makes fairer, still—
Than aught beside, say what you will.


And now in ripest womanhood
	We see the glory in her face,
Which proves how bravely she withstood
	All trials with becoming grace, 
Known only to a Saint of God,
	Who’s pass’d beneath the chast’ning rod.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			SIMPLICITY.
		TO THE SAINTS IN ZION.
	We are said to be creatures of habit. We
certainly are so to a great extent. We are
all, more or less, stamped with the same
dye of education combined with the circum-
stances of early life, which constitute our
individual cast; by which we are fitted by
certain opinions and prejudices, and bound
to certain habits and customs, until we real-
ly become sterotyped in practice.
	When we enter the school of Jesus Christ
the sooner we can divest ourselves, or be-
come divested of traditional cast—the soon-
er we throw off the stereotyped edition of
ourselves, and like a plain proof-sheet, hold
ourselves subject to correction in all things,
and like little children be ever ready to re-
ceive and adopt whatever tends to improve-
ment, the greater will be our attainment to-
wards that point which the Savior enjoined
on His disciples, saying, “Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is
perfect.” To this end we need to culti-
vate that truthful simplicity which like a
clear sunbeam affords an extension of vis-
ion far, far surpassing the utmost stretch of
all the telescopes of that ostentatious form-
ality, which clothes the affectation of great-
ness with which the world abounds; while
simplicity exhibits the burnished gem, with
all its native lustre and brilliancy un-
diminished, yet improved by the sculp-
lor’s art. This feature was beautifnlly il-
tustrated in the character of Jesus Christ
during his life upon the earth. His origi-
nal worth and self-possessed dignity re-
quired no artificial support. Sensible of His
own superiority and greatness, and for the
time being, satisfied to be what He was, He
spared Himself the trouble of endeavoring
to make everybody understand and ac-
knowledge it. The life of Joseph Smith,
also, was a striking illustration of the
beauty of simplicity, as all will testify who
had the honor of his personal acquaintance.
	But we are under no necessity of refer-
ring to those who once lived; we have
plenty of living examples, both of male and
female, and they are in our midst, for the
greatest and the best on earth are here, the
opinion of the world to the contrary not-
withstanding.  For instance, is there a
greater than Brigham Young? Is there
one on whom rests a broader fold of im-
perial dignity, as recognized by the upper
nobility? (By the way we do not consult
the opinion of the lower courts.) And is
there a more striking example of plainness
and simplicity? Does not this very sim-
plicity in him, beget love and admiration in
the hearts of this people?
	I always feel to shrink from the cold
formality—that heartless affectation of dig-
nity, where thought and feeling and every

[Column 2]
native charm, are hid beneath the cum-
brous appendages of the so called etiquette
of fashionable life. It seems too much like
penetrating beneath, or unwinding the
sixty-four thicknesses of envelop to find
the Egyptian mummy; and when you find
it, you only find a stiff, dried up, lifeless
substance, at which every feeling would re-
volt to recognize as the representative of
once breathing, noble humanity. True
dignity is self supported, and real greatness
is never straining for its own exhibition. It
certainly is desirable to be divested of that
kind of tall importance which requires con-
stant propping and splicing to sustain its
position. That is too expensive, it will not
pay its own passage. I think it must be
one of those things that “perish with the
using.”
	Ever delighted with the beauties of na-
ture, I like to see nature cultivated and im-
proved but not obliterated—however ele-
vated and refined, let nature be nature still
in every department, both in the produc-
tions of the earth and in the vast varieties
exhibited throughout animate and inani-
mate existence.
	I love simplicity. I like things to seem
what they are and be what they seem. I
love the artless exhibition of unaffected
childhood; and regard simplicity in a child,
not as a frightful exuberance—a something
peculiar to, and only to be tolerated in the
infantile season, which, like the transient
verdure of spring, must disappear before
the summer solstice and give place to more
substantial productions; but as an inherent
attribute of real goodness, that should be
tenderly cherished—a plant that should be
cultivated for all eternity, and constitute a
prominent characteristic in every season of
life. If we are pleased with its charms in
childhood, it calls forth our admiration when
delineated in manhood; for when does great-
ness appear so truly great as when clothed
with the mantle of simplicity?
	We happen to be situated at the farther-
est, lowest extremity of things, called degen-
racy; and with all the boasted light and
knowledge of the age, the human family is
blind and ignorant with regard to genuine
worth and true greatness. They call good
evil and evil good; and I would ask what
of all substances on earth is more subject
to idiotic metamorphosing and artificial
mummyfying, than that of the human kind?
We suffer our tongue to play the truant
with our thoughts—our bodies to be weak-
ened and disfigured by the arbitrary power
of degenerating, corrupt Babylonish fash-
ions—our health destroyed and our lives
shortened through a silly and guilty per-
version of dietic observances. The laws of
nature are set at defiance, while wisdom
and simplicity are laughed to scorn, and
common sense looked out of countenance.
We all have been and still are trammeled
with these mockeries of life. Yes, here in 
Zion we are affectionately hugging to our
bosom the prepossessions of Gentile tui-
tion, caressing the customs of the past,
which  have been instrumental in lessening
the tide of human life to its lowest ebb, and


[Column 1]
at the same time claiming, as we really are,
to be standing on the very threshhold of
the dispensation of the fulness of times and
actually living in the Era of the regenera-
tion.
	As members of the Church of Jesus Christ
we each have high responsibilities resting
upon us; and surely quite as much dili-
gence and faithfulness are requisite in Zion
as in Babylon—if we needed a large amount
of moral courage to stand forth amid the
scoffs and sympathies of the world, and of
our unbelieving kindred, to espouse the
Gospel of Christ; we certainly shall require
no less to fulfill all its requirements in the
midst of those who are called Saints for
remember “all are not Israel that are of
Israel.” In order to attain to a fulness of
promised blessings, we must be found faith-
ful, as well as to have been called and
chosen.
	In speaking of those of the middle age,
the Savior said, “All the blood that has
been shed from the time of righteous Abel,”
etc. “will I require at the hand of this gen-
eration.” Why? Simply because the re-
sponsibility of saving, or in other words, of
doing the work for all the dead, from the
days of Adam down to that time, rested up-
on those to whom the Gospel was pro-
claimed. If such were their responsibili-
ties, what must be ours, who are called to
lay the foundation of the new order of
things, after the pattern of heaven—to
sound the requiem of Gentile policies, with
all their incongruities and tendencies to
evil, and of every principle of disorganiza-
tion and degeneracy; to establish or at least
to assist in introducing such customs and
principles as shall place an eternal veto on
the downward course of human existence;
and cause the tides thereof, both physically
and mentally to flow upward, until man-
kind in their generations upon the earth,
become immortal.
	We do not yet see eye to eye in all things
—a difference in judgment with regard to
right and wrong in many instances, will
exist among those who embrace the truth
through the love of it, until our under-
standings, being stripped of the fripperies
of the past are equally enlightened by the
power of the wisdom of God. This calls
for long suffering and forbearance towards
each other. But do we not, too often, suffer
our judgments to be biased by reflections
from the opaque order of things with which
our feelings have been associated? We do
not like variations from the beaten track,
and sooner than pass the trying ordeal of
change ourselves—sooner than stem the
tide of fashionable folly—sooner than stoop
to conquer the degenerating power of cus-
tom, we tamely transmit to succeeding
generations the evils which we endure; and
leave for them to accomplish what we
should do ourselves.
	My dear sisters in Zion—to you I speak—
Shall it be thus? Let us all—let us as in-
dividuals realize that a portion of this great
responsibility, however small that portion
may be, is resting on us. Let us ever dare
to do right, and in doing right, not be afraid
or ashamed to do. What is true greatness ?
In human character, usefulness constitutes
greatness. I mean in Zion. In the estima-
tion of holy intelligences, the most useful
character or person is the greatest. The
Savior said, “He that is greatest among
you, let him be servant of all,” or in other
words he is servant of all. “The glory of
God is His works.” Usefulness is great-

[Column 2]
ness. The tallest dignity—the most perfect
and beautiful elegance, and the most lofty
sublimity are combined and associated with
the greatest simplicity.
	This is a day of restitution, and when
that heavenly simplicity which character-
zed the ancient worthies, those who asso-
ciated with angels and conversed with the
Most High, is restored, the Saints of the
last days will freely participate in the same
blessings.
	This is a laboring dispensation and we
are instrumental in benefiting others—in
transmitting to succeeding generations,
those principles and those practices which
tend to save and exalt; in the same propor-
tion shall we be crowned with glory and
exaltation in the courts of Eternity.
					E. R. SNOW.
	June 1, 1877.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM
			ELIZA ANN ALLRED.
	It becomes our sad duty to record the death of
another beloved sister, who departed this life Sat-
urday, April 11, 1903.
	Eliza Ann Allred was the beloved wife of Joseph
G. Allred of the High Council of this stake and a
daughter of the late President Layton and his wife,
Sarah Martin Layton. She was born in a wagon
near the mouth of the Humbolt River, May 28,
1856, while her mother was filling a call to Carson
City, Nevada. She has always been a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and filled many positions of
honor and trust in this stake of Zion, being a teach- 
er in the Sunday School and treasurer in the stake
Relief Society. She leaves a devoted husband,
two sons and two daughters to mourn her loss.
Her eldest son, Christopher A. Allred, is now in
New Zealand, where he has been for three years
on a mission.

		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, that we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth, and that we desire to
emulate her earnest labors.
	That we tender our sympathy to her bereaved
husband, family and relatives in their sorrow, and
pray our Heavenly Father to let the comforting in-
fluence of His Holy Spirit be with them in their
bereavement.
	That we place a copy of this memento in our
stake record, to send one to the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT, and one to the bereaved family.
						OLIVE KIMBALL,
						ALICE BEEBE,
						S. T. FOLEY,
THATCHER, ARIZ.,					Committee.

		MARY STUBBS HINDLEY.
“Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.”

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are sighing, for home and
	its sweet repose;
So he calls them in from their labors, ere the shad-
	ows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved ones sleep.”

	The subject of this sketch, Sister Mary S. Hind-
ley, was born in Middewich, Cheshire, England,
December 14, 1818, and died at her home in
American Fork, May 20, 1903, in her eighty-fifth
year.
	Sister Hindley was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in January,
1848, and with her husband emigrated to Amer-
ca in 1850, and in 1853 came across the plains
with ox-teams, and in December of the same year
settled in American Fork, which was her home
until her death.
	She was chosen president of the Relief Society
of American Fork at its first organization in Octo-
ber, 1868, which position she filled with credit and
efficiency; and in fact she possessed unusual exec-
utive ability in managing affairs.
	In the spring of 1895, in consequence of ad-
vanced years and failing health, she resigned her
position as president, after twenty-seven years of

[Column 2]
faithful, energetic and conscientious labor. In that
position she extended help and succor with a lib-
eral hand yet was ever mindful of the true objects
of the society, and thus gained the love and esteem
of those with whom she was thus associated. Her
unswerving integrity and strict sense of justice,
with her fidelity to those with whom she labored
will cause her to be ever remembered with love
and respect by her colaborers. One eminent trait
in her character was her devotion to the principles
of celestial marriage, and though having no chil-
dren of her own, yet she cherished with the most
tender love the children of her fellow-wives. In
all, her noble character and good deeds are worthy
of emulation by all those who like her are laboring
in the interests of the Gospel. One pleasing attri-
bute of her character was her large hospitality,
she loved to have her friends in her home and to
entertain them liberally. Sister Eliza R. Snow
greatly admired Sister Hindley, and with her and
with Sister Zina D. H. Young the writer of these
last few lines has spent many happy hours in Sis-
ter Hindley’s company. She deserves a tribute of
praise for her zeal in advancing the interests of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She was one who ap-
preciated blessings, a woman of prayer. She has
gone to meet the husband of her youth, who has
waited these many years, and to receive the re-
ward of those who are purified through suffering.

	“There endless is the pleasure,
		There countless is the gain,
	Past all degree and measure,
		Reward shall comfort pain.”


REPORT FROM TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of conference held in Tooele,
June 11, 1903, President Emily J. Ander-
son presiding. After the usual opening ex-
ercises, business, etc., the president ad-
dressed the sisters, reported the condition
of the stake and spoke of introducing the
Mothers’ Work.
	Sisters reported as follows: Mary A.
House, Grantsville; Mary Ann Atkins, the
three branches in Tooele; the Clover branch
was also reported; Louise Shields, Lake
View. There being no representative pres-
ent from the other wards, Sister Frederika
Nelson spoke very interestingly, and also
Sister Naomi Gillette.
	In the afternoon conference Sister Yates,
of E. T. City reported first and Sister Judd,
of Grantsville made a brief address upon
the Mothers’ Work.
	Sisters Jane D. Brown, Mary A. House,
Jeannette Spears, Mary A. Atkin, R. Alice
McBride, Lillias Smith, Lillian Gillespie
and Ann Lee each spoke upon the work of
the Relief Sooiety.
	The president made a few closing re-
marks, assured the sisters that the more
they labored in the work, the more inter-
ested they would become. She felt the
stake was in good condition and had been
satisfied with the conference.
	Conference adjourned to meet in Grants-
ville, October, 1903.
LILLIAN GILLESPIE, Cor. Sec.


NOTES.
	The World's W. C. T. U. has reelected
Lady Henry Somerset president, and also
reelected all its other general officers.
	Wellesley Radcliff, Vassar, Mt. Holyoke,
and all the colleges for women, as well as
the multitude of coeducational Universities,
are holding their commencements, and
sending out their graduates to do good
work in the world. With every year that
passes, their number grows, and it becomes
more and more of an anachronism, that
these thousands of highly educated young
women should continue to be classed poli-
tically with minors and insane persons.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE CONFLICT.
The question we are bent upon solving,
Is the question of right or of wrong;
In this age that we deem progressive[-]
We wait not for story or song;
But we plunge in the midst of life’s battles[-]
With hearts that are earnest and true,
And look up to God to direct us,
In the work we are given to do.

The work? To defend our hearthstones,
From a foeman both subtle and bold;
Who is armed with the shield of deception,
The banner of pleasure unfolds;
Whose fortress is strong and whose batteries
Are masked with such cunning and skill,
We know not the death-dealing volley,
He can pour in our homes at his will.

This foeman so crafty and cunning
Is taking from out our fair land,
From the ranks of our sons and our brothers,
The bravest and best of the land.
He is breaking the heart of the mothers,
He is silvering the brown hair with white,
And pitying angels are grieving,
With sad-hearted mothers tonight.

From wives he has taken the husbands,
From children he’s taken the bread;
And sisters bereft of their brothers,
And fathers to infamy led.
And this demon with greed still insatiate.
Takes from woman her honor and fame;
Takes all that would make life a blessing,
And leaves her but ruin and shame.

Would you know the name of this foeman,
Who seeks all our best to destroy;
This vampire that feeds on the life-blood,
That kills every hope, every joy;
This minion of Satan who serves him
With energy, purpose and will?
’Tis the rum-king, whose haunts are the dram-
	shops.
Who was cradled and nursed in the still.

For years he has ravished the people,
Denounced all the good and the true;
And the blood of brave Haddock is calling,
For vengeance that justly is due.
Our martyrs, brave Haddock and Gambrel,
Who fell in the midst of the fight.
To defend our fair land from dishonor,
Are sleeping in silence tonight.

But up from the homes have arisen
An army, demanding the right;
A band of brave, true, noble women,
Whose badge is the ribbon of white.
Before them the monster shall perish
As sure as stars shine in the skies;
As sure as God reigneth in heaven,
From the death grapple truth shall arise.
ABBI[-] HURD RICHARDS.


THE BABY.
	What a vast expanse of unfolded possi-
bilities is contained within that newly-
fledged atom of humanity, the baby! The
arrival of it is an event whose importance
is not one whit reduced because of its famil-
iarity; each and every occurrence possesses
a significance which neither frequency can
abate nor changing scenes obliterate. A
new being takes its place among those who
hold sway upon the earth, another star ap-
pears in the firmament of mortality, one
more creature comes within our sphere
without jostling any of the others, any
setting another aside or displacing the
smallest portion of our social system.
Sweetest of all animate existence, degraded
is the soul, debased the mind, or debauched
the habits of him who does not extend to
you a glad greeting and recognize that in
his better and truer self he has one more
subject claiming, and worthy to claim, his
respect, his confidence, his protection if
need be!
	We love the baby and at all times we bid
it a hearty welcome. With its hues of pink
and carnation and roses, its eyes bespeaking
the tenderness just brought from a shore
we cannot recall even in dreams, its voice


so plaintive as to defy rudeness, and its
whole presence so like the embodiment and
eternal fitness of things superanimate—the
angels themselves—how purifying is the
presence and how sacred the influence
which its presence implies!
	“Suffer little children to come unto me,
and forbid them not.”
							J. Q. C.


[Column 1]
	THE LEAVES ARE FALLING.
	The falling of the leaves has a tendency
to impress us with serious thoughts, to re-
mind us that all things decay, that life it-
self is full of changes and that we are our-
selves only hastening on to that season
when “we shall fade as the leaf;” but not-
withstanding all the significance of the
Autumn and the falling leaves, one who rev-
els in the beauties of nature must admire
and enjoy this glorious season, though the
woods do grow “brown and sere.”
	It is the sentiment the Autumn carries
with it, too, that speaks in language unmis-
takable to the susceptible soul of those
things that beautify as well as typify hu-
man life. Aside from animal life there is
nothing more human than the trees; they
speak in all languages, they sing, they
whisper, they dance and play, and flirt and
coquette, and array themselves gaily, gor-
geously at times as though conscious of
power, and when their leaves are falling
they moan as though in mortal agony; the
wind is the music to which they keep time,
discordant often, but could the wind play
as it does, could it make such music if there
were no trees, no leaves to flaunt and flirt
about? And even when they have fallen,
and lie like a heavy carpet upon the ground,
the savage wind routs them about again
hither and thither at will.
	The poet tells us that the falling of the
leaves brings regrets for the beauties and
joys that are past and passing away from
us. It is good to be reminded of the sweet-
ness we only half enjoyed, and if a tinge of
sadness mingles with it—the deeper it will
sink into our hearts and lives, and the more
telling will be the lesson it will teach. We
all need reminding of the “sunny hours”
that pass all too quickly, and if we had no
shadows, no contrast, but were always
basking in light and sunshine we should
not even know it was the perfection of
beauty; what would we know of daybreak
if there was no night? Would we rejoice as
we do in the roseate dawn of each glorious
morning if we had not felt the shadows and
the darkness? Certainly not; we can all
answer—and would we have the splendor
of the gorgeous sunsets, were it not that
day is departing and night coming on? And
if it were always summer, we should not
drink in as we do the resplendent glories of
the Autumn.
	The Autumnal tints of the foliage are
beyond the art of the painter: the hills are
literally crowned with the purple glory,
shaded with a mantle of beauty like Joseph’s
“coat of many colors.” We gaze and ad-
mire and look again in wonder and amaze-
ment, and we try to carry in our hearts and
interpret in our lives the language con-
veyed to our souls, by the beauties of the
hills, the fields, the trees, the woods, the
trailing vines—and we cannot grasp it
all, but little by little we are learning to in-
terpret in our weak way, the wondrous
things that pass human wisdom and under-
standing.
	Possibly there is no season of the year so

[Column 2]
rich in the lessons it teaches as the fall—the
death of the flowers, the falling of the
leaves, the mournful sighing of the wind,
all these are like sorrows, and warn us that
we too are frail and may soon be touched
by the frosts of time, and pass away, that
we too must finally die; and yet these things
teach us we shall live again, for every
flower and tree and bulb and vine contains
the germ of life within that shall spring
forth again in all its pristine beauty accord-
ing to its time and season. Really we
know so little and we pay little heed to
that which admonishes us of our weakness,
nor do we consider as we should wherein
lies our strength. There is no season of
the year, no day nor night, nor anything
that God has planned but contains lessons
of beauty of wisdom and of truth that
would make us nobler, better, more loving
and tender if we would study as we should
the application it bears to the human side
of our lives upon the earth. This is a
beautiful world, and filling our lives up
with beautiful deeds, and shedding around
us the fragrance of loving words and hap-
py smiles, will do much to beautify the
paths of others who have not had so much
of sweetness mingled in the cup of life
given them to drink. Speak of the beauti-
ful and true, keep these before you, make
these your guides and talisman and the
touch of enchantment will be yours to gild
the lives of your friends and associates.
						AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Sarah Rumley, mother of the late
Walter Q. Gresham, Secretary of State
under President Cleveland, celebrated her
101st birthday at New Albany, Ind., Sept.
5, in the same house to which she came a
bride more than seventy-six years ago. A
fine dinner was spread for nearly one hund-
red guests, all Mrs. Rumley’s relatives.
Despite her great age, Mrs Rumley is active
and vigorous. One year ago she prepared a
fine birthday dinner unaided for a number
of guests.
	It is time the old fallacy of woman’s in-
ferior physical ability was abandoned. Miss
Annie S. Peck, an American woman, has
just ascended the highest mountain peak in
the Western hemisphere, a feat which had
baffled all previous explorers. A letter dated
La Pas, Bolivia, states that while her com-
panion, Prof. W. G. Tight, of the University
of New Mexico, was somewhat the worse
for an ascent of 14,666 feet in 30 hours,
Miss Peck had experienced only a slight
headache. This is an illustration of the
surprising power of endurance displayed by
apparently slight and delicate women. If
our girls are too often invalids, the fact is
due to want of proper conditions and a lack
of wholesome food, fresh air, exercise, and
muscular development.
	Mrs. D. York Syme has set a good ex-
ample to other women with large reception
rooms in initiating a series of “Political
Teas,” with the object of educating women
on current politics and the use they may
make of the Federal vote, says the Austra-
lian Woman’s Sphere of Melbourne. The
first tea was given on July 27, when about
150 women were present. Mrs. Evelyn
Gough presided, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Senators Glassey and Staniforth
Smith.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1903


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city, Saturday,
October 3, 1903, meetings commencing at
10 a. m. and 2 p. m. It is desired that
each stake organization should be repre-
sented by the president or an authorized
representative. There will be an officers’
meeting in the evening in the same build-
ing at 7 p. m. sharp.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
			ANNIE T. HYDE,
			IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
					Counselors.


[Column 1]
		ZION IS GROWING.
	The October Conference will soon be
here and one wonders what the showing
will be in the way of progress and develop-
ment among the Saints along the lines of
temporal growth and spiritual culture, and
what rapid strides have been made during
the past six months with the vigorous efforts
that have been put forth in missionary
endeavors at home and abroad. When we
hear that presidents of missions are arriv-
ing from all points north, south, east and
west, one naturally infers there has been
something accomplished that is worth bring-
ing account of to headquarters, and natur-
ally one, who is eager to see Zion prosper
hopes the tidings from these places brought
by these Elders is of good import. We
who dwell in Salt Lake are aware that the
information Bureau has been doing a rush-
ing business in diffusing knowledge of our
people and the Latter-day work generally,
and the thousands of strangers who have
registered there and have taken away our
literature, must at least have been more or
less enlightened upon the subject of Mor-
monism and the Mormons.
	After all, what have we who are so zeal-
ous for the work abroad and anxious to con-
vert the world, been doing towards our own
betterment here in Zion with all the super-
ior advantages and opportunities given to
make upliftment.
	What have we accomplished in our or-
organizations as women of Zion?
	We are making history every day, will it
be creditable in the summing up?
	In the Relief Society have we something
to tell of our labors during the last six
months? There has been considerable
visiting done by the missionary sisters and
such instruction as they were able and

[Column 2]
qualified to give has, we trust, been pro
ductive of a little good, and we hope to
hear at the coming conference how it has
been received, and what has been done
temporally in various localities in the line
of progress in raising of means, building,
and saving of grain for future need.
	The Mothers’ Work, which had been
started during this year has, we hope been
instrumental, not only educationally in
awakening thought, but in an increase of
membership in this very important organ-
ization.
	In some respects the Mother’s Work is
experimental and it has seemed a little dif-
ficult to bring it in with perfect harmony,
but it will perhaps convince some of the
sisters, who think there is very little talent
in their local society, that there is not such
a scarcity of good material as they had im-
agined, and that it only wants bringing out
and developing. The Gospel itself is self-
educating.
	To do a little of one’s own thinking is
very helpful and stimulating to the mind,
and it is true, gainsay it who may, that we
have among our people excellent material
for true story-telling. The thrilling, inci-
dents of this people’s history from the time
when Joseph the Prophet, only a boy, first
received the ministration of angels and holy
beings, the persecutions and marvelous de-
liverances from the power of his enemies
and the blessings vouchsafed to him from
time to time are positive proofs of the asser-
tion. Perils and escapes of the Elders in
their travels by sea and by land, are all rich
with interest and might be utilized in teach-
ing the young to great advantage; promot-
ing faith and confidence in the Lord, and
in testimony of His divine hand in the
restoration of the Gospel in the last days.
It seems more than strange to hear people
say “Where shall I find something interest-
ing to talk about or write about?” Dear
sisters, the best material you could possibly
have from which to obtain a full supply is at
hand in the every-day lives of the Latter-
day Saints.
	It has become the fashion in this day to
look for something new and wonderful, but
that which has been tried and proven, and
stood the test of time, is after all the stand-
ard. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, Church
History and Church literature have not yet
grown too old for use, nor are our young
people quite familiar with all contained in
these sacred books. Certainly not with the
history of individual people who have
helped to establish the great Latter-day
work, nor even of the most famous exigen-
cies and occurrences through which this
peculiar people have passed in days gone
by, nor of the countries from which they
have been gathered.
	We turn with great pride, some of us, to
the history of the Pilgrim fathers and their
wonderful achievements, and in many re-
spects the history of this people is a parallel;
yet because it is so familiar, in a sense, to
our children they do not estimate what has
been done at its full value, nor can they,
seemingly, appreciate the work, the service
of those who penetrated into these moun-
tain wilds and founded for the coming gen-
erations this great commonwealth.
	These are problems yet unsolved by them
that many seem to esteem of little conse-
quence, but it has taken strength of char-
acter and physical energy and endurance,
vigor of mind and intellect such as the ris-
ing generation know little about, to colon-
ize and make habitable the great American

[Column 3]
desert. It was not done with wealth, but
with the courage energy and hard work of
men and of women who knew no such word
as failure, and who, with mighty faith,
were determined to conquer the adverse
elements and overcome obstacles, to make
homes to dwell in, where they might live in
peace and worship God without fear or
molestation from their enemies.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	A new book of prose and poetry will soon
be issued from the press, by Louisa L.
Greene Richards, the well-known writer,
a regular contributor to the Juvenile Instruc-
tor and occasionally to other periodicals
The title of the work is “Branches that
Run over the Wall,” derived from a lengthy
poem (contained in the volume) paraphrased
from the forepart of the Book of Mormon.
Elder George Reynolds and President
Anthon H. Lund have both spoken highly
of this particular poem. A prospectus of
the book has already been issued with the
view of giving friends the opportunity of
subscribing for the book in advance. The
price is one dollar per copy.
	The editor of this paper earnestly re-
quests that all complaints concerning the
paper be made to her, either personally or
by letter, so that the missionary sisters or
others may not be troubled with them, as
the Relief Society is in no way responsible
for any mistakes, or neglect in the manage-
ment of the editorial business or mailing
department. Out of kindness the sisters
who visit the conferences speak for the in-
crease of the circulation of the paper, because
it is the one paper that stands for the Relief
Society and publishes in its interest news,
minutes, history, deaths of prominent so-
ciety workers and important matters con-
cerning them, also sketches of the lives of
distinguished pioneers, etc., which consti-
tutes it the official organ and it is positively
necessary to those engaged in this depart-
ment of the work of the Church.
	The Relief Society in Cannon Ward of
this stake was reorganized Thursday, Au-
gust 6, 1903. The meeting was held in the
home of Sister S. J. Cannon, Bishop Lewis
T. Cannon and Counselor Gold officiating.
President M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt
Lake Stake, and her counselors were pres-
sent, also General President Bathsheba
W. Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
General Secretary E. B. Wells. A goodly
number of the local society were in attend-
ance. Sister Rebecca Sharp was chosen
president, to fill the vacancy caused by the
recent death of Sister Caroline Y. Cannon,
and Sister A. J. Cannon and Ellen W. Sil-
ver were chosen counselors. Martha T.
Cannon was retained as secretary, and Sis-
ter Emma Hall was elected treasurer.
These sisters were set apart by Bishop Can-
non and Counselor Gold. After the meet-
ing adjourned dainty refreshments were
served to all present at the meeting.
	The Daughters of the Utah Pioneers held
their first meeting of the season at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears at Water-
loo, Thursday, Sep. 24, 1903, President
Alice Merrill Horne in the chair, assisted
by her counselor, at whose home the society
convened. The program was carried out
as had been arranged. The meeting was
very interesting, the address of Mrs. Eliza-
beth Nebeker, who related incidents of the
visit of Joseph Smith the Prophet, when


he was at their home in Chester Co., Penn-
sylvania, at the time of his return from his
trip to Washington to call upon the Presi-
dent of the United States. She was then a
little girl about nine years old, but the im-
pression he made upon her was so strong
that she remembers it vividly to this day
and she graphically described it so that all
present were able to make a picture of it in
their minds. It is another instance now on
record of the Prophet’s sweet, gentle nature
with children. Mrs. Minnie Loveland
Snow gave her readings, which were highly
appreciated and deserve special mention;
the articles were evidently prepared with
thought and certainly well written. Miss
Hazel Smoot Taylor, of Provo, sang, with
spirit the hymns of Zion, sublimely
in her sweet-toned voice, and the Daugh-
ters are very grateful to her, and also Miss
Clarissa Dougall who accompanied her on
the piano. The spirit of the meeting was
characteristic of the subjects treated upon
and the object of the society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D. R. SOCIETY.
	The Daughters of the Revolution held
the first meeting after the summer vacation
on Thursday, September 16, 1903, at the
residence of the Regent, Isabel M. W. Sears,
at Waterloo. The parlors were beautifully
decorated with the stars and stripes and
the fac simile of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence being conspicuously hung in the
hall, with George and Martha Washing-
ton, Abraham Lincoln and other celebrities.
Vases of nasturtiums and trailing vines and
lovely roses were delightfully pleasing.
	The new Regent, Mrs. Sears, in the chair.
Prayer was offered by Mrs. E. B. Wells,
and the new secretary, Mrs. Lucy W.
Woodruff read the minutes and a number
of letters, some business was transacted.
	The Utah Society D. R. had purchased
eight copies of the fac simile of the Declar-
tion of Independence for some of the higher
institutions of learning in Utah and the re-
port made at the meeting was that a copy
had been sent, (framed already for hanging)
to the Utah University, East and West
Side High School, Latter-day Saints Uni-
versity, Brigham Young Academy (Provo)
Brigham Young College, (Logan) Agricul-
tural College, (Logan.)
	A letter was also sent to the president of
each institution, written by the Regent in
behalf of the society. The letter was read
by the secretary.

			COPY OF LETTER.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of the Revo-
lution take pleasure in presenting to ————
school a fac simile of the original Declaration of
Independence. It is requested that it be hung in
a prominent place that the scholars of this and suc-
ceeding generations on seeing it will be reminded
that the history of “life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness,” of which we are so justly proud, was
bequeathed to us by ancestors staunch, courageous,
who cheerfully faced privations, imprisonment and
death that we, their posterity, might enjoy the
blessings of freedom. May we ever prove our
appreciation of their patroiotism by good and
loyal citizenship and show, if the need arise, that
we, too, are ready to do or die for our glorious
Star Spangled Banner.
	ISABEL M. WHITNEY SEARS, Regent.
	FLORENCE SCHOLES SEARS, Cor. Sec.
						Utah Society D. R.
	In the absence of the topic, “Abagail
Adams,” by Mrs. Emily Cannon Willey,
of Washington, D. C., (which had not
reached the meeting) readings of Mrs.
Adams’ life were given by Mrs. Lucy W.


Smith and Mrs. E. B. Wells; and Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne read some of the let-
ters written to her husband that were ex-
ceedingly interesting, portraying vividly
the strength of character of this eminently
brilliant woman, and setting forth the senti-
ment of that thrilling revolutionary period.
	Two national patriotic poems were read
by Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon and Miss M.
Mabelle Snow, and the meeting adjourned
to meet October 16, 1903, at the residence
of Mrs. E. S. R. Wright, 155, 157 N. West
Temple St. Dismissed with prayer by
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall.
	After adjournment refreshments were
served and a delighful hour passed in social
conversation.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
			(Continued.)
		EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	Another important matter in connection
with the Relief Society work counseled by
President Brigham Young was the storing
of grain by the sisters. By his express wish
the writer of this history prepared an edi-
torial on this subject and submitted to him
for revision. President Young approved
what had been written and added another 
paragraph, which reads as follows:

	President Young further advises the sisters that
 they enter into such arrangements as are applic-
able to their circumstances in their various dis-
tricts and settlements, to build storehouses for the
storing of their grain in the sections of country as
they shall divide off, or apportion to certain local-
ities; also that they solicit donations from their hus-
bands and the brethren to assist them in carrying
out this enterprise, both for the building of the
storehouses and also in obtaining grain to fill
them and preserve it for future need.

	This part of the editorial was written at
his dictation. It was published in this
paper, October 15, 1876, and the entire edi-
torial has been republished twice since.
Perhaps this counsel caused as much talk
pro and con as any advice ever given to the
sisters in regard to their labors. This
counsel was given previous to any stake
organization of the Relief Society. In the
suggestions made to the editor President
Young said this:

	The Relief Society and co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this territory
are interested have funds at their disposal from
time to time which may be made available in this
work, and it is no doubt the best investment of
means that could be made. If the prophecies of
the ancient and modern prophets and of Joseph
Smith are to be fulfilled, which the Saints profess
to believe, there will be a desolating famine in the
land, and if the women of this territory will heark-
en to counsel it will be the temporal salvation of
this people in case of emergency.

	On November 11, 1876, just after the
counsel had been given at the General Re-
trenchment Association meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward assembly rooms in this
city the subject of arrangements in regard
to the grain question was brought before
the sisters. Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was
presiding in the absence of President M.
Isabella Horne, proposed that the officers
of the several organizations of the Relief
Society act in the capacity of a committee
to collect means to buy and store up grain;
that besides these committees of separate
branches, in order to facilitate the work,
there should also be a central committee for
counsel and reference, to take cognizance
of all these grain matters, that there might
be perfect order and a united movement for

[Column 2]
the good of all interested. She read a 
communication from Bishop R. W. Burton
in respect to storing grain in the General
Tithing Office. The different wards that
have not established storehouses can store
their grain there, but will be expected to
attend to the arrangement themselves, as
the hands employed there have no spare
time.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow proposed to the as-
sembly, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells as chair-
man of the central committee, the motion
being made, it was seconded and carried
unanimously. It was then moved that
the chairman choose a committee of two to
act with her in this capacity constituting
the Central Committee; accordingly Miss
Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith were selected and the unanimous
vote of the assembly given to sustain them.
	The sense of the meeting was that the
Central Committee would be expected to be
posted in regard to the proceedings of the
different ward committees, as also of the ar-
rangements of the country places, that there
may be a concert of action, which will give
power and strength to this unparalleled
movement and complete system of manage-
ment.
	Following out the suggestion and this
arrangement of committees some important
work was soon done in this direction, of
which we shall have occasion to speak later
on in this history.
	President Young spent the following
winter in St. George and from there sent
at Christmas time, this dispatch:
		ST. GEORGE, Dec. 24, 1876.

To my Family and Friends at Salt Lake and
		Elsewhere:
	The compliments of the season, wishing you all
a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. May
you live to accomplish the work given you to do of
our Heavenly Father, and I pray you may do it
faithfully, that you may be prepared to dwell
eternally in the heavens. May God grant it.
Amen.
				BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	In looking up items of history we find a
letter from St. George dated January 2,
1878, written to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
by our dearly beloved Susa, daughter of
President Young, from which we wish to 
make a few extracts for this history.
	“Yesterday (Jan. 1) the Temple in this
city, or a portion of it, was dedicated; doors
were opened at 12 o’clock m., and closed a 
quarter to one.” After mentioning the
throng of people that had gathered, the
president’s arrival and also Apostle Wilford
Woodruff and Erastus Snow and the doors
were closed, she makes special mention of
the congregation singing the hymn, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning,” and
the prayer by Apostle Wilford Woodruff in
which he besought the Lord’s blessing upon
the Relief Society throughout the world and
also upon all the sisters who had contri-
buted in any way to the building of the
Temple. Sister Susa says in her letter
that this was a most impressive prayer;
She also mentioned other prayers that were
offered and the powerful discourse of Presi-
dent Young on that great occasion which
those present will never forget. This was the
first temple built in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains and the sisters assisted in var-
ious ways, more especially those located in
that place and the southern settlements.
	To give an idea of the work being done
in the country places about this time we
will take an item from Huntsville dated


March 3, 1877. “The society numbers one
hundred and fifty members and but very
few poor in our midst. Funds on hand
amounting to $285.00, a few head of sheep,
shares in the co-operative store, $140.00 and
in the Relief Society store in Ogden City,
$38.00. We have committees appointed
to buy wheat and store it, to be used in
the future for the benefit of the Saints, ac-
cording to the counsel which may be given
through the prophet of God upon the earth.
Both old and young seem to take great in
terest in attending our meetings regularly
and in gaining useful knowledge pertaining
to our religion. The EXPONENT is very
much appreciated, etc.” Mary J. Ham-
mond was president at that time and Mary
Hall secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK. 
		MALAD STAKE.

Lecture I.— Woman Know Thyself:

		(a) Necessity of studying well your
	own character before undertaking re-
	sponsibilities of wife and mother. (Ref.
	Improvement Era, Vol. 5, No. 3, page
	184; Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. 12,
	No. 5, page 223.)
		(b) Hygiene of the body. (Ref. a
	good medical work.)
		(c) Disposition—mental and moral
	tendencies.
		(d) Will power; How cultivated.
	(Ref. Journal of Discourses, Vol. 1,
	page 355)

Lecture II.—Making a Home:

		Refer to Contributor, Vol. 7, page 69;
	Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 38, page 144.

		(a) Relationship of wife and hus-
	band. (Ref. 70th Annual Conference
	Discourse, A. O. Woodruff; Young
	Woman’s Journal, Vol. 12, No. 7, page
	309.
		(b) Duties one to the other. (Ref.
	Contributor, Vol. 15, No. 8, page 516.)
		(c) What a young wife can do to en-
	courage her husband. (Ref. Juvenile
	Instructor, Vol. 38, page 371; Improve-
	ment Era, Vol. 6, No. 5, page 456, 
	Vol. 6, No. 7, page 511.)
		(d) Cleanliness in the home. (Ref.
	seventy-third annual conference, Apos-
	tle Reed Smoot.)
		(e) Family prayer, its influence in
	developing proper moral and spiritual
	tendencies in the new home (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 68. “Study well each
	thought and action that your lives may
	be sublime.”

Lecture III.—The Parents:

	“Go forth and multiply and replenish the
earth.”
		(a) Beginning and duration of par-
	ental responsibilities. (Ref. School and
	Fireside, (Maeser) page 50-53 Improve-
	ment Era, Vol. 6, “Parenthood” Jour-
	nal of Discourses, Vol. 1, page 106.)
		(b) Parental thoughts and actions.
	(Ref. Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. 12,
	No. 7, page 314.)
		(c) Form habits that you would like
	your child to follow.
		(d) Environments. (Ref. Gen xxx:
	25-43.)
		(e) Hope. Anticipation. Preparation.

[Column 2]
Lecture IV.—The Infant:

Care of the little one.
		(a) Bath, food, dress, sleep.
		(b) Creeping. Teething.

Lecture V.—Childhood

Building a healthy body. (Ref. “School
	and Fireside” (Maeser) chapter 4.)
		(a) Physically:—Outdoor exercise,
	work and play, food and sunshine.
		(b) Morally:—Example and its effect.
	(Ref. Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 37, No.
	10, page 593; Millennial Star, Vol. 15,
	No. 1, page—.) Mother the child’s
	first companion.

	Julia A. Richards, president; Eliza Hall,
first counselor; Eliza Ward, second counse-
lor Josie Kennard, secretary; Ella Capener,
treasurer—Committee Mothers’ Work, Ma-
lad Stake.

			DAVIS STAKE.
Lecture I.—Motherhood aud Maternity:—

“O wondrous power! how little understood—
	Entrusted to the mother’s mind alone,
To fashion genius, form the soul for good,
	Inspire a West or train a Washington.”
		(a) How can we best prepare for
	motherhood?
		(b) Observing the Word of Wisdom
	as essential to physical development.
		(c) The Gospel as essential to spirit-
	ual development.
		(d) The development of the mother
	as effecting the unborn child. How
	can we overcome hereditary weak-
	nesses?
		(e) What effect will obedience to the
	moral law have upon our offspring?
	(Refer to St. Matthew i: 24; also Heb. xii: 9;
Rev. 12: 7-17.)
		(f) How does child-bearing effect
	the Latter-day work?
		(g) How does it effect our exalta-
	tion?

Lecture II.—Pre-natal Influences:

	“A pebble in the streamlet scant.
		Has turned the course of many a river,
	A dewdrop on the infant plant.
		Has dwarfed the giant oak forever.”

		(a) How does the physical, moral
	and spiritual development of the moth-
	er effect the unborn child?
		(b) How should we dress during
	gestation?
		(c) Why is plain, nourishing food
	and regular, light exercise essential to
	mother and child?
		(d) What responsibility has the fath-
	er during this period?
		(e) How can he assist in the one
	great mission to be performed—that of
	bringing forth a perfectly developed
	and well-balanced child?
		(f) Compare the amount of character
	building the mother may do during
	this period to that that may be done
	later.

Lecture III—Proper Care of Mother and In-
	fant:

	“Something to live for has come to our place,
		Something to die for, may be;
	Something to give even sorrow a grace,
		A dear little innocent baby.”

		(a) What nourishment is best adap-

[Column 3]
	ted to the mother’s condition?
		(b) Why should she be kept quiet?
		(c) Why is proper care a vital ques-
	tion at this time? 
		(d) Discuss the proper way to give
	baby’s first bath, its clothing, bed and.
	food.
		(e) How does cleanliness promote
	health?
		(f) Why should a baby have its
	wants anticipated?
		(g) Why is it best to teach it to go
	to sleep naturally?
		(h) Give practical illustrations of the
	effect of habit upon the new born babe.
		(i) Discuss the nursing period and
	how it effects the child’s future life.
		(j) How should we care for the
	child during teething?
		(k) How and when shall we wean
	our babies?

Lecture IV.— The Infant Child and its Early
	Training:

“A little bit of patience often makes the sunshine
	come,
And a little bit of love makes a very happy home.”

		(a) In what order are the senses
	developed?
		(b) In what order are the emotions
	developed?
		(c) How can these developments be
	used in the early training of the child?
		(d) Of what value are play moments
	in a child’s life?
		(e) Discuss the motto, “learn by
	doing.”
		(f) How soon does a child have a
	moral sense?
		(g) Why is firmness so essential in
	the training of the child?
		(g) When and how may obedience
	be cultivated—unselfishness, gentle-
	ness, kindness and truthfulness?
		(i) What effect has the parent’s self-
	government upon the government of
	the child?
		(j) Of what value are the first three
	years of the child’s life in the building
	of his character.

Lecture V.—Obedience—Necessity of its
	Early Enforcement:

“O’er wayward childhood, wouldst thou hold firm
		rule,
	And sun thee in the light of happy faces,
Love, Hope and Patience—these must be thy
		graces.
	And in thine own heart let them first keep
		school,”

		(a) Why should the lesson of obed-
	ience be one of the foundation stones
	of character building?
		(b) How will this principle effect
	the life of a Latter-day Saint through
	time and all eternity?
		(c) How is it connected with our
	spiritual progress?
		(d) How should obedience be
	taught?
	(Refer to Eph. vi: 1-9; I Saml. xv: 22; Juvenile
Instructor June 15, 1903, page 371.)

Lecture VI.—Childhood and its Proper Direc-
	tion:

	“He who checks a child with terror,
		Stops its play and stills its song,
	Not alone commits an error;
		But a grievous moral wrong.”

		(a) How do both paren[-]s constantly
	teach morals good and bad to their
	children?


[Column 1]	
	(b) How does a child get his first
ideas of God’s love, truth and justice?
	(c) Can extravagance at home teach
dishonesty?
	(d) Should discourtesy to children
be the rule at home?
	(e) Why should children have set
tasks and light responsibilities within
the home?
	(f) When should a child be permitted
social life outside the family?
	(g( Does the judgment of a child
develop early? Should he rule in the
home?
(Refer to Doc. Cov. Sec. 68, 25 verse; Juvenile
Instructor July 1, 1903.)
Lecture VII.—Child's Place in the Home:
“Gather them close to your loving heart,
	Cradle them on your breast,
They will soon enough leave your brooding care,
Soon enough mount youth’s topmost stair,
	Little ones in the nest.”
	(a) Should each child have some
part in keeping up the home?
	(b) What effect has responsibility on
character?
	(c) What is the effect of not feeling
one’s self a necessary element in the
home?
	(d) Why should mother and child be
united, and their interests be one?
	(e) How far should the freedom of
the child extend within the home?
	(f) Why should a child’s rights be
determined by obedience to law?
(Refer to Doc. and Cov. Sec. 83, verse 4.)
Lecture VIII.—Necessity of Retaining the
	Child’s Confidence:
	“Oh, what a tangled web we weave,
	When first we practice to deceive.’’
	(a) Why should fear be avoided in
the government of the young?
	(b) Define faith in God (Doc. and
Cov.)
	(c) Define faith or confidence in
father and mother.
	(d) Why should a mother listen to
the child’s experiences of the day.
	(e) Explain the danger of practicing
deception in the governing of children.
	(f) How does a parent’s self-gov-
ernment strengthen the confidence of
the child?
Lecture IX.—Employment and Occupation of
	Our Children:
	“Work for some good, be it ever so slowly
	Labor! all labor is noble and holy.”
	(a) Why is activity so essential in
the young?
	(b) How and by whom should it be
directed?
	(c) Why is reading to and story tell-
ing beneficial in the training of the
child?
	(d) Why is the study of music bene-
ficial, and at what age should it begin?
	(e) When should the child be given
tasks to perform?
	(f) When should he share responsi-
bility?
	(g) Why are the idle moments of
danger to the child?
(Refer to Doc. and Cov., Sec. 42, verse 42.)
Lecture X.—Our Girls and Boys—the Fath-
ers and Mothers of the Next Generation:

[Column 2]
“Oh ! thou child of many prayers.
Life hath quicksands—life hath snares,
Care and age come unawares.”
	(a) What special teaching should
boy receive and when?
	(b) How should we teach our daugh-
ters?
	(c) Dwell upon the mission of both.
	(d) Should boys and girls be allowed
to associate together?
	(e) Show the evil effect of an excess
of social life to our boys and girls.
	(f) Also show the evils of late hours
to their physical; and moral develop-
ment.
	(g) In what way do our hopes cen-
ter upon our boys and girls?
Lecture XI.—The Law of Chastity:
“A mother’s holiest task is to keep
	Her darlings pure and true,
Her constant care, her watchful prayer.
	Alone can guide them through.'
	(a) Give the true definition of chas-
tity.
	(b) How and where can personal
purity and chastity best be taught?
	(c) How can we as mothers best
avoid impure thoughts within our chil-
dren?
	(d) How can the home influence
and conversation promote purity of
heart?
	(e) What are the effects of breaking
these laws among us as a people to-
day?
(Refer to Juvenile Instructor, November 15,
1902, page 688; Matt. v: 8)
Lecture XII.—Marriage— Object and Sacred-
	ness of:
	“And again I say unto you that who so forbid-
deth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage
is ordained of God unto man.” (Doc. and Cov.
Sec. 49, verse 15.)
	(a) What is the object of marriage?
(Gen. i: 28.)
	(b) How should we prepare for mar-
riage? (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132, 15-66
verses.)
	(c) What are the existing evils re-
garding this covenant today?
	(d) How can we as Latter-days best
overcome these evils?

Nellie C. Taylor, Wealthy R. Clark,
Athalia M. Stead, Maria Clark, Committee.
Susan Grant, President Relief Society Davis
Stake.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.
	It is a difficult task to outline in a few
paragraphs even the most important fea-
tures of a noble and useful life. The
real history must at best be left largely to
the imagination, we can only point out the
mile stones. The truest histories are re-
corded on the unwritten pages of life’s
annals, so we give but a faint glimpse of the
subject of this sketch.
	Dr. Shipp is the eldest daughter of Wil-
liam F. and Anna Reynolds, and was born
in Davis County, Iowa, January 20, 1847,
and came to Utah in her early childhood
with her parents, who settled in Pleasant
Grove, Utah County, where she was reared
a child of nature amid the wilds of our then
desert inland country, possessing few ad-
vantages of education, but her eager soul
thirsting for knowledge reached out beyond
all the meager possibilities of her girlhood,

[Column 2]
and she acquired an education enjoyed by
very few in those early days of toil and
hardship.
	On May 5th, 1866, she was married to
Milford B. Shipp, a man of learning and
intelligence, who at once recognized her
talents and marked out for her a literary
career. When the mother of five children,
and with the grand predominating charact-
eristic of motherhood thoroughly awakened
by a desire for the higher development of
her growing family, she bravely looked into
the new, and then unpopular sphere of la-
bor for women, and undertook the study of
medicine; having been a most devoted wife
and mother, it required a great effort to
leave her home and young children, but
realizing the benefits which must follow the
separation, not only to them and herself,
but to many others, she overcame her ten-
der longings for home and the hearthstone
for the good she might do, and in 1875
became the second woman in Utah attempt-
ing to master the seience of medicine and
entered the Woman’s Medical College of 
Pennsylvania.
	Dr. Shlpp has proved that the “tender-
est are the bravest.” While ardently en-
gaged in her studies at college she passed
through, with proud and faithful resigna-
tion, the hopeful and anxious period of
motherhood and gave birth to a beautiful
daughter, nor did the love and care for the
child hinder in any way the progress of the
mother’s studies, but on the contrary the
new joy but enhanced the pleasure of col-
lege life and practically relieved the lonely
heart, self-exiled from all other loved ones.
In 1888 Dr. Shipp not only obtained her de-
gree, but also received the highest compli-
ments and recommendations from the pro-
fessors, and ever since graduating has been
an undaunted, persistent worker in her pro-
fesssion, and is also very popular, especially
among her patients, for her beautiful sym-
pathetic bearing consoles the suffering one,
while her great self-control and dignity
gives one the most perfect confidence in her
ability.
	Possessing refined literary tastes she oc-
casionally rests her busy mind by reveling
in the pleasures of the Muses. At one
time she assisted her husband in the publi-
cation of a medical journal ‘‘The Sanitar-
ium,” and is at present engaged upon a
work designed especially for the benefit of
women. Her writings breathe of the spirit
of inspiration on grand and lofty themes and 
her poems especially are soulful, tender and
sweet. In all her busy professional and
literary duties she still finds time for social
duties and the cultivation of friendship, and
by numberless gentle acts demonstrates her
great capacity for loving and her just
claims for being loved. Her highly re-
ligious and intensely sympathetic soul nat-
urally calls her in the higher works for the
wider development of heart and brain and
the uplifting and comforting of God’s suf-
fering and sorrowing children. The ex-
qusitely sensitive and intellectual qualities
of her nature shine through the beautiful,
womanly features with refined and quiet
force that is irresistible. For her children,
now ten in number, have her most heroic
sacrifices been made and her wonderful
mother love has been the main inspiration
to all achievements, as it is the crowning
glory of her beautiful, unslfish and exem- 
plary life.
						LILLIE FREEZE.  
	SALT LAKE CITY, May 15, 1893.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
		STAR VALLEY STAKE.
	Conference held at Afton Ward meeting
house, July 20, 1903, President Alice J.
Call presiding. Opened with the usual
exercises. The reports showed that the
ward organizations were up to date in good,
practical service.
	The conference was noted for its many
distinguished visitors, among whom were
Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff, President
Frank Y. Taylor of the Granite Stake of
Zion, Sisters E. J. Stevenson and L. D.
Alder, sent by the General Board.
	President Call said she wished to be brief
in her remarks, as we were anxious to hear
from our visitors, as we have seldom been
so honored. She introduced Sister Steven-
son, who said:
	“Before I proceed farther let me give to
you the love of Sister Smith and Sister
Wells.” Spoke of the Mothers’ Work, en-
couraged the Relief Society teachers to seek
the Spirit of the Lord. Spoke of the great
responsibility of the mothers in looking
after the morals of the young and of the
folly of following the frivolous fashions of
the world.
	Sister Annie Hood then sang in her 
usual sweet tone, “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.”
	Apostle Abraham O. Woodruff said: “I
have been very much pleased with the re-
marks and also with the beautiful song we
have listened to. We do not expect good
boys if we do not have good mothers. Your
aims should be to become ideal wives and
mothers.
	President Frank Y. Taylor encouraged
the sisters to look after the poor and those
in need. 
	Afternoon session: Sister Alder spoke of
the Mothers’ Work and that the happiest
time in our lives is when our little ones are
clinging about our knees.
	The remainder of the reports were given.
Closing prayer, Sister Sarah A. Burton.
			ANNIEBEL Y. HILL, Sec.
			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society was held
in Malad City, Idaho, June 11, 1903, Presi-
dent Julia A. Richards presiding. Visitors
from General Board, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams, one of the general officers of the
society, and Hattie B. Harker, missionary.
	Samaria, St. John’s, Pleasant View,
Malad and Riverside reported as doing well.
	Sister H. B. Harker spoke upon the
Mothers’ Work, secret prayer as a strong
support, urged the study of the children.
	Sister C. S. Williams said we read each
others’ hearts by an inward gift, expression
gives comfort, let our words be in line with
the priesthood; we are promised strength to
overcome our weaknesses, the Lord has a
work for all willing hearts to perform.
	Elvira A. Harrison related a testimony
given to Sister Eliza R. Snow in the Logan 
Temple, Sister Mary A. Bolingbrolee spoke
upon cheerfulness, activity and experience,

[Column 2]
President J. A. Richards made closing re-
marks and bore testimony to the good spirit
of the meeting.
	Afternoon session: First, after the usual
opening exercises and transaction of busi-
ness pertaining to the society, Sister Alice
A. Smith was released as first counselor to
the president, and Sister Eliza Hall released
as stake secretary and Sister Jeannette Per-
kins as stake treasurer. Officers of the
General Relief Society sustained by vote of
the conference, then the stake officers, Julia
A. Richards, President; Eliza Hall, first
counselor; Eliza Ward, second counselor;
Joanna L. Kennard, secretary; Ella S.
Capener, treasurer. Voting unanimous.
	Sister Williams presented greetings from
President Bathsheba W. Smith, of love to
all, said her heart is full of charity for all
the sisters. 'Our first duty is to take care
of home and family, but there is time for
our spiritual talents to grow and broaden.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards: “Today
we are enjoying the hard labors of our par-
ents. There was a divine power in bring-
ing them here.” Spoke along the line of
instructions given in the Doctrine and
Covenants.
	Sister Harker: “Faith in God gives us
force to improve our talents, wisdom guides
us in the path of safety, love and charity
brings sunshine unto all.”
	Bishop Price and Brother Jones of Sa-
maria each bore testimony to the truth of
the words spoken, and encouraged the sis-
ters to persevere.
	President Richards: “Let us try and put
in practice the teachings given; let improve-
ment be our motto.”
	Conference adjourned with singing and
prayer. The visiting sisters and stake
officers afterwards held meetings at Portage
and Riverside, giving general instructions;
a good spirit was manifest in all.
			JOSIE RENNARD, Sec.

		ALPINE STAKE.
	The tenth quarterly conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at Lehi, July 30,
1903, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Sister Carrie
S. Thomas, of the general board were pres-
ent. President Rebecca Standring presiding.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few appropriate remarks
and called for reports from the several
President’s in the Stake. Reports were
very encouraging, every society being
represented, love, unity and harmony pre-
vailing. Sister Carrie S. Thomas, spoke of
many things, in reference to mothers work,
she said, it is no new work, our teachers
have taught us these things all the time.
	Our daughters need not be without these
teachings if we have missed them. Sister
Thomas spoke upon faith and the confidence
we have in our religion and in our Heavenly
Father. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp had many
happy recollections of Lehi and her youth-
ful days passed near there, but then there
were no such gatherings as we have now,
exhorted the sisters to have the young
women join the Relief Society and aid in

[Column 3]
the work; the education of the Gospel
brings out the best points in our character:
and makes us better wives and mothers.
	Afternoon session. Connselor Harriet
Jacobs addressed the conference, dwelling
upon the testimony, of the truth and the
divine mission of the Prophet Joseph, re-
ferred to the Saints in California and the
good work being done there by our people;
reminded the sisters it was time to be gath-
ering the wheat, and of the necessity of
taking the WOMAN'S EXPONENT; it was a
valuable paper and the sisters should sup-
port it. Sister Shipp said, what would the
world have thought a hundred years ago to
see this great body of women assembled
and transacting business, bringing out the
spiritual and intellectual abilities and tal-
ents? It is grand that we have this great
change; urged the sisters to take the EX-
PONENT, felt it was necessary to their de-
velopment; dwelt earnestly upon home in-
fluence and attractions, good books and
music, order and obedience, and in fact
mentioned every good thing and all that
would tend to a fuller and more complete
life here and hereafter. Sister Thomas
thought the girls should thank the Lord
every day for this society and the associa-
tions and opportunites we have to obtain
knowledge, she pleaded earnestly with the
sisters to take the EXPONENT; spoke beauti-
fully concerning the training of children
and of retaining their confidence.
	President Stephen L. Chipman endorsed
the remarks of the sisters, their words had 
been in due season, the presidency of the
stake fully appreciated the labors of the
Relief Society and the willing sacrifices
these sisters made. President James H.
Clarke, felt parents were much to blame in
the training of the children; these subjects
could not be dwelt upon too seriously,
thought the meeting had been profitable,
we should seek the spirit of God to aid us
in all our labors in life. Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
OBSTETRICS and NURSING.
DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics and Nursing on Monday, October 12,
1903. For further information enquire of
Dr. Roberts, 77 C Street.		Tel.2002.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. Main Street,


[Handwritten in pen: "Kane Relief socity"]

								Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 32				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1903					No. 5


CONTENTS.
International Council of Women....................	33
Mothers’ Work........................................	35,	39
General Relief Society Conference................	37
In Memoriam..................................................	40
Biography and Resolution..............................	40
EDITORIAL—Instruction to Missionaries....	36
	Woman’s Council...................................	36
	Honor to Apostle Heber J. Grant............	36
	Meeting of the D. R................................	37
	A Pleasant Afternoon..............................	37
	U. W. P. C. Meeting ...............................	37
POETRY—I Have Seen All The Way............	33


I HAVE SEEN ALL THE WAY.
	Edith, fair and beloved, all night lay in the
slumber of death. “She will regain conscious-
ness no more,” a sage one said. But the mother
wails that she had not bade her goodbye, and with
the untold strength of her love, called her back.
“O mother, I’ve seen the way,” she said, and
afterwords of undying love, “I am not afraid, for
I’ve seen all the way;” the beautiful eyes closed
on the world.

	Oh, I have seen all, all the way.
I walked, my hand clasped in the angel’s own,
O’er purple hills and winding pathways lone,
	To love’s abode—eternal day.
I grew not weary, tarried not for long—
Anon there floated far away a song—
	Birds chanted sweet a roundelay.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
The city’s mansions by the shining sea,
That warm waves gently kiss in laughing glee,
	They frolic, sporting there in play.
Paradasaic joys my soul hath known,
Seraphic music sung in angel tone,
	Where fountains toss so high their spray.

	O, I have seen all, all the way.
My mother, oh, I heard thy gentle voice
Soft calling me, I could not then rejoice
	Though all around the glory lay.
To come to thee, it cost me, O, such pain,
I longed to see thy blessed face again.
	Alone I walked back all the way.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
Again, O love, I feel thy kisses sweet,
In rapture, too, again thy sad eyes meet,
	Farewell, I hasten now away.
I feel no fear of darkness—none is near,
Alone I go, O dearest, shed no tear,
	I know, I know e’en all the way.

	O, I have, seen all, all the way!
I tremble not, alone fear not to go;
My throbbing heart is wildly beating so
	It seems the chords must tear away.
The myst’ries hid of life and death I’ve seen,
Invisible the bonnd’ry—worlds between—
	Dividing thus the night from day.

	O, some time thou’lt see all the way!
The landscape fair down by the silver sea,
The home where ransomed ones fore’er will be,
	With God to dwell alway, alway.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
To the Readers of the Women Exponent.
	Among those whom this address describes
are many of our Council workers, and it,
therefore, seems proper to send to such
through the columns of this paper, some

[Column 2]
news concerning the progress of the Council
movement.
	In writing upon this subject, I always
feel like, “harking back” to the significance
of the phrase “Council Movement.” What
does it mean? It means the movement
whose object is to draw together people
who are to a degree unlike; who have hith-
erto thought themselves too unlike to unite
in any common work:—to bring such
people together with the conscious and
avowed intention of finding some common
work in doing which they can unite.
	I need hardly remind American women
that this movement originated in Washing-
ton in 1888 with a convention International
in character, called to celebrate the fortieth
anniversary of the movement on behalf of
the political enfranchisement of American
Women. This is only fifteen years ago,
and surely, the results, of the effort then
inaugurated to make the influence of that
organization felt beyond the limits which
had hitherto bound it, are far from being
discouraging. Further recapitulation here
is unnecessary—suffice it that the Council
movement in its International application
has reached a state where it is necessary in
order to carry on its work to hold annually
a meeting of its Executive Committee. Such
a meeting was held in Dresden in August
of this year.
	During my own administration, Execu-
tives have been held previously in 1900 in
Paris; 1901 at the Hague 1902 in Copen-
hagen. The one at Dresden in 1903 was
convened with a view to its occupying the
17th, 18th, and 19th of August. As a
matter of fact, it ran over into the 20th, and
made that day as busy and as long as any
one of its predecessors. It was not un-
natural that the Dresden Executive should
have been better attended than any of the
preceding annual Executives of the Coun-
cil, for we were within a year of the meet-
ing of the Quinquennial which back in
1899 was set for Berlin, and then seemed a
long way off.
	When the International Council, ad-
journed in London in 1899, it was com-
posed of ten National Councils, three of
these having been voted in that same year.
It now includes nineteen National Councils
two having been voted in at Dresden. At
Dresden, all of the general officers except-
ing only the Recording Secretary, Mille.
Camille Vidart of Switerland, were present;
and all but two of the Councils were repre-
sented either by their own president, vice-
president, or a bona fide proxy. The
sessions, though devoted strictly to busi-
ness and requiring a great deal of hard
work were very interesting, and some im-
portant decisions were arrived at in which
all Council women will be interested. The
most important were in relation to the
Quinquennial at Berlin, and to summarize
these as briefly as possible, it may be
stated: That the Quinquennial proper of
the International Council will occupy the
week beginning June 6th. The Executive
will be convened on Tuesday morning
June the 7th. Besides the Executive ses-
sions, which will run through the week,

[Column 3]
probably occupying all of the mornings,
the Council will hold three public meetings
on the evenings of June 11th, 12th, and
13th.
	The International Council will be con-
vened according to the laws and customs of
Germany under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council of Germany whose President
will give the address of welcome. This
will be responded to by the president of the
International Council, who will then take
charge of the meeting, and present the
President of each National Council, or her
proxy, together with the general officers of
the International, and the honorary vice-
presidents who are beginning the organi-
zation of the National Councils, in count-
ries where such are not yet formed. The
theme of this meeting will be what the
President of the International Council
sometime since named “The New Inter-
nationalism,” and its object will be both
demonstration and propaganda. The sec-
ond evening will be a continuance of the
discussion of Internationalism, the subject
being illuminated by reports from every
one of the twenty-two National Councils
that it is believed will at the time, compose
the International. The theme on the third
evening will be Peace and Arbitration
which will be discussed in three formal ad-
dresses; one in English which Lady Aber-
deen has been invited to give, the second
in German by Baroness Von Suttner, and
the third in French is to be given by some
member of the French Council elected by
that Council to perform this noble task.
	The International Congress, all prepara-
tions for which will be made by the Na-
tional Council of Women of Germany will
be opened on Monday June 13th, and will
occupy the week adjourning on Saturday
the 18th. The committee of Arrangements
for the International Congress is composed
of the officers of the National Council of
Germany together with the associates that
have been elected for the purpose. The
Congress will be conducted in four sections
running simultaneously, so far as day ses-
sions are concerned during the week. The
sections will be convened under the follow-
ing titles:—
	(1) Women’s Education and Higher
Culture (under general charge of Fraulein
Lange, and Fraulein Baumer).
	(2) Women in Social Aims and Institut-
on (founded either for or by women for
the improvement of social conditions). This
section will discuss such questions as Tem-
perance, Social Purity, etc., and is under
the general charge of Frau Edinger.
	(3) Women’s Professions and Industries
(under general charge of Fraulein Alice
Saloman).
	(4)The Legal and Political Position of
Women (under the general charge of Freien
Von Beschwitz.)
	Baroness Von Beschwitz is the chairman
of the standing committee of the Inter-
national Council on Laws concerning Do-
mestic Relations. She has had great diffii-
culty, as every one must have who under-
takes International work in organizing a
committee which shall include an active


[Column 1]
representative from every one of the affilia-
ted Councils. The Baroness has, however,
worked with as much tact as diligence, and
the experience which she has had in organ-
izing her committee will enable her to do
most effective work as the leader of this
section of the International Congress.
	The present intention is that these s[---]-
ions shall meet for six days from 6 a. m. to
2 o’clock p. m. An effort will be made to
have the present position and work of the
women of every country within the Council
properly presented. The discussions will
be limited strictly to the rights and duties
of women in connection with the various
subjects indicated. The afternoons of Con-
gress week as well as the evenings will be
occupied by large public meetings and social
gatherings. The subjects for the public
meetings are as follows:—
	(1) Education
	(2) Suffrage for Women
	(3) Equal Pay for Equal Work
	(4) Women in Science and Art. 
	The phrasing of these titles will doubt-
less be altered as preparations go forward
before any formal program is printed, but
the general themes are plainly indicated in
the foregoing statements.
	The Committee of Arrangements includes
a large number of Germany’s most able
women. These women are fired by a legi-
timate ambition to demonstrate to the world
how German women can convene and pre-
pare for an International Congress on a
scale large and generous enough to justify
its title.
	Many questions have been asked as to the
possibility of enjoying such freedom of
speech as a program including the subjects
named would imply. I am constantly in
receipt of letters questioning the possibility
of this. I am assured, however, on the
very best authority that there will be no
limitation whatever on freedom of speech,
excepting such limitation as good sense and
good breeding would indicate. According
to German law the meetings must be con-
vened by the Germans themselves. Once
convened all legitimate liberty will be en-
joyed. The German women are illustrating
the energy, patience, and capacity for work
characteristic of their countrymen. They
began their work long enough in advance
to justify the conviction that strangers will
find the arrangements perfect in every detail.
There is no doubt that the members of the
Committee of Arrangements are united in
their intention to be just and impartial in
the apportionment of time and opportunity
to the representatives of different countries to
set forth their views on every subject. 
	The President of every National Council
has been invited to send a list of the names
of persons whom it would seem most suita-
ble to invite to speak in meetings of such
International importance; and in every
country so far as heard from, the President
of every Council in preparing such a list has
followed a method similar to that adopted
by Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the President of
the National Council of Women of the
United States. Some time ago Mrs. Swift
issued a letter to the President of every
National organization and every Local Coun-
cil belonging to the National Council asking
her to nominate women to present papers,
and to participate in the discussion of the
International Congress of 1904. Each such
President was invited to nominate (first)
such members of her own organization as
seemed desirable; (second) women outside

[Column 2]
of her organization and in any part of the
country, whose culture, and achievments
would indicate the propriety of their being
invited to take part in such a meeting.
	Mrs. Swift invited her correspondents to
send their answers to her communication
before October 15th, so that she might find
them awaiting her arrival. Mrs. Swift
arrived in New York on October 20th. She
will come directly to Indianapolis where her
correspondents were invited to address their
replies to her official communication, and
where she will make up the lists of speakers
and writers to be sent to the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements. Mrs. Swift has
invited me to assist her in this work. It is
the desire of both of us that a large number
of American women shall be present in
Berlin during the Third Quinquennial of
the International Council, and the Interna-
tional Congress which will follow it. It is,
moreover, our desire that the American point
of view on every question discussed at both
the Council Quinquennial and the Congress
shall be ably presented. We unite in solic-
ting suggestions concerning the best pos-
sible speakers, writers, and participants in
discussions etc. from all sources. Any one
who reads this article, and is interested in
its contents is invited to send her sugges-
tions concerning American representatives
on the program of the Congress, either to
the President of the National organization
to which she belongs, which in turn is affil-
iated with the National Council of Women
of the United States, to the President of the
Local Council to which she belongs, or di-
rectly to the President of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States who dur-
ing October may be addressed at 633 N.
Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Indiana.
	One very important decision was reached
at the Dresden Executive which should be
mentioned here. The German Committee
of Arrangements gave notice that it was
their purpose that no one should speak in
the public meetings whose voice can not
easily be heard in the largest auditorium,
and that no one should be either invited or
permitted to read papers or take part in dis-
cussions in the sectional meetings, who can
not speak in a voice to be heard easily in a
hall of ordinary size adapted to a sectional
Congress meeting. People who have suf-
fered (and who has not?) the agony of strain-
ing to hear weak, wavering, unpenetrating
voices, will rejoice at this decision, and I
make no doubt that women of such firmness
of character as constitute the German Com-
mittee of Arrangements will carry out their
purpose.
	I am often asked what language will be
used at the Congress. According to a de-
cision made in 1900 in Paris, any speaker or
writer may present her views in English,
German, or French. So far as papers are
concerned, in as much as the audiences will
necessarily be largely composed of Germans,
if papers are to be given in French or Eng-
lish, it seems proper that German transla-
tions should be made, and distributed to the
audience.
	Long ago when the National Council of
Women of the United States was organized,
the question arose as to whether an organi-
zation which was committed to the policy of
making no propaganda for any cause that
did not command the unanimous vote of its
Executive, could ever do anything of any
consequence. The founders of the Council
then said: “Let all organizations that are
committed to a definite propaganda enter

[Column 3]
the Council, let the Council itself remain a
non-partisan, meeting ground and the result
will be that it will become a more efficient
agent in the promotion of Woman Suffrage
than a Suffrage organization itself ever can
be.” It would seem as if this declaration
was justified by what has happened in the
short space of fifteen years—even in the
short space of four years. In 1899 a diffi-
culty arose as to having a public meeting
on Suffrage held under the auspices of the
International Council. Now, the Commit-
tee of Arrangements for an International
Congress in the country that has always
been regarded as the peculiar realm of the
house-frau provides for the same recognition
of Woman’s Suffrage as of the Higher Edu-
cation of Women. This simple fact is sig-
nificant of much.
	The chairman of the Committee of local
arrangements for both the Quinquennial of
the Council, and the International Congress
is Frau Hedwig Heyl. Frau Heyl who is,
I understand, aided by a most admirably
selected committee, announced at Dresden
that the Philharmonic Hall in Berlin would
be available for the meetings of both Inter-
national Council, and International Con-
gress. Frau Heyl was herself in attendance
upon the Executive at Dresden, and par-
ticularly asked that each National Council
should make a collection of the photographs
of their leading pioneer women, and of its
members who would necessarily be absent,
for the decoration of the rooms in which the
meetings will be held.
	At Dresden, just as much social pleasure
as was compatible with the heavy work on
hand, was provided for the entertainment
of the delegates. On the evening of the
16th, the officers of the German Council
entertained the officers of the International
Council, and the members of the Executive
with a company of selected guests from
their own National Council at a beautiful
banquet. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednes-
day, the members of the Executive were
entertained together at luncheon; a function
which in the length of time it occupied,
might well have been called a banquet. On
all of these occasions, conversation was en-
livened by toasts, clever speeches and
music. On Thursday, after the late adjourn-
ment of the Executive, its members were
entertained by the officers of the German
Council by a trip to Meissen, and given a
beautiful luncheon in the garden overlook-
ing this picturesque old suburb. Arriving
at Meissen, before repairing to the garden
for luncheon, the guests were conducted by
their hostesses through devious ways up
and down streets that are rugged to the
point of being precipitous, to pay their rev-
erent respects to the memory of Louise Otto,
by looking at the house where she lived for
many years, and where her death took place
in——. As a tablet placed by the German
Council shows Louise Otto was the founder
of the woman’s movement in Germany, and
if one may credit the statements of her ad-
mirers, she must have been a woman most
richly endowed; erudite and eloquent, a re-
former and a poet, she united the culture
which can only be gathered in retirement,
with the passion for humanity which often
summoned her from her retirement to the
forefront of publicity. Louise Otto is re-
garded by German women as Lucretia Mott,
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony
and Lucy Stone are regarded by Americans,
and as they will increasingly be regarded
as American women come more and more


to seek the roots of the tree of knowledge
and opportunity whose fruits they now so
freely pluck.
	If the International Council has already
a vitality which will compel women to come
together from widely scattered countries at
the expense and fatigue incident to journeys
of thousands of miles, merely that they may
confer three or four days in business ses-
sions, we may anticipate that public meet-
ings like the Quinquennial of 1904, and the
International Congress incident to it, will
not be lacking in participants, or in auditors.
May the United States of America, furnish
its full quota of both!
	The increasing growth of the Council
may be inferred from the fact that the Pres-
ident was authorized to name Honorary
Vice Presidents for Peru, Chili, Mexico,
Japan, and Turkey; in each country steps
having been taken looking toward Council
organization.
	Hoping that the business core of commu-
nication will not be lost by its readers in
the digressions which have been made, and
hoping that prompt responses may soon
come from every Council worker who would
have a voice in suggesting names for the
programs of next summer’s meeting, I con-
clude a communication written for Mrs. Swift
as well as myself,
		(signed) MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the International Council
				of Woman.
October 20, 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.

	OUTLINE, SALT LAKE STAKE.

Lectu;e VII.—The Gospel the Embodiment
	of all Good:
		(I) Truth, Honesty, Obedience, in-
	tegrity and all the beautiful in life.
	“Casting down imagination and every
	high thing that exalteth itself against
	the knowledge of God, and bringing
	into captivity every thought to the 
	obedience of Christ.”
		II Corinthians, chap. x, verse v.

Lecture VIII.—Social Home Life:
		Refinded entertainment and social in-
	struction in the home is a counter-at-
	traction and prepares the young man
	and woman to meet and judge properly
	life and influence in the world.
		(I) Mutual participation with parents
	and children in conversation and 
	amusements.
		(a) Teach order, thoughtfulness,
	obedience and politeness in the home,
	at the table and in conversation.
		(b) Encourage sports and games out-
	doors as well as in for physical devel-
	opment and mental recreation.

Lecture IX.—Education Theoretical and
	Practical:
		“The glory of God is intelligence.”
	Education is the greatest factor both in
	the business and in the social world.
		(I) It is a help both to the teacher
	and the child when parents interest
	themselves in school life.
		(a) Study the natural bent of the
	child’s nature and strive to educate to
	future needs.
		(b) Avoid a waste of brain tissue,
	bodily strength, time and means by
	cramming and training in useless
	lines.

[Column 2]
		(c) Literature and the Arts com-
	bined with manual training and domes-
	tic science make the useful and refined
	life.
		The truest and best education is that 
	which makes the man or woman the
	most useful.

Lecture X.—Spiritual Character:
			“As it is done in heaven.”
		(I) Reverence authority. Obedience
	is the first law of heaven and order is
	the result of that obedience.”
		(a) The priesthood the government
	of God upon the earth.
	“The truth will make you free” (Doc. and 
Cov. Lecture 84. verses 21 and 22.)

Lecture XI.—Marriage:
		The parents are the high priests
	responsible to God for the spirit of
	their ministry. The home is the sanc-
	tuary of the human race where each
	generation is consecrated for life’s
	work.
		(I) Teach the sacredness and glory
	of the Temple marriage compared with 
	the temporal.
		(a) Dwell upon the rights of eternal
	inheritance and warn against the dis-
	inheritance of our posterity.
		The ties that bind us here
			Are not for life alone,
		No! hold them ever dear
			In heaven they’re closer drawn,”

Lecture XII.—Patriotism:
	“We bel[-]eve in being subject to Kings, Presi-
dents, rulers and magistrates in obeying, honor-
ing and sustaining the law.”

		Every family owes the sacred duty of
	planting in the minds and hearts of lts
	growing members, enthusiasm for
	their country, love for its history and 
	its flag, obedience to its laws and rev-
	erance for its institutions.
		(I) If you wish your sons and
	daughters to make good citizens instil
	in their hearts a love and devotion for
	home and country.
		The greatest Americans have had
	patriotic mothers.
			ANNIE W. CANNON,
			CARRIE S. THOMAS,
			JULIA S. WOOLLEY,
						Committee.


[Column 1]
		EREMONT STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Fremont
Stake was held July 27th, 1903 in Flamm’s
Hall, Rexburg, Idaho, President Temp-
erance Hinckley presiding. After the usual
exercises etc., the stake officers were sustain-
ed. The President called for reports, fif-
teen branches were satisfactorily reported
out of seventeen. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff, President of Granite Stake and mem-
ber of the General Board complimented
the sisters on their good reports and
stated that she had asked President Bath-
sheba W. Smith what she should say to
the sisters; she replied. “Tell them to get
the spirit of God and keep it.”
	Sister Woodruff urged them to get the
young mothers out to attend the lectures
and to join the society, have them help sing
and lecture they will make your meetings
more interesting and beneficial to all. “We
will be judged out of the books and if we
have no credit marks it will be a poor
	ord.”

[Column 2]
	Explained the Woman’s Building and
spoke upon purity and duties of teachers;
read minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society and some minutes of the first
meetings; exhorted all to take the EXPON-
ENT, as it would be a great help.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt love and
sympathy for all women, thought pioneer
life had been a good school, like purifying
gold; spoke of the progress of the society
for the last fifty years and on home influence,
developing of mind, teaching children the
principles of the Gospel was beautifully por-
trayed, light and intelligence has flowed
from heaven in the heart of woman since
this society was organized; spoke upon Tem-
ple work and the blessings lost by those who
married outside.
	Apostle M. F. Cowley congratulated the
sisters on their labor and spoke of Temple
work, the necessity of getting genealogy,
told them to work together in harmony, have
no envy or jealousy among you, be broad and
generous in your views and you will be
blest, women have great influence for good
or evil, gave much good counsel.
	Elder J. Golden Kimball spoke upon a
wife’s influence, earnestly advised mothers
to teach their children right, referred to the
grand work of this society. What it
had done in sending out qualified nurses,
they are angels of mercy. Said you are
casting your bread upon the waters, his
sympathy was with the women, they were
doing a great missionary work, touched up-
on faith and industry.
	President Thomas E. Bassett endorsed all
that had been said, and added that he
would like every Relief Society in the stake
to have a good granary built and ready to
put their wheat in this fall; he was thank-
ful for the instructions received.
	At the afternoon session, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde gave a discourse on various
duties of the sisters, laying up wheat and
the care of it, explained the Woman’s
Building in detail, also mother’s work, how
it should be conducted, the love and care of
children; advised all to take the EXPONENT
urged the sisters to choose a committee and
have a plan of work prepared for the stake
and submitted to the General Board for ap-
proval. “Live the Gospel and be patient,
your reward will be sure”.
	President Emma S. Woodruff spoke upon
the power of love, the great things that
could be accomplished through it, gave her
experience of her own work as a teacher,
how she had traveled six and seven miles
with her baby in her arms to teach and visit
the sisters, spoke with much earnestness on
Temple work, advised all to respect the
priesthoodand to have love and charity, with-
out this they could not be happy, Advised 
them to hold officers meetings once a month.
President Temperance Hinckley gave a vote
of thanks to the visiting sisters. Counselor
Matilda Flamm made a few remarks express-
ing her joy and good will towards all and
desire to press forward in the work.
	A committee was then elected to prepare
a plan of mother’s work, Sisters Susan
Stevens, Martha Lloyd, Sarah A. Barnes
and Carrie Smith. It was stated by the
President that a Stake Fair was to be held
at the next quarterly conference and it was
suggested each member make some article
for the Fair to be sold to create a fund for
the stake, she said in closing, “I trust you
will all try and put in practice the good and
grand instructions we have had today.” Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
		SARAH A. BARNES, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1903


INSTRUCTIONS TO MISSIONARIES.
	We have but two organizations of our
sisters that are recognized in the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—the Re-
lief Society; and the Young Ladies, (the
Primary is composed of both girls and boys.)
The class of Nurses and the Mothers’
Work are under the Relief Society, have
no separate organization or separate meet-
ings, and the same President and Counsel-
ors. If the Relief Society President and
Counselors wish to choose help to assist
them, they may select such help as they
think best to lecture, etc.
	The first duty of the President, Counsel-
ors, and other officers and teachers, is to
look after the poor and needy, sick and des-
titute; and to look after the morals of the
young. Teach them to be industrious,
truthful, kind and obliging. Mothers
should teach their children to pray, to ob-
serve the Sabbath day, to pay their tithing
and fast-day donations; never to smoke, or
use stimulants of any kind; never to swear,
or use bad words or slang; to attend Sunday
School and not congregate on the streets at
night; to be neat and tidy in their dress and
not follow after the Gentile fashions to ex-
cess. Be kind to animals; and let love
abound in their hearts. Be united in all
good works and the Lord will bless you
and your joy will be full.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
	IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY.
						Counselors.
Salt Lake City, April 30, 1903.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S COUNCIL
	NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL
	Perhaps only a few women, comparatively
speaking, comprehend the objects and aims
of the great Councils of women that hold
their sessions triennially and quinquennially
in the United States and other countries.
	If, in brief, a correct idea of these two
great organizations can be given, it would
be an advantage to us all, perhaps, and, at
any rate, increase our knowledge of what
women are doing, and striving to accom-
plish for humanity.
	Most of our sisters know a great deal
about suffrage, having heard it so many
years, and also having had practical exper-
ience, and object lessons on the subject.
	Out of the National Woman’s Suffrage
Association grew the International Council

[Column 2]
of Women. If one were to follow out the
idea of our dear departed Sister Eliza R.
Snow, one would say it was organized, a
head without a body, but as the child’s
head is always presented first in nature, one
need not be blamed for following nature’s
example.
	The formation of the International Coun-
cil originated with a few grand, women,
and was the result, one might say, of forty
years experience in “a demand for equal
educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women,” the forty years
dating from the convention held at Seneca
Falls, New York, in 1848.
	The call for the convening of the Interna-
tional Council of Women says:
	“To celebrate the fortieth anniversary of
the event an international Council of
Women will be convened under the auspices
of the National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion in Albaugh’s Opera House, Washing-
ton, D. C., on March 25, 1888.”
	There is not space to give all the call
here, but it was signed by the officers of the
N. W. S. A. under whose auspices it was
convened, and an extensive program pre-
pared. The Council lasted eight days and
held fifteen public sessions.
	The Constitution of this Council in respect
to its “General Policy” reads:
	“This International Council is organized
in the interest of no one propaganda, and
has no power over its auxilaries beyond
that of suggestion and sympathy. No
National Council voting to become auxi-
liary to the International shall thereby ren-
der itself liable to be interfered with in re-
spect to its complete organic unity, inde-
pendence or methods of work, or shall be
committed to any principle, or method of
any other council, or to any utterance, or
act of the International Council beyond
compliance with the terms of this Constitu-
tion.”
	This great International Council has five
general officers—president, vice-president-
at-large, corresponding secretary, recording
secretary and treasurer. Each president of
a National Council is ex-officio vice-presi-
dent of the Iniernational Council.
	The first president of the International
Council was Millicent Grant Fawcett, Eng-
land; Vice-President-at-Large Clara Barton,
American; Corresponding Secretary Rachel
G. Foster, America; Recording Secretary
Kristine Frederickson, Denmark; Treasurer
Isabelle Bogelot, France.
	The first officers of the National Council
were:
	President Frances E. Willard, Vice-Presi-
dent-at-Large Susan B. Anthony, Corres-
ponding Secretary, May Wright Sewall,
Recording Secretary Mary F. Eastman,
Treasurer M. Louise Thomas.
	The National Council of Women has
the same Constitution as the Interhational
except such differences as must naturally re-
sult from what would be natural in one
country, and what all countries combined
would make. The National Council of the
United States holds triennial sessions and
is composed of national organizations, while
the International holds quinquennial ses-
sions and is composed of National Councils
of different countries.
	The preamble to the constitution of the
National Council reads, “We women of
the United States,” the International pre-
amble reads, “We women of all nations.”
	The first quinquennial of the Interna-
tional was held at Chicago in 1893, and the
next in London in 1899. The next quin-

[Column 3]
quennial will be held in Berlin, Germany,
in 1904.
	All triennials of the National Council of
the United States have been held in Wash-
ington, D. C. The next triennial of the
National Council will be held in 1905.
	The Relief Society joined the National
Council of Women of the United States at
its first triennial in 1891. The National
Council holds annual executive sessions in
different states, the last one was held in
New Orleans in March of this year, the
next one will be held in Indianapolis in
1904.
	The International Council also holds an-
nual executive sessions in different coun-
tries. This year the I. C. W. held its an-
nual in Dresden, Germany. Last year it
was held in Copenhagen, Denmark.
	A single paragraph from the speech of
the Countess of Aberdeen, president of the
International Council at its opening session
in London in 1899 will give a good idea of
the Council. “It will be asked how in the
world can such a conglomeration of associa-
tions existing in so many different countries
and formed for so many various objects,
some actually opposed to one another and
comprising hundreds of thousands of
women of different religions, different races
and upbringings, have an intelligible pur-
pose and work together for a practical end?
	“And yet we claim that in the very var-
iety of opinions and ideas and methods of
work, which exist among us, lies our raison
d’etre, the centre and kernel of our being.
For the unity which it is our aim to seek
after does not lie in identity of organization
nor in identity of dogma, but in a common
consecration to the service of humanity in
the spirit of that love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.”
	The motto of the Council is the golden
rule, “Do unto others as you would they
sholud do unto you.”


HONOR TO APOSTLE H. J. GRANT.
	A very pleasant company gathered by in-
vitation Monday evening, Oct. 12, at the
Old Cannon Home on Cannon Farm, by in-
vitation of General John Q. and Mrs. Can-
non in honor of the distinguished guest,
Apostle Grant, and his wife. The evening
was pleasantly passed in social chat and some
very interesting reminiscences of Brother
Grant’s sojourn in Japan, his experiences in
various ways, his descriptions of the habits,
and customs of the people, their manners,
their language and economy, his ideas con-
cerning the future of the mission there, all
entertainingly given, was very new and edi-
fying to those who had so little knowledge of
this great people about whom we hear so
much and know so little.
	Some choice songs by Mrs. Carol Y. Can-
non, accompanied by Miss Grace Cannon,
and negro melodies and whistling by Bishop
Whitney; and by urgent request he sang the
old song “No Irish Need Apply.”
	Refreshments were served by the hostess
assisted by Miss Grace Cannon and the
daughters Louise, Margaret and Emme-
line. The guests were Apostle Heber J.
Grant and wife, Governor Heber M. Wells
and wife, Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon, Bishop
O. F. Whitney and wife, Mrs Lydia Ann
Wells, Elder Rulon S. Wells and wife, Mrs.
Eliza T. Cannon, Mrs. Susan H. Wells, Mr.
H. L. A. Culmer and wife, Mrs. Isabel M.
W. Sears, Elder Sylvester Q. Cannon, and
Mrs. E. B. Wells, together with the numer-
ous houseful of little Cannons, including the
wonderful twins.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEETING OF THE D. R.
	The Daughters of the Revolution State
Society met on Friday, October 16, 1903, at
the residence of Dr. and Mrs. E. S. Wright.
The handsome parlors and hall were beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion with bright
autumn flowers and leaves in abundance,
asters, dahlias and chrysanthemums, etc.
The stars and stripes were displayed, also the
new State flag made by the Daughters at the
request of the Governor, and used for the
first time at the Fair grounds in St. Louis
when the site for the Utah building was dedi-
cated. The Regent, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears, pre-
sided and there was a goodly attendance of
the members. Business was transacted retal-
ating to the fac similes of the Declaration of
Independence, also in regard to collection of
books and press notices to be forwarded to
the Library of the General Society in New
York City.
	One new member was voted in and heartily
welcomed in with a rising vote, Mrs. Ann
Louise Lyman King, wife of Judge Wm. H.
King, member of the U. S. Congress from
Utah for some years.
	The topic of the day was Benjamin Frank-
lin, and was given by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth and was delightfully rendered
and entertainingly prepared. The song
“America,” set to the new prize music, was
sung by Mrs. Carol Young Cannon in fine
style. Mrs. Cannon has a remarkably rich,
musical voice, Miss Grace Cannon accompan-
ed her on the piano. Meeting closed with
benediction by Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
and afterwards dainty refreshments were
served and social conversation indulged in.
Dr. Wright favored the ladies with some sel-
ections on the piano. The next meeting,
Nov. 16, will be at the residence of Judge and
Mrs. King.


A PLEASANT AFTERNOON.
	Mrs. Walter Pyper gave an afternoon
luncheon, Tuesday, Oct. 15, to a few ladies
at her pretty new home in this city, in honor
of her mother, Mrs Gurene Torgenson, who
is here from Logan on a visit to her daughter.
The rooms were prettily decorated with late
flowers and autumn leaves which were charm-
ingly bright and cheery. The luncheon was
artistically served, and consisted of a very
appetizing and dainty variety and the conver-
sation was mostly reminiscences of early days
when Mrs. Torgenson lived in Salt Lake
City before her marriage, and was naturally
very agreeable to the friends of the guest of
honor, as well as herself, and amusing to the
younger generation, Mrs. Pyper and Mrs.
Whitney.
	The ladies present were Mrs. Torgenson,
guest of honor, Mrs. Orson F. Whitney,
Mrs. Alexander Pyper, Mesdames Martha G.,
Lydia Ann, Susan H., Hannah C. and E. B.
Wells; Mrs. Walter Pyper hostess. The day
will be a happy remembrance in the minds of
all present, thanks to the amiable and kindly
hostess.


U. W. P. C. MEETING.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
first meeting after the summer vacation, Sat-
urday evening, September 26, 1903 at the
residence of Hon. Andrew Jenson and wife,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox, the president, presiding.
	The attendance of members was not very
large, but there were a number of invited
guests, among them President Anthon H.
Lund and wife. Current events were given
by Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, and Mrs. E. B. Wells


by request gave the origin and objects of the
Press Club. President Lund made a brief
address, dwelling upon education, gaining in-
telligence and similar themes. Brother
Andrew Jenson gave a fifteen minutes talk on
his trip around the world in which he touched
many countries, encountered many people,
heard many languages, saw many curious
things, and told it in such a graphic manner
that the audience were almost spell-bound.
	The meeting closed with prayer, and then
we were nearly deluged with good things to
eat altogether the evening was delightfully
pleasant, thanks to Sister Emma Jenson, who
is a very hospitable hostess.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	The general conference of the Relief
Society was held Saturday, October 3, 1903,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in this city.
There was an excellent representation from
the several stakes of Zion. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and all the general officers
and a majority of the board were present.
	Congregation sang, “Our God, we raise
to Thee” prayer was offered by President
Susannah P. Booth of Box Elder stake
continued by singing, “Redeemer of Is-
rael.”
	Roll call responded to by thirty-five
stakes.
	President B. W. Smith welcomed the au-
dience in a cordial manner, with a happy
greeting, it was very cheering to her to see
so many interested enough to come out on
a Saturday morning. Sister Smith felt she
would like to embrace them all, but would
be content with shaking their hands. She
said, “I love the Relief Society, we have a
great work to do if we only perform it. I
want to see the young mothers and grand-
mothers join this Society and learn from the
older ones. I love all the societies, but feel
this one to be the most important of all.
it is the oldest Society organized by the
Prophet Joseph, and what could be greater
and nobler than trying to carry out his
wishes? I think we understand our duty
fully. I trust we all try to keep the Sab-
bath day and keep the Word of Wisdom
train our children to grow up pure and vir-
tuous we want to please our Prophet and
have him meet with us. We have our
duties to perform, and one is to take the
EXPONENT, it will help us in our work, es-
pecially in our mother’s work and the
presidents must take care of this matter
and not let them go to extremes, but pre-
side over and watch this part of the work
more than anything else. It is necessary
to take good care of our families.”
	President Smith said art and science are
all right, and it is nice to take care of our
appearance, but these were not all. She
recommended reading the Book of Mor-
mon, Doctrine and Covenants and all our
Church works. I hope we will have a
good time together, that we may go home
rejoicing and try to live so that we may be
worthy of all our blessings. God bless you,
Amen.
	Counselor Sarah M. Pomeroy, Maricopa
Stake, Arizona, made an interesting report.
They could not have meetings during the
hot weather; she spoke highly of the pres-
dent, Sister Mabel A. Hakes; it was a very
rough country to travel over, but visited
all once a year the Indian sisters were very
good, had great faith, she never knew of
such faith as was manifested among the 
Laraanites they dress their children well
and fast becoming civilized; the people

[Column 2]
labor under many difficulties, but are not
discouraged.
	President Rebecca Standring, Alpine
Stake, made a most excellent report, they
have many young mothers enrolled mem-
bers, they have a granary and about four
thousand bushels of grain stored. This is
really one of the banner stakes, and Sister
Standring is a very capable president,
though only one among the many. She
closed her remarks by blessing Sister Smith
and her aids.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, expressed her great joy at being
present and seeing so many assembled in
conference, spoke forcibly upon storing
grain and not keeping the money the So-
ciety had for that purpose in the bank
thought filling our granaries should be our
first work after looking after the sick and
the poor. Thought there was no greater
work in Zion than the work of the Relief
Society gave a statistical and financial as
well as general report of the condition of
her stake, and closed by saying, “I want to
be among the number of the true and faith-
ful in the cause of Zion.”
	Counselor Sarah Call, Bannock Stake,
and Counselor L. M. Hart, Bear Lake
Stake, Idaho President C. C. Shepherd,
Beaver, each made excellent reports of
work accomplished, conferences held, grain
and granaries; told us how they managed
the visiting and many exceedingly interest-
ing things, although they were limited to
five minutes.
	Counselor Avilda Dixon of the Big Horn
Stake (a new tract of country, stake only
organized three years), gave us some idea
of colonization over there, described the
city of white tents before the houses were
built, they had similar experiences to our
early pioneers she realized that the Lord
had blessed them abundantly and the land
for their sake, though they had been called
from different localities and came together
there to build up a stake of Zion, yet they
had become strongly attached to each other
and union and harmony prevailed. Sister
Dixon referred to their very capable and
lovable president. Sister Lucy F. Grant
she also spoke of the interest the sisters
had taken in the young boys who had
come there away from their homes to work
on the canal and the railroad.
	Sister Mary L. Morgan represented Juab
Stake by request, President Lilyus C. Page
Nebo Stake, Sister Mary A. Standiforth
Snowflake Stake, Arizona, Counselor
Annie B. Kennington Star Valley Stake,
Wyoming, Counselor Selina Phillips St.
Joseph Stake, Arizona, gave many good
items concerning their society work, condi-
tions of the people and other matters per-
taining to material progress and spiritual
growth of Zion.
	All those who spoke expressed the hope
that Sister Bathsheba, our president, would
live long to cheer us with her good words
and bright, cheerful face.
	Sister Maggie C. Hull with her beautiful
voice sang, “Save one bright crown for
me.”
	Benediction, Counselor Sarah Jane Can-
non, Salt Lake Stake, and conference ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session: A large congregation
assembled and many representatives from a
distance and a number of brethren: Presi-
dent B. W. Smith presiding, Professor C.
Thomas, Temple choir leader, and some. 
of his best singers rendered, “Oh, say what
is truth.” Prayer was offered by Zina


[Column 1]
Young Card. Singing, “Now is the voice
that nature breathes.” President Smith
announced that Sister Lizzie Smith Cart-
wright would give her lecture on

THE CHILD’S RIGHTS IN THE HOME.
	The lecture was finely given in excellent
voice and contained many helpful suggest-
ions for those who are engaged in Mother’s
work in the Relief Society. A number of
good points were brought out, and alto-
gether it showed much serious thought and
careful preparation.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake was the first speaker after the lecture.
Sister Richards expressed herself as having
been edified by the lecture and spoke favor-
ably of the mother’s work in her own stake,
and eloquently of her great love for chil-
dren, little and big. She thought we should
never be cross to them. “The Lord is so
kindly and forgiving with us that we ought
to be forgiving with our children. The
younger the sisters can be taught these
things the better. There is no better thing
that we can do in this world, than to teach
our children to grow up good and true Lat-
ter-day Saints.” The speaker referred to
meetings in her own stake, and the exertion
she had made where a dilatory feeling had
existed in regard to holding meetings, and
the Bishop had become discouraged; she un-
dertook to help and had met with good suc-
cess in visiting as a teacher from house to
house. “Kind words from the sisters are
comforting, and are pleasing to the Lord.”
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, said
they were a band of faithful workers in that
stake, she gave some statistical and financial
figures, and mentioned specially the storing
of grain, she thought theirs was well taken
care of and was keeping good. Explained
what had been done in mothers work and
the satisfaction it had given, spoke of the
booklet published which had been very
helpful; she wanted the children to keep in
the straight and narrow path.
	President Mary E. Schofield, Union
Stake, Oregon, felt they had a small be-
ginning; the organization had only been
completed about three years- and the
branches were quite scattered: nevertheless
they had held officer’s meetings, and were
commencing the mother’s work; the sisters
met in the different homes; had not yet
stored much grain, although they lived in
a good grain country, the Bishop had ad-
vised every one over twenty-one years of
age to give a bushel of wheat; in their
stake they were mostly young sisters with-
out much experience. They had just held
a conference and were visited by Sisters
Annie Taylor Hyde and Emma S. Wood-
ruff.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake,
said they were not so far away, but it was
hard work getting there; the sisters were
helping to build meeting houses and a
Stake Tabernacle. Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff visited them this year and they had a
good time. The Relief Society has four
granaries and two meeting houses; some
of the granaries were lined with tin and the
grain screened on the top with wire to pro-
tect the grain from mice; had introduced
mother’s work; always visit each ward
once a year, and sometimes three or four
times.
	President Andrew Kimball of St. Joseph
Stake, Arizona, addressed the conference;
spoke well of the country down there, and
highly of the sisters in the Relief Society;

[Column 2]
said, “we have invited the sisters to join us
on priesthood day, all come together in the
morning in the Sunday School Union, and
at noon all the officers meet, and at 2 o’clock
we have the sisters meet with us, and there-
by they have the key to the work of the
Lord; the sisters sometimes out number the
men, after the roll call and preliminary
work, the sisters retire to other rooms and
the brethren go on with their detail work.
Our sisters are all humble and are like our
mothers, and we all love them. I am much
interested in the mother’s work, we cannot
take too much care of our sisters”
	Counselor Alice R. Woolley reported
Tooele Stake as in a very encouraging con-
dition, mother’s work had been started in
almost every branch gave some figures of
membership etc., said it was the first time
she had attended a Relief Society Conference
in seven years, as her lot had been cast in
the Hawaiian Mission. The Relief Society
on those islands is very flourishing the
sisters take great interest in their meetings
and their work. We have home-missionary
sisters there who spend almost their entire
time visiting in different districts, and many
have been brought out to the meetings,
who had not attended for years; and many
had been converted to the faith through
these missionary sisters. Our white sisters
visit all the Islands at least once a year, she
was happy and contented to labor on the
Islands the seven years she was away, and
would have gladly stayed longer had her
health permitted.
	President Lydia Rich, Morgan Stake
gave some facts and figures of the work in
that stake, said they held conferences twice
a year besides each branch was represented
once a year in Ward Conference; they had
held one meeting with the priesthood, and
realized it did them good. The Bishops
helped them look after the wheat, thought
what they had was in good condition; they
had started the lectures in Mothers’ work
and felt they would be a blessing; the So-
ciety was onward and upward in caring for
the sick and needy; she hoped we would be
mothers to those around us as well as to
our own.
	General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams
read the financial report for the year from
Oct. 1902 to Oct. 1903; Sister E. B. Wells
moved the report be accepted, seconded by
Sister Emma S. Woodruff put before the
meeting by the President and carried un-
animously.
	Counselor Annie S. Hyde addressed the
conference, she had felt quite encouraged
by the reports that had been given and es-
pecially the reports about the Mothers’
work; she hoped the young mothers would
come out and appreciate the effort that was
being made for them; she loved to hear the
reports from the far away stakes, those that
were young and struggling like the Big
Horn. She felt the sisters were getting
their reward as they go along by doing good.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, felt glad
the brethren were taking an interest in our
work; related an incident of her experience
in meeting with strangers on the train, who
had questioned her concerning Salt Lake,
the Temple and our organizations, and were
perfectly surprised to hear about the great
number of women engaged in our organiza-
tions. Sister Dusenberry spoke particu-
larly of the duties of the teachers, and
thought there was no more important posi-
tion in the society than that of teacher; she
had been much grieved to hear from one
stake of a sister, who had suffered want un-

[Column 3]
known to her society, and she wondered
where the teacher was who could have given
the needed comfort. “If the teacher does
her duty she will keep in touch with the
sisters around her and will enter into a
knowledge of their conditions, through her
sympathetic nature, and be the means of
doing good in her calling.
	President B W. Smith felt we had en-
joyed a splendid conference; she had felt
diffident about her position when she was
called to preside, because she felt her work
was in the Temple, but she sent her miss-
ionaries out to represent her in the different
stakes, she rejoiced in the work and felt we
had listened to many good reports in this
conference, her blessing was with the sist-
ers who were laboring zealously in this great
work.
	The Secretary Sister E, B. Wells made
some annoucemeuts of meetings, etc.
	President Emma S. Woodruff of Granite
Stake, gave a concise statistical and finan-
cial report of the stake and among other
items stated that the society had paid over
four hundred dollars to the stake house.
Meetings are held regularly every two
weeks and once a month with the presidency
of the stake. Two sisters from each ward
are called to work in the Temple every
week, they also send sister missionaries
from one ward to another; and to visit those
residing in the vicinity who are not of our
faith.
	Lovely singing “The End of the Way”
by Sister Maggie C. Hull, Professor Thomas
and other singers joining in the chorus.
Meeting adjourned until 7.30 in the evening.
Benediction by President Andrew Kimball.

	At the close of the afternoon conference
an informal meeting was held by the general
superintendent of nurses Emma A. Empey
and the instructor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts.
An excellent talk by superintendent Empey,
and definite instruction given by Dr. Rob
erts, also remarks by the secretary and trea-
surer, Phebe Young Beatie, in which she
spoke particularly of the origin of the nur-
ses class etc., and what she realized it had
meant to the students and the communities
who had the benefit of this practical train-
ing for the sick room.

	Evening session of the conference com-
menced at 7.30, President B. W. Smith pre-
siding. “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah,”
Prayer by President Ann C. Woodbury of
St. George Stake, singing, “O, Jesus the
Giver.”
	Counselor Rebecca Eames, Cache stake,
made a favorable report of conditions and of
active work; the Mother’s work had been
started and they felt it was bringing out
some of the young mothers.
	President A. C. Steele, Bingham Stake,
Idaho—This is a very large stake, seven
hundred miles to travel, mostly by team, in
visiting the society branches; about two-
thirds of the branches have good substan-
tial granaries; mother’s work has been in-
troduced, and when Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and
Sister Lydia D. Alder came to our confer-
ence, they gave us good instructions on this
and other subjects.
	President Maria B. Hyde, Pocatello
Stake, Idaho, had been very recently ap-
pointed to the position, and this was her
first experience in reporting the stake, felt
the work was very new to her, knew they
had some good workers, thought if the
teachers would do their duty that great
benefits would ensue; they had taken up


the mother’s work, but realized that they
must not lose sight of the charitable work,
for which the organization was formed.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, gave some statistics, and an idea
of distances that they had to travel—one
thousand miles—in visiting the Stake; once
a year they go all the way around; the peo-
ple are scattered and have many hardships
to contend with, but they are striving with
all their might to do right; the men have
to word very hard and the sisters have to
help them. Many families do not raise 
their bread and the young men have to go
away, and there are many inconveniencies;
they are building a canal, and if the water
can be brought on the land, it will become
fruitful; they are willing to work and the
Lord has blessed them.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, Idaho—We visit around the
stake twice a year, all do their duty, have 
officers meetings once a month, have not
yet started the mother’s work, have held
back until they could get proper instruction;
felt that we had been blessed in this confer-
ence, and that a good spirit had prevailed.
	Sister Zina Young Card reported for Can-
ada. The officers there hold meetings every
Quarterly Conference; they find the mother’s
work a drawing card for the young mother’s
and they are seeking to make the best of
it, recently had a visit from Sisters Dusen-
berry and Little, which was fully apprecia-
ted, she felt the sisters were doing the best
they could in a new country; they had two
granaries and are endeavoring to save some
more grain this year. They have not sent
any nurses to study, the laws up there make
it difficult to do some of those things. The 
EXPONENT was not very broadly taken, but
they intend having more copies, as the sis-
ters cannot get along without it. There had
never been a ripple in the Stake Board,
have avoided all discord and worked to-
gether in the greatest harmony, the sisters
respond cheerfully to every call and help
one another. Sister Card said: I never ex-
pect to report Alberta Stake again, as we 
have moved to Cache Valley, but I hope
the sisters will continue to be united and
increase in good works.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith made a
few remarks and gave the sisters from a
distance liberty to ask questions if they so
desired. The subjects of storing wheat,
woman’s building and mother’s work were
the principal topics, the President explain-
ing and giving such informaticn as seemed
needful, and speaking words of comfort and
of cheer to the sisters, and blessing them
with peace and love. The Secretary gave
notice of the annual business meeting of 
the society, to be held in that hall, Monday,
October 5, at 4:30 p. m.
	Congregation sang “Redeemer of Israel”
and conference adjourned six months, un-
til April, 1901. Elder C. J. Thomas pro-
nounced the benediction.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON,
		Secretary pro tem.,
	E. B. WELLS,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			MOTHERS' WORK.
			EMERY STAKE.
"Woman rocks the cradle of the world.—ELLA
WILLIAMS.
First Talk.— Woman.
	“She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in
her tongue is the law of kindness.
	“Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a

[Column 2]
woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised.
“Give her of the fruit of her hands and let her
own works praise her in the gates.”—Proverbs,
Chapter 31.
I.—Her Sphere and Mission.
	(a) In ancient times how was she
appreciated?
	(b) The modern changes.
	(c) As wage earner.
	(d) To be a mother to her children
and companion to her husband.
	(f) God’s commandment to Adam
and Eve. (Gen., 1st Chap., 28th
verse; also Gen., 3rd chapter, 16th
verse.)
Preparation for Her Life's Work.
	(a) How to keep well.
	(b) Need of sympathy.
	(c) Dreams of youth.
	(d) Decision and independence of
character.
	(e) Pure hearts and a virtuous life.
Advantages of Proper character Butlding.
	(a) Confidence in parents.
	(b) Direct the girls’ purpose.
	(c) Self reliance.
	(d) Choice of companions.
	(e) Sunny temper.
	(f) What reading will do.
	(g) Perils of skepticism.
	(h) Religious views essential to a
life’s companion.
	(i) Leaving home.
	(j) How to be beautiful.
	(k) Manners and dress.
Prepared by MARIA ALLEN.
Second Talk.—The Wife. 
	(a) Man’s helpmate.
	(b) Religiously.
	(c) Intellectually.
	(d) Economically.
	(e) Her rights, duties and influence-
	(f) Influence of wives in former
times. (Ref. “Women of the Bible,”)
Third Talk.—Parenthood.
	(a) Effects of parental influences.
	(b) Example.
	(c) How to control children and
how to become acquainted with them.
	(d) Parents should train, but should
not change the child’s individuality.
By RUTH MCKEE.
Fourth Talk.—Motherhood.
	(a) Motherhood provides the earthly
pleasure and eternal happiness. (Ref.
page 421, Vol. 6, No. 6, Impt. Era.
	(b) Life is made up of pleasures,
tasks, cares and duties, which, when
added together make a grand total of
human happiness.
	(c) Parental culture is a very im-
portant subject for mothers to study,
gentleness, cheerfulness, and content-
ment.
	(d) Lead by love; study their dispo-
sitions; guard against partiality.
Recite to them in simple language
stories of the Savior. Sing to them.
	(e) Self control. Once able to con-
trol our tongues, and our tempers, we
will be prepared to lead our children.
	(f) Kindness should be taught by
example to be thoroughly instilled into
the child’s nature.
By MRS. B. O. MCINTIRE.
Fifth Talk.—Infancy.
	Infants and how to care for them.
	A child is a precious gift of God.
	(a) The Bath.
	(b) The virtue of olive oil in the
case of children.

[Column 3]
	(c) Food. I. Natural. 2. Arti-
ficial. 3. Given regularly, and why?
	(d) The wardrobe. Clothing should
be light, warm, loose, and not too
long.
	(e) Harm done by giving medicine.
	(f) Essential things for babies; con-
stant care, good milk mixed with
water for food, pure air. and plenty of
sleep.
By MRS. U. E. CURTIS.
Sixth Talk.—Childhood. 
	Let a child’s home be the happiest place on
earth.
I.—Religious Training.
	(a) Prayer.
	(b) Life of Christ.
	(c) Mission of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	(d) Honor and respect for the Priest-
hood.
2.—Moral Training.
	(a) Respect for old age a nd for par-
ents.
	(b) Self reliance and self control.
	(c) Truthfulness, be kind and
gentle.
	(d) Teach the children to remain at
home at night, unless circumstances
compel them to be away.
3—.Physical Training.
	(a) Plenty of outdoor exercise and
work directed by parents.
4—.Proper Clothing.
(a) The effects of tight clothing.
	(b) Childrens’ feet should be kept
warm and dry in winter.
	(c) Mention some of the benefits of
going barefoot in summer.
5.—Cleanliness.
	(a) Bathing.
	(b) Care of teeth, nails, hands, and
hair.
Seventh Talk.—Girlhood.
	(a) On what does beauty depend?
	(b) Girls should be taught to read
good books and choose good compan-
ions.
	(c) I. Take good care of them-
selves. 2. Keep their feet dry and
warm.
	(d) Keep both mind and body clean
and pure. I. Confide in mother.
2. Be kind and gentle.
	(e) Teach the girls to be home-
makers in the true sense of the word.
	(f) I. Dress should be suitable to
the employment. 2. Short skirts for
girls until they become women. 3. 
Guard against love of display. 4. To
be neat and tidy is always in good
taste.
By MRS. U. E. CURTIS.
Eighth Talk.—Boyhood.
	(a) Teach them to have faith in our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That
He will hear and answer prayers.
Love for our religion and other
instructions.
	(b) Teach them personal purity.
Energy to be encouraged and pro-
perly directed. To form good habits.
Good habits are worth more than a
fortune.
	(c) To have an object or purpose in
life and to work with zeal to accom-


plish that purpose. (Ref., page 287,
Vol. 5, No. 4, Impt. Era.
	(d) Honor, refer to the fifth com-
mandment. That talents are gifts
from God, given to us undeveloped,
for us to improve and develop.
Prudent, cautious, self control is wisdom’s root.
---ROBERT BURNS.
(e) That marriage is ordained of
God unto man. (Ref., page 713, Vol.
5, No. 9, Impt. Era.)
Mine honor is my life, both grow in one,
Take honor from me and my life is done.
By MRS. B. O. MCINTIRE.
Ninth Talk.—Reverence.
	(a) True reverence, acceptable to
 God, is a filial fear; a reverence of
divine nature proceeding from a just
esteem of His perfections. Producing
in us an inclination to do His will and
serve Him.
	(b) We reverence superiors and age;
we honor authority; we love virtue.
	(c) We should revere our parents
with a submissive, humble spirit,
respecting and honoring them for the
many sacrifices they make lor us.
	(d) A wife should reverence her hus-
band. In chiding children for faults,
we should do it with love. Love
should govern the human heart.
	(e) Religion produces reverential
esteem for all sacred things. We
should revere the law of God and be
submissive to all the requirements.
(Ref. to all the above subjects: Im-
provement Era, Juvenile Instructor,
Young Woman's Journal, and The
Childrens' Faiend.

By MRS. B. O. MCINTIRE.

Tenth Talk.—Home Influences.
(a) Power for directing and modify-
ing.
	(b) A good home influence is made
by a congenial spirit, order, method,
kindly correction, good books, etc.
	(c) Entertainments:
(d) Happy effect of such influence.

By MRS. RUTH MCKEE.
Elevonth Talk.—Recreation for Children.
	(a) Childrens’ natural amusements.
Children are always finding out new
truths, and they are continually look-
ing for things that excite their curi-
osity.
	(b) Observe from nature what nat-
urally amuses the children.
	(c) Guide them in their amuse-
ments so that they are wholesome for
character building. In furnishing
recreation we should make an effort to
make home the most attractive place
on earth.
	(d) Children take delight in playing
what their parents are occupied in
doing for a livelihood.

Twelfth Talk.— Revision of Lectures.
Committee: Teenie Curtis, chairman;
Maria Allen, Secretary; Barbara O. Mc-
Intire, Ruth McKee, Ella S. Williams.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
		PRESIDENT MARY ANN ELLIS.
	One great man has said: “The world knows
nothing of its greatest men and women.” How
truly can we all agree with this beautiful statement
when we reflect upon the life and works of our de-
parted sister and friend Mary Ann Ellis. How few
there are in this broad world who realize the worth
and good accomplished by our departed sister.
There are some people in this world whose names
may never be known beyond their family and mere
circle of friends, and yet, the silent but never pen-
etrating influence emiting from their noble lives
may be felt throughout a nation. It is such lives
as these that control that silent, but penetrating in-
fluence that moves this busy world onward and
bids the erring ones look upward.
	Sister Ellis was born in England on the 3rd of
October, 1822. While living in England she heard
the Gospel of Christ preached by Brother Heber C.
Kimball, and was very soon converted to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. With
the true pioneer spirit she was not content until
she wended her way towards the Rocky Mountains
and in the year of ’56 with a company of Saints
crossed the Plains, she herself pushing a hand cart,
and what was endured during those trying days,
only the Pioneers themselves can tell. She soon
after settled in Ogden where she has lived up to
the time of her death, July 28, 1903. In reviewing
the life of Sister Ellis we can not help but admire
and strive to emulate her fidelity and faithfulness
to the Relief Society of the Second Ecclesiastical
Ward of Ogden City, of which she was President
for over twenty-five years. Even the most negli-
gent member of the Society did not fail to look for
Grandma Ellis in her old accustomed place each
Thursday afternoon, and it is with some sorrow
that we gaze upon her vacant chair to-day, but
still we rejoice in the fact that she has gone to take
part in a more advanced association than ours.
	If you would know, in a measure, some of the
noble work accomplished by our sister, go to the
widows and the orphans in and about the county
of Weber, and there you will learn who it was that
came to them as a ministering angel in the time of
need, and not only administered to their temporal
wants but spiritual as well. No morning was ever
too cold or severe for her when she learned of a
brother or sister in need.
	In reviewing such lives as Sister Ellis we can-
not help but refer the influence of their noble lives
to the poets’ vase, in which: “You may break you
may shatter the vase if you will, But the scent of
the roses will cling to it still.”
						CORA WILSON,
						Second Ward, Ogden.
		ANNIE WALSER ROBINSON.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our noble sisters of the Dublan Relief-
Society, Juarez Stake of Mexico.
	Sister Annie Robinson, wife of Bishop S. J.
Robinson, passed away April 2, 1903, after giving
birth to twins, leaving one little infant girl the
other one was taken with her.
	She was the worthy mother of six children, and
leaves a sorrowing father and mother, brothers
and sister, husband and four children to mourn
her loss.
	Sister Robinson was born October 9, 1870, in
Payson, Utah. Her life has been a noble example
from her childhood; she came to Mexico in the
year 1890, enduring the hardships incident to early
days here.
	She filled the position of Assistant Secretary in
the Relief Society since June 3, 1897, to the satis-
faction of all, and endeared herself to a host of
friends.
	The funeral was held in the meetinghouse April
3, being one of the largest funerals ever held here.
The speakers Pres. H. Pratt, Patriarchs Miles P.
Romney and Charles Pulsipher, Bishop’s Counse-
lors Jos. S. Cardon and A. B. Call.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved: That, as our heavenly Father in his
wisdom has seen fit to call home our Sister to a
better life, we the officers and members of the
Dublan Relief Society express our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved husband and family in their loss;

[Column 2]
feeling also, that they have been greatly blessed
with her wise and faithful example.
	Be it further:
	Resolved: that these resolutions be placed upon
our society-records, also a copy sent to the “Wo-
man’s Exponent” for publication.
						ELIZA A. TENNEY,
									President.
						JOSEPHA O. WRIGHT.
									Secretary.


BIOGRAPHY AND RESOLUTION.
	It becomes out painful duty to record the
death of our departed sister, Nancy Hollest,
who departed this life, at her home in
Lyman, Idaho, September 23, 1903. She
was born in Farmington, Utah. February
16, 1872. She was a great sufferer for
eleven days. She died as she had lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint. She attended a
Relief Society meeting three weeks before
she died, and bore a faithful testimony to
the goodness of God. She leaves a loving
husband and five small children to mourn
their loss.
	Resolution adopted by the officers and
members of the Lyman Relief Society, in
honor of our beloved sister, Nancy Hollest:
Whereas, our heavenly Father has called
from our midst a loving wife, a kind mother,
and a friend to all,
	Resolved, that we, the members of'the
Relief Society, emulate her noble traits of
character and her devotion to her religion;
that we herewith express our heartfelt
sympathy to her heart-broken husband and
her children, and her brothers and only
sister.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed
on file in the Lyman Relief Society record;
one sent to her beloved husband, and one to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, for publication.
				DOT ATKINSON, Sec’y.


Mrs. Roosevelt is a very great-grand-
daughter of Jonathan Edwards, being di-
rectly descended from his eldest son. This
is one of the interesting facts brought out
by the Edwards centennial.
	Miss Clara Barton, “angel of many battle-
fields,” has recently been in Boston making
arrangements for extending the work of the
Red Cross. The fact that in the United
States every year more than 30,000 people
lose their lives by accident has stimulated
her to organize first - aid - to - the - injured
classes all over the country. The Boston
branch is to be the first one organized, be-
cause Massachusetts is Miss Barton’s native
State. Classes will be organized and per-
manent Red Cross brigades for volunteer
service in calamity or war.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Han o the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 32				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1903					No. 6.


CONTENTS.
Women of the Scripture.........H. J. King   41
Mothers’ Work............................   42, 46
Lecture on Mothers’ Work.......B. Fregeagle   43
City of Mexico.....................  Lexia Curtis   43
In Memoriam................... E. H. Clark   46
R. S. Reports....................................   47
EDITORIAL—Service For Others—Erratta—Notice
	Secretaries—History of the Relief Society—
	Weddings and Receptions—Daughters of the
	Pioneers—Annual Meeting D. R.............   44
POETRY—The Conflict...... Abbie H. Richards   41
	Loneliness..............  Jennie Beeching   43


THE CONFLICT.
The question we are bent upon solving, 
	Is the question of right or of wrong;
In this age that we deem progressive,
	We wait not for story or song;
But we plunge in the midst of life’s battles,
	With hearts that are earnest and true,
And look up to God to direct us,
	In the work we are given to do.
The work? To defend our hearthstones,
	From a foeman both subtle and bold;
Who is armed with the shield of deception,
	The banner of pleasure unfolds;
Whose fortress is strong and whose batteries
	Are masked with such cunning and skill,
We know not the death-dealing volley,
	He can pour in our homes at his will.
This foeman so crafty and cunning
	Is taking from out our fair land.
From the ranks of our sons and our brothers,
	The bravest and best of the land.
He is breaking the hearts of the mothers, 
	He is silvering the brown hair with white,
And pitying angels are grieving,
	With sad-hearted mothers tonight.
From wives he has taken the husbands,
	From children he’s taken the bread;
And sisters bereft of their brothers,
	And fathers to infamy led.
And this demon with greed still insatiate,
	Takes from woman her honor and fame;
Takes all that would make life a blessing,
	And leaves her but ruin and shame.
Would you know the name of this foeman,
	Who seeks all our best to destroy;
This vampire that feeds on the life-blood,
	That kills every hope, every joy;
This minion of Satan who serves him
	With energy, purpose and will?
’Tis the rum-king, whose haunts are the dram-
	shops,
	Who was cradled and nursed in the still.
For years he has ravished the people,
	Denounced all the good and the true;
And the blood of brave Haddock is calling,
	For vengeance that justly is due.
Our martyrs, brave Haddock and Gambrel,
	Who fell in the midst of the fight.
To defend our fair land from dishonor,
	Are sleeping in silence tonight.
But up from the homes have arisen
	An army, demanding the right;
A band of brave, true, noble women,
	Whose badge is the ribbon of white.
Before them the monster shall perish
	As sure as stars shine in the skies;
As sure as God reigneth in heaven,
	From the death grapple truth shall arise.
				ABBIE HURD RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
WOMEN OF THE SCRIPTURES

	The women of the Old Scriptures are ad-
mirable specimens of the Genus; there ap-
pears no vanity, no frivolity, no weakness; 

[Column 2]
all is simple dignity, stern duty, and strict
obedience to principle. In the short space
allowed in a small paper, it is impossible to
elaborate the subject; I will, then, briefly
enumerate some of the principal women;
and at some future time, perhaps, take up
the rest.
	Eve, the sovereign mother of all living!
She stands in close proximity to God the
Father, for she is the life giving spirit of
the innumerable hosts that have figured
upon this earth. The one grand, stupend-
ous act of her life is all that is told of her
in the Bible, and it is enough. Milton
draws her picture with the pen of inspira-
tion:

“Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye;
In every gesture dignity and love!” 

	Sarah, the wife of Abraham, one highly
favored of the Lord, is distinguished by
her truth and faithfulness in all the travels
and changes of their lives. At the time
that the Lord promised her great and sin-
gular blessings, He changed the orthogra-
phy of her name, adding the letter h as the
finale; and placing it in the centre of the
name of Abram, making it Abraham! Of
course He had a purpose in this, though it
is not explained; h is said to be a cabalistic
letter, and if so it denoted increased power
and blessings.
	Hagar is also a remarkable character; her
position and peculiar trials, and her entire
dependence upon God under them, ejacu-
lating, in the fulness of her heart. “Thou
God seest me,” called down to her relief in
the desert an angel of God! Her history
is full of thrilling pathos, and calls out our
richest sympathy.
	The description of Rebecca is very sweet
and womanly, and as a young girl she ex-
hibits a degree of understanding and de-
cision rarely found in mature characters.
She decided at once, after hearing the mis-
sion of the servant of Abraham, who had
been sent to find a wife for his son Isaac,
to accompany him back to his master
Abraham, and she became the wife of Isaac,
and appears to have been an instrument in
the hands of God in bringing about His
purposes with regard to Abraham's poster-
ity, and is ever named as a devoted wife
and mother.
	Rachel next appears; her character is
sweet and gentle. She is the beloved of
Jacob, who served seven years for her—
and they seemed but so many days, for the
love he had for her. Joseph and Benjamin
were her sons, and were an honor to her
and a blessing to their family; Joseph’s
history is grand and romantic, and through
much tribulation he became the Savior of
his father’s house, and a type of the future
that was then in the distance.
	Miriam, the prophet sister of Moses and
Aaron, was a very remarkable character;
her destiny appears to be interwoven in
that of her august brother. When Moses,
as an infant, was hidden, by his mother,
in the bulrushes of the river ftile, to pre-
serve his life from the cruel mandate of
Pharaoh, who had commanded the male
children to be destroyed. Miriam was

[Column 3]
placed by her mother to watch there and, 
Soon the daughter of the King came down
to the river with her maidens to bathe, and
seeing the child she was astonished and
delighted with his beauty, as he smiled
upon her in his sweet innocence. Miriam
then approached, and the princess told her
to go and get a nurse for him, as she meant
to bring him up as her own son. The de-
lighted girl ran for his mother, and she was
taken within the place to nurse and attend
him. Again, Miriam appears in his after
life, when he had been called of God to be-
come the leader and the law-giver of Is-
rael; we find her walking foot to foot, hand
to hand with the servant of God; she ap-
pears in all the grand epochs of that event-
ful pilgrimage of forty years’ travel through
the wilderness; and on one occasion was
called conjointly with her brothers, Moses
and Aaron, by the voice of God! At one
time she erred in her judgment of Moses,
and her punishment was severe; but by
the prayer of Moses she was healed. On
all triumphant occasions it appears that she
took her harp and led the songs of Zion;
and her glorious song of triumph, after the
passage of the Red Sea, is thrilling and in-
spiring, even at this remote date; all de-
note her a noble woman, a priestess and a
prophetess of God.
	The next prominent feminine character is
Deborah; she judged Israel forty years,
and she “dwelt under a palm tree,” and
“the children of Israel came up to her for
judgment.” Barak seems to have full
faith in her prophetic office, and received
the word of the Lord through her lips; but
yet declared that unless she would accom-
pany the army of Israel, he would not go
up; and she answered him, “I will surely
go with thee;” and he went up with ten
thousand men, and Deborah went with
him;” and the armies of Israel prevailed
and were mighty conquerors. Then fol-
lows the sublime song of Deborah; she is
an inspired improvisatrice, and is the leader
in that song—for the Scripture saith., “then
sang Deborah and Barak.” Her character
stands out in bold relief, mighty and irre-
proachable!
	The history of Esther the Queen is a
beautiful illustration of the devotion of wo-
man! Her purity, her filial love for Mor-
decai—who had reared her, she being an 
orphan—and her obedience to his counsel,
and reliance upon his judgment in the
critical circumstances in which they and
their people were placed at that time, are
all beautifully portrayed in the sacred
pages. In this d y of liberty, of freedom
of speech and action, we can hardly judge
of the dangerous situation in which she
was placed; The king, Ahasuerus, was an
absolute monarch; his word was the law,
and he had decreed that no one should ap-
proach him, man or woman, for thirty days!
—death was to be the penalty to any who
presumed to disobey this mandate, unless
the king held out the golden sceptre, as the
emblem of peace. There had been a con-
spiracy raised against Mordecai and his peo-
ple, the Jews, and before the thirty days
they would all have been destroyed. Hence


Mordecai sent to entreat Esther to seek an
audience with the king, and lay before him
the critical circumstances in which they 
were placed. She fasts and prays, and then
she goes forward, with her life in her hand,
saying, “If I perish, I perish!” The king
held out to her the golden sceptre, heard
her story, and her people were saved! 
Vol. 6, March 1, 1878.
HANNAH T. KING.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
		WASATCH STAKE.
	"Be a woman, on to duty,
		Raise the world from all that’s low, 
	Place high in the social heaven
		Virtue’s fair and radiant bow, 
	Lend thine influence to each effort 
		That shall raise our nature human;
	Be not fashions gilded lady
		Be a brave, whole-souled, true woman,”

Lesson I.—Harmony in the home:

	 (a) Seek Divine aid and cultivate
	patience. (b) Mutual interests the
	greates[-] bond. (c) Cheerfulness and
	smiles essential in the home.

Lesson II.—Proper amusements in the home:
		(a) The value of good books. (b)
		Music and its influence. (c) How
		shall we entertain our children at home.
		(d)Evil effects of card playing.
			SENTIMENT.
	"No matter what his rank or position may be,
the lover of good books is the richest and happiest
	of the children of men."

Lesson III.—Honor the Sabbath Day.

		 (a) Six days shalt thou labor and do
	all thy work; etc. (b) The great evil
	of pleasure seeking on the Sabbath.
	(c) Late hours, its effects, evils of
	children on the streets or away from
	home at night.

Lesson IV.—Respect for the priesthood.
		(a) Irreverence one of the perils of
	our day. (b) Deportment to husband
	and children. “Women must honor
	and obey their husbands as the hus-
	bands do their God and the Priest-
	hood. Thus we teach by example the
	first law of heaven—Obedience.”
Lesson V:
	“Honor, to women! to them it is given
	To gladden the earth with roses of heaven"
	True meaning of motherhood. 
	(a) Better a just mother than an un-
selfish one. (b) Foundation of charac-
		ter laid in the first few years of a
		child's life.
Lesson VI.—Honor thy Father and Mother.

			(a) Respect for the aged, (b) The
		companionship of parents and children
		both for the good of the children and
		parents.

	President Anna R. Dude, First Coun-
selor, Elizabeth Murdock, second counselor,
Louisa Alexander. Eliza Rasband, Mar-
garet Murdock, Emma Duke, Clara Clyde,
Sarah K. Duke Sec.

		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
Lecture I.--Home and Parenthood.
	(a) Perfect confidence between hus-

[column 2]
		band and wife worthily obtained and a
		mutual desire to have their offspring
		well born. (b) Their first desire to
		have children well born and to rear a
		posterity that will be valiant in the
		cause of truth. “Love is the divine
		essence of our being. It flows from
		God into our souls and is our life.”
Lecture II.--Motherhood.

	Study the laws of hygiene and exer-
		cise every means to secure health. 	
	(a) Preparation for motherhood,
		mentally and spiritually. (b) Prayer.
(c) Cleanliness. (d) Cheerfulness. 
	“A wise man governs his passions, a fool per-
mits his passions to govern him.”
Lecture III.—The rights of a child in the
	home.
			(a)Mental moral and physical en-
		dowments. (b) Proper attention to
		food and clothing. (c) Useful employ- 
		ment. (d) Respect for the child’s feel-
		ings.
	“Train up a child in the way it should go and
when it is old it will not depart from it.”
Lecture IV.—Mother and Child.

		“In what Christian country can we
		deny the influence which a mother ex-
		erts over the whole life of her child.”
		(a) Need of inspiration. (b) Perfect
		confidence.
	The mother who is most patient, cheerful and
prayerful is the one whose influence will be most
strongly felt.

Lecture. V.—Moral Development
			(a)Restrain all evil tendencies in
		the child. (b) Discourage slang ex-
		pressions. (c) Teach proper respect
		for all especially the aged.
	“Keep at the least within the compass of moral
actions.”
Lecture VI.—System in the Home.

	Home! What a hallowed name! how full of en-
chantment and how dear to the heart.
			(a) Economy of time and means.
(b) Order.
	"A place for everything and every thing in its
place.”
	Emma S Smith President; Sarah Driggs,
Mary J. R. West Counselors; Della F.
Smith Secretary, Janet M. Smith Treasurer.

		NORTH SANPETE STAKE
Lecture I—Motherhood. E. C. D.

	‘‘Multiply and replenish the earth” was the very
first law ever given to the inhabitants of this
world.''
		1. Preparation should be made phys-
	ically in proper diet, sleep, bathing,
	dress and regular habits.
		2.Mentally, by conversing, by ob-
serving nature and humanity, by read-
	 ing, by music—vocal or instrumental,
	and by practising self control. 
		3.Spiritually, by prayer and the
	performance of religious duties.

Lecture II—Study of the Child. M.L G. 
	To be well born is the right of every child.
		1. Physical development:
		Attention to proper clothing, nurs-
	ing, bathing, sleep.
		2. Weaning, creeping, exercise, play-
	time etc.
		3. Mental development:

[column 3]
		(a)Training of the senses, learning
	to talk, telling suitable stories. (b)
	Every normal child is a question mark.
		(c)Every wise mother should encour-
	age this trait.
		4. Moral development:
		(a) Parents should study peculiar
	characteristics of the child. (b) Obe-
	dience must be taught early. (c) En-
	courage generosity and patience.

Lecture III—Study of the Child (continued).
	M. L. G.
		The mother’s cares increase with
the age of the child.
	(a) Provide outdoor and indoor
games. (b) Give only plain and eas-
ily digested food). avoid candy, pastry,
	meat and pickles. (c) Reasonable
	work and play, establish good habits,
	and develop the brain and muscle.
	(d)Lessons taught now will remain
	with the child through life; stories
	from the Bible, Book of Mormon and
	Jnvenile Instructor, good pictures will
	be helpful. (e) The child must res-
	spect the rights of others; don’t threat-
	en, don’t deceive, don’t scold; love the
	children and keep them near you.

Lecture I.V—Childhood. C. L.E. 
		Encourage pure thoughts a[-]d high
	ideals. The Gospel ideal is to reach
	perfection.
	(a) Good reading. (b) Obedience.
(c) Truthfulness, (d) Deportment.
(e) Generosity. (f) Prayer. 
Lecture V—Youth:   C. L. E.

	‘‘O thou child of many prayers!
	Life hath quicksands, life hath snares; 
	Care and age come unawares.”
		1. Teach boys and girls to work and
	take their share of the responsibility in
	the family.
		(a) All work is honorable and begets
	happiness, (b) Recreation and social
	amusement are necessary; take the
	greatest care in the choice of compan-
	ions, (c) Systematic study, reading
	of good books. Good thoughts con-
	trol good actio[-]s. (d) Reverence for
	God, for old age, for superiors and for 
	law, are indispensable to a noble char-
	acter. (e) Sincere prayer is the great-
	est safeguard against wrong doing.
	The character of Christ is the true
	ideal.

Lecture VI— Home-nursing. C. L. E.
		Every mother should know some-
	thing of the care for the sick.
			(a) The sick room—how to make it
	pleasant, (b) How to make the bed.
	(c)Cleanliness and ventilation. (d)
	Bathing the patient, giving of medi-
	cines. (e) Emergencies, accidents,
	presence of mind, etc.
					M. L. GOWANS,
					E. C. DAY, 
					C. L. ERICKSON,
							Committee

	Mrs. Orinda Dudley Hornbrooke, of
Newton, Mass., read an interesting paper
at one of the Greenacre meetings on her
cousin, Sibyl Jones, the silver-voiced
preacher and missionary of the Quakers,
born in Maine, a descendant of old Gov.
Dudley, who was trained in the Friends
school at Providence, R. I.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


LONELINESS. 
Alone, in this bleak world of sin. 
Little loved, and prized by God alone. 
Father, mother, sisters, gone; 
Once a united family. 
No one to give me greeting, 
Or smiling welcome home; 
As once there used to be. 
Or warm lips—loving kiss at night or morn. 
But rise my soul, above this melancholy mood. 
Was not the Savior lonely, too
He knoweth thy condition, 
And what is best for thee. 
Why murmur along life’s pathway?
The path He hath marked for thee 
Is surely best—then do thy best 
With loving gratitude. 
He has a work for thee to do, 
And thou must work for thee to do, 
And thou must do it well. 
And, perchance, thou cans't cheer the lonely; 
Speak gently to the aged one, 
Or give the little child a smile. 
And when thy work is done on earth,
And the Father says it is enough, 
Come home and join thy family, 
In the mansions of the blest. 
My soul rejoices at such meeting; 
The bells of heaven will ring with joy, 
When the Father says: "Daughter, well done, 
Enter into the joy of the Lord." 
The city that is of pure gold, and walls of jasper; 
The river of life passing through 
Sweet fields and never withering flowers; 
No sorrow or sickness can enter there. 
Then Oh. my soul, rejoice and rise above earth's 
trifles. 
The future is bright; then keep thine armor bright, 
And meet at home in that bright morning. 

October 8, 1903.                    JENNIE BEECHING,


[Column 1]
LECTURE ON MOTHERS' WORK.

	Hope is one of the first principles of our
religion, hence every young woman that
has been instructed in her usefulness as a
woman when she enters into the marriage
state hopes to become a mother and begins
looking forward with anticipation for the
time when she will realize the fact, then
comes the time for preparation, her thoughts
should be of a spiritual and moral charact-
er, she should try and make things plea-
sant at home, and prepare herself for the
care of a precious charge which has been
intrusted to her. Patience and kindness in
the care of children helps us in our educa-
tion for after life.
	Some mothers think that when they
have seen that the child is fed, dressed,
and its face and hands washed, its wants
have been fully provided for, never think-
ing of the spiritual training that is neces-
sary, and that every moment of the time
that is spent in their presence is building
up their character. These little ones look
upon what father and mother say as gos-
pel and their little minds being unable to
correctly reason they take it all in, there-
fore it is very important that we be very
careful what we say in the home. Home is
 the first and most important school of char-
acter; it is there that every human being
receives his or her first moral training; it
is there that the child imbibes those princi-
ples of conduct which endure through life;
the home makes the man or woman, for
home training not only includes mind and
manners, but character; it is in the home
that the heart is opened, the habits formed,
the intellect awakened and the character
molded for good or evil.
	We must not forget that history will tell
what kind of homes have been kept in this
generation; home training commences from
the time the child has a smile on its face,
we must be careful of our actions from
that time, as the smallest seed sown in the
minds of the children in their home life,
afterwards comes forth to the world; the

[Column 2]
training of any person cannot fail to be in-
fluenced by the moral surroundings of their
early years. The Savior said “Cast thy
bread upon the waters and it shall return
again after many days.” This plainly shows
us what we sow we shall reap; we as Lat-
ter day Saints who profess so much should
have the happiest homes on the earth, we
have been sent here for a wise purpose and
we should make the best of it, this is the
school that is to prepare us for a higher ex-
altation, and let us teach the children that
the good deeds will shine as the stars of
heaven.
	The parent should be constantly on the
lookout to gradually train the little ones
in the work of doing things for themselves;
the mind of the child who has not been
spoiled takes pleasure itf action, in solving
new problems, in developing his resources,
and a skillful parent will fall in with the
workings of nature; but many parents seem
to be afraid to teach their children to help
themselves, the child is watched over and
not allowed to do anything that can be
done for him; things are gathered up after
him, things are put away for him and yet
he is fully able to do it all himself and
would really enjoy doing so, if he had not
been spoiled by over attention; some men
have been so spoiled in childhood, youth,
and early manhood by fond mothers that
they are as helpless as babies about doing
things for themselves; many a woman who
has married a man of this kind is doing
work every day which was cut out for her
by her husband’s mother years and years
before. And mothers are foolish enough to
keep on doing it, the mothers of one gen-
eration are continually making trouble for
the mothers of the next in this way, and
the mothers of girls continually paving the
way for the future unhappiness of their
daughters and their daughters’ husbands
by waiting on their girls too much; a child’s
manners are often a true reflection of his
circumstances and surroundings and who is
responsible for these? not the child certainly.
	We parents should realize that children
should learn to stand on their own feet,
should be taught to develop individuality
and self-help. Have you ever thought of
the fact that the majority of successful men
and women have had to do things for them-
selves when they were young? Each day
brings its trials, troubles, tasks, and pain,
but it also brings its joys, pleasures, satis-
faction, and victories, We are here in the
world, let us live and enjoy the good things
that are before us, there is no man or
woman no matter ho v hard things are going
with them, who cannot find a crumb of
comfort, or a ray of light; patience is the
first, that grace which enables us to bear
affliction and calamities with constancy and
calmness, and a ready submission to God’s
will, first pray then labor.
	Too few mothers recognize the fact that
their childen have certain rights which
should be respected, that among these
rights are a healthy body, a good disposi-
tion, and an intellectual and moral training.
To the extent of her powers a mother
should provide these for her child. I em-
phasize these duties as appertaining to the
mother, since it is she and she alone gen-
erally in whom is vested the important
office of the education of her offspring, the
father may provide and aid his wife, but
he can never take her place in the lives of
his children. The utmost regard for truth,
and abhorence of falsehood should ever be
kept in mind, an open and candid disposition

[Column 3]
ought to be encouraged, and an acknowl-
edged fault rebuked with mildness and then
forgiven, an affable, modest and polite be
haviour should be cultivated, also a lively
and cheerful countenance ; a feeling of
jealousy ought never to be allowed to exist
between children,there should be no marked
preference, the clothing should always
be suited to the season so that exposure to
cold and damp should be avoided, fresh air,
exercise, and cleanliness are essential to
the child, they ought to be constantly
cautioned against hurting themselves with
surrounding objects, and the danger and
pain and bad consequences explained to
them, a child should never be forced to ea
things that it dislikes, over indulgences
should never be allowed, don’t dodge ex-
periences, nor shrink from tests and trials,
character is a structure whose bricks are
experiences. Prosperity and adversity have.
their advantages but be sure and do not
forget from whom .all blessings flow, as the  
twig is bent so the tree is inclined.
	BERTINA TREGEAGLE


CITY OF MEXICO. 
November 7, 1903. 
Mrs. E. B. Wells: 
DEAR SISTER: 
I thought a short description of our trip to 
Ozumba this week would not be uninteresting to 
the readers of the EXPONENT. 
President H. S. Harris and myself left the city 
Wednesday morning to visit the Relief Society 
in Tecalco and Atlantla. They were informed of 
our proposed visit, so made preparations for us. 
The ladies of Tecalco organized, cooked differ-
ent dishes, and carried them to a beautiful little 
grove of pine trees and served a hot dinner on 
plates to fifty-five persons. We had beef, broth, 
rice soup, haha beans, squash prepared in three 
ways, beans in two ways, chili sauce, etc., etc. At 
the conclusion of the meal some of the girls 
favored us with several songs, then we returned 
held our meeting, and went back to Ozumba. 
Thursday morning we took a two-mile walk to 
Atlantla, and found Juana Paez, the local Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, busy in the kitchen. 
She was sitting flat on a ground floor preparing 
string beans for dinner. The fire, that had been 
kindled on the same floor, in the middle of the 
room was blazing up beside her, and the smoke 
would have filled the corn-stock room had there 
been fewer vent holes. 
She has a stove that was brought from the Colo-
nies many years ago, but it is seldom used A 
camp-fire is better for cooking "tortillas" and 
boiling beans, and these are their principal dishes. 
About twelve the members of the Relief Society
began coming in slowly, bringing pic-nic, and we 
were served in the meeting house; at the close we 
reorganized the Society, putting Tomasita Lozala 
in as President, and Juana Paez, the former Presi-
dent, as her second counselor, the first counselor
held her position. That night we returned to 
Ozumba, and Friday morning took the train for 
the city. 
We hold conference in two weeks in Cuerna-
vaca. and fondly hope that some of our Sisters 
from the north will be with us. 
Sister Johnson, the President of the Relief So-
ciety at  Colonia Diaz, Chihuahua, Mexico, has 
been in the city, with her husband, for some time, 
but they were called home last week, however, 
we expect them back in time to join us at the 
Cuernavaca Conference. 
Elders Parry and Foster are assisting President 
Hall in the Cuervanaca branch, and are teaching 
the Saints how to read. 
The Elders and all the American Mormons in 
these parts are enjoying good health. 
With best love to yourself and Sister Smith, 
I am your Sister; 
LEXIA CURTIS HARRIS.
5 a Calle de Humboldt, No. 50 Cindad de 
Mexico.
Mrs. Linda Hull Larned, president of the 
National Household Economic Association, 
returned recently from a four month's Euro-
pean trip.


44   Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.



Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH



 Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1903


[Column 1]
SERVICE FOR OTHERS. 
"Build ye more stately mansions, O, my soul." 
On one occasion, in a General Conference 
of the Relief Society, some years ago, Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon made the remark that 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, in organizing 
the Relief Society, ,'builded better than he 
knew." Possibly, this is a truth. At any 
rate, we who have been working for forty
years and more, along the lines he marked 
out, realize how much the active benevolent 
work, in this same society, ordinary and 
common-place as it may seem to the un-
initiated, has done towards a practical edu-
cation in the best qualities of the human 
character. We all know, if we would stop 
to think of it, that activity along any line 
of thought or emotion; keeps alive the par-
ticular attribute, or sentiment, and, if it be
noble, helps to make life more happy and 
enjoyable, as well as to develop those hid-
den springs of thought, that we term un-
derstanding. We may learn a great deal 
by study, but, if we never apply the 
knowledge we gain, it will fail us; it will 
vanish away, or stagnate; and, of what use 
are all our efforts to have gained by study, 
if there is no opportunity to make greater 
progress by application. 
The Relief Society work is a grand one, 
organized at an early date, almost before 
woman had begun the active life outside 
the home, that is flourishing so widely now; 
and the Sisters in this Society were getting 
an experience in charitable and philan-
thropic endeavors; and developing great 
mentality and spirituality when like soci-
ities were unknown; except such small 
affairs as sewing circles in the church vestry, 
to make clothing for the heathen. 
We who live today, have fallen upon bet-
ter times. Light has come into the world,
and the rapid growth of the higher and 
nobler faculties of mankind, is little less 
than marvelous. What is termed higher 
education today, does not consist alone in 
dead languages, occult sciences, that re-
quire a life time to comprehend, and that 
often result in what the Scripture speaks of 
as "Ever learning and never able to come 
to a knowledge of truth," but, now-a-days, 
we have applied methods along all lines of 
development, from the kindergarten up-
ward and onward. 
The past two years, we might say, there 
has been a greater effort made than ever 
before, to persuade our young women to 
come into the Relief Society work, for their 

[Column 2]
own benefit; and, as one inducement to-
wards it, lectures are to be given in every 
branch of the society, once a month, on 
the training of children, or, what we have 
termed, mother's work. It was thought 
that this was a subject in which every 
young woman would be interested, as, 
naturally, it is the expectation that young 
women will marry and become mothers; 
and great pains havs been taken in many 
of the stakes of Zion, to prepare outlines for 
these lectures, and to make them valuable 
life lessons. It is ardently hoped by those 
who are striving to excel in good works, 
and to help others to do so, that through 
this the Relief Society will increase its 
membership and gain greater influence and 
popularity among the younger members of 
the Church, for the work assuredly devel-
ops the heart and soul. Christ himself, 
the Bible tells us, went about, doing good, 
administering comfort and consolation, al-
leviating the sorrows of humanity; He is 
our pattern, and we should devote and con-
secrate some of our precious time to help-
ing others; the needo, the sick, the unfor-
tunate. These duties strengthen our own 
best characteristics, and, as we come to 
know people in all conditions, we beget 
love in our own souls. We never do a 
kind deed with a pure motive, without a 
corresponding good to ourselves. We may 
not be aware of it, at the time, nevertheless 
it is true; the service we give to our neigh-
bors, to help them along life's rough places, 
or, lead them back, when they have stray-
ed from the right path, is helping us to 
reach that higher plane, to "love our neigh-
bor as ourself," and to apply the golden 
rule. This active assistance of the poor 
and the sick, belongs to the duties of every 
woman of means, and, in an organized 
capacity, much more can be accomplished, 
than by individual doing or giving. Besides, 
women thus associated, lift and develop
each other, by mutual attraction, and, by 
the exercise of that spirit, which actuates 
them in doing good. They grow in ex-
cellence in the better life; they live in the 
expression of higher thought, and nobler 
aims. 
Our older sisters see so much to be done, 
that they feel the younger women must 
come and learn of those things, by practical 
experience; they feel it deep down in their 
souls, for they appreciate what it has been 
to them. 
Faith as a principle, faith in God, faith 
in the Gospel, is increased and cultivated 
by labors of love, and works of benevolence. 
Genuine sympathy for the weak and erring, 
tends of itself to uplift and strengthen 
character, and, withal, to make the world 
better, by ministering in kindly deeds to 
those around us, in temporal as well as 
spiritual things. 
Guided and aided by the Holy Spirit, 
which prompts those who live right, and
listen to the still small voice within, one 
can do much that seems impossible without 
its support. Constant prayer, the prayer 
of the heart, is ever and always uplifting. 
In a society, such as ours, we stimulate 
each other; we learn to express our views 
and opinions, and, our sentiments, on all 
subjects that come before us, and we grow 
into favor with each other, and, into one-
ness. Our Savior said: "unless ye are one 
ye are not mine." We can never be one 
by keeping apart. It is by coming together 
under the influence of the Holy Spirit, that 
we will learn the best lessons of our lives. 

[Column 3]
If the young women of today, desire to 
build up strong characters for themselves
and their posterity; to improve the human 
family, by actual development of both brain 
and muscle, then they must take hold of 
the sober realities of life. 
"We are builders, and each one should 
cut and carve as best he can." 
Every member of the Relief Society is 
given opportunity to aid in the great work 
in which we are engaged, and the best re-
ligion is in doing; in true service. Success 
may not make much show, but, as truly as 
we serve the Lord faithfully, we shall 
reach a higher standard, and, if one give 
loving service to those in need, we shall be 
following in the Savior’s footsteps Think 
of His ministry, and, how little was then 
seen of its results; but how far-reaching 
they were, though unseen, then. We can-
not all do great things, but let us be con-
tent in the sphere we occupy, and be grate-
ful for the blessings vouchsafed to us In 
the days of prosperity, such as this people 
now enjoy, there should be great advance-
ment made, and the work of woman is 
needed. In building character, one needs 
to have the greatest activity, the utmost 
devotion, constant watchfulness, exercis-
ing mental and spiritual power, but, above 
all else, faith, for without it, one can do 
nothing acceptably. 
Paul, in his epistle to the Romans, gives 
many texts applicable in the sisters work 
in the Relief Society. "He that giveth let 
him do it with simplicity;" again, "Dis-
tributing to the necessity of saints; given 
to hospitality." "Be of the same mind 
one toward another. Be kindly affectioned
one to another, in honor professing one 
another."


ERRATTA.
	In the September issue of this paper, in
a copy of the letter which was sent with
the fac simile of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, to the schools and universities,
the word “heritage” was changed to “his-
tory,” which entirely destroyed the sense
of the idea the writer wished to convey.


NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.
Stake and mission secretaries in the Re
lief Society will please remember that the
year 1902 is drawing near its close, and
make ready to report the years’ work from
January 1, 1903, to December 31, 1903, so
that the General Secretary may be able to
make a complete report of all the stakes of
Zion and all the missions. The foreign
missions are requested to make correct re-
ports of every branch society within the
mission, Scandinavia, via Germany, Switz-
erland, Holland, Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, Australia, Sand-
wich Islands and far-off Samoa. Address
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Templeton Building, Salt
Lake City.


HISTORY OF THE RELIEE SOCIETY.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS.

(Continued,)

	In the last chapter we gave items of the
Relief Society in Huntville at an early date
in these valleys of the mountains. Here is
a sketch of East Bountiful, organization in
brief, presented by the secretary, Phebe C.


Sessons. We give this as a sample of the
work done in various parts of Utah and ad-
jacent territory at an early period while the
people were stauggling to establish homes
and comforts for themselves and those who
would gather here in the future.
	The first Relief Society was organized
April 24, 1846, by Bishop John Stoker and
his counselors, Anson Call and William
Atkinson.

RESOLUTIONS.

	We, the females of the North Canyon
Ward, whose names shall hereafter be at-
tached to this article, ever feeling a lively
duty in our Redeemer’s kingdom, and for
the general welfare of Zion’s cause, do mu-
tually unite ourselves together for the bene-
fit of the poor, and all other charitable pur-
poses wherein we can prove ourselves use-
ful to our fellow creatures. Under the
name of the Female Relief Society of North
Canyon Ward.
	Whereas for the better organization of
our Society, would appoint the following
officers who shall hold their office during
the pleasure of said society.
	First a president who may choose two
counselors, a secretary who shall keep a
correct account of all the transactions of
said society; a treasurer who shall keep an
exact account of means that may be paid into
her hands, and also paid out and to whom.
And make a full report of receipts and ex-
penditures once in three months or oftener
if said society shall require it. And further
all laws and by-laws that shall be made for
the regulating of said society shall be in
force until repealed by said society. And
we in our united faith will ever pray that
the blessing of the Holy Spirit may ever
attend our every duty.
	Elizabeth Barlow was sustained as presi-
dent; Louisa Grant as first counselor; Han-
nah Hollbrook as second counselor; Phebe
C. Sessons as secretary; and Lucina Sessions
as treasurer.
	There were seventy-nine sisters became
members. We held fourteen meetings and
did a good deal of work for the poor. One
poorfamily received $60 68 in the short
time we held our meetings. On account of
the move South these meetings were dis-
continued.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WEDDINGS AND RECEPTIONS.
“Marriage is the life-long miracle,
The self-begetting wonder daily fresh.”

Thers’s an old saying that marriages
are made in heaven whether this be so or
not, we hope and believe the union of Fay
and Minnie will be as happy and as lasting
as though it really were all planned in the
celestial world.
The marriage ceremony which united
for time and all eternity La Fayette T.
Whitney and Minnie James was solemnized
in the Salt Lake Temple at high noon
Thursday, September 17, 1903.
In the evening a brilliant reception was
at the residence of the bride’s parents,
William and Minnie Horne James. The
bride was sweet and charming in her
simple white dress, with her spray of
lovely white roses, but she was no sweeter
than the young bridegroom, whose purity
of life and high ideals entitle him to be
loved and honored by all, and so this
young couple are equally matched, and for
their future we bespeak happiness and pros-
perity with rich experiences.

[Column 2]
The reception was literally crowded with
the many friends and relatives, and there
were presents galore, it would be quite
impossible to name them.
The most distinguished guest present was
the bride’s grandmother who looked as
fresh and happy as the younger women,
although she counts her years far beyond
four-score. May the new bride be as cele-
brated, when she shall be a witnees of her
granddaughter's marriage.
Mr. and Mrs. Whitney the newly-wedded
pair have a snug little cottage under the
brow of the hill just where they have
played together when happy children and
Bishop O. F. Whitney (brother of the bride-
groom) wrote for this special occasion,
“Chimes and Rhymes,’’ setting forth the
old-time sports when City Creek canyon
was different most of the merrie company
then assembled played thereabouts many
games and pranks. But Fay and Minnie
have their own neat little cottage where
the bride,
“Across the threshold led,
And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
His house she enters, there to be a light,
Shining within when all without is night;
A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
Doubling his pleasures, and his cares dividing.”

The marriage ceremony that united Wil-
liam H. Foliaud and Grace Freeze was sol-
omnized in the Salt Lake Temple on Fri-
day, Nov. 6. 1903, by President John R.
Winder. The bride is the daughter of Hon.
James P. and Lillie T. Freeze, and is a
great favorite wherever she is known, the
young man is fortunate to secure so lovable
and charming a life-companion, not only
for this world but for eternity.
May their voyage through life be as free
from storms and adversities as it is possible
in gaining the experiences preparatory to
higher advancement hereafter.

“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
told,
When two. that are link’d in one heavenly tie.
With heart unchanging, and brow never cold.
Love on thro’ all ills, and love on till they die.”

But we would say love on thro’ all the
endless ages of the life to come.
A brilliant reception was held at the
bride’s home in the evening and all passed
off merrily, the bride in simple white aud
roses was sweet and charming and the
guests were joyous there were some very
beautiful songs sweetly sung by Miss
Emily Larson, and there was good cheer in
abundance and the congratulations and
good wishes for the young couple were
genuine in tone and sentiment if half of
them come to pass life will be to this bridal
pair one perfect holiday. God grant it may!
There were numerous gifts more than it
is possible to count or to mention, but the
gifts of love and friendship after all surpass
silver, or china, or rare ornaments of costly
value and these young people we are sure
deserve all the love and all the material
gifts that were showered upon them on that
memorable day.

“But happy they! the happiest of their kind!
When gentle stars unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes and their beings blend!"


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.

Saturday October 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dongall, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears, first counselor in the chair in

[Column 2]
the absence of the President, Mrs. Alice
Merrill Horne; the program was carried
out as follows, after singing and prayer by
the Chaplain Mrs. Margaret P. Young.
Kirtland the first harvest written by Mrs.
I. M. W. Sears, was read by Mrs. Elizabeth
S. Wilcox, and was full of reminiscences
of Joseph the Prophet and of the early days,
and the men and women who laid the foun-
dation of the Church and recalled to mind
many incidents of that period of which so
little is known by our young people.
The hymn, “There’s a feast of fat things”
was sung by the ladies. Mrs. Edna L.
Smith and Mrs. Annie T. Hyde leading.
Elder Nathan Tanner a number of Zion’s
camp then gave from memory in a most
touching style a brief account of the won-
derful company, who went up to Missouri
to redeem Zion. Br. Tanner is now in his
80th year, when he went with Zion’s camp
he was a very young man of eighteen
years, he is the only surviving member of
that heroic band (so far as we know), they
are all gone now, and Br. Tanner alone
survives to tell the story of that remarkable
pilgrimage, one of the most trying and
thrilling in the history of the Church.
The Daughters were fortunate in getting
this personal recital from one who took
part in that memorable journey. The
hymn, “The Spirit of God like a Fire is
Burning,” was sung by the congregation,
and the benedictiou by the chaplain, and
the meeting adjourned for one month. 

Tuesday, November 24, 1903, the Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers met at Mrs. Feramorz
Little’s residence, President Alice Merrill
Horne in the chair. Opening exercises
were followed by “Reminiscences from
private Journals” by the President, who
related some of the sad experiences of the
journey from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters
where so many of the Saints succumbed to
the hardships of those perilous times, and
were buried by the wayside, she mentioned
in this connection Sister Susannah Bigler,
mother of our General President of the
Relief Society, who died as a martyr to the
truth in Winter Quarters.
Sister B. W. Smith gave some of her own
experiences and acquaintance with those
who have figured so conspicuously in the
latter-day work. The incidents were very
thrilling and impressive.
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth read a
well written and instructive paper on
“Trials in Missouri,” and “The Prophet
in Chains,” incidents in which some of her
own progenitors participated and which are
almost too terrible to be told, unless one
had the heart of a lion. Mrs. Farnsworth
has an excellent voice, and gave many
points in her narrative in regard to the
sisters’ sufferings during that terrible
persecution. Mrs. John Q. Cannon related an
incident, in regard to the ignominious death
of Governor Ford of Illionis. Meeting was
favored with a solo, “Down by the River’s
Verdant Side,” by Miss Owen, accompanied
on the piano by Miss Clarissa Dougall.
Secretary Miss Lillian Horne read the
minutes which were approved, and meeting
adjourned to December 5, at Mrs. C. F.
Wilcox residence.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
Daughters of the Revolution State Society
met on Monday, November 16, 1903, at the
residence of Judge and Mrs. W. H. King,


Military Avenue, Salt Lake City, the
handsome parlor and library were adorned
with patriotic pictures and emblems and
stars and stripes were hung in the most
conspicuous places; flowers were artistically
arranged with exquisite taste and altogether
the entire effect was quite up to date
aesthetic. The Regent Mrs. Isabel M. W.
Sears presided, and after the opening exer-
cises and some miscellaneous business, and
an announcement of its being the annual
meeting, the paper of the day by Mrs.
Julia Farnsworth Lund on Paul Revere
was given. It was delightfully written and
graphic in style, and so feelingly read that
if Paul Revere himself had been present he
must have felt honored by the recital of his
deeds of valor and heroism.
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne read most
pathetically “Panl Revere’s Ride,” by
Longfellow, and one could almost see the
the picture before them, so realistic was
the rendering of that magnificent poem.
The origin of Thanksgiving and descrip-
tion of the New England Thanksgiving
celebrations in early days, and in these
later times was given by Mrs E. B. Wells,
who knows what Thanksgiving means to
Puritanical New Englanders.
Little Miss Romola King gave some very
sweet selections on the piano. After the
close of the exercises a delightful hour
passed in enlivening conversation and the
daintiest refrishments were served in the
most artistic style, which of course added
to the genuine enjoyment of the occasion.
The ice cream in an original design the
head of GeorgeWashington, and his hatchet,
the hostess was profusely complimented on
her originality. Besides the members
present then were several distinguished
guests. Mesdames F. M. Lyman, B. W.
Smith, Reed Smoot. A. H. Talbot and
niece, David Evans, Hanson and others.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
'Blessed, are the dead who die in the Lord,’

	It becomes our sad duty to record the death of
a beloved sister who departed this life Sept. 30th
1903, in Weston, Idaho. Sister Ida Margarett
Jensen; the beloved wife of Elder Hyrum Jensen,
she was born at Weston. February 25th, 1874, and
has always been a faithful Latter-day Saint; when
taken ill with typhoid fever two weeks previous to
her death, her husband was filling a mission in the
North Western States, he was summond home,
and was at her bedside when she passed, to the
great beyond. All that loving hands could do was
done, but it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
remove our dear Sister to a higher sphere. She
leaves a devoted husband and six children to
mourn her loss, the loss of a faithful mother and a
wife. Let us do all we can to heal the wounds of
those who survive her, by deeds of love and kind-
ness, that her children and husband, may they
ever have her example before them that they may
grow in grace and be worthy to meet her in the
life beyond the grave, is the earnest desire of the
members of the Weston Relief Society.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Where as our Heavenly Father in his Wisdom,
has seen fit to remove our Sister Ida Margarett
Jensen from our midst, be it
	Resolved, That while we grieve to lose her and
we mourn with the bereaved husband and relatives,
we feel to bow in humble submission to the will of
our Father in Heaven and say thy will be done.
	Resolved, That we realize in her death, the loss
of a true friend and co-laborer in the Weston Ward
Relief Society.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be entered in
the Relief Society records a copy be presented to
the bereaved husband and one printed in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

ELIZABETH H. CLARK, Pres.,
AMELIA HOOPES, Asst. Sec.
	Committee,


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.

KANAB STAKE.

Lecture I—The first great command: 

Womans first mission to bear child- 
dren, be fruitful, multiply and replen-
ish the earth, a helpmate and compan-
ion.

Lecture II-—Home Rule:

 (a) The husband and father honored.
(b) Love and confidence established.
(c) Parents be what you expect your
children to be. (d) The rights of all
respected.

Lecture III.—The preparation of motherhood:

(a) The thoughts and acts of the
mother, reproduced in the child. (b)
The necessity of home environments
being pleasant and agreeable.

Lecture IV.— The care and training of the
child:

(a) Physical—a healthy body. (b)
Moral. (c) Temporal. (d) Spiritual.

Lecture V.—Home Culture:

(a) Home best place on earth. (b)
Cultivate a love for home. (c) Polite-
ness and proper respect. (d) The re-
sult of over indulgence, and dhe result
of self sacrifice

“Make home beautiful,
Make home pleasant,
Emblem of that home above.”

Lecture VI.—Home Culture, continued:

(a) Industry and economy, (b) Par-
ents know where your children are.
(c) The company they keep: the books
they read. (d) Parents to accompany
children to places of amusement.

Lecture VII.—Home Culture:

(a) Have confidence in the child;
love and trust them. (b) Get their
confidence and love, and keep it. (c)
Respect for old age.

Lecture VIII—The effect of early training in
the Gospel, by example as well as precept:

(a) Respect for the Priesthood and
reverence for sacred things. (b) Ob-
servance of the Sabbath day. (c) Pay-
ing of tithes, and offerings.

Lecture IX.—Transition from childhood to 
maidenhood and boyhood:

(a) Care of health. (b) Clothing.
(c) Suitable books and companions.


Lecture X.—Hygiene in the home:

(a) Diet; food, and preparation. (b)
Ventilation. (c) Cleanliness. (d) Ex-
ercise.

Lecture XI.— Word of Wisdom:

(a) The result of obeying the word
of wisdom in the home. (b) The re-
sult of non-observance.

Lecture XII.—Courtship, and Marriage:

(a) Proper method of courtship; do

[Column 2]
not keep late hours. (b) Marry those
of your own faith. (c) Be guided by
the Spirit of the Lord,

ARTEMISSISA SEEGMILLER, Pres.
PERRIS SPENCER, Secretary.


TETON STAKE.

Lecture I. —Necessity of Marriage.

Ref.—Genesis 2: 18 and 24th verses.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 131 verses 1, 2, 3,
4.
(a) Choice of suitable companions.
(b) Make it a matter of prayer.
Ref. Jos. E. Taylor Improvement
Era April 1903. (Love and betrothals)
also courtship and marriage by Jos. E.
Taylor. Era. May 1903

Lecture II.—Eternal Marriage.

(a) Fate of those not married for
eternity. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132.
(b) Advantages of children born under
the Covenant. Talmage’s Articles of faith,
Page 452, 22d verse.

Lecture III.—Laws of marriage.

Ye kindred spirits filled with mutual love, 
Pure as the dews descending from above.
All hail! for you the sacred keys are given. 
To make you one on earth and one in heaven,
Be fruitful then, and let your race extend
Fill earth, the stars, and worlds that never end.
	Ref. Genesis Ch. 1. 28th verse. Tal-
	mage’s Articles of Faith pages 455-
460.

Lecture IV.— The Young Wife.

Domestic joy thou only bliss of Paradise tha
hath survived the fall.
		1. Let prayer be your watchword.
2. Duties to husband, love, kindness,
	to husband, consideration. 3. Care of
	home the first consideratiu. 4. So-
	manage your home duties that they will
	not conflict. Cleanliness in all respects
	and ventilation of sleeping appartments
	indespensable.

Lecture V.— The Prospective Mother.

Health, the first consideration and how to ob
tain it. Dispense with fashionable clothing. Take
healthful exercise. Eat in moderation. 
“The first right of a child is to he well born. 
The mother in her high office holds the key of
the soul; and she it is who stamps the coin of char-
acter and makes the being who would be a savage,
but for her gentle care a Christian.

Lecture VI.— The Young Mother.

Ah! what would the world be to us
if children were no more? 
We should dread the desert behind us 
Worse than the dark before.
How secure health for baby: Clean-
liness, Warm light clothing, Ventila-
tion, Proper nourishment.

How secure perfect body: Let the
babies creep to strengthen limbs. Pre-
vent them from standing too early,
causing bow legs and other deformi-
ties. Remember the bones of babies are
soft and pliable.

Lecture VII.—Home Training For Child-
ren.

1. Make your action, worthy of imi-
tation. 2. Teach them to pray as soon 
as they can lisp the words. 3. Instil
into their minds, truthfulness, honesty,


obedience, illustrating same with Bible
	and moral stories. 4. Early teaching in
	the principles of the Gospel and the
	early history of the Church.

Lecture VIII.—Home training of our boys
	and girls.

How win their love.
	(a) By being kind, yet firm, (b) By
	requiring them to assist in all our
	labors. (c) By bestowing deserved
	praise.

How make good Latter Day Saints.
	(a).Teach the necessity of prayer, (b)
	Encourage them to attend Sunday
	School and Primary. (c) Teach obed-
	ience as the first law of heaven. (d)
	Respect for proper authoity. (e) Hon-
	or the aged. (f) Choose good books
	and good companions.

Lecture IX— Moral training for young
	people.

Spiritual needs:
		Reverence for God and his servants.
	Encouragement to attend Mutual Im-
	provement associations.

Moral needs:
		(a) Make perfect confidents of your
	children. (b) Personal purity, plain
	talks to boys. (c) Pure thoughts and
	actions. (d) Avoid profanity and vul-
	garity. (e) Avoid too much familiar-
	ity with the opposite sex.
"Familiarity breeds contempt.”

Physical needs: 
(a) Cleanliness and proper exercise,
	(b) Preparation for puberty.

Lecture X—Home Amusements.

		(a) Pleasant surroundings. (b) Flow-
ers. (c) Good pictures. (d) Sunshine
	warmth, brightness. 
Entertainments.
(a) Good literature. (b) Music. (c).
	Instructive games. (d) Home socials

Lecture II—Woman's work

How made easy
		(a) Order and system by planning
work.(b) Conveniences in the kitch-
	en: flour, sugar, salt, etc., all handy.
	(c) Proper height of tables. (d) Save
	unnecessary standing by sitting down
	to iron, clean vegetables, wipe dishes,
	etc. (e) Provide soft rug to stand up-
	on. (f) Save strength for other im-
	portant duties.

Lecture XII— Womanhood and Motherhood.

Sophia Rigby Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
__________

R. S. REPORTS

EMERY STAKE.

	The Stake Relief Society conference was 
held in Castle Dale on Saturday, May 13,
1903, President Mary A. Sorensen presid-
ing.
	President Sorensen congratulated the
society on the good attendance. President
R. G. Miller, Counselor Mathis and Mrs.

[Column 2]
A. T. Hyde, Mrs. Jos. F. Smith, and Mrs
L. L. Greene Richards, all of Salt Lake
City, spoke, referring to the buildings and
granaries belonging to the society, and also
of the Mothers’ Work and Nursing Class
about to be introduced in the Relief Society.
	Nine of the wards were represented, each
reported in good condition
	Sister M. T. Smith stated that the Relief
Society stands as the mother of all other
Church associations, being the oldest organ-
ization, and caring for those in distress,
whether they are members or not.
	President R. G Miller thought the mem-
bers were setting their brethren a good ex-
ample. He informed the society upon what
was being done at Wellington in the way
of building granaries.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, first counselor to
President Bathsheba W. Smith, spoke upon
punctuality, prayer, directing aright the
energies of the children, sto[-]ing grain and
caring for the same.
	Afternoon meeting the general board and
stake officers were presented and sustained.
	Patriarch F. W. Young spoke upon the
great work done by the Relief Society, the
influence of mothers and kindness.
	Stake Counselor Mary J. King reported
her visit through the south end of the stake
and finding all in good working order.
	Sister L. L. G. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, congratulated President Miller upon
the organization here, and felt pleased to
see such general unity.
	Counselor Mathis and Aunt Jane Wood-
ward also spoke, the latter of knowing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and living to see
many of his prophecies fulfilled.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde read instructions
from President Bathsheba W. Smith, urg-
ing the keeping of children off the streets
at night, and being careful of each other’s
reputations.
	President Sorensen reported the work
done since last conference, urged the young
ladies to join the society and thanked all
those who had contributed to the success of
the present conference.
	After the adjournment an officers’ meet-
ing was held.

____

DAVIS STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held in Farmington in the meet-
ing house July 30, 1903, President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, also Presi-
dent John W. Hess and counselors. After
the opening exercises President Grant stated
that she felt honored by the presence of
Sister Bathsheba and Sister Hyde, aslo by
the stake presidency attending the confer-
ence, she felt thankful for the love and es-
teem of the brethren and sisters. Reports
of good work were given from all the branch-
er in the stake except two.
	President B. W. Smith spoke briefly up-
on the reports, expressed her pleasure in
being present and referred to the mother’s
work, that it should be under the Relief So-
ciety and belong to it, stated, “I was present
when the Relief Society was first organized
and think I am the only one living that was
there. I know Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God and that he taught the prin-
ciple of plural marriage.” Sister Smith bore
a strong testimony of this."
President J. W. Hess said "I am de-
lighted with this conference and that we

[Column 3]
have our beloved Sister Bathsheba with us
who was intimately acquainted with the
Prophet Joseph. I want you to know her
words are true and may we profit by them. I
am full of the spirit to bless every body and
to bless my sisters who are laboring in the
Relief Society and we appreciate your labors
and may the Lord bless us all Amen.”
	Counselor Jane Holt in behalf of the
officers, of the society, of Davis Stake pre-
sented President Grant with, a handsome fur,
Counselor Mary S. Clarke placing it on her
shoulders, it was given in honor of her
seventy-first birthday anniversary. The
sisters of Farmington had prepared a sump-
tuous dinner for all in the vestry, 174 sat
down to partake of the bounteous repast.
The banquet was in honer of Sister Susan
Grant and also Sister Helen Miller, as it was
her birthday. Afternoon session, after the
usual exercises was addressed by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde who rejoiced in the celebra-
tion of Sister Grant’s birthday and was also
glad to hear Sister Bathsheba give instances
of the Prophet's life; there are few remain-
ing now that can testify to these things, felt
we should teach our children these truths;
we should take special care in training our
children and give liberally to the poor.
	President Bathsheba Smith read some
notes from Sister Eliza R. Snow's minutes
of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and told of
many instances in the Prophet’s life and
said, “Let us be sure and have the principle
of eternal life dwelling in our bosoms. May
the Lord bless us all.” President Susan
Grant expressed in endearing terms her ap-
preciation of the sisters love and gifts: she
had visited every society in the stake and
found union in their midst. Counselor
Hyrum Grant appreciated the honor shown
his mother and was glad to hear Sister
Bathsheba Smith say she was satisfied with
her labors. Conference adjourned for three
months.
PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.

____

BEAR LAKE STAKE

	Minutes of annual conference held in the
Bear Lake Stake Tabernacle, July 12, 1903.
	Officers meeting, 10 a. m., where all the
wards were represented, twenty-three in
number, it being the first time that we had
a full report since the Relief Society was
organized in a Stake capacity.
	At 2 p. m., President J. P. Lindsay pre-
siding. Conference began with singing and
prayer. Minutes of last conference read
and approved.
	Sister J. P. Lindsay said if we only put
ourselves in a position we can enjoy every
blessing that is possible to be obtained, we
should each one of us know for ourselves
that this is the true work of God. Was
pleased to meet the sisters from Salt Lake
City and to have their valuable instructions. 
“We have a great mission before us. I
know this to be the true church and
kingdom of God.” Prayed the Lord to
bless and inspire the speakers with His
Holy Spirit. God bless us. Amen. 
Sister Stevenson explained the work of
the Relief Society. Spoke of peace, and
how it should commence in our homes, also
in all our associations. Wished to deliver
Sister B. W. Smith’s message of love to all
the sisters of this Stake. Said we should 
exercise faith and not forget the Lord. The
sisters are "angels of mercy.” Teach our
children faith and instil in their hearts love


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
and charity, also to read good books and
study the Word of Wisdom.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder read a letter re-
lating to mothers’ work, which told us that
we must especially look after our young
people, their morals, how can this be ac-
complished? Teach them to aim for some-
thing great and cultivate higher things in
life. To watch our boys and keep them
home after night fall, also our girls. Should
teach our children to pray for the presi-
dency; to respect those in authority; to
keep the Sabbath day holy; avoid evil in
every respect; attend Sabbath School; be
neat and tidy, and observe all that is good.
Related some instances of her mission and
her feelings after getting her release. “May
the Lord bless us with His Spirit.’’
	Brother William Rich spoke of his moth-
er’s anxiety over him, and following him
about to know what company he was
in, but could understand it now. Spoke
of a mother’s influence and of evil associa-
tions. It is essential to take care of
our children. “May the Lord bless us,
Amen.’’
	Financial and statistical report read and
approved.
	Conference adjourned till half past six in
the First Ward meeting house. Singing.
Benediction by Sister A. Hoge.
	Afternoon session, President J P. Lind-
say presiding. Opened by singing, “High
on the mountain tops.” Prayer by Brother
Stucki. Hymn, “Though deepening trials. ”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said while the last
hymn was being sung, pictures of England
passed through her mind, of green fields,
buttercups and daisies, and the times when
they would sing and hold meetings on the
streets. Spoke of the different incidents
that happened in her experience while on
her mission. We are now in a state that
we may become exalted if we live the life
that we should, everything is in a state of
progression. How far we would be behind
if we perchance made a failure of life.
	Sister Stevenson said while listening to
the former speaker thoughts passed through
her mind of the settlement of this country.
Do the young people that have comfortable
homes appreciate the blessing of their sur-
roundings? “Young mothers be proud of
your mission, remember that each child that
you rear is a jewel in your crown.”
	Sister Nancy Pugmire said what a pity
that mothers and wives did not fill the
Tabernacle. Felt that there was a spirit
of awakening, it is time. “I do not think
any other remarks could have been more
timely than what we have heard this even-
ing. There is an affection grown in all our
hearts towards the sisters. “May God bless
us all. Amen.”
	Sister Lindsay was very pleased and
thankful for the beautiful instructions we
had received from the sisters. Thought
there was a disregard shown for the Gos-
pel, we had better wake up or the Lord
would wake us rather roughly. “May the
Lord bless us all. Amen.”
	Meeting closed by singing. Benediction by Sister Mary Bagley.
					LOUISE TUELLER Cor. Sec.

[Column 2]
		CACHE STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of Cache
Stake was held in Logan, August 18, 1903,
President Lucy S. Cardon presiding. After
the usual opening exercises came the verbal
reports.
	Counselor Rebecca Eames reported the
First Ward of Logan; Margaret Ballard, the
Second Ward of Logan; Julia A. Stewart,
Sixth Ward.
	These reports were excellent and very
encouraging.
	President Cardon then introduced Sister
Sarah J. Cannon, of the General Board,
who made a fine address, touching upon all
the important matters in connection with
Relief Society work, home influence, man
agement of children, example and practise
of virtue; felt the sisters who had reported
had the right idea of the Mothers’ Work.
Said, “We are instructed by our president
to encourage the mothers to look after the
children, and if they do this they will not
be responsible if they fail to carry out their
teachings.” Sister Cannon spoke on many
other good subjects.
	Sisters Susan Smith, of Greenville, Chris-
tina Tyre, of Providence, and Sister Lind-
love, of the Seventh Ward of Logan,
each gave fine reports.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Weber
Stake, then addressed the conference “I
have passed through many trials in my life
that I did not choose, but I hope that I,
with you, my sisters, have accepted of
these trials, then we shall be blest, the Lord
will have a tried people, and we can endure
for the blessings.” She spoke of donating,
said it is a blessing to give and related some
of the early experiences of pioneering. Bore
her testimony to baptism in obedience to
the Savior. “We are living in the last
days, and the signs predicted are upon us.
Let us impress our children with a testi-
mony of the Gospel.”
	Afternoon session: After the usual exer-
cises, the general officers of the society were
sustained by vote of the conference.
	Sisters Laura Mickleson, of the Fourth
Ward, Sister Larson of the Third Ward,
and Kinnie Caine, of the Fifth Ward, all
gave excellent reports, also representatives
from Benson and Hyde Park reported.
	Sister Adeline H. Barber spoke briefly
and impressivly upon Relief Society work
and the silk interest. Felt grateful that
she had been able to do what she had in
these things; encouraged the mothers in
their labors with the children, knew their
reward would be greater than they antici-
pated. Rejoiced to hear Sister Richards re-
late her experiences of early days.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of neg-
lect of duty and how she condemned her-
self for spending time less profitably; com-
pared the times now with early days in the
Church, said let us be kind to the children
and prepare them for future work, for they
will have hard things to meet. “Twenty-
six years ago President Young organized us
in stakes as a Relief Society to have quart-
erly conferences, the thought to do this
grew out of an invitation I gave him to

[Column 3]
visit us in the Weber Stake and talk to the
sisters. Let us love each other, and never
entertain any hard feelings, the little things
in life avail us much.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon said, “I enjoyed the
sermon Brother Ballard gave us in his solo,
‘Sowing.’ ” She encouraged the sisters to
subscribe for the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
also the storing of grain and urged the
teachers to be faithtul in the performance of
their duties, to be united and charitable one
to another; and teach your sons something
of Relief Society work, that when they go
upon missions and have to organize so-
cieties they will know what is needed; en-
courage a reserve fund if possible in each
society.
	Sister Ann Crookston bore a faithful tes-
timony and spoke beautifully of the work
of training the children.
	Bishop Thomas H. Smith said he had
many reflections during the meeting con-
trasting these times with early days. Spoke
feelingly to the mothers, referred to Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s words, “When you are in
company of the young people use good lan-
guage.” Instructed the mothers to train
their children to pay tithing.
	Counselor Isaac Smith endorsed what
had been said, thought the sisters meetings
the most spiritual ones we had; to him, the
position of a mother, was the grandest to
aspire to. Spoke especially of the remarks
of Sister Cannon, of instructing our boys
and having a little means on hand. Eulo-
gized Bishop Thomas Smith’s example be-
fore the people, felt we should give to all
such flowers while in life.
	President Cardon closed by saying, “Let
us be diligent in all good works, try and
increase our membership and profit by the
teachings of these sisters, Sister Richards,
over eighty years of age and her ripe exper-
iences.
	Conference adjourned.
					MARY E. SMITH, Sec.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married 
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own 
	name, subject to their own order. Have 
	you such an account? If not, open 
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said 
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. I Main Street.


An organization to send out news and in-
formation on the Armenian question has
just been formed with Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe as president. Among the honorary
vice presidents are President W. F. Slocum
of Colorado College, Hon. Samuel J. Bar-
rows, National Prison Commissioner, Will-
iam Lloyd Garrison, and E. H. Clement,
editor of the Boston Transcript. The secre-
tary is I. C. Barrows, 20 Central Ave.,
Tompkinsville, Staten Island, N. Y.; the
treasurer, L. B. Moulton, 73 Tremont
Temple Boston, Room 1017.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

			Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1903		No. 7.


CONTENTS.
The Pioneer Christmas, Annie Wells Cannon,	49 53
EDITORIAL—Christmas Gatherings—Editorial
	Notes.......................................................	52
R. S. Reports...................................................	52
In Memoriam..................................................	54
Mothers’ Work................................................	55
Haste and Rest....................Julia Ward Howe	56
Notes and News..............................................	56
Notice to Secretaries.......................................	56
POETRY—Thanksgiving Poem, Ruth May Fox	49


THANKSGIVING POEM.
[Written for the Press Club, 1903].

We are thankful, O God, for all that is fair,
For mountain, valley and river;
	For the wealth of the field
	Which the harvest doth yield,
	For the lowing of kine
	And the fruit of the vine;
And we render all praise to the Giver.

We thank thee, O Father, for sunshine, and rain,
That roses and thorns grow together;
	For the music of birds
	And the tender buds stirred
	By the breath of the spring,
	Whose frargrance doth cling,
Round the homes where our hearts wander ever.

And Father, we thank thee for hearts that are true,
For friendship sincere and abiding;
	For the hand that doth clasp
	In a brotherly grasp
	The hand of the weak;
	For the fond lips that speak
Kind words that are pure and confiding.

We thank thee, O Lord, for the strong and the brave,
Who shrink not from trial or duty,
	For the gentle and sweet
	Who strew flow’rs at our feet,
	Who comfort our fears
	And weep with our tears
Making earth a bright bower of beauty.

But most of all, Father, we thank thee for life,
Glor’ous life, progressive, alluring
	Our hearts far away,
	Aye, away and away,
	To revel in light
	’Mong the planets of night
And splendors forever enduring.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


[Column 1]
THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.

There’s plenty of hardship in pioneer life,
	A hard working stint at the best:
But with brawn and pluck and courage rife, 
	The heart beats with hope in the breast.

	“Why, Elizabeth, what brought you out-
side the fort walls so late in the day; are
you not afraid of anything, girl?”
	“Afraid,” the girl answered “that some-
thing might happen to you on your peri-
lous trip, and you don’t know how good it
seemed to hear the rolling of the wagon
wheels over the frozen ground, the steady
tread of the oxen, the crack of your whip,
and best of all, the sound of your voice say-
ing ‘gee’ and ‘haw,’ urging the oxen
along.”
	“It is very sweet of you,” the boy said,
“to think of me and come out to meet me.
The other boys are not far behind; but

[Column 2]
come, walk close beside me, sweetheart, and
I will tell you of the trip.”
	So, hand in hand, the two young lovers
walked close beside the loaded wagon, ex-
changing experiences of the last few days
and thinking all the time of each other,
roughly and not too warmly clad, but
hearts warm and true and minds clear and
pure as running water.
	“Our trip, Elizabeth, was quite success-
ful, though rather hard. We followed the
creek as far as the road permitted; but
shortly after entering the canyon, it be-
comes so narrow that we made a camp,
where John and I watched the wagon and
cattle and gathered small wood, while
Charley and Sam explored farther up and
found some splendid pines. The first day
they took the axes and ropes and felled as
many trees as they could, and yesterday
John and I took our turn, so we have two
fine loads of logs and two of smaller wood
for firing. Now your mother can have a
floor in her house, and we can all have
warm, cheerful fires for Christmas, if noth-
ing more. The other boys are some dis-
tance behind, though not far. You know
I boast of my good driving, and besides
there was a magnet drawing me on, which
I knew not of. The Lord bless you, Eliza-
beth; for thinking of me, few boys in the
valley are as lonely as I. Do you know
when I saw my mother die on the ocean,
and her body lowered in the great white
sea, I could myself have died. All desire
for life, all future hope left me, and there
on the ship’s deck, death would have been
welcome. My sisters wept, my little broth-
ers clung to father's hand; but I seemed
alone, my heart almost ceased to beat. I
was like stone, no tears or sobs relieved the
dull pain of that dreadful hour. It seems a
marvel that still we live after such suffer-
ing; but the old ship steadily tossed along
the waters, the waves closed over her body,
aud the great ocean heaved just the same;
and life has rolled along, sometimes throb-
bing, sometimes sobbing, but still carrying
out no doubt my destiny. Can you be pa-
tient and wait for me? With your love for
my guiding star, I shall never fail. We
are nearly home now, you must forgive me
if I recall sad scenes, I have never been
able to talk of mother to any one but you
and sister Anne. Now for a little while we
must part, I hope your mother has not wor-
ried about you, for really it is hardly safe
for you to venture so far, and besides it is
against counsel for any of the women folks
to leave the fort after sundown. Wise
counsel it is too, for there are many dangers
in this desert country. You are a girl of
wonderful courage; but as you truly love
me, you must take care of yourself.”
	“You speak of dangers,” said Elizabeth,
“are there any new ones? I cannot think
the Lord will let the Indians or the wolves
harm us. We have passed through so
many hardships, privations and sorrows since
leaving our homes, that surely somewhere
in the world we can find a refuge; and be-
sides, those who ought to know have told
us this is the chosen spot. I believe we
are safe and will be protected here. Yes,

[Column 3]
I will do all you ask. Life is pretty hard
for us; but we are young and strong, and
our love will help us through, so now good
night.”
	So they parted, having reached the North
gateway of the fort. Elizabeth knew her
mother would be anxious, and perhaps a
little angry, for she did not altogether ap-
prove of her daughter’s love affair. So
hastening into her rude home, she quickly
explained that the boys were all coming
and that John would soon be home, though
in fact she had neither looked nor listened
after meeting her lover to learn whether her
brother was near or not, That was only
because she had been so sympathetically in-
terested in his story, for she possessed all
the best, kind attributes of a sister, and be-
gan immediately to prepare something
warm and nice for her brother and to think
of his comfort.
	In the meantime, the young man had un-
yoked and cared for his oxen, and then re-
ported himself to his uncle, with whom he
lived, and who had sent him into the can-
yon for logs. He hinted in his conversa-
tion with Elizabeth about dangers, but to
his uncle he had something quite important
to report. A large number of Sioux Indians
were camped up the canyon, just having
come away victorious from a conflict with
some Utes, and it was more than likely
that they would come down in the settle-
ment and worry and frighten the settlers if
nothing more. At any rate, a visit from
the Indians always meant a dividing up of 
provisions for the sake of peace, and the
people were not any too well provided for
themselves, with a long winter before them
and no hope of any more companies coming
in with supplies before the spring. 
	In pioneer days in the far west, the set-
tlers had to live close together for protec-
tion, and the first Fall of forty seven, the
few families of Mormon emigrants who
reached the valley built themselves homes
of adobes and logs, all as it were in one en-
closure. A high wall of adobes enclosed a
large square, thus forming the outer wall
of the several homes, mere huts, one would
call them now, all facing an inner court.
Rude logs sawn in half made the rafters and
supporting beams, while loose soil was
thrown over the rafters to form a roof.
Some of these huts had doors, and some had
floors, but others had the bare ground for a
floor, and only an open space among the
logs for a door way. There was only the
smallest openings in the outer wall for out-
looks, for there was no such thing as glass for
windows, and the dangers were many.
Great herds of white wolves and howling
coyotes came down from the mountains
night after night and prowled and howled
and tore around the walls, and the Indians
were not always friendly either. So much
care had to be taken to make these homes
secure. In these days everybody had much
hard work to do, and the women were only
too glad to help construct these rude homes.
To them, these walls of logs and mud meant
rest and protection, and a king’s palace is
no more than that. 
	After George had eaten his supper and


[Column 1]
sufficiently warmed himself, his uncle sent
him to the different houses to ask the men
to gather in his home for a little consulta-
tion, warning him, however, not to say
anything to alarm the women folks. George
made the round of the different houses,
leaving his message, and last of all knocked
at the door of Elizabeth’s home hoping
with a lover’s fondness to have a few words
with her that night; but, with her brother
John, she had gone to one of the neighbors to
help plan some Christmas entertainment
for the children; so after giving to her
father his uncle’s message, he returned to
his own home a little disappointed, but still
with the memory of her brave words in his
mind, full of hope for the future.
	The conference lasted about an hour, and
by that time every man in the fort was
ready to act as guard or soldier, just as oc-
casion should require. All guns were that
night inspected, and the powder horns hung
dry and near at hand. A detail of young men
was appointed to act as sentries on the four
sides and also to take information to the
families still living in wagons and tents
who were not yet inside the enclosure.
	While all these precautionary prepara-
tions were being made by the men, the
women were silently wondering what they
could do to make Christmas a little happier,
a little different from other days. The
mother nature always loves to do some-
thing nice for little folks; but oh, the dearth
of everything! How much poorer than
ever they seemed at this time.
	Elizabeth’s brother had brought from the
canyon with his logs some young pines,
and they had wondered if in some way
they might not be utilized to please the
children. So together John and Elizabeth
had gone with these young trees over to
Mary Dilworth, the little school teacher, to
discuss the matter. Other young folks
were also gathered there, and the hours
passed quickly.
	“Oh,” said Mary, “how pretty and green
they are.”
	“Yes, if we only had some of our Michi-
gan cranberries to string on them, we
might have a real Christmas tree,” an-
swered John.
	“Well,” she replied, “there’s no good
wishing for things we cannot have, and the
sight of the green pine needles will be
something for them after all. Come over
to the school tomorrow, Elizabeth, and
help me tell them a Christmas story and
teach them a happy song. The little folks
have always such a sober life, we can at
least try to brighten it for one day!”
	“Aren’t you glad, girls,” said Sister
Riter, “that the Battalion boys are with us
again? You young folks can at least have
a dance tomorrow night. Jesse Earls’ fid-
dling just makes us older folks want to
dance.”
	This was two nights before Christmas,
that in the same enclosure two confer-
ences were held, one among the young
folks planning amusement and making
merry with music, laughter and jests, and
one among the elder ones planning means
for protection and safety.
	As Elizabeth and John crossed the court
they noticed the sentry pass the gateway,
and immediately the word danger used by
her lover came to her mind. Without ex-
changing a word with her brother about
the circumstance, she crossed immediately
to the sentry and asked for an explanation.
The boy knew she was impetuous and self-

[Column 2]
willed, but he also knew her to be brave
and true, and he felt she was one who
would neither alarm nor annoy any one by
spreading evil tidings, so he expl ined
about the nearness of the Indians and their
warlike appearance. Elizabeth knew not
fear, and besides she was full of assurance
that she herself could scarcely account for,
that their worst dangers were passed, and
she gaily replied,
	“Keep on the lookout for wolves, Millen,
and shoot them if they come too near;
never an Indian will you see tonight.”
	Then rejoining her brother, they entered
the house.
	The mother and the other children were
all sleeping, but the father was waiting for
them, his Bible in his hand and his gun
leaning against his knee. The resemblance
between the father and daughter was most
striking. He, a large, well-built man,
whose very attitude denoted firmness and
courage, a kindly, open countenance with
clear, blue eyes, though heavily shaded,
and a mouth with lips close shut; while
this sweet maid, Elizabeth, almost a child
in years—in those days girls had no youth,
they passed from childhood to womanhood,
for the hardships and sorrows of pioneer
life was a bitter and trying school—was
like a tall red rose, graceful, strong and fair
to behold. She was full of faith and hope
and love. Her mind was rich in thought,
and her hands were never idle. Watching
her movements in her home, one would in-
stinctively recall the words of Solomon,
“She looketh well to the ways of her
household, and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness.” As her parting words with her
sweetheart implied, “I will do all you ask,
we are young and strong and can wait,” so
she always seemed full of strength and
power and courage to battle with any
emergency, and she diffused in her surround-
ings and among her associates, this great
personality, like a rose sends out its per-
fume.
	Some women are full of fears, and full of
tears, nervous and sentimental to a great
degree, but such women are usually those
reared in luxury and refined surroundings.
The dangers of the desert and the toil of
the pioneer made life’s work so incessant
that little time was left for fears or idle
weeping, but the soul was full of sentiment
and the very desert seemed to breathe of
hope.
	“Why father,” said the girl, ‘ you look
quite formidable, let John take your gun
and put it up, and I will read you a verse
or two from the good book while you pre-
pare for bed. I know all about your meet-
ing, and there is no need for you to watch,
for the boys will give us plenty of warning,
and I must sit up a while to knit, so if
there is occasion, I can wake you.”
	Then turning to her brother, she said,
“How very tired you must be, John dear,
after your canyon trip! Do get to sleep as
soon as possible.”
	So in her masterful way, she assisted
them both, and soon all was quiet, not a
sound but the steady clicking of her needles
as they worked in and out of the long com-
forter she was making for her lover’s
Christmas gift. Swiftly the needles flew,
and swifter flew her thoughts.
	“If George had not received this mission-
ary call, we might be married next spring
and begin to make a home for ourselves;
but as it is, it may be for years before we
really do begin to live. I believe I will get

[Column 3]
Mary Dilworth to teach me privately this
winter, and then when the new settlers,
come in next year perhaps I can start a
school, and so begin to earn a little money
and perhaps lay by something towards a
home.”
	So her thoughts ran on until the candle
burned down in the socket. She dared not
be so extravagant as to light another that
night, so carefully folding up her work,
was preparing for bed, when on the clear,
cold air was heard the report of a gun.
Quickly she sprang to the port hole in the
outer wall, but could see nothing, so she
quietly slipped through the door and ran to
the gate. Others were hurrying from the
houses and for a few moments great excite-
ment prevailed, but investigation proved
that oue of the guards had shot at a prairie
dog, thinking he saw a wolf. Darkness
enlarges the sight as well as the imagina-
tion. After awhile quiet again ensued, but
sleep was almost impossible for many that
night, when it became generally known
that danger was so near.
	The morning dawned clear and cold. The
earth was covered with a heavy frost that
glistened like jewels in the sun. The
housewives were astir early for there was
much to do that day. Elizabeth had de-
termined ty help Miss Dilworth entertain
the children, and early in the morning was
baking doughnuts in all sorts of fancy de-
signs, rings, hearts, balls and baby shapes;
grotesque enough some of them were, but
pleasing to the eye and certainly sweet to
the taste. With colored yarns and fancy
doughnuts they decorated the tree, and the
little ones were happy, for they had not ex-
pected anything. The pioneer mothers
dared not tell their children fancy stories of
Santa Claus and Christmas cheer, for well
they knew no such visions could be real-
ized, so the little folks received a pleased
suprise with this simple offering.
	Mary Dilworth—a girl of great intelli-
gence and wholly unselfish—had opened, as
soon as the room could be built, a school
for the children of the settlement, and had 
given her time and thought freely for their
benefit. The little folks loved her, and
were eager to learn, and on this day before
Christmas, she seemed particularly happy
among them; and with Elizabeth’s help,
they sang songs and played merry games
for some time, when standing before them,
she told them the story of Christmas, not
the merry making of today, but the true,
sacred story of Jesus’ birth. Ah, many
Christmas tales are told and written, but
after all what can equal that beautiful story
of Mary with her babe in the manger, when
the wise men came to worship and brought
beautiful gifts, and the glory of the Lord
shone over all!
	Elizabeth listened as intently as the chil-
dren and felt more than ever the desire to
help and to do good to some one, more
than ever anxious to sing praises and to
cease all complaining. And as the children
rose to receive their little cakes from her
hands, she said, “Let us all repeat the
Lord’s prayer, and then say together
“Peace on earth, good will to men.” Alter
this little ceremony with the children, a
perfect calm seemed to rest upon them all,
and a heavenly glow filled their hearts to
such an extent that to their sights the room
was all rosy-hued; and never a happier,
more contented little assembly ever dis-
persed that that.
	Elizabeth was full of the spirit of this oc-


[Column 1]
casion, and could not immediately bring
herself to the homely tasks of the house; so
after leaving the school room, she started
out for a walk. The sharp snap of the
frost under her feet, and the crisp air but
tended to increase the elation of her spirits
as with long steady strides she wandered
on, neither noting nor caring whither, when
suddenly she realized she had wandered in-
to danger, for not far ahead she saw an In-
dian crouching along, but between herself
and him was a settler’s cabin, and she hast-
ily made for the door, where she found the
poor frightened woman almost in hysterics
as she clung to her little babe.
	“Why, Aunt Harriet, are you hurt?’’ she
asked.
	“Oh no, but somewhat frightened, I ad-
mit, and a little unstrung in my nerves,
now that the danger is over,” replied the
woman.
	“Tell me what has happened, and shall
I go for help?” said Elizabeth.
	“No;” Aunt Harriet replied. “When I
gave the Indian all the bread I had, he
threatened me because he wanted more, and
for a moment I felt as though my last hour
and my baby’s too had come, then I re-
membered our great mastif, chained in the
other room, and pretending to get him
more bread, I went in and loosened the dog
and urged him on. Of course I couldn’t be
cruel enongh to let him quite kill the In-
dian, but I let the dog stay long enough to
make him pretty much afraid and quite
willing to give in to me too. Then I called
the dog off and dressed his wounds and
sent him off. I think that Indian won’t
come round here much more.”
	“I should think not,” said Elizabeth;
“but oh Aunt Harriet! I wish you were not
so far away from the rest of us.”
	“I’m not afraid, and when Spring comes
you’ll all be moving out of the Fort and
making homes, and you see we are just a
little ahead of you,’’ Aunt Harriet answered.
"But what brings you out this afternoon,
Elizabeth?”
	“I have been in the school-room today
with Mary Dilworth, and the exercises and
sweet stories she told the children so im-
pressed me that I thought I would rather
walk awhile and think of this holy theme
than go back to my cooking, and I only
chanced this way by accident; but now, I
believe the Lord directed my steps, for
surely you need company after such a
fright. ”
	Elizabeth immediately began to help her
friend with her work and remained until
nearly sunset, when Aunt Harriet’s oldest
son, who had been away for wood came in.
He also had seen a few Indians, but said
they-seemed friendly, and he did not antic-
ipate any trouble from them; but he was
more alarmed when he heard of his mother’s
experience with one of them. Concealing
his fear, however, he began to praise his
mother for her bravery and quick wit.
	“Yes,” the mother answered, "there
was no time to lose, scarcely time to think,
and oh! the thought of a death from the In-
dians! I would a thousand times rather
have died on the plains than to be killed by
these savages!”
	“Yes, Indeed,” answered Elizabeth, but
God is merciful, and I cannot think this
people will ever suffer from the Indians. Of
course we have all the time the dread and
fear and many perilous incidents like this to
alarm and worry us, but we are home at

[Column 2]
last, and do you know, Aunt Harriet, I be-
lieve we are going to be very happy here.”
	“You talk like a good, brave girl, Eliza-
beth, and I am sure you are right. We
have much to be thankful for, after all, and
the greatest of all is the wonderful love of
our people for each other. Tell your mother
and the rest of the folks down at the Fort I
wish them a Merry Christmas.”
	Elizabeth now bade her friends good-bye,
refusing the company of the young man,
for his mother needed him more than she
until others of the family should return,
and with long rapid steps she turned home-
ward.
	The day had been full of interest for her,
and her mind was full of rich, bright
thoughts, the thought of the wonderful
bravery and heroism of Aunt Harriet, more
than surpassed by her tenderness and mercy,
when she bathed and dressed the wounds
of the savage, of her great contentment in
her humble, almost destitute surroundings;
and she knew that all around her were
numbers of just such true, brave, lonely
women, enduring, almost with pleasure,
the greatest hardships and sacrificing every
selfish thought on an altar of faith. Then
she thought of Mary Dilworth, and her in-
tellect and talents, and wished in her heart
that she but possessed the same, for she felt
the great good she could do for others, and
how perhaps she might aid her lover too.
	At this thought, a rush of color suffused
her whole being. Dear George, how manly,
and yet h w gentle he is. “I wonder why,”
she said aloud, "he should have been se-
lected for that new mission. It hardly seems
fair, for as yet he has no means or property
or prospects. Well, he says if I love him I
must not complain, for he will ever bring
his own feelings into submission to the
opinions of those above him in authority.
The experience of our westward journey
ought to be sufficient evidence that obed-
ience is our surest road to success.”
	On reaching home, Elizabeth saw the
young folks already making preparations
for the evening dance. She did not join
them just then, however, but sought her
father to inform him of Sister Young’s ad-
venture, knowing that though the merri-
ment might go on, the vigilant watch must
still be kept.
	All this day George had been busy help-
ing his uncle work on their little home, and
later engaged in some writing and copying
for him, so he had not been aware of Eliz-
abeth’s walk or visit to the school. There
was always much work to do, and he was
never idle, for when his uncle had no em-
ployment for him, he delighted in study.
Opportunities were few, and books were
very scarce, but George’s uncle was a
scholarly man and had succeeded in bring-
ing into the desert some few very choice
and rare books, and he was also more than
willing to help his nephew in his search for
knowledge.
	The temperature was somewhat lower,
as the evening advanced, and a slight wind
began to blow, which the settlers thought
meant snow. There had been no snow in
the valley up to that time, and they had
wished all along for a white Christmas, for
that would seem more natural. The time
for the dance arrived, and young and old
assembled in the little school-room. What
a queer sight! Rough boards, on which to
dance, and tallow candles for the lights. At
the end where the band sat were two lant-
erns and a row of half a dozen candles, then

[Column 3]
around the room in different places, were
candles in tin holders, stuck in the wall.
	The company came to have a good time
and be merry; the music was good, and the
room was warm and their hearts were
warm, so the hours flew swiftly by.
	George had danced only once with Eliz-
abeth, and that in a Tucker quadrille, so
had scarcely had time to speak to her since
the night before; but towards midnight, he
came near and whispered,
	“Should a waltz be called, Elizabeth, will
you give it to me? I have to leave shortly
to take the watch at the East gate ”
	Elizabeth was a great favorite, and had
been danci ng quite gaily all the evening;
but at these words from her lover, she stood
up quickly, and in her usual impulsive
manner, said,
	“I won’t dance again to-night, only with
you; and if you have to go, I shall go too.”
	“No,” said George, "stay and enjoy
yourself. I am sure you are.having a good
time.”
	“Yes,” she answered, “but you are here,
even though you haven’t been very atten-
tive this evening; and when you go, the
good time will go too.” 
	George was greatly pleased with the
girl’s frank confession, and as the strains
of a waltz began, the two young people 
clasped in each other’s arms joined in the
dance.
	The rhythmic motion of the body to the
music of the waltz is poetry to the soul, and
all the harsh, hard things of life are forgot-
ten and only the beautiful remain. There
are moments when all the senses are awake
in their intensity, and one sees the glorious
colors of the rainbow, hears the tender
notes of the song birds, scents the delicate
perfume of the flowers and feels the exquis-
ite harmony of life; and to these young
people, this was such a moment.
	They had seldom been alone, but from
their first acquaintance, they had felt drawn
towards each other, and a mutual confidence
and affection had arisen in their breasts.
Tonight, the affection had become deeper,
and both felt to enjoy the happy moments
to the utmost; but suddenly the music
ceased, then things became real again; and
once more there mingled with the laughter
and the merry-making, the thought of fear
and danger and parting. ’Twas ever [-]o in
the old, old time of long ago. Joy and fear,
gay delight and sorrow’s dread found equal-
place.
	The hour had come for George to take
the place at the gate, and Elizabeth, true
to her word, went with him. As had been
expected the wind had blown over, and a
gentle snow had set in. The ground was
already white with . the soft downy flakes,
and the snow was still falling. George took
Elizabeth to her home, then turned immed-
iately towards his own to get warmer cloth-
ing and his gun. His watch began at mid-
night, and he was anxious to keep his prom-
ise and not delay the relief of his friend who
already had to miss the first part of the
party. As he was walking back and forth,
thinking of his happiness, for tonight he
felt especially happy, Elizabeth joined him,
and in a shy, though gentle manner said,
	“I brought you, George, your Christmas
gift, You know it is already Christmas
morning, and I thought this would help to
keep you warm.”
	So saying, she unfolded the long com-
forter she had been,knitting, and wound it
Continued on page 53.


[Column 1]	
	THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.
	Continued from page 51.
around his neck. At the touch of her hand
and the knowledge of her tender thought-
fulness, his heart was filled with gratefulness
for her love, and his whole being thrilled
with delight holding her in his arms,
he gazed for one moment into the depths of
her clear blue eyes, and whispered, “Oh,
my love! my love! Heaven keep you safe
for me, and I will conquer every obstacle
and make you the proudest and happiest of
women.”
	There then, outside the old gray walls,
in the stillness of the night, with light
feathery snow falling over them, these
young lovers plighted their faith and devo-
tion to each other, pure and simple, but full
of hope and love divine. They lingered only
a few moments in the bliss of this sweet
exchange of promises, and then bade each
other good bye for the present.
	The girl returned to her home across the
court. She could not speak to any one that
night. Such a spell of happiness held her,
that she desired to be alone with her
thoughts. On the hearth glowed the coals
of a fragrant pine knot, and by that faint
light, she prepared for bed, not wishing to
disturb any one by lighting a candle.
Kneeling in the glow of the firelight by the
side of her father’s old arm chair, she
praised the Lord for her happiness and
thanked Him for her great love; and George
through the silent watch of that still night,
also in his heart, sang songs of praise and
thanksgiving. What matter that the night
was cold; what matter that the snow fell
thick and fast; what matter that the wolves
cried out in the night air; or that not far
off in the hills the Indians were camped!
These young hearts beat warm and happy,
and knew not cold nor fear. A Christmas
never dawned on happier, brighter hearts
than theirs.
	Christmas morning in the Fort was very
busy. Plans had been made to have the
families outside the enclosure come in and
share the good cheer with those inside, and
so quite a number of house parties were ar-
ranged. Meat and provisions had been
distributed, liberally and equally for the oc-
casion, so all fared alike and though the
dinners were somewhat plain, they were
feasts that day. Roast beef, dried corn and
puddings with dried peaches or plums are
not exactly the Christmas dinners of to day;
but these pioneer women had learned an
art of making toothsome and appetizing re-
lishes out of the simplest materials, and
such a variety as this was a feast indeed.
In after years, many times boiled segoes
and swamp-roots had to serve for a meal.

[Column 2]
While the housewives were preparing the
dinner, the men had assembled to plan some
means of treating with the Indians that the
watch need not to be kept, and to remove
the fear from their hearts. It was decided
that five young men go out to the Indian
camp with some meat and flour, though it
could not well be spared, and make some
terms, if possible, with these savages.
Young George asked to be permitted to be
one of this number; and so earnestly did he
desire to go, that he was allowed, though
he was extremely young for a mission re-
quiring so much caution, diplomacy and
perhaps fighting. He had no fear, and felt
called to go on this errand to the red men.
The Indians were pleased with the gifts
and begged the men to smoke the pipe of
peace with them, which of course the white
men readily consented to do. The savages
then expressed themselves as having no
hostile feelings towards the settlers, and
said they were on the way to their homes
on the blue water to the South, and were
just about to take up their journey. The
men of course were pleased with, the suc-
cess of their visit but George seemed un-
willing yet to depart, and finally succeeded
in persuading his companions to ask the
Indians to pray with them. After some ex-
planation from the white men, and wonder
from the savages, they all consented and
stood in a circle; then George passed in
among them, and in the Indian tongue
plead for mercy for this wild band of men
and their race, and told them of the Master
and His mercy and love for all mankind,
and that this day was the great day of peace
and praise throughout the world.
	A great silence fell all around. The sav-
ages stood like stone images, and the white
men almost he[-]d their breath, for they knew
a divine power had sunken through their
friend and comrade. He was the first to
move, and with a gladness of heart reflect-
ed in his face, he passed among them, shak-
ing hands and bidding them farewell. The
Indians felt the spirit of the occasion, and
were so overcome with what they had
heard, that they began to offer their blank
ets and robes and armlets to their white
visitors but th y had received already
more than they had expected and all they
wanted in the promise of peace, and so re-
fused to take these offerings, and as soon
as possible, returned to their friends with
the glad tidings.
	The day was too cold to call the people
out to the public place of worship, the Bow-
ery; but when the boys returned to the
Fort, the people were summoned into the
courtyard, and the good news was told and
the word given out for all families when
assembling for dinner to speak their praise
unto the Lord.
	When Elizabeth heard of the great power
given her lover, as he stood among the In-
dians, she felt very proud indeed, and more
than anxious to tell her parents of her great
happiness; but with the shyness of youth,
kept putting it off, though many times
through the day, while helping her mother
with the cooking aud work, she had nearly
told her. Her happiness, however, was
quite apparent, and she sang first one love
tune and then another, as an accompani-
ment to her work. She joked with her
brother and teased her sisters unmercifully
about their beaux; in fact, the great elation
of her spirits became contagious, and that
was indeed a happy household that after-
noon. After dinner, however, she sobered

[Column 3]
down somewhat, and while her father was
reading in his usual place by the fire, she
knelt down by his side and told him the
story of her love. She was sure of his sym-
pathy, and knew he would do all in his
power to help her. And he did. Stroking
her soft brown hair with his hand, he talked
to her for some time, praising her choice,
for he had watched and noticed young
George for many months, and he felt him
to be superior both intellectually and spirit-
ually to many of his companions, who
seemed to have greater advantages and bet-
ter prospects than he. And the father prom-
sed her his help aud good will in their fut-
ure preparations. This was very comfort
ing to Elizabeth; for while there was great
sympathy always between her father and
herself, she feared he might be influenced
by her mother who she knew had other
plans for her. Her mother was just as
good and kindhearted as her father; but she
also like most mothers, was a little ambitious
for her daughters and even among the early
settlers there sometimes seemed a little
caste. Some families could scarcely forget
that formerly they boasted noble ancestry
and fine homes, had been able to keep ser-
vants and carriages, though now a common
cause and a humble faith had made a com-
mon condition among the Sa[-]n[-]s. No rich,
no poor, all fared alike. All enjoyed equal
privileges, as all enjoyed equal favors from
our Heavenly Father. Oh, the joy of such
a condition! God’s children all—breathing
the same air, the same sky over all! When
ever before or since, has such a condition
prevailed among a people? It was like par-
adise set in the mountains.
	All day George had been almost over-
powered by the  thought of the great gift
that had been given him and had felt to
humble himself before the Lord. The tears
came to his eyes many times during the
night at the thought of what had happened;
and he was quite silent on the subject, only
telling his uncle in answer to some questions
how it had happened. He himself could
not account for this wonderful manifesta-
tion, only that he had prayed in his heart
to feel satisfied before leaving the Indian
c[-]mp that their promises were made in good
faith, and he believed that this was an an-
swer to his prayer. His sister Anne, a tall
fair girl, stood near during this conversa-
tion b  tween her uncle and brother and
throwing her arms around her brother she
said, “Dear George, this is but the fulfilling
of mother’s word to you: Go on and con-
tinue to live pure and true, and your des-
tiny will be great Oh, how I wish she
could have lived until this moment! How
well would she feel repaid for her sorrows.’’
	“My sweet sister,’’ he answered, “many
sufferings have been ours, and that is why
we appreciate every little token of mercy or
power from our Heavenly Father so
much.”
	Oh, the simple faith of these poor peo-
ple! What a source of happiness and joy 
it brought! How much better would the
world be now if only faith could be the
anchor.
	George’s aunt had been unusually silent
during this conversation but after her din-
ner was over, and her housework done for
the day, she [-]ook the youth aside and
talked to him long and earnestly of his
mother and his early home. Then taking
from her pocket an old fashioned leather
purse, she took therefrom a crooked guinea
and a ring. The coin had been her father’s


[Column 1]
and grandfather’s also and the ring had
been her mother’s
“Take these, George,’’ she said, “and
keep the coin always. The ring give to
your wife when you have one, for it was to
have been your mother’s had I ever seen
her again. Our mother gave it to me to
keep for her.”
The ring was of very soft, yellow gold,
with pretty, open carving around the set-
ting, and a clear oval sapphire, with a small
pearl on each side formed the setting.
“It seems almost too much happiness for
one day, dear Aunt,” said George; and
then he told her of his engagement to Eliz-
abeth, and asked if she were willing for
him to give this ring to her as a pledge of
their love. His aunt gladly consented, for
she knew and admired the girl exceedingly
and felt sure it would find a worthy place
on Elizabeth’s finger.
When evening came, George called at
Elizabeth’s home, where there were other
young men of the Fort visiting. Elizabeth
and her two sisters were very popular
young ladies, so their home was frequently
a gathering place for young people. Eliz-
abeth’s father gave George a very warm
welcome this Christmas evening, which the
company attributed to his wonderful exper-
ience in the morning with the Indians; but
George knew by the warm pressure of the
hand and the merry twinkle in his eye that
her father knew of their love and approved
of him; and so the evening hours glided on.
Parching corn in the long-handled frying
pan was one amusement, while reciting
pieces and singing songs made pleasure,
too. Then some one proposed a story.
“Now who can tell a story like mother?”
said John. “Come, mother, bring some-
thing out of the Michigan forests, if its only
a ghost.”
“Oh yes, do,” said the young folks in a
chorus, “we just love ghost stories, if they
do make us creep.”
“That’s just John’s nonsense,” said his
mother, “but I will tell you of something
that happened when I was a young girl, that
I had almost forgotten until I heard today
of George’s prayer with the Indians and
that recalled it, for it was almost if not quite
as strange. “Twas Christmas morning, and
the snow had been falling all the day before
and all night, and lay around the house at
least a foot deep; and in the doorways and
by the fences, were great drifts a yard or
more deep. Not a soul had left the house,
and mother had just started to prepare
breakfast when there was a knock at the
kitchen door. The children were not
dressed, and we hesitated for a moment
about opening the door, for we expected a
great rush of cold and a fall of snow into
the room; but sending the children out of
the draft, mother opened the door, and in
walked a tall elderly man. No cold seemed
to come into the room, nor any snow; but
we did not notice that then, we only looked
at the man, who quietly entered and closed
the door behind him, then walked over by
the stove and sat down before speaking.
We were all quite taken back by his man-
ner, still no one spoke. Then he held out his
hands to the fire, and they were white and
soft as snow, and we began to note how
tall and straight and handsome he looked,
when suddenly he asked mother if he might
have breakfast with us.
“Just an ordinary tramp,” put in John.
“Wait,” said his mother, “until you
hear the rest of the story, and then see if

[Column 2]
you think him a tramp.” Then she con-
tinued.
“We ate our breakfast almost in silence,
but such wonderful peace seemed around
us, and we all felt something like one feels
in a Quaker meeting, such a pure holy
spirit in the silence. You know we were
Quakers before we joined the Church, and
so this silence didn’t cause us much aston-
shment like it would now. Well, when
breakfast was over, the stranger got up and
said, “The Lord bless this house.” Then
out he walked, and mother felt so strange
she went to the window to see which way
he went, but she couldn’t see anything of
him at all, so father said that he would go
out and look around a bit; and would you
believe it, when he opened the door, the
drift of snow fell in, and there was not a
footprint in the snow anywhere around.
Now what do you think that was?”
“Maybe it was the wandering Jew,’’said
John. He has lived so long he can walk
on air by this time.”
“Well, without laughing, we thought
perhaps it was him,” answered his mother,
“but since I joined the Church, sometimes
I have thought it might have been one of
the three Nephites. At any rate, I know
it is a true story, improbable as it seems.”
After this story the company were rather
quiet and subdued. It seemed to speak so
much of the supernatural, but soon a song
was proposed, and one of the young men in
a clear rich voice sang the sweet old-fash-
ioned song, “Mary of Argyle.”

I have heard the mavis singing
His love song to the morn.
I have seen the dewdrop clinging
To the rose just newly born;
But a sweeter s[-]ng has cheered me
At the evening’s gentle close,
I have seen an eye still brighter,
Than the dewdrop on the rose,
'Tis thy voice, my gentle Mary,
And thine artless winning smile,
That has made this earth an Eden
Darling Mary of Argyle.

This set the company in a happy
humor again, and they all joined in singing
one or two favorite hymns, and then the
company prepared to depart.
George had enjoyed the evening, still he
had wished it were possible to have a few
moments with Elizabeth alone. There
seemed so much to say, and young love is
ever impatient. He could think of no good
excuse, however, to keep him after the
others, and also started to go; but Eliza-
beth’s father called him back and asked him
to remain awhile.
The family seated themselves around the
fire, and the father took Elizabeth over by
her lover and placed their hands together,
saying, “she told me, George, last night,
and I welcome you as a dear son and mean
to help you in your endeavors. Go on as
you have begun, and I will have no fear
for you.” Then turning to his wife and
the other children, he further said, “Eliza-
beth and George are engaged, mother, and
I want you to feel that it is all right, for I
feel so, and they could not be happy with-
out your consent.”
The mother was a little overcome, but
she knew that love matches were the only
happy ones, and that no amount of coercion
would have any effect upon Elizabeth when
once her mind was made up, so she decided
to try and think it was for the best, and
she kissed her daughter very tenderly and
spoke sweetly to them both. George then
showed them the ring his aunt had that day

[Column 3]
given him, and told them its history.
Even if he had been able to buy a ring, he
could not have bought it for at least six
months, when some of the men would be
going back East to help more of the set-
tlers in to the valley, but he was a poor boy
and this was a very great treasure to him,
beautiful for itself, and for its history
as well, and he knew no place so fitting
for it as the hand of his sweetheart,
so he placed it there in the presence of her
father and mother, vowing her eternal de-
votion; and she, sweet girl, was full of emo-
tion. She had never possessed a jewel in her
life, and this seemed a glorious one, besides
it meant so much to her. She was not
gifted with any particularly fine language,
but spoke always from the heart, sincere
and plain, and to-night she said, “You will
never regret this gift to me. I will wear
it as a token of our love and cherish it
above all my possessions.”
“Before you leave us, George, we will
have our family prayer,” said the father;
and then they knelt and praised the Lord
for the peace aud happiness of their lives.
So ended the first Christmas in the Valley;
and that night at least, two lives were
happy and full of bright anticipation.
No home is so lowly or humble, but what
love’s fairy wand can render it beautiful; no
life so lonely or despondent, but when love
enters all the shadows flee. Love alone is
enticing and entrancing; but love combined
with faith is glorious and divine.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
red by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1903


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS GATHERINGS.
	One of the blessings of Christmas day
consists in the custom of bringing people
together, families and friends. In this
workaday world what would we grow to
be, if there were not some such times
of refreshing as that day affords; the world
wonld be barren of real pleasure indeed.
We would all become cold and distant, and
the charm of blessed intercourse would be
a lost art. Even as it is, with the holidays
we have and many other reunions, we are
not as good to each other, or as friendly as
we ought to be. Let us be thankful we
have these times and seasons, and to the
fullest extent appreciate the friendly greet-
ing, the sweet association, the good cheer,
the warm welcome, the grasp of the hand,
and good wishes, if it is only that and no-
thing more.
	Let us also remember the lonely ones,
who have not as much to make life desir-
able; if our lot has been cast in pleasant
places then so much more is required of
us. It is not all in giving good gifts; there
is something better even than giving of one’s
substance, reaching after and lifting up
those who are distressed, and who need
consolation, sympathy and tenderness.
	Sometimes the death of one alters the
condition of many and so year after year as
time goes on changes may come, and the
Christmas festivities may be saddened or
even interrupted and then we look back
fondly upon the days when the household
band was unbroken. Occasionally the ab
sence of a part of the family from the home
circle makes a difference, if so we should
pause and give some thoughts of love to
those necessarily away, those, who are per-
haps far distant; let us never be forgetful
of the loved ones who cannot share with us
this Christmas the happy hours. These
are things to treasure for a lifetime, out of
sight is not always out of mind, it is an ex-
pression that needs modifying.
	There are some remembrances that
should mingle in our thoughts every Chris-
mas, the blessings we are enjoying because
of the birth and life, and example of the
Redeemer of the world. Let us draw near
to Him through the Holy Spirit of life and
salvation vouchsafed to us who believe on
Him and have partaken of the blessings of
the Gospel.
	It is beautiful to recall his advent into
the world, to repeat the sacred story, and
to know that the stars which shine above

[Column 2]
us are the same that shed their radiance
over the babe in the manger, the echoes of
the songs that were sung in the fields of
Bethlehem are still ringing down the ages
of time; the same moon that heralded the
rising of the sun of righteousness looks
down upon us who live today. These
heavenly bodies witnessed the sojourn of
the Redeemer upon earth, they shone on
Him in the wilderness, they heard his mid-
night supplication and rose over his sepul-
chre in the holy land; a land forever sanc-
tified by his bleeding footsteps. The story
is never old, nor tiresome, however oft re-
peated. Sometimes one can almost hear
the shepherds’ voices as they sing “Hos-
annah! hosannah! Hosannah to God in the
highest! Peace on earth and good will to
men.”
	Many are the beautiful and uplifting
thoughts and emotions that fill our hearts
with praise and gratitude at Christmas
time, and would that one could always be
full of the sublime charity that characterized
the blessed Savior of mankind; the exalta-
tion of feeling that is inspired when one’s
whole mind is centred in the love and
praise of God, but we are far from reaching
this divine height of excellence; yet many
are striving to attain that purity of life and
light that will lift them above petty annoy-
ances, and help them to live in a purer at-
mosphere. We can never reach such an
ecstatic state alone, it must be by minister-
ing to those around us and helping them to
stand for the highest and the best, to stand
for righteousness. The Gospel we have
embraced teaches us all these things, and
let us press forward that we may attain
thereto.
	O, the magnitude of the work, it seems
so little one can do in a lifetime, and yet
we realize much has already been done by
those who laid the foundation, and we are
learning day by day to help, the Scripture
says “They also serve who only stand and
wait,” waiting is hard but patience is re-
quired for those who wait and we are told
patience is a virtue, also long suffering and
gentleness.
	The prosperity of the Latter-day Saints
in the present day is almost beyond belief.
Some of us who know the bitter past are
simply amazed at the change. It is indeed
wonderful to contemplate. We see, how-
ever, the fulfillment of prophecy in these
things, and the prosperity of Zion should
cause us to rejoice and sing praises to our
Heavenly Father, who has vouchsafed to
His Saints such blessings.
	Christmas is a good time to make mani-
fest our gratitude by ministering to others
and proving our loyalty to the Master
whose natal day we celebrate, giving liber-
ally to those in need, whether of food or
raiment, love or sympathy, remembering
His words: “Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me.”

“The star that shone in Bethlehem,
	Shines still and shall not cease;
And we listen still for the tidings
	Of Glory and of Peace.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Most of the space in this number of the
paper is taken for the story, we hope the
sisters will be satisfied with the departure
from the usual reports and so on. A change,
is good occasionally and this is not only a


good story with a moral lesson, but it is also
true, as no doubt many of our readers will
recognize.
	The Daughters of the Rovolution, Utah
State Society met on December 16, 1903,
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party, at
the home of Mrs. Phoebe Young Beatie,
First Vice Regent of the Society at 3:30 p.
m, Regent Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney Sears
presiding. After preliminary exercises the
paper of the day, Dolly Madison, was given
by Mrs. Almira Murdock de Wolf, of
Beaver. A very interesting character sketch
and read in a graceful and elegant style.
Story by Mary E. Richards Webber was
read by Mrs. Beatie, Mrs Webber being
necessarily absent. An original poem by
Mrs. Susa Young Gates given by Mrs.
Maria Young Dougall, completed the pro-
gram. Mrs. Beatie’s parlors were approp-
riately decorated for the occasion, and old-
fashioned refreshments served on old-fash-
oned china helped to make the conversa-
tion exhilarating and the hours glide swiitly
by. The Society is growing in numbers and
the spirit of patriotism is always in evi-
dence.


R. S, REPORTS.
PANGUITCH.
	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Tabernacle at Pan-
guitch August 28, 1903, President Eliza-
beth De Long presiding. Meeting opened
with singing and prayer, roll call and read-
ing of minutes. Reports were given from
Escelante, Panguitch, Hatch Henrieville,
Cannonville, Hillsdale, Kingston. Re-
marks were made by Sisters Barbara Myers,
Maria L. Sargent, Hannah I Harris, and
Counselor Alice Jane Cameron each spoke
upon a different subject, teaching of chil-
dren, grain question, labors of the Relief
Society, responsibilities of mothers, moth-
ers’ work.
	Bishop James B. Heywood spoke upon
home attractions, good reading, observing
the Sabbath day to keep it sacred, counseled
the young people to be married in the
House of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Haycock bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and Sister
Margaret H. Clark spoke on mothers’ in-
fluence, advantage of pure thought and
good conversation. President Elizabeth De
Long gave a report of her trip around the
Stake, and spoke upon family influence and
home surroundings.
	Conference adjourned without date, bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
		MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.
BIG HORN.
	The second annual conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Big Horn Stake was held
at Cowley, Wyoming, September 11, 1903,
President Lucy F. Grant presiding. After
singing, prayer, roll call and minntes of
previons conference, the presidents of the
several wards reported conditions temporally
and spiritually, all seemed satisfactory and
in good working order.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the
Granite Stake, and who is also a member
of the General Board of the Relief Society,
said she sympathized with the pioneer sis-
ters, had felt very anxious for those who
had come hither to colonize, but felt we


were rich in the Gospel, all here are work-
ing for the same great cause; she read a let-
ter of instructions from the General Presi-
dent, Bathsheba W. Smith.
	First Counselor in the General Relief
Society, Annie T. Hyde, expressed herself
as delighted with the way the sisters had
reported. Spoke of the great good the
mothers’ work was doing among the sisters,
suggested the lectures be given to the sis-
ters that are somewhat backward.
	President Lucy F. Grant, Counselor Av-
ilda Dixon and Sister Abbie H. Cowley
made encouraging remarks to the sisters.
	Conference adiourned for one year. Ben-
ediction by Charlotte Lindsey.
		SADIE PARTRIDGE, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It beconies our painful duty to report the death
of one of our noble sisters of the twenty-fitfh
Ward Relief Society, Sister Matilda Ek, wife of
Bishop Carl Ek, who passed away, Friday Nov.
6th, 1903, after a severe illness. She leaves a hus-
band and family of eight children, three boys and
five girls. She was a devoted wife and mother.
She filled the position of second counselor in the
Relief Society, to the satisfaction of all, and en-
deared herself to a host of friends, but as our
heavenly Father, in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home our Sister to a better life, we the officers and
members of the Twentieth-fifth Ward express our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family in their loss, feeling also that they have
been greatly blessed with her wise and faithful ex-
ample. Our sister is not dead, she simply sleeps,
her intelligent part having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of their re-
demption, when there will be a reunion of the
spirit with the body through the power of the res-
urrection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
her title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord of glory, when he shall come
to this creation to take the reins of its government.
								F. T. N.
	Sister Elizabeth Nichols Berry one of the earl-
iest and most respected citizens of Cedar Fort,
Utah Co., Utah, passed away November 13th,
1903. Sister Berry was born April 7th, 1832, at
Ashorne, Warwickshire, England, and was mar-
ried to John Berry Feb. 17th 1852. She was bap-
tized October, 1851, and with her husband and
parents emigrated from England in 1853, locating
in Cedar Fort, in the spring of 1854. She was the
mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her, five having died before her, her descendants
numbered fifty-three at her death. The funeral
services were impressive and beautiful. Words
of praise were given by her Bishop and neighbors,
also by visiting sisters of the Stake presidency of
the Relief Society.
		RESOLUTIONS CF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call from onr midst our beloved president 
and,
	Whereas, we recognized in Sister Elizabeth
Berry a faithful and energetic worker,


Therefore be It resolved by the sisters of the
Cedar Fort Relief Society that we mourn her loss,
but that we appreciate the purity of her life and
the worthy example she set for us to follow.
	Resolved:—That we extend to the bereaved onr
sincere sympathy and pray God that his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is her gain.
	Be it Further Resolved:—That a copy of these
resolutions be spread upon the record of the so-
ciety, one copy sent to the family and one sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
				EMELINE DUBOIS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS' WORK.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lecture I— What Woman should know.

(a) Every woman should be the em-
	bodiment of purity, modesty, patience,
	affection and gratitude. (b) Woman
	should understand the physiology and
	hygiene of her own organism, (c) Home 
hygiene and sanitation, (d) Which are
	the most wholesome and valuable foods?
	(e)The value of milk as a food. (f)
	Symptoms of all common ailments and
	the remedies to be applied.

Lecture II.—Preparation for Motherhood.

(a) Chastity demanded of parenthood.
	(b) Relation of mother and child.
	(c) Material impressions, (d) When
	should education begin?
Lecture III.—Self Culture.

(a) Cultivate a love for the beauties
	of nature. (b) Use good language,
	(c)S udy self-control. (d) Avoid
	slang.

Lecture IV —Preparation and Care of the
		Infant.

(a) Let the clothing be light and
	warm, (b) Cleanliness and pure air
	essential to health. (c) Regularity in
	nursing and feeding.

Lecture V.—Mothers know Your Children.

(a) Use judgment and patience in
	dealing with them, (b) Avoid scolding
	and threatening, (c) Avoid bug-bear
	stories and dark closets, (d) Listen to
	and answer questions of your children.

Lecture VI.—Moral Training.

(a) Teach your children to love God
	and be governed by His laws. (b) To
	remember and apply the golden rule
	in every day life, (c) To show kind-
	ness and respect to the aged, (d) Train
	them in habits of industry and econ-
	omy. 

Lecture VII.—Parents Duties to Boys and
		Girls.

(a) Gain their love and confidence.
(b) Do not allow them to get informa-
	tion pertaining to physical changes
	from questionable sources. (c) Teach
	them to be prudent in selecting com-
	panions and avoid too great intimacies.

Lecture VIII.—The Ideal Home.

(a) Make home orderly and attract-
	 ive. (b) Refining influence of music.
	(c) Respect the rights ot each member
	of the household, (d) Home-reading—
let it be intertaining and elevating.
[Column 2]
Lecture IX—Home Adornments.

(a) Appropriate pictures elevate and
	inspire to noble thoughts and deeds.
(b) Flowers please the eye and cheer
	the soul. (c) Good books are an evi-
	dence of culture and a desire for knowl-
	edge.

Lecture X—Mother and Daughter.

(a) Give your daughter proper ideas
	in a judicious manner, (b) Impress
	her with the importance of being a
	home-maker, (c) Show her the dig-
	nity of domestic labor, (d) Care of
	her room and clothing. (e) How can
	the daughter bring sunshine and com-
	fort in the home? (f) What can she
	do to lighten the burdens of mother?
	(g)What can she do to keep her
	brothers at home?

Lecture XI.—Behavior at Home and Abroad.

(a) Thoughtfulness for the comfort
	and feelings of others. (b) Avoid
	contradictions, (c) Loud laughter and
	boisterous talk are unbecoming. (d)
	True politeness is an index to char-
	acter.

Lecture XII—Table Manners.
		(a) Do not introduce disagreeable
	subjects at table. (b) Pleasant con-
	versation aids digestion, (c) Do not
	express special preference or dislike for
	certain foods.
					LEONORA T. SPENCER,
					MILLIE CLARK,
					NANCY H. ALLRED,
								Committee.

JULIA P. LINDSAY
				President.
	LIZZIE M. HART,
	MARY BAGLEY,
				Counselors.


			ALPINE STAKE.
Lesson VII.—Childhood.
			Physical Development:
		(a) Building a healthy body. (Ref
	“School and Fireside’’ (Maeser) chap-
	ter 4). (b) Care of infant during
teething, (c) Outdoor exercise, sun-
	shine, work and play. (d) Methods of
	proper bothing, proper dress, food and
	slep. (e) Best ways to assist nature in
	efforts to prevent sickness or to remedy
	disease when contracted.

Lesson VIII.—Childhood (continued).

Moral Development:
		(a) Mother the child’s first companion.
	Her example and its influence. (Ref.
	“Millennial Star,’’ vol. 15, no. 1,
“Juvenile Instructor,” vol 37, no. 10,
	p. 593) (b) In no years of a child’s
	life does it learn so much as during the
	first six years. It acquires a knowl-
	edge of things about it through its five
	senses: (c) Proper respect for parents,
	to the aged, and for the rights and
	privilege of one another in the home
	and also abroad. (d) Reverence for
	places of worship and for Deity. (e) Re-
	spect for public property.

Lesson IX.—Childhood (continued).

Habits:
		“Habit is a cable; we weave a thread
[Column 3]
	of it every day, and at last we cannot
	break it.” (a) Habit becomes second
	nature. Form only good ones that ye
	many have none to reform. Crowd out
	the evil habits by cultivating the good.
	(b)Habit of prompt obedience, truth-
	fulness, gentleness and unselfishness.
	“It is better to give than to receive.”
	(c)Necessity of reading proper whole-
	some literature. Why? Stories told
	to children should be pleasant. Evil
	effects of “Bugaboo and Blackman”
	stories. (d) Form a habit in the home
	of reading a chapter, singing a hymn
	and prayer before retiring. Avoid
	speaking disrespectful of God’s anoint-
	ed, or finding fault with anyone. Ef-
	fects. (Refer to discourse by President
	Jos. F. Smith at Conference, October
	1903).
Lesson X.—Childhood (continued).

Chastity: 
		(a) Give the true definition of chas-
tity. How can we as mothers best
	avoid impure thoughts within our
	children! (b) Keep the body and mind
	pure and clean that the spirit of God
	may dwell therein, (c) Every deed
	committed originates in the mind.
	Pure thoughts bring forth good actions.
	(d)Teach the child that by continually
	cultivating pure thoughts and actions
	he can counteract evil influences with
	which he may come in contact. (e)
	Teach the child the sacred laws of life
	before he gains evil knowledge from
	evil minds. (Refer to “Juvenile In-
	structor,” November 15, 1902, p.
	688 Matt. V: 8).

Lessori XI.—Childhood (continued)

At Home and Abroad:
		(a) Why do children lie, steal, pro-
	fane the name of Deity and use slang?
	Methods of counteracting these evils.
(b) Late hours. Its effects. Evils of
	children bring on streets or away from
	home at night. (c) Children socials
	should begin early and close before
	curfew time. How can we as Latter-
	day Saints best overcome these evils?

Lesson XII.—Childhood (continued).

(a) Govern by love and confidence,
	not fear, self government. “Teach
	our children correct principles, and they
	will govern themselves” (President
	Young). (b) Value of moments. Why
	should our children be kept employed?
	Youth the golden age. Improve the
	present, there is no to-morrow, (c) Why
	should children have set tasks and light
	responsibilities within the home?

“Oh! thou child of many prayers,
	Life hath quicksands—life hath snares,
	Care and age come unawares.’’

We would suggest that the years work
	be briefly reviewed or summarized.
						ANNIE C. HINDLEY,
SINA CHIPMAN,
						E. J. T. ROBERTS,
									Committee,
		FREMONT STAKE.
	Our Motto:—The noblest work of God is man
perfected,


	We say to mothers what a holy charge
is theirs, with what a holy power their lives


[Column 1]
might rule the foundations of the new born
mind. Warn them to wake at early dawn
and sow good seed before the world has
sown its tares,
	In our study we are seeking for what will
be the ultimate good of the child, not what
will be for the child’s gratification, or the
mother’s present convenience.

Talk I.—Heredity.
	What is meant by heredity? Why
do we say that the child is just like its
grandfather? Do children inherit the
appetites and habits of progenitors?

Talk II.—Spiritual.
	The birth of Christ. His lineage.

Talk III.—Parental Influence.
	(a) What is the difference between
pre-natal influence and heredity
(b) How does environment effect the
unborn child? (c) Why should we
live much out of doors and commune
with nature? (d) Why in the same
family is one child fretful and morose
and another cheerful, glad and happy?
(e) How may the mother influence the
disposition of her child?

Talk IV.—Study the Life of the Mother of
	Christ.
	What traits in Mary’s character
would especially qualify her to become
the mother of the Son of God?

Talk V.—The growth of an Infant.
	The baby’s food, (a) When should
other food than that which nature pro-
vides be given to the baby? (b) Why
should the food be especially watched
during teething? (c) Why should
you not give meat to the baby?
(d)Why should there be regular, hours
for the baby’s meals?

VI.—Obedience.
	Christ’s submission to his mother-
The visit to Jerusalem to the Passover-
(a) Why should children be taught
early to obey their parents? (b) How
can this be done? (c) How do you
manage the wilful child?

VII.—The Baby’s Clothing.
	(a) How should the clothing be
cared for? (b) What is the purpose of
clothing? (c) What are some good cus-
toms, or styles, for the infant’s clotting?
(d) Why should the clothing of the day
not be worn at night? (e) What effect
has long starched clothes on the baby
or why is the baby often more cross on
Sunday than on other days? (f) What
care should be used in dressing the
feet?

VIII.—The Sacredness of Honor.
	(a) How to develop a sense of honor?
(b)What does, it mean to tell the
truth? How can you get children to
tell you of all that they do? (d) How

[Column 2]
can you break a child from being sly
and taking little things unknown to
you?

Talk IX.—Occupation of the Child at Home.
	(a) If you wish your children to love
you get them to do for you. (b) Why
does the mother’s love go out more to
the invalid child than to any other?
(c) Why should the child be given
special work to do? (d) Why should
the child have its own drawer or hook
for its clothing? (e) Why should not
the mother put everything in the
child’s hands that it wants?

Talk X.— Why is Play Necessary for the
	Child?
	(a) What toys and other provisions
for play should be provided the child?
(b) Why does the little boy take more
delight in blocks of wood or boards
than in the toy house completed? (c)
Why the little girl in the rag doll, than
in the finely dressed wax one?

Talk XL—Faith.
	(a) When should children be taught
to pray? (b) How will you teach them
to ask a blessing? (c) When shall they
take part in the family prayers. (d)
How will you teach faith in the Ordi-
nances?

Talk XII.—Review the Entire Work.
		SUSAN STEVENS,
		MARTHA G LLOYD,
		SARAH A. BARNES,
		CARRIE SMITH.
					Committee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.			TRY US
[Column 2]	
	NOTICE TO SECRETARIES.

	Stake and mission secretaries in the Re-
lief Society will please remember that the
year 1903 is drawing near its close, and
make ready to report the year’s work from
January 1, 1903, to December 31, 1903, so
that the General Secretary may be able to
make a complete report of all the stakes of
Zion and all the missions. The foreign
missions are requested to make correct re-
ports of every branch society within the
mission, Scandinavia, Germany, Switz-
erland, Holland Great Britain and Ireland,
New Zealand, Tasmania, Australia, Sand-
wich Islands and far off Samoa Address
Mrs. E. B. Wells, General Secretary,
Templeton Building, Salt Lake City.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
	WRITE for any information desired.
					JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
					GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier,	
No. 1 Main Street.


HASTE AND REST.
Goethe says “Nature works without
haste or rest.” But we are more than na-
ture, and in our spiritual life haste and rest
seem to be inevitable alternatives. We are
obliged in the effort called for by great
crises to borrow sirength from the future,
to draw without measure upon our vital
forces. If this borrowed capital were not
put back we would become melancholy and
insane defaulters. Women, it is said, pos-
sess more of this dangerous power of bor-
rowing nervous strength than men do and
this probably accounts for the breaking
down of some of them who seem at the
start well endowed with personal vigor. A
physiologist like the late Ceorge Combe, to
whom health was the highest virtue, would
shake his head and say:“You mnst not
disobey the natural laws.” But we might
well reply that, we must break them some-
times in obedience to the higher spiritual
laws which it belongs to our humanity to
follow and to illustrate. In the great wars
of conscience, in the Herculean efforts of re-
form, yes, even in the sacrad offices of
friendship and family affection, we must
often turn our back upon the conditions of
our physical well-being. We must fast or
feed poorly; we must adjourn the impera-


tive call of sleep, we must confront the-
fatigue, exposure, heat and cold, malaria,
pestilence, contagion—in higher interests
than those of onr bodily welfare. He who
spends his life in this way does not throw it
away.
It is true that in such times of physical
trial and endurance one may experience
great peace of mind. We may carry with
us into the war of weapons or opinions a
serene restfulness. We have been called
we have not only answered, but have also
gone in obedience to the sacred mandate.
The most consummate rest that we can
have we shall experience after this fashion.
When we not only say but also act “God’s
will be done” we rest in tnat perfect will.
What repose can be like unto this?—Julia
Ward Howe.


NOTES AND NEWS.
Mrs. Mary C. C. Bradford, president of
the Colorado State Federation, proposes
that a Trans-Mississippi congress of club-
women be held in Denver next June. Mrs.
Bradford is now traveling in the West in-
teresting clubs in the plan.
Mrs. Stanford, just before she left for
her trip around the world, gathered to-
gether many of her family valuables cu-
rios and relics and presented them to the
Stanford University Museum. The col-
lection is made up of articles of many
descriptions. There are engravings valu-
able porcelain ware and china and glass-
ware. Silver spoons of artistic workman-
ship of the early centuries form an inter-
esting part of the collection. There are
costly Egyptian and Turkish embroider-
ies, Maltese lace, and some beautiful ex-
amples of Japanese handicraft and art.


<Kanab Relief Society>
								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
      Vol. 32         					SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JANUARY, 1904                                       No. 8.


CONTENTS.

The International Council of Women...........
............May Wright Sewall 

Mothers’ Work............................. 

Scripture Women.........Hannah T. King    

Raymond Reunion......................

Religious Devotion in the Home.... L. M. H. 

Women in Art at the Exposition.............
...........Countess De Montigu 

Sketch of the Lite of Sister Mary E. Knight
Bassett................ Lydia D. Alder 

In Memoriam............................... 

R. S. Reports............................. 

The Gracious Woman........................ 

EDITORIAL—One Hundredth Anniversary—
Hail to the New Year.................  

POETRY—She is not Dead. E. H. Woodmansee 

         Going Home...............Lydia D. Alder 

Idyle....................Hannah T. King


SHE IS NOT DEAD.
Lines commemorative of the centennial birthday
		of Eliza R. Snow Smith.
	Born January 21, 1804—Died December 5, 1887.

She is not dead—the tunefnl bard who sung
	For Zion’s children in these latter days
She is not dead, whose harp the angels strung,
	Whose lyre resounded with immortal lays.

She is not dead, whose words of living fire
	Enthuse and keep so many hearts aglow,
Whose melodies awaken pure desire
	And help the seeds of righteousness to grow.

She is not dead, whose utterance was replete.
	With timely counsel for the old and young.
Whose wise reproof, blent with compassion sweet.
	Warmed and revivified the faltering one. 

She is not dead, who toiled for Zion’s cause,
	Truth’s advocate! endowed with noble zeal,
Truly her fixed determination was
	To do on earth our heavenly Father’s will.

The cheering strains her tuneful soul outpoured.
	Pure streamlets, fresh from inspiration’s spring,
Delight and consolation oft afford.
	Joy to appreciative souls they bring. 

Just now her friendly face we cannot see,
	But none the less fond mem’ry holds her dear,
She lives! She lives and sings rejoicingly.
	With many loved ones in a loftier sphere.
						EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
Salt Lake City.


GOING HOME.*
I’m going home! the path I may not now discern;
The shadow left, oh! ne’er again shall I return.
My Father, hold my hand, oh! I can never stray.
He safe will guide me o’er the dark and troubled
	way.

Oh, list! I hear him call so softly calling me;
I hear his gentle voice, though him I cannot see.
The valley winds so far, where a stranger I go:
The music sweetly sounds, like rippling waters’
	flow.

Faint breezes, fresh and chill, waft o’er my weary
	brow.
They soothe to sleep, to sleep. Oh, I am waiting
	now.
Go home! how beautiful to me! The way not long;
At ev’ry step I hear a low, sweet murm’ring song.

The river seems so deep, its waters smooth and
	clear;
I lie upon its bosom, my heart knows no fear;
O Father, hold me close, I am coming to you;
Is this Death’s unknown valley I am passing
	through?

	*While ministering at the bedside of one of the
Saints in England who seemed near to death,
when suddenly opening her eyes she said, “Sister,
I’m going home; I hear my Father, call.” By
faith she was healed for a time, but has long since
gone to answer the summons heard at that time.


Away o’er yonder hills, a mansion fair I see,
O Father, is it mine, that you have given me?
O world, good bye! a father’s love I e’er have
      known,
To Him I go—I’m going home, I’m going home.
                                          LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
					December 30, ’03.
To the Members of the National Council of
	Women of the United States:

	DEAR FRIENDS:—For two reasons it
seems not inappropriate that I should ask
space in various women’s papers to address
a word to you concerning the approaching
Executive of the National Council which is
to be held in Indianapolis the week begin-
ning February 1st. It is not unnatural
that I should have a special interest in the
success of that session of the Executive
which is to be held in my own city. The
only session of the Executive of the Na-
tional Council ever held in Indianapolis
was convened here by its President, the
honored and regretted Frances E. Willard,
in May of 1888, when the only members of
the Executive were the five members of the
general officers of the Council and the pres-
dents of the two national organizations
which then constituted the Council. Now
that the Executive includes, besides its five
general officers, three living Honorary
Presidents, and the Presidents of twenty-
two national organizations, and of eleven
Local Councils, it would seem, as if its
growth justifies the expectation which is
entertained that the Executive Session will
be full of interest for the public, as well as
of importance for the Council.
	Preparations for the reception and enter-
tainment of the Executive are being made
by the Local Council of Indianapolis, than
which none stronger exist in our country,
and by the Commercial Club, the leading
body of business men in Indianapolis.
That the National Executive will convene
under such strong local auspices is surely
an argument that the National Council
cannot resist to be well represented. The
still stronger argument for making what-
ever sacrifices may be involved in attend-
ance upon this session exists in the import-
ance of the particular work to be done.
	It is not unknown to the members of the
National Council that the Third Quinquen-
nial of the International Council will convene
in Berlin on June 6th of 1904, and that the
Qainquennial, which will occupy one week
will be followed by an International Con-
gress held under its auspices and arranged
for by the National Council of Germany,
which will continue through the next week.
The National Council of the United States,
like all other affiliated Councils within the
International, has a right to the following
representation at the Berlin Quinquennial,
namely:—
	First. One member on the Committee of
Arrangements for the Executive of the In-
ternational.
	Second. Two delegates.

[Column 2]
	Third. Two alternates for said delegates.
	Fourth. One speaking representative of
the Council who will make an address at
the second public session of the Quinquen-
nial, when every National Council will
have an opportunity to give a brief survey
of its own, and to state the International
aspect of its work. All of these represent-
atives are to be elected by ballot at the ap-
proaching Executive Session. It behooves
every member of the Executive to be pres-
ent, since the united wisdom, discrimina-
tion, and judgment of the Executive should
be brought to bear upon the vital question
of who these five representatives of the
American Council shall be. This, however,
is not the only important and particular
work of the approaching Executive.
	Last March, in New Orleans, a special
committee was appointed to investigate the
condition of affairs at St. Louis, and to
study the best possible representation of the
effort of the Council in St. Louis during the
months of the exposition. The committee
whose chairman is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollis-
ter, of Detroit, has undoubtedly performed
its duty faithfully, and it will have a plan
of representation which will interest every
member of the Council, and the judgment
of every member will be needed in the con-
sideration of this plan, and the considera-
tion of fhe means by which it may ba suc-
cessfully executed.
	Besides these matters of importance,
there are important reports from the stand-
ing committees, especially from the com-
mittee on Resolutions, which has had be-
fore it during the last year questions of ex-
ceptional importance.
	Then there will be the representation of
American women in the International Con-
gress, which is to follow the Third Quin-
quennial, to consider. Before February 1,
advices will undoubtedly be received from
Germany which will enable the President
of the International Council, whom Mrs.
Swift has appointed a special committee of
one on the representation of the American
Council at Berlin, to give a report of great
interest concerning the preparations that
are being energetically carried forward by
the tactful President of the German Coun-
cil and her able associates.
	The names of over one hundred women
have been proposed by the members of the
Executive of the American National Coun-
cil, as candidates for the honor of speaking
in some section of the International Con-
gress. All of these names have been for-
warded to the German Committee of Ar-
rangements. It goes without saying that
it will be quite impossible that all shall be
invited. The Council will have more than
doubled since the Second Quinquennial,
held in London in 1899, and, as the Inter-
national Congress is convened for the same,
length of time as in London, the number of
speakers that can be invited from any one
of the twenty-two countries, that will doubt-
less be within the International Council be-
fore June, will, naturally, be less than the 
number which could be invited from any
one of the nine countries constituting the


International Council five years ago. There
can be no doubt that the desire ot the Ger-
man Committee of Arrangements to invite
a just proportion of speakers from the
American Council is keen and sincere. It
is not improbable that the letters of invita-
tion will have been received prior to our
Executive. Then there must be a canvass
to ascertain who among the invited can go.
If, for any, it should prove impossible, then
again, there will be an opportunity to nomi-
nate available substitutes.
It is evident that the program for the ap-
proaching Executive (aside from the charm-
ing social entertainments which will be ar-
ranged for it, and the brilliant evening of
public exposition with which it will enter-
tain the public) will hold work enough of
sufficient interest to induce the members of
the Executive from far and near to meet in
this fair city of the Middle West.
Already it is known that the indefatiga-
ble President of the Council, Mrs. Mary
Wood Switt, who on Council business has
already crossed the continent four times
within the last ten months, will make an-
other long journey again from San Francis-
co to preside in person. May the loyalty
of her associates attested by their presence,
justify to her her own energetic services to
the Council.

MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
President of the International Council of
Women.
    Henorary President of the National
Council of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS' WORK.
			TOOELE STAKE.
	Marriage is ordained of God unto man,
that the earth might answer the end of its
creation, and “Be filled with the measure of
man, according to his creation before the
world was made’’ (Doc. and Cov. 49:
15-I7).

Lecture I.—Marriage.
		(a) What is object of marriage?
	(b) Preparation of our lives before-
	hand, (c) Kind of companion to
	choose, (d) Ordained by God. (e)
	Necessary for salvation of man (I Cor.
	11:  11). (f) Relation and duties.
	(g) What is result of marriage if not
	performed in the Lord’s house?

Lecture II.—Home.
	By the fire side still the light is shining
	The children’s arms round the parents twining
	From love so, sweet, O! who would roam? 
	Be it ever so homely, home is home.
			(a) Moral and religious influences in
		the home, (b) Adorning and irnprov-
		ing. (c) Affections and kindnessess.
		(d) Proper reading in home, (e) Family
		prayer.

Lecture III.—Motherhood and Maternity.
	What more charming sight than a rosy,
robust young woman, full of vigor, life,
strength, her step elastic, bounding, her
face radiant, presence magnetic. To such,
there need be fears, or forebodings in
maternity?
			(a) Why is it necessary that a woman
		should be more spiritually minded
		during maternity than any other time?
		(b) What special benefits are derived
		by observing the word of wisdom
		during this period? (c) Show the bene-
		fit of a woman endeavoring to control

[Column 2]
		her emotions, appetites etc. at this
		time; how would this effect the-unborn
		child?

Lecture IV.—Pre-natal Influences.
			(a) Why is it necessary to cultivate
		a cheerful disposition and be fully
		occupied during maternity? (b) To
		what extent is woman responsible for
		the disposition and character of her
		children. State how her habits in
		fluence the child, (c) What special
		attraction should be given to dress.

Lecutre V.—Training Children at Home.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”
			(a) Love and respect for parents.
		(b) Honor and respect for the priest-
		hood. (c) Be kind to the aged. (d)
		Teach the children to sacrifice some of
		their pleasure for the happiness of
		others.

Lecture VI.—Proper Amusements.
		‘‘Life is only too short at the best
		Let the children be happy today.” 
			(a) The reading of good books. (b)
		Telling of moral and Bible stories by
		mothers.  (c) Music.  (d) Proper gaines.
		(e) Allow the children to have things
		to work with, this will awaken within
		them a love for work as they grow
		older, for “An idle brain is the devil’s
		work shop.” (f) Allow plenty of
		play and exercise.
									EMILY J. ANDERSON,
									ALICE R. WOOLLEY,
									EMMA A. JUDD.
_______

					CACHE STAKE.
I.—Parents in the Home.
	‘‘God help us parents to live aright
	And may our homes all love and truth unfold,
	Since life for us no loftier aim can hold,
	Than leading children to the light.”
		Our children the mirror of the home.
	—Love in the home. —Confidence in
	the heme.—Co-operation in the home.
	—Less work in the home.—Play be-
	tween parents and children.—Music as
	a means of government.—On these
	subjects the March No , 1903, of Chil-
	dren’s Friend, is fine used as a refer-
	ence.	
II.—Father.
‘‘Give me for a friend a man.
Who takes the children on his knee
And winds their curls about his hand.”
						Tennyson.
		The 20th century father.
	Too much business.—Respect for
	father as the head.—Sharing business
	affairs with mother and children, that
	they may help bear the burden.—
	Confidence between father and chil-
	dren.—His influence in family worship.
	—“The divine motherhood and fath-
	erhood never weary in well doing and
	never grows old.”

III.—Mother.
“Oh mother love, love that no eras ever forgets, 
Wonderful bread that God divides and multiplies,
Table always spread beside the parental hearth
Each one has its part of it and each one has it all."
								Victor Hugo.

[Column 3]
	Great responsibility of mother.—
Hearty co operation with the father in
his religious government.—Necessity
of daily advancement of the mother as
God’s great teacher.—Systematic work
and order in every thing that we may
have more time.—Work less, direct
more.

The wonderful power of self control:
	1. In replying to father’s criticism.
2. Suppress fault finding in the whole
family. 3. Confidence between mother
and children sustained and encou[-]aged
4. Prayer the great key to a mother’s
success. Her example the guiding
star. 6. The mother’s influence in
cultivating respect for the Priesthood
and reverence for sacred things. 
IV.
			Sentiment.

‘‘The little children all are flowers sent,
From heavenly gardens above.
With minds as fresh as new turned earth
To be planted deep with love
And the years of our care will quickly tell,
On the flowers our Gardener loves so well.”
					Maud Lima Betts.

The new child. Why he is new.
	New inventions. New schools. New
methods. New father. New mother.
Why not new child?
	1. New training necessary. 2. The
new century will be the children’s.
3. Jesus’ words must be fulfilled:
“Except ye become as a little child. ”

V.— The greatest rights of the child today.
	1. Better examples and suitable com-
panions. 2. Organized material to play
with. 3. To be sympathized with,
stories told, songs and play. 4. To be
treated courteously. 5. To be allowed
to do as he wishes as long as it is right,
if wrong direct him aright. 6. To be
intelligently answered. To have his
motive understood, and if wrong re-
moved by reasoning. (Illustration).
Motive for lying is often fear or vanity.
7. To be punished for the wrong, not
to satisfy the parents, but to impress
the child. 8. To be allowed to suffer
the consequences of his own folly in-
stead of corporal punishment.

VI.—Neighbors.
	‘‘Thy neighbor, it is he whom thou,
	Has power to aid and bless.’'
			Sentiment.
	“Today I shall love my neighbors and
see in them only what God intended and
what each of us longs and strives to be.”
	1. Selection of neighborhood when
	possible. 2. Remedies for bettering
	the neighborhood, if not desirable.
	3. Visiting or gossiping with neigh-
	bors. 4. Evils of back-biting, on us,
	on our childien, on our neighbors.
	5.Bring in the wayward children and
	play with them and our children, do
	not allow them to play together alone.
	6.Teach our child that he (the way-
	ward one) is not bad but injured oft by
	ignorant guardians.
					EDITH LAMOREAUX,
					ZINA YOUNG CARD,
					MARY E. SMITH,
					JULIA A. STEWART,
					LOIS KERR,
							Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IDYL.

Sympathy’s a holy, feeling,
Sent us from the realms above,
Soothing sorrow by revealing
    Fragments of a heaven-born love.

Such a love as angels witness.
   Such a love as angels feel;
Possessing, by its holy fitness,
Power, the wounds of grief to heal,

When the heart is bowed in sorrow,
When the spirit’s bent with grief,
When we feel that no tomorrow
Has the power to bring relief,

Then the sympathetic hand
Sweetly pours the “oil and wine,”
And I ever understand. 
Such to be a law divine.

Human nature, unpolluted,
Is a deep, pellucid stream;
Full and flowing, undiluted
By the world's deceptive dream.

Full of rich and glorious beauties,
Beauties that are half divine,
Fitting us for holy duties,
Through the daily round of time;

Fitting us to gladden any
Who may come within our sphere,
Be they few, or be they many,
There are ever some to cheer.

All have gifts committed to them
For the gocd of those around,
And the good, transmitted through them,
In the future will be found.

Sympathy! thou heaven-born feeling,
Dwell forever in my heart;
Teach me, by thine own revealing,
How I may sweet peace impart.

When I meet a spirit bent
Down by sorrow and despair,
And I’ll feel a sweet content
To chase away the grief and care.

I shall bless myself in blessing
Those who sorrow, those who mourn,
For beneath love’s sweet caressing
I shall gather sweet return.

My own shoulder will be lightened
Of the load it has to bear,
And my spirit will be brightened
By the sympathy I share.

Sympathy’s a link that binds us
In creation’s mystic chain,
And when’er its spirit finds us,
God is near to heal the pain.

God of love! oh, grant I ever
To do good may have the will;
Take thy spirit from me never, 
Then I’ll be thy daughter still.

HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
[Continued].
	RUTH AND NAOMI - These two most
lovely and exemplary characters, can never 
be separated in time or in eternity. The 
history of Ruth ought to be read and 
studied by all young girls, and indeed even 
mature characters must be edified by the 
study of her purity and devotion. Naomi 
was her mother-in-law, she having been
left a widow with two sons, Ruth being 
the wife of one of them, but soon both the 
young men died, and their young widows
then gave fond affection to the mother of 
their loved ones, she also loved them very 
much; but after a little while, Naomi feel-
ing bereft and desolate, resolved to return
 to the land of Judah, and advised her 
daughters in-law to remain each in the 
house of her husband. But they wept 
bitterly at the thought of parting with the 
mother of their beloved husbands, and felt
 they could not leave her, but she used all

[Column 2]
her own sweet logic, full of beautiful prin-
ciple, that at last, weeping bitterly, and
kissing her affectionately, Orpah consented
to do as she wished her, and she bade her 
farewell; but the love and devotion of Ruth 
would not allow her to listen to her words, 
but clinging to her she sobbed forth "En-
treat me not to leave thee, or to return from 
following thee, for whither thou goest, I 
will go, and where thou lodgest, I will 
lodge; thy people shall be my people, and 
thy God my God; where thou diest, there
will I be buried; the Lord do so to me and 
more also, if aught but death part thee and 
me." Then Naomi could not resist her 
love, and devotion to herself; and permitted 
her to accompany her, and they went and 
dwelt in Bethlehem, in the house of Naomi.
And Ruth was obedient to her counsel like 
a child, and they were received by a very 
rich man, and treated with kindness and 
consideration, he was a relative of Naomi's 
and in due time he took Ruth as his wife 
according to the law of their faith, and 
through that lineage, in after years, came
the Savior of the world.
	Now we come to Hannah, a woman re-
markably blest of the Lord, she was living 
in plural marriage and was beloved and es-
teemed by her husband, but she had no 
child, while the other wife had several;
and "they went up out of the city yearly to
 worship, and to sacrifice unto the Lord of 
Hosts in Shiloh," and while there she
vowed to the Lord, that if He would give 
her a son, she would dedicate him from his 
birth to His service all the days of his life,
and the Lord heard and granted her prayer;
and in due time Samuel was born, and he 
was reared in the Temple of the Lord, his 
character is without spot or blemish, no
other in the sacred Scriptures, (except the 
Savior) can be so spoken of; and she carried 
him up to the Temple and said, "I have 
lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth,"
and he worshiped the Lord there.
	Abigail next appears, and though her 
history takes up only half a chapter, it is 
very full and expressive. Her husband 
was a churlish and penurious man, and a 
drunkard, and rudely refused David, the 
champion of the armies of Israel, supplies 
for his starving soldiers, and David deter-
mined to take by force of armies, that 
which he had in all courtesy solicited, and 
had been refused; Abigail being apprized 
of his intention, calls her servants and 
orders them to collect a handsome and
suitable present for the generalissimo, and 
taking five of her maidens to accompany 
her, sets out for the Camp of Israel, and 
when she saw David she alighted from her
 mule, making the eastern salaam of bowing 
her face to the ground." Her language is 
womanly and beautiful, yet vigorous and 
prophetic; and David was so charmed by 
her modest eloquence, that he accepted her 
present for his needy soldiers and cancels 
the order he had issued, and the preparation 
he had made to wrest by force from Nabal, 
that which he had churlishly refused, and 
David candidly told Abigail that the Lord
had sent her to him to prevent him shed-
ding the blood of her household, and bid 
her go in peace to her house "see I have 
hearkened to thy voice, and accepted thy
peace offering."
	It seems we ought not to pass over Mi-
chal the daughter of King Saul whom he 
gave to David for a wife, and it appears she 
was true and faithful for a time, and even
at one time, by a stratagem, saved the life
of David, when her mad father had deter-

[Column 3]
mined to destroy him. But in after times 
when David had passed through much trial 
and persecution, and become king, and was 
returning home in triumph, bringing with 
him the ark of the Lord, had offered sacri-
fices to the Lord in gratitude and in the joy
of his heart "danced before the ark, Michal
 looked out of a window and despised him, 
and as he returned to bless his household,
 Michal came out to meet him," and spoke 
sneeringly and sarcastically to him, and 
David rebuked her in high-toned language,
 and it appears she was never again his 
wife; there is a mystery about all this, that 
Scripture has not seen fit to elucidate, but 
it seems she was a small-minded woman 
though a king's daughter, and was utterly 
incapable of appreciating her noble hus-
band; jealousy was probably a powerful
ingredient in her composition and charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charit-
able commentary, and where doubt exists 
all should have the benefit of it, that is 
English Law and it is a righteous one.
	THE QUEEN OF SHEBA- Thirteen ver-
ses only, tell the history of her renowed 
visit to King Solomon, she came to see and 
hear his wisdom, his grandeur, and his 
greatness; she had been told of it in her 
own country but could not believe it, but 
she closes her exclamations of surprise and 
wonder by saying "The half was not told 
me! Happy are the men, happy are these 
thy servants who stand continually before
thee and hear thy wisdom," and they ex-
changed very precious gifts, and she re-
turned rejoicing to her own land. She was 
appreciative and was desirous of adding to
her own mind knowledge and wisdom.
How few possess this faculty, a small mind
 never, the truly great are ever humble and 
childlike, ever ready to learn.
	April I, 1878.


RAYMOND REUNION.
		STIRLING, Dec. 8, 1903.
Editor Womans Exponent:
	At 4 p. m. on Nov. 26, 1903, the sisters 
of the Taylor Stake Relief Society held a
reunion in the Raymond Town Hall. On
the stand were the Stake and Ward officers 
of the Relief Society, Counselor Wm,
Knight of the Stake Presidency, and Bishop
Anderson of Raymond and Elder Geo. H.
Brimhall. On account of sickness, Stake
President Hannah M. Russell and her
Counselor Elizabeth Hardy were not
present and First Counselor Rozilla Grant
presided. President Russell came in later,
however, and in her usual happy manner
made every one anxious to assist her in
making it a day long to be remembered by 
those fortunate enough to be present. As
the Stake conference was so near at hand,
and the wards are so scattered the officers
thought it best to combine the two, so the
quarterly reports were made. During the
afternoon the program consisted of songs,
speeches and recitations, and the serving of
a delicious lunch. An “old time” party
and farce entitled “Woman’s Rights,”
completed what was voted a most enjoyable
time by all present, and all returned to
their homes with good wishes in their 
hearts for the Relief Society of this Stake.
		GERTRUDE W. CANNON,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
Stirling, Alberta, N. W. T., Canada.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1904


ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY.
		ELIZA R. SNOW.
	Thursday, Jan. 21, 1904, was the birth-
day of our beloved sister Eliza R. Snow,
poetess of Zion who wrote the immortal
hymn “O, My Father,” that has been sung
in many lands and translated into several
languages.
	The day was lovingly commemorated at
the home of Mrs Isabel M Whitney Sears,
the invited guests were the General Board
of the Relief Society and missionaries and
some old friends of sister Eliza’s. Sixty
ladies were invited but the inclement weath-
er kept some at home.
	The decorations were simple though ar-
tistic, and very appropriate. The General
President of the Relief Society; Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith was present and gave some
pleasing reminiscences of her long and inti-
mate association with the gifted poetess
Sister Margaret P. Young who crossed the
plains in the same wagon with Sister Eliza,
in 1847, gave some touching incidents of
their journey and their life afterwards in
the famous Lion House. Mrs. Amelia F.
Young also told of the love and friendship
and intimacy of Sister Eliza and herself in
the family of President Young. Mrs.
Amanda Kimball talked of Winter Quarters
and of her Mother Sister Gheen taking Sis-
ter Eliza out riding in Bishop Hunter’s
carriage.
	Other Sisters spoke of her in praise and
commendation of her great work and Mrs.
E. B. Wells spoke of her long acquaintance
with her and appreciation of her teachings
and read a poem written by Mrs. Emily H.
Woodmansee which will be found in this
issue of the paper.
	Dainty refreshments were served and the
time enjoyably spent in conversation and re-
marks by Sisters who had been associated
with her in the Society, and closed the aft-
ernoon with singing, O, My Father, and 
prayer by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams.


[Column 1]
	HAIL TO THE NEW YEAR.

“The wave is breaking on the shore—
	The echo fading from the chime—
Again the shadows moveth o’er
	The dial-plate of time!”

	What shall the new year bring to the
Saints and to the world? Who can tell?
none unless by the spirit of prophecy. That
it may be laden with prosperity and every

[Column 2]
good gift and blessing for humankind—is
the uppermost thought in the minds of
those who are laboring for the establish-
ment of righteousness and peace. We
should lift our hearts in praise and grati-
tude to our Father in heaven for all His
manifold blessings vouchsafed to His people
in the past, and pray fervently for His
continued mercy and care in the future,
whatever may be their lot. It is the only
hope to trust in Him who knoweth all our
weaknesses, our trials, and who alone can
help us in bettering our lives, and in keep-
ing His commandments, that He has given
to guide us that we may be able to with-
stand evil influences and the powers of 
darkness. If we do this, if we cling to
him, in mighty faith; in daily prayer, in
loving assurance of His watchfulness, then
we shall not fail in obedience to the Spirit,
the still small voice within by which we
may discern between right and wrong. If 
we could always say as the poet Whittier
wrote.

“Amid the maddening maze of things,
	And toss’d by storm and flood:
To one fixed trust my spirit clings—
	I know that God is good.”

	We have the truth and that should make
us content to go on our way rejoicing even
though afflictions come, and trials encom-
pass round about. When one considers the
prosperity of Zion, how the Lord has deliv-
ered his people again and again, it gives
one hope and faith in the future and in-
spires one to greater earnestness in following
out the injunctions of the Savior to love
one’s neighbor, to try and pattern one’s 
life after the golden rule, and draw near in
spirit to the fountain of light and goodness.
	Life holds much that is pleasant to con-
template and to enjoy, and what may be
coming towards us of good we may not
know, and perhaps the very things we have
hoped for and worked for may be near.
	At any rate Zion’s interests are ours, and
Zion prospers, therefore, “all is well.” In
the movement for higher education our peo-
ple have indeed made rapid strides, and the
good work is still going forward. In refer-
ence to woman’s work in the organizations
among our people very much has been ac-
complished, in the way of progress, during
the last two or three years, in spiritual
and in intellectual growth as well as tem-
poral things. The women of our Church
are not behind in anything that will pro-
mote true culture and advancement, they
stand for the highest, and best in education,
literary, scientific, moral and spiritual.
	Our women missionaries go out among
the people, encouraging and instructing and
blessing the sisters young and old, and all 
who will come to listen to their teachings.
	They are never weary in well-doing,
their hearts are in the work of reform and
upliftment, and they carry with them, we
believe, the spirit of their mission, and go
forth in humility of heart upon their er-
rands of love, trusting in God and seeking
to do His will.
	The daughters of Zion are being taught
in all that will make them good wives,
mothers, and home makers; to the writer it
seems no stone is left unturned, no maxim
untaught, that will help our girls to fulfill
their mission here upon the earth in the
wisest and most excellent way.
	We mothers must not fail in the efforts
we have made and are making for the en-
lightenment of those around us, we must
“let our light shine,” and carry the glad

[Column 3]
tidings we have heard to our friends, our
neighbors, our companions, and to the
stranger also, whether within our gates or
elsewhere.
	Great events are at hand, greater perhaps
than any we have known heretofore, and
they may require great courage, as well as
zeal and wisdom. If our souls are fortified
with faith and are clothed upon with the
armor of righteousness, then there need be
no fear of failure. Steadfastness to the
truths revealed for our guidance and main-
taining our integrity before the Lord will 
give safety and eventually victory to the
Saints of God. Meantime diligence in bear-
ing testimony to those who know not the
ways of the Lord, and to each other, will
make us strong to do the work required at
our hands. Activity in spiritual matters as
well as temporal is needful, and eternal vig-
ilance and fidelity.


RELIGIOUS DEVOTION IN THE HOME.

“In the home!" What sweet memories
these words recall to those who have left
their childhood home and established one of
their own, and the dearest thoughts are
given to Mother. For she it was, who bore 
all our childish pains and troubles and was
the recipient of all our joy and pleasure.
To her wise counsels we owe much of the 
success of our lives.
	The duties of a mother are without
number. Not only does it devolve upon
her to properly clothe and feed the little
ones God has entrusted to her care, but 
she is responsible for their moral and men-
tal development.
	"The home is the basis of society." It has
been said that the home is the cradle of the
nation, and it is, most assuredly, the found-
ation stone upon which the thoughts and 
acts of mankind are built. How necessary
it is then, for us to have the Spirit of God
dwelling in our hearts and homes, and a 
prayer ever in our hearts ascending to
heaven for aid and guidance.
	What is prayer? The poet says—

Prayer is the Soul’s sincere desire,
	Uttered or unexpressed,
The motion of a hidden fire,
	That trembles in the breast.
	“Prayer is the simplest form of speech,
	That infant lips can try,
	Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach
	The majesty on high."
	The devotional exercises of the home,
should be directed by the father, but if the 
father is absent, then it devolves upon the 
mother to call her family around her, be-
fore beginning the duties of the day, and
kneel in prayer. If we are earnest and sin-
cere in our supplications, impressions are 
made on the tender minds of our little ones,
which time can never eradicate. A faith is
instilled in their hearts, that wiil never die
out. They may, in after years, turn aside
and do wrong, but this faith, or a spark of
it at least is still slumbering in their hearts.
I do not believe in long dry family prayers,
where there are little tots for they soon
grow restless and uneasy, and would soon
form a dislike for them, but make them
short and so that they can understand
them. In our daily petitions, we should
ask for those things, only, which we abso-
lutely need and leave all the rest to His
judgment and mercy. If we are continually
praying, before our children for certain
things that God in His infinite wisdom does
not see fit to bestow, then we weaken their


[column 1]
faith in the efficacy of prayer. "A few
years ago I heard a little girl who had lost
a baby brother say, "I don't believe it does 
any good to pray for we just prayed and 
prayed and then baby died," Oh, how that
child's faith was weakened by not being
taught, "Not my will but Thine, Oh Lord;
be done." When we prepare to kneel in
prayer see that every child is in its proper
place, that no contentions exist, that little
hands and faces, as well as hearts, are
clean and pure; then rest assured your peti-
tions will be carried to the throne of God,
and a peace and joy will pervade your
homes that no amount of wordly prosperity
can give, then you will have strength and
courage to face and battle with each days
trials and temptations.

	"He prayeth best, who loveth best,
		All things both great and small,
	For the great God, who loveth us,
		He made and loveth all."
	We are a very busy, active people, and
we do not have the time or at least do not
take it for singing at our devotions. But
mothers, we would lighten our labors and
lessen our cares a hundred fold, if we sang
instead of sighing and if, when things go
wrong we hum a hymn in place of scolding.
Many of us perhaps have not the ability to
sing like a Patti or Lucy Emma Gates, but
our voices however poor, are dearer to
those we love the best.
	The spirit of discontent and unhappiness
will not remain long in a room, Where,
"Oh my Father," The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning" or a hundred others of our
glorious hymns are sung.
	We should ever be watchful and prayer-
ful and seek the spirit of inspiration con-
tinually, for Satan is ever on the alert to 
catch our unwary feet and while we can
not always be singing and praying, we can 
have a prayer always in our hearts for di-
vine aid, for—

	"Sacred song invites the Holy Spirit
	Prayer invokes the blessings of God.

	The character and principles of the man
or woman is formed almost invariably by
the mother in infancy for—“As the twig is 
bent so is the tree inclined." She should in-
stil into the little tender minds the great
and redeeming principle of Faith. Teach 
them to love and venerate our heavenly
Father, and to hold sacred His holy name.
If we impressed this upon our children at
home as we should, we would not hear so
much profanity from our boys upon the
street.
	Of course, while we are teaching, these
things, we are also attending to the physi-
cal needs of our nature, so at proper times
we all gather around the table spread with
bounteous gifts from God, and should re-
turn grateful and heartfelt thanks and even
the youngest child should have its turn in
lisping thanks.

	"Between the dark and daylight
		When night begins to lower
	Comes a pause in the day's occupation
		That is known as the children's hour,"
	In this hour let us gather our dear ones
around us and take the Bible, the Book of
Mormon, the Doc. and Cov. or any of our
good church works, read a little, converse
upon and explain the principles of the 
Gospel. Let each member take an active 
part and they will become more interested
and will derive a greater benefit; as Bro.
Lyman says: "Knowledge obtained by
[Column 2]
hearing the word of God, establishes faith
in a child, for Him and His works, and this
faith firmly rooted is not easily shaken."
	LIBBIE MERRILL HENDRICKS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WOMEN IN ART AT THE EXPOSITION.

	As women’s interests in any walk of
life are identical with men’s the idea of
separating their exhibits from those of the
sterner sex seems to be invidious. Each
decade of the world’s history marks a
corresponding improvement of woman.
The patchwork and decorative exhibits
once a feature of State and National Fairs
are things of the past. Women applying
themselves to the higher walks of art, are
fast emerging from the chrysalis state
which has until the last few years been
deemed their proper place. In the Arts,
Sciences and Industries they have dis-
covered the outlet for talents hithertho con-
cealed in the embryo.
	In the Columbian Exposition women
were afforded opportunities of demonstrating
their ability along lines hitherto usurped by
men. The inaugurators of the “Louisiana
Purchase Exposition” which will be on a
more magnificent scale than that of any the
world has yet seen, have shown great
liberality toward women. Their work has
been placed on a par with that of men and
not separately classified as has been the
case in previous expositions. They were
invited to compete for decorations of the
various United States buildings and re-
sponded eagerly.  Genius has received its
adequate reward, and the talented young
women who have been awarded contracts
for artistic work will go forth to the world
as brilliant examples of what men are
pleased to call the weaker sex, can accom-
plish. It is gratifying to realize that women
have at least secured a portion of the half
million to be disbursed by the managers of
the Exposition for the beautifying of its
most important buildings and grounds.
	The assistant landscape architect is a
St. Louis woman, Miss Eda A. Sutter-
meister, and her talent has been embodied
in the artistic laying out of the Cascade
Gardens. There is a trio of artificial Cas-
cades, the most extensive ever before pro-
jected, which will send their crystal showers
down the graceful slope of the terraced hill
in front of the majestic Festival buildings
and the Colonnade of States, which form
the most important decorative feature of
the grounds.
	Miss Suttermeister’s botanical training
stood her in good stead, and she was chosen
to select the plants and flowers which are
to lend their requisite color scheme to the
fairy-like Cascade Gardens. Not only is
this lady possessed of a technical knowledge
of botany but she has revealed her executive
side by placing herself at the head of a corps
of gardeners whom she directed in the
setting out of the shrubs and flowers to be
planted on the grounds.
	Another St. Louis woman has demon-
strated her genius for sculptural work.
This young lady, Miss Carrie Wood,
daughter of Judge Horatio D. Wood of the
Circuit Bench of Missouri, whom inclina-
tion and not necessity induced to take up
modeling as a profession, has executed a
superb gilded figure called “The Spirit of
Missouri,” her native state, and which is
intended to crown the dome of the Missouri
State building. Miss Wood is a conscien-
tious student and has been working in the

[Column 2]
studio of the celebrated sculptor Jonathan
Scott Hartley of New York city.
	Miss Enid Yandell, whose fame is wide
spread, has modeled several figures of
heroice size in staff, with which to orna-
ment the buildings on Art Hill.
	Her statues of “Victory” will be placed
upon the domes of the twin restaurant
pavilions at the ends of the Colonnade of
States. Each figure is endowed with the
attributes of “Victory,” embodied in the
form of a woman, slightly draped and with
the graceful head coroneted with a victor’s
wreath of bay leaves. In one shapely hand
she holds a laurel crown, while with the
other she raises a bugle to her lips blowing
the blast of conquest.
	Miss Yandell is also represented by a
heroic statue of the trapper and hunter,
Daniel Boone in full hunting regalia. This
will be erected in a commanding position on
Art Hill.
	Mrs. H. A. McNeil contributes the
charming figure of a child riding a fish
intended to form part of the decorative
scheme of the Cascades.
	On Miss Melva Beatrice Wilson of New
York was bestowed the largest contract for
the sculptural work of a woman. The span-
drels of the Palace of Machinery are of her
design, a nude male figure on each side of
the Keystone of the arch being representa-
tive of the Mechanical Arts. Each detail is
worked out with painstaking fidelity. Miss
Elsie Ward of Missouri sends a magnificent
statue of Gen. George Rogers Clark, one
of the pioneer heroes of the West, which
will have a place on Art Hill.
	Miss Edith B. Stevens of New York is
the author of two splendid semi-nude
recumbent figures, male and female, to be.
set upon the pediment of the principal en-
trance to the palace of Liberal Arts.
	A fitting tribute to the diplomatic tact of
James Monroe, the special envoy to France
under President Jefferson, and who assisted
in the negotiations for the transfer of the
Louisiana Territory to the United States is
a statue in staff modeled by Miss Julia
Bracken of Chicago.
	To Miss Evelyn B. Longmans of New
York belongs the honor of executing the
magnificent sculpture of “Victory” which
will surmount the dome of the Palace of
Varied Industries.
	The work of those talented young
women will no doubt prove an object lesson
to women who visit the Fair, demonstrating
that genius,industry and perseverance win in
the long run, and that women with artistic
proclivities have been afforded an opportu-
nity of showing what they can do.
	COUNTESS DE MONTAIGU.


SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF SISTER MARY E.
		KNIGHT BASSETT.
	It has often been said that the lives of the
Saints are full of romance; that they read
as fiction, and not as real life. So it is
with that of the subject of this sketch,
whose history is woven in with the early
history of the Church, in the days of un-
bounded faith in, love for and devotion
to the great Prophet of the nineteenth cen-
tury.
	Sister Bassett’s advent into this world
occurred on June 16, 1836, at Gallatin,
Clay county, Missouri. Long since the
story has been told of the persecutions the
Missouri Saints endured. How they were
pillaged, driven and murdered. Homes and


[Column 1]
lands, the result of all their toil and labor,
they were forced to abandon. Some of
them walked barefoot over the dry stubble,
leaving bloody footprints at every step.
Oh, the pain, the suffering of those days!
Delicate women, small children, trudging
along beside their little possessions, leaving
mobs and forsaken homes behind. Peace
had only been transitory, the threats of vio-
lence numerous and frequent.
Uncertainty stretched before them, yet
they had an abiding faith that elsewhere
they would find a place of rest, where, un-
molested by those of other creeds, they
could worship God in their own way. Thus
early in her life--being only four years of
age—she was, with her parents and other
Saints, expelled from Missouri. 
Nauvoo the beautiful, situated on a bend
of the Mississippi river, became her home
for a time. From there her parents moved
to La Harpe, an adjoining town, where
they remained until the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum.
This tragic event brought overwhelming
sorrow to the Saints. Darkness reigned
over Nauvoo. Fearful forebodings, grief
and lamentations were borne on the air.
Hunted and driven, mob violence on every
hand, many Saints fled into Nauvoo, the
family of Brother Knight being among the
number; here they remained until the exo-
dus of the Saints in 1846.
Well she remembers the miracle of the
quails, that were sent to the starving “poor
camp” on the banks of the Mississippi
river, opposite Nauvoo. Destitute, sick
and a hungered, prey to all the ills of the
poor, scarcely able to raise a hand to re-
lieve their dire necessities; want stamped
on each shrunken, pinched face, there
they were, those known as the “poor
camp.” The Mississippi rolling by was un-
mindful of their sufferings. The cold stars
in a winter sky, in pity gave their light,
but icy breezes almost froze these house-
less, homeless fugitives, made such by re-
ligious hate and intolerance, in the blaze
of the vaunted civilization of the nineteenth
century. But God was not unmindful of
them; their prayers reached beyond the
pale moon and glittering stars, even to
heaven’s throne. Those who were able
had gone in search of food, while the sick
lay all around. Suddenly a dark cloud
overshadowed the camp, but the stricken
ones did not wonder much—if they were
able to think at all—but just waited, not
knowing what was coming next, when, lo!
in untold numbers the quails flew down
among them; they had only to put out
their hands, take and eat. Once again
they would behold the miracle-food sent
from heaven and the salvation of God.
Joseph Knight, Sister Bassett’s father,
her grandfather, Joseph Knight, Sen., and
his brother, Newel Knight, were close
friends of the Prophet, even before the or-
ganization of the Church. At her parents’
home in Missouri the Prophet was a fre-
quent and welcome visitor. By her parents
she has been told, also by her older sister,
Mrs. M. A. Mills, now living, that the
Prophet often took her in his lap and fondly
caressed her. She remembers that in
Nauvoo she heard him preach in the bow-
ery, just west of the temple. But that
stately edifice is no more; not one stone
left upon another; nothing left to designate
where it once stood. After the expulsion
of the Saints, the spirit of destruction, not
yet satiated, was wreaked on the senseless
stone and wood. It was set on fire. For

[Column 2]
a time the Mississippi ran as blood, while its
grim banks and near surroundings were
dyed with the crimson hue. The sky was
ablaze, clouds banked each other in blood,
then the light went out, and the city was
desolate The temple its glory, the Saints
its strength and pride, all had vanished.
The ever thrilling story lives in history of
how the pioneers reached this land, each
succeding year saw another band wend its
way across the trackless plains, until all
were gathered who chose to come. Brother
Knight with his family reached Salt Lake
City in 1850. In common with others,
they laid loved ones to rest on the way,
for the old Mormon trail is marked by
graves from Salt Lake to the Missouri
river.

There they rest and mark the way,
Where the pilgrims trod;
’Till the resurrection day, 
There beneath the sod.
Ev'ning breezes wail around,
Coyotes screech in vain.
Nought disturbs their sleep so sound,
Nought wakes them again.

March 5, 1853, Sister Bassett entered into
the holy order of marriage, becoming the
wife of Charles H. Bassett, and is the
mother of nine children, six of whom are
still living. With her hnsband she has
aided in building this great mountain
commonwealth, where the children of the
Saints enjoy plenty and prosperity.
Losses, trials and perplexities fall to the
lot of all. She has shared in these, too,
but they have been sanctified to her, and
today she is beloved among women. Long,
too, she has labored among the poor and
distressed, been an angel of mercy to those
in need. Very early she identified herself
with the Relief Society, and was called to
preside over the Second ward in 1871,
which position she still holds. Loved by
her sisters, she is respected by all those
with whom she is associated, while chil-
dren and grandchildren rise up and call
blessed. Faithful and true, enduring all
things for the Gospel’s sake, how glorious
shall they be who so continue unto the
end. When Christ shall make up his jew-
els, resplendent shall they shine forever.

Who bear the cross shall wear the crown,
’Twas ever thus decreed;
And through the golden gates at last,
Pass on, from trials freed.

’Tis worth all suff’ring, all distress,
The joys of heaven to share;
To dwell with God in realms of bliss—
The sanctified are there.

Then as the sun the saints appear,
By blood they’re purified;
And through eternity they’ll praise
The Lamb, who for them died.

LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Martha Jones Meacham, one of the earli-
est and most respected citizens of the Park Valley
ward, died on July 14, 1903 She was the president
of the first Relief Society organized in Park Val-
ley, in which she served faithfully for nineteen
years. She was the wife of E. D. Meacham, and
the mother of a large family, six of whom are still
living. The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful.	Much praise was given her by her
bishop and the speakers concerning her worthy
life and her amiable and loving disposition.
E. D. C.
	It is our sad duty to record the death of our be-
loved and noble sister, Sarah I. Raleigh, daughter
of Philip and Clarissa Pugsley, of Salt Lake City,
and wife of James A. Raleigh. She passed away

[Column 2]
after a severe illness, on December 6, 1903. She
leaves to mourn her loss a husband and three
daughters. She was a devoted wife and mother,
a true sister in the gospel, and a faithful member
of the Park Valley Relief Society, of which she
was secretary for ten years. We, the officers and
members of the Park Valley ward, deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and daughters in 
their loss, feeling also that they have been greatly
blessed by her wise and faithful example, Sister
Raleigh was president of the first Primary asso-
ciation of Rosette, a branch of the Park Valley
ward, for two years. She has also been president
of the Rosette Y. L. N. M, I. A. since it was first
organized in Rosette, and served up to the time of
her death. We feel our sister is not dead, but that
she sleeps, her spirit having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of the resur-
rection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
a title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord in glory when he shall come
in this creation to take the reins of government.
								E. D. C.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Park Valley Relief Society, that we mourn the
loss of our late president and secretary, but that
we appreciate the goodness of their lives, and the
worthy example they have set us to follow;
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved, That a copy of these res-
olutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety, and also published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				President S. J. CAMPBELL,
							Park Valley, Utah.

A TRIBUTE OF LOVE TO MARY A. H. BURNHAM.

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are longing for home and
	its sweet repose;
So, He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved one’s sleep,”

	One cannot help a feeling of solemnity in part-
ing with old and dear friends, however confident
one may be that all is well with the loved one who
has gone on before.
	The departed sister whose demise we now re-
cord with loving words, was a true and faithful
friend to those around her; she loved her neigh-
bors and ministered generously of what she pos-
sessed; in times of scarcity, when there was little
to share with others, she gave to those who had
less even than the small portion she had for her
own family, and trusted in the Lord for more. Her
words, too, were like balm to the distressed and
sorrowing.
	In the troublous times of Nauvoo, when thou-
sands mourned perhaps as they have never
mourned since, the cruel martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, Sister Burnham was one
who spoke comforting words to the bereaved,
whose faith never failed, though her husband was
at that time away upon a mission, and she stood
alone, yet she had courage to face privation, scar-
city of food, and to rely upon One above for
strength and consolation, and to pour out words of
comfort to those around her. Those were the days
of dark trials, and many fell away. The spirit of
apostacy was rife, yet she held to the iron rod and
braved the storms of ridicule and persecution that
carried many down to darkness and unbelief.
Brave heroines of those days of hardship and sore
temptation, they are nearly all gone.

“They are gathering homeward from every land,
			One by one;
As their weary feet touch the shining strand.
			One by one,
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white robes they meet on the mead
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
			One by one.”
	Sister Burnham had been ailing for some time,
but when the final hour came she passed away
peacefully as though falling asleep. She was
staying with her daughter. Sister Almyra Young
Russell. Her death occurred in this city Novem-
ber 10, 1903. She was born March 14, 1816, at
Waitsfield, Vermont. The deceased was the daugh-
ter of Allen Huntley and Sally Hitchcock, both
illustrious names in the annals of New England


history; she was left an orphan when very young,
and reared by her grandparents. When sixteen
years old she married James Louis Burnham, and
went west in 1837. In 1842 Brother and Sister
Burnham were converted to the Gospel and em-
braced the same, and went up to Nauvoo, Ill., in
1843. She was left a widow with three sons in
1845, just previous to the birth of her daughter.
Sister Mary A. Freeze. She afterwards married
President Joseph Young in the Nauvoo temple; by
this marriage she had two daughters. She was
with the Saints in the exodus from Nauvoo, en-
during all the privations of that eventful period,
prefering exile with the Church to the independ-
ence offered her by her own people if she would
return to the eastern states. She went south to
Payson at the time of the move south in 1858, and
remained there for some time, afterward moving
to Richmond, Cache county, and in 1863 returned
to Salt Lake City, which has been her permanent
home ever since. Her posterity number 197. She
had seven children, 14 grandchildren, 114 great-
grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren.
Her life was a most exemplary one, full of zeal
and religious devotion, never murmuring, however
difficult and trying her circumstances. She was
unflinching in her integrity to the Gospel, and al-
ways bore testimony to the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the prophet of the Latter-day dis-
pensation. Sister Burnham knew the Prophet
personally, and testified on all occasions of his
grand and noble character. She was present at
the meeting in the grove in Nauvoo, when the
mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham Young, when
the people cried “It is Joseph come back again—
he is resurrected.” There are few now living to
testify of having witnessed these things; but those
who were present on that memorable occasion can
never forget its thrilling effect upon that enthusi-
astic assembly.
The funeral of this excellent woman was held
in the Eleventh ward meeting house, and many
testified of her good works. Bishop R. Morris
presided. Beautiful floral tributes from loving
relatives and friends were laid upon the white
casket, and music such as the angels might listen
to was rendered. Her remains are laid to rest
upon the hill side, to await the morning of the
first resurrection.		 E. B. W.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
	EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Emery
Stake was held at Ferron Nov. 27, 1903,
President Mary A. Sorenson presiding. The
president reported the work of the Stake
and congratulated the sisters on the good
work they had done, expressed regret at
the absence of the late president, Sister
Annie U. Larsen, who was ill.
	Sister Maria Allen, of Castledale, spoke
on the subject "Woman,” her effort was a
grand one. Eight of the wards in the Stake
were represented and all reported in good
condition. Sister Josie E. Childs touching-
ly referred to the illness of ex-President
Larsen and spoke highly of the lecture.
	Sister R. O. Bird of Springville made
a telling speech to mothers. Brother Seth
Allen of Castle Dale referred to the noble
work of the Relief Society.
	In the afternoon Sister Maria Guymon
spoke of duties in the society and on saving
grain. Sister Mary Jenson of Ferron re-
cited "The Relief Society.” Bishop Nel-
son of Ferron talked to the parents; said he
was pleased with the Relief Society. Song
by Sisters J. R. Cox and Hattie Reid of
Orangeville. Reading by Mrs. Annie Ras-
mussen of Molen. Patriarch Frederick
Olsen appreciated the Relief Society; had
known of its benefits for thirty years.
Mandolin selection by Sister Jennie Behe-
min of Clawson. Stake Counselor Mary
J. King spoke of the Sunnyside Society,
urged the sisters to join the society and
help the work along. President Mary A.
Sorensen thanked those who had contribu-
ted to the success of the conferences.
	After the adjournment a social was given

[Column 2]
in honor of Sister Annie U. Larson and
Josie E. Childs, the retiring stake officers.
President Sorensen in behalf of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, presented Sister
Larsen with an elegant rocker and felt slip-
pers and Sister Childs a workstand and
Ladies Companion. A present of money has
been sent to Sister Ann Pulsipher, the other
retiring counselor who resides now in Old
Mexico, and a Book ot Mormon with in-
scription from Emery Stake Relief Society,
to Sister S. J. Shipp, in Idaho, the former
secretary. Great credit is due the sisters of
Ferrou for the sumptuous repast and the
welcome extended to all. Toasts and senti-
ments were given and a pleasant time was
enjoyed.
	M. A. SORENSEN.
                           _______

	WASATCH.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
a conference at the Stake Tabernacle Au-
gust 23, 1903. President Annie R. Duke
presiding. Official visitors from Salt Lake
City present: Sarah Jane Cannon, member
of the General Board, and Katie B. Hooker,
missionary. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.
with usual exercises, prayer by Sister Ann
Murdock. President Duke welcomed the
Saints one and all in a most genial manner.
Phoebe H. Bathers reported Danish soci-
ety, spoke upon love and charity. Charles-
ton reported by Mary Broadbent; society in
good condition.
	Sister Hattie B. Hooker praised the neat-
ness of the hall, gave some good points
in the mother’s work, said it was intended
to be a help to the young mothers in rear-
ing their children, also to elevate and edu-
cate the sisters thought parents should see
that the home is furnished with proper
amusement for children.
	Recitation—Sophia Lee.
	Sister S. J. Cannon, wife of the late
President George Q. Cannon, spoke of the
great benefits derived from the talks of ex-
perienced mothers who were united with
their husbands in training children; these
talks or lectures were grand opportunities
for the young people. The Saints should
know why the Prophet Joseph Smith or-
ganized this society. It is not only to aid
the needy and care for the sick, but to save
souls; teach your sons and daughters to be
virtuous, Sister Cannon urged the sisters
to try and create a fund of their own for
expenses in the ward.
	President Wm. H. Smart made a telling
address, in which he said if the society—
literary, spiritual and intellectual—work
for the mothers to prepare them for wife-
hood and house purposes, helping the
young women to be active instead of the
older sisters doing it all, it would make the
society successful; if you need teaching, go
to your leaders, who have the spirit of their
calling. President Smart said many good
things.
	Sister Duke felt thankful for the visitors
and the presence of the brethren.
	Adjourned until 2 pm. with singing;
prayer by Sarah Melissa Murdock.
	Afternoon session opened with usual ex-
ercises; prayer by Patriarch W. C. Mur-
dock. Sisters reported as follows: Heber
Second ward, Sarah Carlisle; Heber Third
ward, Johanna Jensen; Heber First ward,
Margaret Murdock—all in good condition,
taking care of the sick and needy, and at-
tending to other duties.
	Bishop Wm. Daybell and Bishop J. A.


[Column 3]
Boshard urged parents to teach their chil-
dren right and keep them home at night.
Center Ward Society reported by Rebecca,
Anderson, Rachel Lee, Elkhorn Dairy.
Bishop Jacob Probst of Midway praised the
sisters, felt the sisters had more of the
Spirit of God in their meetings than the
brethren, he thought we should study the
dispositions of our children when training
them. Bishop Robert Duke thought the
Relief Society one of the greatest aids in
the Church.
	Sister Cynthia Wootten spoke well of the
Midway Relief Society. Bishop Frederick
Crook of Midway, Bishop P. H. M’Guire
both alluded to the strength the Relief
Society gave to the ward.
	Elder Abram Hatch made some pertinent
remarks as to the perfect organization of
the Church. Sister Louisa Alexander and
Eliza Boshard spoke words of encourage-
ment to all. Elder James C. Jenson, of the
Stake Presidency told the mothers to be
careful in their conversation, especially
before children. The General and Stake
officers were sustained unanimously. Pres-
dent Duke made suitable closing remarks.
The visiting sisters had been obliged to
return home on acocunt of sickness. Ben-
ediction by Patriarch John Duke.
	SARAH R. DUKE, Secretary.
                         _________      
	ALBERTA, CANADA.

	The Relief Society conference of the Al-
berta Stake convened at the Assembly Hall,
in Cardston, August 24, 1903, President L.
Woolf presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, President Woolf congratulated the
congregation upon the favorable circum-
stances in which they were placed as a
community, the peaceful influence they en-
joyed and how the Lord had answered
their prayers.
	Sister Sarah B. Davies reported the Re-
lief Society of Cardston, said the sisters-
had 200 bushels of grain stored. Counselor
Jane Hinman gave an interesting account
of the visits to the several branches of the
Stake; they had excellent meetings and en-
joyed a good spirit.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, one of the
General Presidents of the Relief Society,
said she felt a calm, peaceful, and contented
spirit in their midst, knew the sisters were
living near the Lord and doing their duty,
thought the Spirit of God was never felt
to a greater extent than in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little, missionary, re-
ferred to the words of our Lord when the
people asked Him how they were to know
the Gospel was true. He answered by
their work. "Ye cannot gather grapes of
thorns or figs from thistles.” Though our
prayers are not answered directly, the re-
sult is good; she spoke of having visited
European countries; she eulogized the sis-
ters for living their religion, said she could
give a good report of them when she re-
turned to Utah.
	Choir sang, "Do what is right.”
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman, Sisters Eliza-
beth Hammer, Rose Woolf, Lydia Brown,
May Lula Ibez, Elnora Wight, Lula An-
derson, Hannan Anderson, Emily Norton,
Rhoda May and Elizabeth Webb each bore
testimony and said some very good things.
Elder E. J. Wood gave some of his experi-
ences on the Samoan islands.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing; benediction by Rachel Archibald.
	Afternoon session, opened with singing,


[Column 1]
prayer and singing. Counselor Ida S.
Dusenberry was the first speaker. She was
not feeling well and only occupied a few
minutes, thought it was by being good to
others that we had the most joy; those who
remain at home and do not reach out a
helping hand become narrow-minded; paid
a high tribute to Sister Zina Y. Card,
thought we should all have greater charity
for the faults of our friends and become
broader-minded; read a letter from Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and said she sent
greetings to the sisters, she prayed for
them and desired their prayers for her.
Sister R. E. Little thought she realized
to some extent the great work the Saints
had done there and the sacrifices they had
made in the last sixteen years in settling
that land, felt they were nobler because of
their experiences, spoke upon philanthropy
and charity, and the Savior’s example; she
had found some of her girlhood friends since
being there, felt extremely happy in their
midst.
Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.’’
Sister Zina Y. Card spoke elegantly upon
gratitude and kindly demonstrations and
mentioned that a wave of immorality
seemed to be going over the land; referred
to the Crittenden home for fallen women,
but thought that was only half the battle,
no woman ever fell alone—what about the
men?—they should not go free; felt how
happy and blessed women were who had
good, true husbands. Her remarks upon
unity were excellent.
President Mary L. Woolf rejoiced in the
good instructions given during the confer-
ence, spoke of the great work President C.
O. Card had done in organizing that land,
she had realized it in visiting the people in
the stake and noting the progress made by
them, and she felt his work would be re-
corded in heaven.
President C. O. Card expressed himself
as confident of the support of the brethren
and sisters in the labor he had performed,
the Lord had opened up the way for the
people to grow and expand, let them con-
tinue in good works.
Patriarch John A. Woolf addressed the
sisters on the subject of raising children.
President H. S. Allen thought the Latter-
day Saint women were the bravest women
in the world, spoke of the purity that ex-
isted among their young people in Canada,
gave good counsel and encouraged the sis-
ters to continue in good works. Confer-
ence adjourned. Benediction by Elder J. D.
Wood.
                                         M. L. WOOLF. 
                        _______

                     BOX ELDER.

The Relief Society conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened Tuesday, December
8, 1993, President Susannah P. Booth pre-
siding. President Jane S. Richards, of
Weber Stake, and Sister Tribe, of Ogden,
were on the stand. Conference opened with
the usual exercises. President Booth re-
ferred to the prayer offered at the opening
of the meeting by Brother Kelly, thought

[Column 2]
it should inspire the audience to do better;
spoke upon punctuality, hoped the Lord
would bless them during conference.
Presidents Hannah Hooper, North ward;
Lydia E. Watkins, Beaver; Elizabeth
Loveland, Deweyville, each gave a good
report, and in the last ward they had been
saving Sunday eggs, which in two months
amounted to $30.
President Jane S. Richards addressed the
sisters, spoke of the last dispensation, was
glad to live in the days of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, mentioned some of the things
she had heard him say previous to his
death, alluded to her experiences the first
years in the valley, thought we should be
kind to one another and try to attend to our
duties.
Sister Tribe, of Ogden, was heart and
soul in the Latter-day work, felt we should
attend to the sick and needy, and live our
religion; said many good things.
Presidents Christine Jenson, Mantua; Sa-
rah Fridal, Elwood; Mary E. Wood, Wil-
lard, spoke well of the work in the respec-
tive wards.
President S. P. Booth made a few appro-
priate remarks, and after singing and bene-
diction by Counselor Emilia D. Madsen,
conference adjourned to 2 p.m.
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer by Counselor Louisa E. Peters, sing-
ing, roll call, minutes.
Sisters Mary Wright and Mary Rees bore
their testimony, and President Mary Sal-
mon, of Honeyville, reported the Society
there as doing well.
Counselors Emilia D. Madsen and Sister
Zella Rees spoke upon Gospel subjects, also
bore faithful testimonies.
A duet, “Don’t forget the old folks,’’
was rendered by Emma Vance and Emma
Lee. Sister Mary Harding, of Willard, oc-
cupied a few moments in speaking of en-
joyments that were expensive, and how
many blessings we missed that would cost
nothing
President Jane S. Richards, in her re-
marks, said she missed some of the faces she
had seen there formerly, but they had
passed away; felt it would be a gratification
to be worthy to meet them; gave some in-
structions from President B. W. Smith,
which were good and timely; thought we
lived in a day and age when there was an
opportunity of doing much good, prayed we
might have wisdom to treat our children
right.
Sister Tribe felt it would not be long be-
fore there would be no one left who had
seen the Prophet Joseph.
Sister Celestine F. Freeman was set apart
as corresponding secretary for the stake.
Counselor Lucien Snow spoke against
fault-finding and picking flaws in others;
thought we should examine ourselves; also
touched upon proper amusements.
President Charles Kelly expressed his in-
terest in the Relief Society work, his mind
had reverted back to the time when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society, and it
had always stood for the betterment of
mankind.
President Booth expressed her pleasure

[Column 3]
and satisfaction at the conference, and after
singing the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Lucien Snow, and conference ad-
journed for six months.
ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
Asst. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column one]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. 	TRY US

[column two]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah. 
	Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts. 
	The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
				JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
				GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street. 

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


THE GRACIOUS WOMAN.
	“Gracious—courteous; friendly; kind;
attractive; agreeable; graceful; disposed to
show good-will; beneficent; full of grace or
favor.” The dictionary certainly appears
to cover a goodly number of the virtues as
well as the graces.	Perhaps that is why
the patronizing woman, who has none of
the Christian virtues in her. makes such a
bad imitation of being gracious. Yet when
a gracious woman is met, it becomes evident
why others wish to imitate her, for her
charm is wide and abiding.
	Graciousness, in fact, is so enviable a
possession that one wonders why more
women do not try for it. There are plenty
of clever women whose lack of it is de-
pressing and distressing. There are plenty
of average women who could make them-
selves delightful by its aid. It is most
needed, and most missed, in the daily little
matters of social life. But a gracious
woman can be gracious in a mining camp,
or a club convention, or a business office,
and gain by it everywhere. Lack of
graciousness in speech or manner is a dis-
advantage and drawback to any woman,
rich or poor, young or old, pretty or home-
ly, worker or idler. Yet what a plentiful
lack of it there is, from the stiff hostess in
the millionaire’s drawing-room to the ill-
mannered saleswoman behind the counter!
	For it is most a matter of condescension or
patronage. A cook can be as ungracious
as a queen. A truly gracious manner puts
the humblest on its own level, and is at
ease with the greatest. It is simple, un-
affected, sincere, responsive. The classic
epitaph in a New England graveyard, “She
was so pleasant,” sums it all up. Surely not a
hard thing to reach, in these days of brilliant
women.                     HARPER'S BAZAR.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 32
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1904
No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Sketch of the Life of...................................
	........................Mrs. Elizabeth M. Hart 65
Mother's Work................................   66 and 71
First Woman Physician in Holland..............
	...............................Martina G. Kramers 70
Relief Society Nurse Class Emma A. Empey 71
The Suez Canal........................Maria Francis 68
EDITORIAL—Relief Society Conference.... 68
	Editorial Notes ...................................... 68
	D. R. State Society................................. 68
	Executive Session N. [--]W., Indianapolis
	....................................................Indiana 68
	Report of the National Woman’s Relief
	................................................... Society 99
POETRY—On the Death of General George
	.............................................Washington 65


ON THE DEATH OF GENERAL GEORGE
WASHINGTON.

BY A YOUNG LADY.

What means the solemn dirge that strikes my ear?
What means those mournful sounds—why shines
	the tear?
Why toll the bells the awful knell of fate?
Ah! why those sights that do my fancy sate?

Where’er I turn the general gloom appears,
Those mourning badges fill my soul with fears;
Hark! yonder rueful noise! ’tis done!
The silent tomb invades our Washington!

Must virtues exalted, yield their breath?
Must bright perfection find relief in death?
Must mortal greatness fall? A glorius name!
What then is riches, honor and true fame?

The august chief, the father and the friend,
The generous patriot-let the muse commend;
Columbia’s glory, and Mount Vernon’s pride.
There lies enshrined with numbers at his side!

There let the sigh respondent from the breast,
Heave in rich numbers! let the glowing zest;
Of tears refulgent beam with grateful love;
And the sable mourning our affliction prove.

Weep! kindred mortals—weep! no more you’ll find,
A man so just, so pure, so firm in mind;
Rejoicing angels, hail the he venly sage!
Celestial spirits greet the wonder of the Age!
	January, 1800.                       Ulster Co. Gazette.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF MRS. ELIZABETH
M. HART.

Editor Exponent.
	The following brief sketch of the life of
Mrs. Elizabeth M. Hart was written by
herself during the first week in January,
1904, and read by her in the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association in Bloom-
ington on Sunday evening, Jan. 10th. 1904,
five days previous to the deplorable acci-
dent which caused her death.
	She was a domestic economist in the ful-
lest sense of the word; a wise counselor, a
well read and thoughtful student; a ready
and interesting public speaker and a sin-
cere and devout member of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and made loving friends
wherever she was known.
	It is the consensus of the feelings of the
Stake Presidency and the auxiliary organi-
zations of which deceased was an active
member for so many years that in her de-
parture they have lost one of the bright and
shining lights among the noble women who
labor among us so faithfully in building up

[Column 2]
the great work of the Lord in this Stake of
Zion.                                     COM.
February 10th, 1904.

	I was born on the 26th day of March in
the year 1843, in the town of Treforest, in
the county of Glamorgan, South Wales,
Great Britain. My father’s name was David
Thomas, my mother Martha Davis Thomas,
both of the same place. I am the second
daughter of a family of six girls. Our par-
ents were in comiortable circumstances, and
we grew up in an atmosphere of love and
tenderness. Our home was to me a perfect
paradise. Although my mother’s health
was delicate, she was able to direct home
affairs, but obliged to leave the arduous
labors to an attendant named “Kitty,” who
lived in the family seventeen years.
	My father did not believe in any of the
religions of the so-called Christian churches;
but he was a strong believer and advocate
of justice, truth and equity. My mother
was a member of the Baptist Church, but
was not satisfied with its organizations and
doctrines, and was always searching for
more light, and something more tangible
that she could lay hold on with full hope
and assurance. She was fervent in spirit,
conscientious in her convictions, and faith-
ful in performing her duties in life as she
understood them.
	From my earliest recollection I was
taught to observe the Sabbath day to keep
it holy; to refrain from loud laughter and
from indulging in mirth of whatever nature.
I was fairly well acquainted with the
common branches of education, including
domestic economy, before I reached my
thirteenth year.
	In the year 1855 the family moved to
Cardiff, a large sea-port town, in South
Wales, where my father was offered a more
remunerative position as a pattern maker, in
a large steel rail establishment. We were
then about twelve miles from the home of
my maternal grandmother, Mrs. Davis. I
can now picture in my mind the thatch
roofed farm house, with my dear old grand-
mother bustling around, going five miles to
meeting and willing to indulge me in every
way.
	In 1856 we were called to mourn the loss
of our baby sister, from cholera infantum.
My mother’s health was quite frail at this
time, and required the tenderest care and
attention from my sister and myself, and
although our change of residence did not
prove as successful in a pecuniary sense as
we expected, my mother felt confident that
the Lord was mindful of her pleadings. It
so happened that a year had scarcely elap-
sed when the light of the Gospel was
brought to her, by a good old lady who
came to do our washing. My mother
accepted it without any question or hesita-
tion, and it seemed to inspire new life in
her, so much so, that within a month she
was baptized and confirmed a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	At my mother’s urgent request my eldest
sister and myself also, became members of
the Church. I yielded obedience to the

[Column 3]
Gospel from a desire to gratify my mother’s
wishes; for up to that time I had not given
much thought or reflection to matters of
religion, I was keenly sensitive and consci-
ous of right and wrong, but it seemed to
me sufficient, if a person lived up to the
golden rule, “do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	In 1856 my father was baptized also and
became a member of the Church. He met
with great opposition from his relatives and
former friends, and up to this day my sister
Mrs. Samuel H. Hill and myself are the
only representatives of my father’s house in
the Church.
	In March, 1857, we commenced our
travels to the land of Zion. We sailed on
the “George Washington” from Liverpool 
and landed in Boston on the 17th, of April,
having been three weeks on the ocean. We
encountered some very severe gales, but all
things considered we had a fair and pleas-
ant journey as intermediate passengers. I
shall however, never forget the disagreeable
sensation of sea-sickness experienced upon
the voyage.
	We arrived in Iowa City, which was then
the terminus of the railroad, a week later.
The Saints were going from that point by
teams and hand carts. Instead of continu- 
ing our journey as at first intended, much
to my mother’s disappointment, my father
decided to remain there another year, so
that we could go with more comfort and in-
dependence. We did not however realize
our expectations; reverses came upon us.
There was no work my father could engage
in. My father and mother were both taken
down with ague and fever and were unable
to help each other or themselves for nearly
a year. Expenses accumulated so that we
had to dispose of our chinaware, cutlery,
and many other articles that we had pro-
vided for our use and comfort. It was then
that life’s stern realities dawned upon me
as never before.
	It was about this time that Governor
Kirkwood of Iowa and his wife engaged
me as second girl at fair wages. Although
they were kind and considerate, I realized
my position keenly as a subordinate and
subject to their bidding, which at first, was
quite a trial to me.
	I had many experiences of this kind but
the thought that I was thus able to assist
my parents in the expenses of home, gave
me courage, and made me more brave than
if I were the only one benefited by my labor.
	Then came an agreeable change; my
father regained his health and took a con-
tract to build Governor Kirkwood a frame
house which, when completed, netted us
quite a sum and enabled us to meet our
financial obligations. It was then decided
that I go to school, leaving the girls at
home with mother, while I worked for my
board with a Mrs. Dunlap whose home was
a mile nearer the school.
	It was there I met Mr. George M. Keen,
a cousin of Mr. Dunlap, who had come on a
visit from St. Paul, Minn. He was a
scholar and by profession a journalist.
When he left for his home a month later,
it was with the promise that we open up a


[Column One]
friendly correspondence. This was in July, 
1860, and on the 21st, of April, 1861, we
were married. My mother was very much
opposed to our marriage because he was
not of our faith and she desired to take all
of her children to Utah. It was in the same
month and year the civil war began, and
when the call was made for seventy-five
thousand volunteers, Mr. Keen could not
resist that spirit of patriotism that fills the
heart of every native born American when
his country is in jeopardy. He joined the
Second Iowa Cavalry, and was engaged in
active service in many battles, but escaped
unhurt, to return home and resume the
avocations of life. Eleven months after his
return he contracted a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia and on the 6th, 
of September, 1865, he passed away.
	In the mean time, that is in the year
1862, during Mr. Keen’s service in the
Union army, I moved to Chicago with my
father and mother and spent part of the time
in Salem, Ohio, with Mr. Keen’s parents
who did all they could to make life pleasant.
	In 1868, I came with my parents to Salt
Lake City. We located in the 9th Ward,
where we were re-baptized and were re-
ceived as members of the Church. We sub-
sequently moved to the central part of the
city, where to meet the necessary expenses
we took in boarders. My father being un-
able to obtain employment as a machinist, 
became discouraged and had gone back to
Chicago, expecting my mother would re-
turn also, if left to depend upon her own
resources; but with the help of her girls and
the blessings of the Lord, we managed to
live and pay expenses. 
	House rents and provisions were then so
high that we could not afford to hire any-
thing done, and to keep the class of board-
ers we had, required unceasing labor; in
fact it was what my be called a slave’s life.
Notwithstanding our board rates were two
dollars per day, we could only pay the
rent and keep the table supplied. 
	Our relatives in Provo were constantly
urging us to go there and make our home
and upon my mother receiving a check
from my father for a liberal sum, my
mother decided to move to Provo, and
within a month we had bought a lot there
with one large room upon it, making it our
home, with an addition of a shed at the
back. We stored our furniture away until
we could make further building improve-
ments. 
	I am thankful that I had such a faithful
mother, for it was through her faith and
untiring efforts and loyalty to her religion, 
that I am indebted for being brought to
these mountains and for a name and stand-
ing in the Church of Jesus Christ in these
last days.
	We soon became identified with one of
the ward organizations and I was given a 
class in the Sunday School. It was there
in Provo I became acquainted with Sister
Emily Hart, who was a warm friend of my
dear mother. I was introduced by her to
Elder James H. Hart, to whom I was mar-
ried in 1873, with her full, and free consent
and approval, also that of my dear mother,
who believed in, and fully endorsed the
principle of plural marriage.
	In 1874 I moved to Bloomington, Bear
Lake County, Idaho, with my husband. I
was soon identified with the Bloomington
Sunday School and with the ward Primary
Association of which I was chosen and ap-
pointed President in the year 1879. I was
also a member of the Young Ladies’ Mutual

[Column Two]
Improvement Association at the same time, 
and was appointed Stake Secretary of that
organization the same year. I took great
pleasure and satisfaction in traveling with
the President, Mrs Nancy E. Pugmire and
her counselors in all parts of the Bear Lake
Stake of Zion and was honorably released
in September, 1903, covering a period of
twenty-four years.
	In the year 1884 I was chosen and set
apart as a counselor in the Stake Presidency 
of the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, 
a position I still hold, being associated with
sister Julia Lindsay as her first counselor
and ably assisted by Mary J. Bagley as sec-
ond counselor.
	In conclusion I can say that in the labor
herein mentioned in which we have traveled
many thousands of miles, not in Bear Lake
County only, but in Rich County, Utah,
and in Star Valley, Uinta County, Wyom-
ing, formerly belonging to this Stake organ-
ization during all seasons of the year, and
sometimes in the most inclement weather,
that in these labors and associations among
the daughters of Zion and the noble moth-
ers in Israel, they have afforded the great-
est happiness that I have experiened during
my life. 
			ELIZABETH M. HART.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS WORK.
TAYLOR STAKE.

I.—Woman, her Sphere and Mission.

	She openeth her mouth with wisdom and
in her tongue is the law of kindness. Wo-
man that feareth the Lord shall be blessed.
Prov. 31. God’s commandment to Adam
and Eve (Gen. 1:28 Gen. 3;16).

II.—Children are a gift from God. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 132.

	Care of parents in setting proper ex-
amples before their children. Instiling
faith in the hearts of their children.

III.—Virtue and Moral purity.

	A child most be taught purity from its
infancy. Pure thoughts make a happy
mind. Let your thoughts be chaste and
pure. Evil thoughts make vice and crime;
honest thoughts and noble deeds build a
character sublime.

IV.—Scolding and Threatening.

	Scolding and threatening are real sins,
govern by love and kindness. “Kind words
are bright flowers of earth’s existence.”

V.—Finding fault with our children.

	It is at times necessary to censure and
punish, but very much more may be done
by encouraging children when they do well.
Nothing can more discourage a child than
incessant fault finding on the part of its
parents.

VI.—Use of Drugs and Patent Medicine.

	Discourage the use of any deadening med-
icine to be given to our children. Encourage
faith in God and the ordinances of the
Gospel. Doc. and Cov. sec. 42.

VII.—Artificial feeding of Infants how
	prepared.

VIII.—Diet and Dressing of Children.

	How often, we notice mothers who with

[Column 2]
great earnestness study the cultivation and
treatment of flowers to make them healthy,
and beautiful, and neglect their children,
how to take proper care of those noble
spirits whom the Lord has entrusted to our
care that their little bodies may be healthy
and strong.

IX.—Moral Training of Children.

	It is a mistaken idea mothers that infants
are not capable of being trained in any
way until they are several months or a year
old.

X.—Care of Amusements for the Young.

	Evil of card playing amoung our people.
Juvenile Instructor Aug. and Sept. No’s by
Pres. Joseph F. Smith.

XI.—Order of Marriage.

	First step commence aright, may save
unhappiness. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132.

XII.—Object of Relief Society Work.

	Also the object of our Mothers Work.
Ref. the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first
Relief Society meeting.
			HANNAH M. RUSSELL,
			ROZILLA GRANT,
			ELIZABETH HARDY.

		PANGUITCH STAKE.

Lesson I.—Woman.

	‘Oh, woman, woman, know thyself,
	And know thy mission too.
	Thou comest from thy makers hands,
	A mighty work to do.”
						—Eliza R. Snow.

				Woman.
	A. What is she?
		1. Child of God.
		2. Companion of her husband.
	B. Her mission.
		1. Child. Duties of child to parents.
		2. Sister. Duties of a sister to house-
		hold and to mankind.
		3. Wife. “Nevertheless, neither is
		the man without the woman,
		neither the woman without the
		man in the Lord” (I Cor. 11: 11).
		4. Mother. Duty to become a
		mother. “Be fruitful, and multi-
		ply and replenish the earth”
		(Gen. 1: 28).
	C. Her Reward.
		1. Earthly possessions. Husband,
		children. Consciousness of hav-
		ing obeyed commandments of
		God.
		2. Heavenly possessions. Celestial
		inheritance.

Lesson II.—Motherhood.

“O wondrous power! how little understood;
Entrusted to the mother’s mind alone,
To fashion genius, form the mind for good.

	A. It is a wife’s duty to become a
	mother.
	B. Pre-natal influence.
		1. Habits of mother. Like begets
		like.
	C. Preparation for confinement.
		1. Diet.
		2. Clothing.


[Column 1]
Lesson III.—The Baby.
	“I love these little people, and it is not a
a slight thing when they, who are so fresh
from God love us."			Dickens.
	The Baby.
	A. Bath.
		I. Time to bathe. Regularity. Why
		not in health only but in sickness,
		also. Daily bath.
		2. How to bathe. First bath of oil.
		Following every bath with a
		massage of oil. Preparations for
		the bath. How to proceed.
	B. Clothing.
		I. Hygienic dress. How made.
		Loose, light, free from pins. Not
		too long. Why? Bring samples.
		Change of clothing. Material.
		Woolen. Cotton. Which? Why?
	C. Food.
		I. System in feeding. In food and
		drink. Either natural or artificial
		food.
Lesson IV.—Children and their Diseases.
	A. Colic.
		I. Symptoms.
		2. Treatment. Thoroughly warm.
		Apply hot flannels. Rub body
		with oil.
	B. Thrush. Tell cause and how cured.
	C. Diarrhoea.
		I. Cause.
		2. Treatment.
	D. Spasmodic croup.
		I. Cause. Exposure to damp and
		cold, excitement and indigestion.
		2. Cure. Apply warm flannel to
		throat. Give mustard bath or
		foot bath an emetic and a simple
		enema.
		3. How to prevent a return.
Lesson V. —Home.
	“Home’s not merely roof and room
	It needs something to endear it
	Home is where the heart can bloom,
	Where there’s some kind lip to cheer it.”
				Home.
	A. Cleanliness.
		I. Of house and yards. Sanitary and
		moral effects. Why.
		2. Of carpets, floors, walls, nooks
		and corners, bedding, clothing
		and food.
	B. Regularity.
		I. Work.
		2. Study.
		3. Devotional exercises.
		4. Shopping.
	C. Manners at home.
		I. Politeness. The golden rule is the
		embodiment of all true politeness.
		2. Personal habits. Cleanliness of
		person. “A clean mind can not
		dwell in an unclean body.”
Lesson VI.—Home (continued).
	A great many homes are like the frame of
a harp that stands without strings. In form
and outline they suggest music; but no
melody rises from the empty spaces; and
thus it happens that home is unattractive,
dreary and dull.

[Column 2]
A. Amusements.
	I. Books. A library is not a luxury
	but one of the necessaries of life.
	Books of information are the tools
	for life’s daily use. Books of in-
	spiration are the instruments of
	music for life’s loftiest and most
	sacred moments.
	2. Music. Music is not a mere orna-
	ment it is an educative power.
	How? What is its moral effect?
	How does it bring about har-
	mony?
	3. Games. Educational. Avoid
	games that border on familiarity.
	Give substance of Presidents
	Smith’s talk on card playing.
B. Ethics.
	1. Pleasant and attractive surround-
	ings. It is as much the duty of
	parents to beautify their home
	as it is to keep the moral atmos-
	phere of that home pure.
	2. Agreeable associates.
	3. Parents love for child. No person
	has the right to be the parent of
	a child who does not love him.
	4. Obligations of prrents and chil-
	dren are reciprocal. Why? A
	smile is the most useful thing in
	the world iu proportion to its cost.
			JANE LEFEVRE,
			MAMIE F. DODDS,
			KATE G. CLARK,
					Committee.

		BINGHAM STAKE.
	“The mother, in her office, holds the
key to the soul, and she it is who stamps,
the coin of character, and makes the being,
who would be a savage, but for her gentle
care, a Christian man.”
Lesson I.—History of the Creation.
			(Ref. Gen. 1st Chapter).
	“For right is right, since God is God;
and right, the day must win. The doubt
would be disloyalty. To Father would be
sin.”
Lesson II.—History of the Creation.
		(a) Marriage instituted. (b) Day of
	rest.		(Ref. Gen. 2nd Chapter).
	“O day to sweet religious thought,
	So wisely set apart.
	Back to the silent strength of life.
	Help Thou, my wavering heart.”
Lesson III.
			(Ref. Gen. 3rd Chapter).
		(a) Mans agency. (b) Temptation
	of man and his fall.
“Lost yesterday, somewhere between sunrise and
	sunset.
The golden hours, each set with sixty diamond
	minutes.
No reward is offered, for they are gone forever.”
Lesson IV.
			(Ref. Gen. 4th Chapter).
		(a) Sons and dughters born to Adam.
	(b) Offering of sacrifice. “Heaven is
	not reached by a single bound, but we
	build the ladder by which we rise,
	from the lowly earth to the vaulted
	skies, and we mount its summit, round
	by round.”

[Column 3]
Lesson V.
	(Ref. Gen. 22nd Chap, I Sam. 15th Chap.)
		(a) Obedience. (b) Abraham’s of-
	fering.
Lesson VI.
				(Ref. 40th Psalms).
		(a) Benefits of confidence in God.
	(b) Obedience, the best sacrifice.
Floral Apostles, that in dewy splendor,
Weep without woe, and blush without a crime
O may I treasure deep, your sacred teaching of
	love divine.
Lesson VII.—First Nephi. His Reign and
	Ministry.
(Ref. Book of Mormon, I Nephi I, 2, 3 Chap.)
“God’s plans, like lilies pure and white, unfold.
We must not tear the close shut leaves apart,
Time will reveal the calaxes of gold.”
Lesson VIII.—Results of Disobedience.
	(Ref. Mosiah 11th and 12th Chapters).
	We cannot plan and build for ourselves, 
if we do we will be like the Jews of Old, as
the Prophet says: “Have hewn out cisterns,
that will hold no water.” We must submit
to the ordinances of the House of the Lord.
Lesson IX.—Home.
	Study to meet all your requirements as a
wife in righteousness. Give personal ex-
perience as “The Mother of the Home.”
The mother and daughters [-]eed to realize
that woman’s life and liberty does not con-
sist in the multitude of avenues that lead
from home to the outside world; but in
the uumber of avenues from which she may
bring the best, from the outside world, into
the home.
Lesson X.—Duties of Parents to Children.
	Parents be just to your, children in the
least, as well as in the greatest thing. The
home without children is lonely, and want-
ing in the love element. Every child born
into this world is entitled to the best rear-
ing.
Lasson XI.—Amusements for the Home.
	The woman who takes into her heart, her
own children, may be a very ordinary 
woman, but the woman who takes into her
heart, the children of others, is one of God’s
Mothers.” It is natural that we should
love our children, but every child in the 
community is ours, in so far as our influence
makes him a better or worse citizen.
Lesson XII.—Review of the Year's Work.
				ELIZA MUIR ORAM,
				ELVIRA C. STEELE,
				ELIZABETH S. BRUNDT,
				JENSINE JOHANNESEN,
				ALICE BOOMER,
						Committee.
		TILLIE E. WRIGHT,
					Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET contributes to 
the December Cosmopolitan an interesting
article on “British Social Life.” She is
herself a prominent member of the old
English aristocracy, and her article on the
new fashionable London of to day is at
once a commentary on the tendency of the
times and a protest against some of its
harmful features.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1904


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Annual Conference of the
Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, Saturday, April
2, 1904, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and 2 p. m. It is expected that each Stake
organization of the Relief Society will be
represented by the president or an author-
ized representative. All members of the
society are cordially invited to attend the
conference. Bishops and brethren interested
in the charitable work of the sisters will
be most welcome, also officers and mem-
bers of Y. L. N. M. I. A., and Primary
Associations.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
						President.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
		IDA S. DUSSENBERRY,
						Counselors.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	There are several Stake orgonizations of
the Relief Society that have not yet sent in
their annual reports for the year 1903.
Please take notice, as the time is near at
hand for the general report to be made to
the Conference, Please address Mrs. E. B.
Wells. General Secretary, Templeton Build-
ing, Salt Lake City.
	The National Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion, which met recently in Washington,
D C., elected Rev. Anna H. Shaw, president,
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, having refused
to be a candidate for re-election. The Inter-
national Woman’s Suffrage Conference will
be held in Berlin, probably June 20 and
21. Each of the ten countries affiliated will
be entitled to six delegates and six alter-
nates.


D. R. STATE SOCIETY
	The daughters of the Revolution held the
regular monthly meeting Tuesday, Feb. 16,
1904, at the home of Mrs. Clarissa S. Wil-
liams. The handsome parlors were deco-
rated with the stars and stripes and other
effective emblems, pictures, flowers, etc.
The Regent Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears pre-
siding. There was a very good number of
members present and after miscellaneous
business had been attended to the name of
Mrs. Israel Evans of Lehi was proposed for
membership and she was admitted with a
hearty welcome as well as by unanimous
vote.


The paper of the day was given by Mrs.
Carol Y. Cannon, subject Mrs. John Jay.
The paper was exceptionally interesting,
well written and read in a clear musical
voice and delightfully gracious manner.
The secretary Mrs. Lucy W. Smith read
from a very old paper published soon after
the death ol General Washington, an ac-
count of the funeral exercises. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a Poem in memory of General
Washington contained in the paper from
which the secretary read; the verses were
written by a young lady and may be
found on another page of this issue of the
paper.
	Mrs. Wells mentioned that the day pre-
vious had been Susan B. Anthony’s Birth-
day Anniversary and felt we should all
pay a tribute to her as she was most cer-
tainly a patriot loved her country and had
done much for the women of the United
States and the world at large.
	Many tender words of love and esteem
were expressed by the ladies and all unitedly
joined in congratulations to the honored
woman who has sacrificed so much and lab-
ored so faithfully for the enfranchisement
of the women of her country.
	Mrs. Beatie spoke of the visit of herself
and Mrs. Wells to the home of Miss Voss
in Indianapolis during their recent visit in
that city. Mrs. Beatie gave a graphic des-
cription of the elegant and luxurious resi-
dence of Miss Voss with whom the two
ladies dined and told of the many unique
hangings, statues, pictures and bric-a-brac
the lady had collected in her travels abroad.
	The meeting adjourned to meet on Wash-
ington’s birthday Feb. 22nd, at the EX-
PONENT OFFICE to commemorate the anni-
versary of the great hero, patriot, states-
man and President, Father of his Country.
Dainty refreshments were served by the
young ladies of the household and, with
each plate a toy hatchet marked Feb. 1904
	The afternoon was delightful in every
way, there was some choice music and
the usual pleasant conversation.


[Column 1]
EXECUTIVE SESSION N. C. W., INDIANAP-
			OLIS, INDIANA.

	The executive session of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
was held in Indianapolis, in February of
this year, commencing Monday, Eebruary
1, 1904.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of San Francisco,
the National President, presiding. Mrs.
Swift is very original; there is nothing for-
mal or stilted in her manner, she is easy
and gracious on the platform, and affable
and kind to all alike. The first afternoon,
as only a few delegates had yet arrived in
the city, was given over to a sort of “love
feast,” and almost every one present was
invited to speak and expressed an opinion
in regard to the Council, its present status,
and future possibilities, if the high ideals
of its founders were fostered and practically
developed.
	The four ladies from Utah gave free ex-
pression to the opinions they cherished on
the subject in question. The meeting was
held in the “Propylæum,” a handsome and
spacious building, erected and owned by
the club women of that city.
	In the evening a preliminary business
meeting was held in one of the elegant
parlors of the hotel Claypool, the headquar-
ters of the delegates in attendance at the

[Column 2]
Council. At this meeting propositions
were made and some plans formulated to
be submitted to the regular business sessions
during the week. One of the most inter-
esting things about the Council is the
women themselves who constitute the body
of the Council, its speakers and delegates.
To study these grand women who came to-
gether from many cities, and various or-
ganizations, representing a variety of lines
of work, and each with ideas of her own,
and plans to be submitted, furnishes charac-
ter-study of sufficient interest to make one
almost forget her own particular enterprise
in the endeavor to know human nature
better.
	Tuesday morning (closed session) the
work of the Executive began in earnest,
and continued during the week with
scarcely time to make one’s self comfortable
so strenuous was the effort to keep up with
the work in hand.
	The Young Woman’s Christian Associa-
tion very generously invited all the ladies
to lunch in their comfortable hall and every
day quite a number of ladies accepted their
hospitality. This was one of the many
polite courtesies extended to the Council
by the ladies of that hospitable city.
	At the close of the afternoon session
which was a continuance of Council bus-
iness, there was a “Tea” by the Fort-
nightly Club, given in the room across the
hall from the meeting, to which the ladies
repaired to meet and be introduced to these
earnest club women who had decorated
their room beautifully and prepared dainty
refreshments for the delectation of their
guests, the time was so limited that there
was very little opportunity for conversation,
and as it often happens the affair was
something of a disappointment, the meet-
ing having kept so late.
	In the evening; at 8 p. m., the meeting
was held in the large hall of the Propylæum,
a program prepared beforehand was given.
Addresses of welcome by Mrs. Kate Hunt-
ington Day, President of the local council
of Indianapolis, Hon. Winfried T. Durbin.
Governor of the State of Indiana, (who, by
the way, was not able to be present,) Hon.
John W. Holtzman, Mayor of the City of
Indianapolis, Judge Frank E. Gavin, Pres-
ident of the Commercial Club, of the City,
and Mrs May Wright Sewall, President
of the International Council of Women;
responses to addresses of welcome, Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, President National
Council of Women, of the U. S.
	After the speeches a reception was given
by the Commercial Club and the local
Council, and dancing followed. The hall
was artistically decorated with flowers,
flags and banners, in profusion, presenting
a brilliant and gala appearance. The
music and dancing kept up till a, late hour,
though no one seemed weary either of
dancing or looking on.
	Wednesday morning, 9:30, session open
to all members of affiliated organizations
of the Local Council of the city. First came
minutes, then reports of committees and of
organizations affiliated with the Council.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, delegate gave
the report of the Relief Society published in
this issue of the paper. Mrs. Beatie made
an excellent impression upon the audience,
she spoke clearly and her enunciation was
perfect, the report was well received and
accorded considerable applause.
	The report of the Y. L N. M. I. A. came
next and was given without notes or paper
by Miss Agnes Campbell delegate for


[Column 1]
the Young Ladies’, she acquitted herself
creditably and we, Mrs Dougall and the
writer, were very proud of Utah delegates.
	The American Federation of nurses fol-
lowed. Miss Helena Bernard delegate. As
this is a subject of intense interest to us we
listened attentively as she gave an idea of
the work the nurses were doing as a feder-
ated body.
	Supreme Hive Ladies of the Maccabees
was given by Miss Bina M. West, Supreme
Record keeper, and when she gave the
financial condition of this far-reaching
society it made ones head swim, it included
so many thousands in treasury.
	The afternoon was given to reports first
being National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, President Mrs.
Elizabeth B. Grannis. National Association
of Colored Women Mrs. Davis delegate,
National Council of Jewish Women Mrs.
Hannah G. Solomon, this report was a
particularly fine one and in many respects
unequalled. Great Hive of the Ladies of
the Modern Maccabees, and several other
organizations were reported during the
afternoon but a number of the organiza-
tions were not representedat all.
	In the evening a reception was given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall at her home, a
very brilliant affair, and very enjoyable;
many interesting people including a numb-
er of distinguished gentlemen doctors, law-
yers, professors etc.
	Possibly one of the Utah women might
give a good description of the elegant home,
old-fashioned and spacious, and of the bric-
a-brac ornaments paintings etc., but not the
writer, these things are not in her line. Day
followed day with vrork on committees and
in regular business sessions.
	Thursday afternoon was given up for a
trolley ride and to see the city, to be fol-
lowed by a “tea” to the National Executive
at the elegant home of Mrs John Candee
Dean, (a niece of Mrs. Sewall’s). Meeting
in the evening at the Propylaeum in the
large hall up-stairs, speakers, Mrs. Wyman
of the Relief Corps, G. A. R. Mrs. Krebs
of San Francisco, Grand Army of the Re-
public. Miss Louise Lee Hardin of the
Business Woman’s Journal and Mrs. C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Miss. Ackerman on
the flag, Mrs. Sewall on Internationalism,
etc., until a very late hour.
	Friday morning 9:30 was to be given to
Local Councils Mrs. Kate Huntington Day
reported Local Council of Indianapolis, Mrs.
Maud H. Showers Local Council of Bloom-
ington and Mrs. Pauline Steinem Local
Council of Toledo, Ohio. Mrs. Grannis,
chairman of committee on Resolutions
brought in the report, the following were
adopted.
	That the Church universal be asked to
place women on an absolute equality with
men in the pew, the pulpit, in council and
in debate, and that the church elect from
one to one-half its officers and members of
committees from the women members.
	That excluding married women from
holding salaried positions in the public
schools is an adverse restriction and criticism
upon honorable wedlock, the rights and
privileges of wives and mothers and a cur-
tailing of the value of schools to the boy
and girl pupils and a wrong to the body po-
litic.
	That when a child is born out of wed-
lock, and the name ofi ts father is definitely
known by admission or proof, the child

[Column 2]
shall be entitled to the name of its father,
and shall share in his property the same
as children of legal parentage.
	That the National Council of Women
take such steps as are necessary to establish
juvenile courts in States where they do not
exist.
	That the members of the National Coun-
cil put themselves on record as advocating
servicable and hygienic dress, as opposed
to extremes of fashion or to forms of wear-
ing apparel which leave any doubt as to the
modesty of the wearer.
	The resolution which caused so much
discussion was as follows. (The writer so
far has not succeeded in finding the resolu-
tion as it was brought before the committee
of which she was a member also Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall but we give it here as it
was published after being modified).
	“Resolved, That any practice which un-
dermines the foundation of family life
should be strongly deprecated. and since
polygamous marriage is a terrible evil,
which threatens to destroy the home and
the state in portions of our country, the
people should petition and protest against
the seating in our national Congress any
man who may practice or subscribe to it.”
	Although the resolution was tabled the
women who favored it gave warning that
the subject would be voiced once more be-
fore the council made its final adjourn-
ment.
	Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Dongall strongly
protested against this resolution coming up
at all and urged that Congress had already
brought the matter before the Senate of the
United States and that the Senate would
and was sufficiently able to settle its own
affairs, but the advocates of the resolution
were persistent in bringing forward all the
stories current against Utah and its people
and declared the resolution was sent from
Salt Lake City by people who knew of the
continued practice of polygamy—and they
compared Senator Smoot’s case to that of
Breckenridge of Kentucky, etc. etc. It was
simply talking against the whirlwind so to
speak, but nevertheless we succeeded in
getting the Resolution tabled at last and
practically killed, although we had to listen
to the speeches of women who really knew
nothing of the question at issue, but were
fighting a phantom through misrepresenta-
tion of those who know not what they do.
	The newspapers say there were 6 against
tabling and 40 in favor of it, but there were
really only 5 against it just one eighth of
the assembly.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
	RELIEF SOCIETY TO EXECUTIVE SESSION
	OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
	IN INDIANAPOLIS, IND., FEBRUARY 3,
	1904.
	PRESENTED BY MRS. PHEBE YOUNG
				BEATIE
Madame President and Ladies of the Council:
	Since the report of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, at the Executive session of
the Council in New Orleans last March so
little time has elapsed that one has not
much to tell in the way of progress, yet in
the number of meetings and conferences
and in visits among the women of the Soci-
ety more has been done than during any
previous year.
	Our society has held over one hundred

[Column 2]
and fifty conferences; more than sixty of
these have been attended by the General
officers or members of the General Board
who travel in many instances long distances
and often by team over rough country
roads through mountain passes or canyons
to encourage, instruct and assist those who
are living far away from headquarters and
have fewer opportunities and advantages of
acquiring knowledge or understanding the
practical work of the Society along pro-
gressive lines.
	Our organization is charitable and phil-
anthropic and we reach out to the poor and 
needy and unfortunate, the sick and the
afflicted, yet we also try to teach the people 
how to live properly and how to avoid
much that tends toward dependence and
poverty by making better use of their time
and means.
	In the women’s meetings and conferences
we listen to reports of what has been done
in given localities and we thus cemprehend
better what the family life really is.
	When a local president reports her soci-
ety work in conference, she in a measure
represents herself and the people among
whom she dwells and with whom she labors
in the relief work.
	To hear these reports gives one a won-
derful knowledge of human nature, and
broadens one’s ideas of people and serves to
create an intense desire for better methods
of helpfulness; in fact the benefit is just
as great to the women who go out among the
people as it is to those who are visited.
	These visits to conferences during the
year have extended as far north as Canada,
and south in Mexico.
	Our last report stated that we had intro-
duced into our society in all its local
branches what we designate as mother’s
work. An outline of the subjects is pre-
pared by a competent committee and pre-
sented by women selected to lecture briefly
on the special subject; after the lecture
everyone present is at liberty to ask ques-
tions or discuss the subject and in this way
the lecture is explained and better under-
stood by all.
	This method has increased the member-
ship largely and brought more young
mothers into the society. The subjects
treated upon relate closely to marriage, its
puropse, etc., to prenatal influences, care of
the infant, the child, its rights and privil-
eges, obligation of parents, etc , home life,
necessity of obedience, industry, honesty
truthfulness, virtue, reverence for God and
sacred things, and all that will tend to make
life desirable and better in the home and
promote the welfare of the community.
	The education of trained nurses to care
for the sick who are needy and also as a
means of self-support to young women, in-
troduced as a department of Relief Society
work some years ago, has been most satis-
factory during the past year. Dr. Roberts,
who had been so successful heretofore in
this branch of relief work, has had a larger
number of students and from a wider area of
country than before. The class numbered
eighty-six, of this number seventy-five
graduated and received certificates from the
State Medical Board, as competent trained,
nurses, these young women were from
twenty-eight different counties in Utah and
some from adjacent states The course of
study includes physiology and hygiene also
domestic science as it relates to the sick
room. These nurses trained under the sup-
ervision of the Relief Society give a certain
specified amount of time among the sick


who are not able to pay for professional 
help. Mrs. Empey superintends the nurses 
work among the poor and has been very 
efficient in charge of this part of the depart-
ment and she also looks after the welfare
of the nurse herself when thus employed.
In this department of the society I have 
held the position of secretary and treasurer 
and have become greatly interested in the 
nurses and realize the immense benefit and 
blessing of such competent help among the 
poor and unfortunate and the spirit of true 
charity that is like the balm of Gilead to 
the soul of the distressed! Personally I en-
joy my labors in the Relief Society and re-
joice in the progress it is making; am proud 
that we are affiliated with this grand Conn-
cil of Women.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN IN HOLLAND.
	On the 20th of March it will be twenty-
eight years since Dr. Aletta H. Jacobs, our
first lady doctor, took her degree. She
wss the first woman student at our univer-
ties, and had to go through all the un-
pleasant experiences which nowadays our
girls entering on a scientific course have no
occasion for. But she went on cheerfully,
and used her capacities in the service of
those who most heeded them. For some
years she gave gratis consultations for
women from the working classes in Am-
sterdam. Meanwhile she did not neglect
the women’s cause, and as she had made
the way for women into the medical pro-
fession, so she tried to do it into the larger
field of citizenship by demanding the bal-
lot, as well as her male colleagues. The
wise legislators of Holland then (1887) in-
serted the word “male” before voters in
the state constitution.
	Now, notwithstanding her busy life as a
practicing physician, Dr. Jacob is the pres-
dent of the Dutch Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation, and one day may see her cause
triumph, when the proposed changes in the
constitution become law. She and her
husband, Mr. Gerritson, who as deputy and
alderman of Amsterdam, did much for
women’s employment, are true democrats,
working for peace and arbitration, and for
the uplifting of the degraded class and sex.
Dr. Jacobs now holds the office of vice-
president of the National Council of Women
of the Netherlands, and was recentiy elected
to be one of the delegates to represent her
national council at Berlin at the interna-
tional council meeting.
	The Dutch National Council of Women
will hold its annual meeting at the Hague
on April 5th. This year there will not be
reports from affiliated societies, for all the
three ensuing days will be taken up by the
congress on child protection, which is to
take place under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council. More than sixty associa-
tions who are interested in this work, and
consist of the most distinguished philan-
thropists of the country, have formed the
committee of arrangements for this con-
gress.
	On the first day (6th April), the care for
orphans and neglected children will be dis-
cussed by jurists and rescue workers; on
the second, the dangers for children at
school are to be considered by pedagogical
and medical authorities; and on the third,
the evil consequences of children leaving
school and being set to work too early are to
be pointed out by labor inspectors and
speakers from trades unions.
	As usual, the Dutch National Council of


Women extends a cordial invitation to
members of national councils in other coun-
tries, and would be glad to welcome those
who understand the language in the Hague
on the 5th of April.
	I should be glad if they could bring con-
gratulations to my friend on March 10th,
and visitors to our council on April 5th.
		Yours sincerely,
			MARTINA G. KRAMERS.
Rotterdam, February 10, 1904.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	Will commence in September 1904. Four
lessons a week, continuing until 1905, In-
structor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. There
will also be a course in cooking and lectures
on important subjects by ladies chosen from
or by the General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety. Terms for tuition, including hall and
janitor expenses, ten dollars per student.
	Students will be obliged to furnish their
own note books, text books and pencils.
	The students shall each sign a contract
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days
or whatever pay shall be designated by the
superintendent for two years from the date
of graduation.
	Any one desiring to take the nurse
course and not paid by the Relief Society of
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract. All
correspondence on this subject should be
addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N.
West Temple Street.
				EMMA A. EMPEY,,
Superintendent Relief Society Nurse Class.


[Column 1]
		THE SUEZ CANAL.
Editor Exponent:
	You ask me to give you a few particulars
relative to my journey through the Suez
canal in 1874.
	We started from Bombay in one of the
Peninsula & Oriental Company’s Steamers
and arrived at Suez; which is the port of
Egypt on the Red sea and southern term-
inus of the Suez canal.
	The site is naturally an absolute desert
and until the water of the Nile was intro-
duced by a fresh water canal in 1863 the
water supply of Suez was brought across
the head of the gulf from the wells of
Moses on the Arabian coast or else carried
on camels, an hour’s journey from the
brackish wells of “Bic Survees.”
Suez itself is a most uninteresting place
with its mean Kozace or rows of native
shops and Mosques and its Mongrel popu-
lation. The only thing of interest to
travelers is the variety of dirty costumes
and the splendid view of the Sinai mount-
ains on its eastern, and Mount Alako on
its western shore.
	It was indeed a great achievement to re-
duce the distance between Western Europe
and India from 11,378 miles to 7,628
miles, equal to saving 36 days voyage (es-
pecially to sufferers by sea sickness), and
this was the result effected by cutting the
Suez canal between the Red sea and the
Mediterranean. Great credit and an ever-
lasting name is due Monsieur Ferdinand de
Lesseps, who was the great engineer who
brought the work to a successful issue.
From 1849 to 1854 he was occupied in ma-
turing his plans.
	He constituted a company called the Uni-
versal Suez Canal Company. It was not

[Column 2]
until the year 1860 that the work was act-
ually commenced. The canal extends from
Suez on the Red Sea to Port Said on the
Mediterranean. In going through the
Suez canal we pass through three lakes
(“Truly in the desert a fountain is spring-
ing, in the wild waste there still is a tree.”)
	Lake Menzaleh is nearest to the Mediter-
ranean. Lake Timsah is about one-half
way across the isthmus, fresh water, and
about five miles long, and. the Bitter Lake
(called so from the bitter taste of the water)
about twenty-three miles long. There are
buoys placed for the ships to pass between
(as they are very wide in some places—ten
miles and even more) so that it is necessary
to have some means to direct the course of
the ships.
	The whole length of the canal after pass-
ing through the locks, etc., at the entrance
and exit, is sixty-six miles. At every five
or six miles there is a passing place to en-
able large vessels to moor during the night,
and to bring up for other vessels to pass.
	All vessels not mails have to draw into
these passing places to allow the mails to
pass through without any delay. This
courtesy is accorded to mails of every
nation.
	Dredging machines are constantly at
work, as the shifting sands would other-
wise make the canal unnavigable.
	During the cutting of the canal fresh
water was conveyed from the Nile at Cairo
and distributed along the whole length of
the canal, a work which of itself was of no
small magnitude. The cost of the whole
works is stated to be about £20,000,000.
	The canal is a highway for steamers of
400 feet in length and 50 feet wide. It takes
three days to pass from Suez to Fort Said.
	The following table will give you some
idea of the use of the canal from 1870 to
1874, and of course the use and reveuue
arising from it now must be much greater:
Year		No. of Ships	Tonnage		Receipts
1870		486		654,915		206,373
1871		765		1,142,200	359,748
1872		1,082	1,744,481	656,303
1873		1,173	2,084.072	915,892
1874		1,264	2,423,672	994,375
	The tonnage was thus quadrupled in five
years.
	As far as the eye can see there is nothing
but sand and high hillocks of it in some
places like little mountains, but since the
canal has been cut there is vegetation of
mild growth, but it gave me the impression
even then that with fresh water the desert
might yet fulfill the words of scripture and
blossom like the rose.
	I knew nothing in those days of this won-
derful western desert that has literally ful-
filled the promise. I had the pleasure of
seeing for the first time a mirage. I said
to the Captain surely that is a town and
fields we see, and he allowed me to use his
powerful glass, but it had the same indis-
tinct appearance, and he told me it was a
mirage and that sometimes they were much
plainer than this one.
	Port Said is one of the dirtiest places on
earth. When I tell you all the water is
brought from the Sweetwater canal at
Ismailia by a conduit and is barely sufficient
for the wants of the town, and to add to its
dirt and misery it is a coaling station for the
P. & O. Steamers, you can better imagine
than I can describe the dirt and filth of the
place.
	A party of us went to look around the
town and paid a visit to one of their Casino


Smoking Concerts. We had no idea what 
such a place would be like and as we all
had gentlemen with ns we were safe. Arab
and Italian women played the most aston-
ishing instruments, and altogether the 
whole affair was so disgusting we did not 
stay many minutes, but strangers like to 
see all they can in a foreign place. There 
had been no time for our escorts to investi-
gate before entering as we had only a short 
time to remain on shore while the steamer 
was coaling, and they will not wait a second 
when they are ready.
	Passing through the canal is a break to 
the monotony of the voyage and makes the
passengers very sociable. Although a jour-
ney from England to India is very enjoy-
able, and I should not mind making the 
voyage again to re-visit my beloved India.
With kindest regards.
			Yours Very Sincerely,
					MARIA FRANCIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Miss Florence Hayward has been select-
ed by the St. Louis World’s Fair to col-
lect the material for the exhibit in the his-
torical section of the department of anthro-
pology.
	Mrs. Lucretia Willard Treat, widely
known as a kindergarten lecturer, writer
and organizer, is dead. She was principal
of the Training School for Kindergarten
Teachers, Grand Rapids, Mich.
	Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker of Hartford,
Conn., was eighty-two years old on Feb.
22. “I am full of life and feel as though I
should live to be a hundred,” she say, in
response to congratulations. The birthday
was observed by a family gathering in the
evening.
	Queen Wilhelmina inaugurated the fest-
vities attending the queen mother’s jub-
lee with a gala dinner at The Hague rec-
ently. Speaking for herself and for the
Prince Consort, she proposed the health of
the queen mother, whose life, she said, had
been prolonged, “not for herself alone,
but, by the grace of God, for her people,
who adored her.”
	The Empress of Germany, the Princess
Henry, and others of the royal household
have promised to attend the Quinquennial
of the International Council of Women in
Berlin next summer. The Berlin Central
Committee has for its active chairman Mrs.
Hedwig Heyl, wife of the Imperial Coun-
cillor of Commerce.
	Princess Wiszniewski, who lately died
in Paris, founded in 1896 the Universal
Alliance of Women for Peace, and was its
president. Many American women are en-
rolled among its nearly 6,000,000 members.
	The maiden name of the princess was
Hugot, and she was a native of Bergundy.
	For more than thirty years she has dev-
oted herself to the cause of peace, ably as-
sisted by her husband, Prince Wiszniewski.
	Miss Agnes Mahony, a missionary who
is to return to West Africa next month,
will take with her a complete house, crated in
sections, and ready to be set up in the wilds
as a home for herself, a hospital for the
sick and a chapel for her converts. The
house is of Yellow pine, with a roof of
corrugated iron. It is forty feet long,

[Column 2]
twenty feet wide, and eight feet to the
eaves. It is to be set up near Cape Mount,
Sierra Leone.
		Ex. Boston Woman’s Journal.
			IN MEMORIAM.
		DEATH OF A NOBLE WOMAN.
	A bright spirit passed to the “other side” when
Sister Elizabeth M. Hart departed from mortality
on Friday January 15, 1904, death came without
warning and all were unprepared for the sad
event.
	Sister Hart has been a member of the Relief
Society Board of the Bear Lake Stake for nearly
twenty years, having been chosen 2nd Counselor
to President Julia P. Lindsay, July 13, 1884, and
1st Counselor, June 11, 1899, which position she
held at the time of her death. She was also Stake
Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. for many years.
	Our dear Sister has left a host of sorrowing
friends, and in the hearts of her co-laborers there
are thoughts which lie too deep for tears or words.
	Through her refined nature she could lead others
to higher tastes and nobler conduct. She carried
with her a sweet spirit of peace, and possessed the
power of winning hearts by her genial manner.
Her great desire was to remain true to the Gospel
of Christ; this she has done, and has labored
devotedly for the advancement of the work of
God, her example shines for emulation by the
daughters of Zion.
	It is a great thing to be ready at the Master’s
“call” with the work allotted us “well done.”
	The funeral services were held in the Paris
Tabernacle on Monday the 18th.
	The obsequies were in every way appropriate.
	Among the speakers was our beloved and aged
President Julia P. Lindsay who was grief stricken
at the thought of parting with one with whom she
had labored harmoniously for years past.
	The music was heavenly and inspiring. A
beautiful selection was rendered by the choir en-
titled “Thy Will Be Done,” and a Solo by Elder
Jos. R. Shepherd, “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep.”
	The floral decorations were profuse and beauti-
ful.

		Gone! sweet spirit to our Father,
		Gone to join with saints above.
		She has nobly filled her mission
		She has done a work of love.

		She has left us for a season
		And earth’s temple laid to rest,
		But the soul, Ah! its immortal
		And is mingling with the blest.

		We have lost a faithful sister
		She has reached the radiant shore
		We must labor on without her
		’Til earth’s pilgrimage is o’er.

		Then shall we all meet in heaven
		In that home we loved of yore,
		There unite with severed spirits
		With dear friends to part no more.
						NANCY H. ALLRED.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BIG HORN STAKE.

Lesson 1.—Woman:
1. Woman, who art thou?
	2. Where didst thou come from?
	3. What is thy mission?
	4. What will be thy reward if 
		thou hast fulfilled thy mission
		faithfully?
					Chloe B. Lee

Lesson II.—Home:
	1. Give ideas of a well-planned home 
		(Y. W. J. vol. xiii.)
	2. What are our duties in the home?
	3. Are our homes as we would like 
		them?
	4. Of what should home be typical?
	5. Influence of home and effects.
		(Ref. Young Woman’s Journal,
		vol. xiv, p. 516, vol. xi p. 577.
				Ellen H. Jolley.

[Column 2]
Lesson III.—Woman’s Influence:
	1. Her influence in the home.
	2. In society and public.
	3. With children.

Lesson IV.—Piety in the Home:
	Learn first to show piety in the home. I Tim.
5:4.
	The graces which adorn the Christian character 
shine with their richest lustre in the setting of the
home circle.
	Give definition of piety and its as-
		sociation with the idea home.
	2. Discuss ways in which a Latter-
		day Saint home differs from 
		other homes.
	3. Influence of example of parent.
	4. To what extent are silent forces of 
		value?
	5. Influence of early home life on en-
		tire future of the child?
	6. Family devotion and its value.
	7. Good resolutions and confession of 
		faults and failures.
	8. Proper literature and its use in the 
		home (Bible and Church publi-
		cations.)
	9. Command to teach children the 
		Gospel (Doc and Cov 58: 25-
		34.)
			Laura Lyman Bunting.

Lesson V.—Love for the Gospel:
	1. How shall we awaken a love for
		the Gospel in the child?
	2. How may the child know the Lord 
		loves and cares for His children?
	3. Show value of early training.
	4. How may we use Church publica-
		cations to accomplish this end?
	5. What stories shall we tell them?
		(Ref. to Doc. and Cov. 68:25-31.)
					Ellen H. Jolley.

Lesson VI.—Household Economy:
‘Tis not how much we have, but how we use it.’

	1. How may mothers be economical in 
		the home?
	2. What kind of material is always 
		cheapest? Why?
	3. How shall we care for our clothing?
	4. Teach children to have a place for 
		their clothes.
	5. Show how economy may be used 
		in cooking.
	6. Need we be stingy to be economi-
		cal?
	7. Will economical habits produce 
		happiness?
	8. How may we be economical in 
		making presents. 
		(Ref. p 146, Young Woman’s
		Journal vol. xiv, No. 5.)
				Annie Bischoff.

Lesson VII.—Hereditary Tendencies:
	1. When should parents begin training
		ing their children?
	2. The rights of babies to be well-
		born.
	3. When does a parent’s responsibility
		begin?
	4. When does it end? (Ref. School
		and Fireside by Dr. Maeser, pp.
		50-53.
					Chloe B. Lee.

Lesson VIII.—Childhood:
“All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.”
	1. Give children pienty of outdoor ex-
		ercise.


[Column 1]
2. Let exercise be helpful to parent, if
	possible.
3. At what age should a child’s train-
	ing begin?
4. What benefit is a mother’s exper-
	ience to her offspring?
5. How may the mother gain the
	child’s confidence?
6. Effect of rude language in the 
	home.
7: Where should a child be taught
	manners, morals and religion?
				Annie Bischoff.
Lesson IX. Government:
“Those who govern others must first learn to
govern self.”
1. How should we govern our young
	boys and girls?
2. Influence of music at home.
3. Make companions of our boys and
	girls.
4. Duties of parents to growing boys
	and girls.
				Chloe B. Lee.
Lesson X.—How shall we Punish Children:
1. What punishments are.
2. Are punishments necessary? Give 
	proof from observation, history,
	revelation.
3. True aim of punishments.
4. Kinds of punishments.
5. Governing principle—make pun-
	ishments natural outgrowths of 
	offense.
		Laura Lyman Bunting.
Lesson XII.— Whom Shall Our Daughters
	Marry?
2. How shall they prepare themselves
	physically, mentally and spirit-
	ually? (Ref. read Young Wo-
	man’s Journal, vol. xiv, p.
	205; Improvement Era, pp.441-
	446.
				Ellen H. Jolley.
Lesson XIII.— What the Home can do for
	Intellectual Training:
1. Give opportunity to apply know-
	ledge gained at school.
2. Furnish regular attendance for the
	school.
3. The home should keep up interest
	in school work (a) keep school
	work before child, (b) give any
	needed assisstance.
4. Support the teacher-wlth good will
	and good word.
5. Furnish opportunity to use knowl-
	edge so that child sees its prac-
	tical value.
6. Provide all necessary books and
	material for school work.
7. Relieve child of home duties suffic-
	iently to guarantee time for prep-
	aration and home study.
8. The home above all should inspire
	a love for culture and emulation
	of worthy lives, by study of
	biography and good literature in
	the home reading that every
	family circle should provide.
		LUCY F. GRANT, Pres.
		SADIE PARTRIDGE, Sec.

[Column 2]
		WAYNE STAKE.
Lesson I.—Noblest Mission of Woman. 
	a. Every woman should aspire to be-
	come an honorable wife amd mother,
	the first commandment “Multiply
	and replenish the earth.” b. Pre-
	paration for this honorable calling,
	study every part of domestic science
	that home may be a pleasant place
	for husband and children. c. Order,
	economy and thrift.
Lesson II.—Are Parents Responsible for
	the Character and Disposition of Chil-
	dren?
	a. Education should begin before the
	birth of the child. b Mothers should
	control their thoughts and actions,
	have noble, pure and beautiful
	thoughts, keep in mind that which
	is most desirable for your child.
Lesson III.—The Care of Children.
	a. Nursing, bathing, pure air, and
	sunshine. b. Pleasant occupation,
	keep them occupied with something
	useful and instructive. c. As soon
	as old enough let them do something
	for their parents, have some respon-
	sibilities, that they may feel they
	are a necessity to home.
Lesson IV.—Reverence and Worship in
	the Home.
	a. Prayer, singing, proper examples.
	(Ref. Editor’s Table, Era No 2. vol. 
	7.)
Lesson V.
	a. Use good language. b. Teach the
	third commandment. c. Avoid slang.
Lesson VI.—Government in the Home.
	a. Rule with love and firmness, b.
	Obedience the first law of heaven.
Lesson VII.—Rights and Privileges of
	Children.
	a. The Apostle Paul says “Provoke
	not your children to wrath, b. Re-
	spect children, teach them to honor
	and respect their parents. (Ref. 5th
	commandment.) c. Teach them to
	honor the Priesthood and be obedient
	to counsel from proper authority. d.
	Respect teachers and elderly persons.
Lesson VIII.—Keep Children Home
	Evenings.
	a. Parents make the happiness
	and welfare of the children your in-
	terest, join with them in their child-
	ish games, sing with them, tell them
	moral stories calculated to elevate,
	reading in the home circle. b. Socials
	and entertainments, young and old
	together.
Lesson IX.— Word of Wisdom.
	a. Ref. Book of Doctrine and Coven-
	ants, Sec. 89. b. Observance of
	same. Its effects on the home.
Lesson X.—Moral Training.
	a. Self-reliance and self-control. b.
	Truthfulness, honesty. c. Kindness
	to friends and animals. d. Cultivate
	pure thoughts and actions.

[Column 3]
Lesson XI.—Development of Youth. 
	a. The mind should control natural
	desires. b. Growth obtained through
	self-activity. c. Emulate the acts of
	good men and women. d. Stamp
	upon the minds of the youth the
	principles of revealed religion, which
	are true pure and exalting. e.
	“The glory of God is intelligence,”
	this should be an incentive to all
	who desire to become like Him.
Lesson XII.
	Review of lessons.
				SARAH S. FORSYTH,
				ANNA COLEMAN,
				JANE S. COLEMAN.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
				AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


VALENTINE’S DAY.
	According to some ecclesiastical writers,
St. Valentine was a bishop, according to
others a presbyter. He was beheaded at
Rome in the reign of the Emperor Claud-
ius, 270 A. D., and was early canonized.
Wheatley says: “He was a man of most
admirable parts, and so famous for his love
and charity that the custom of choosing
valentines upon his festival took its rise
from thence.” Others derive the custom
from birds being supposed to select their
mates on this day; others from a custom
practised in ancient Rome at the festival of
the Supercalio, during the month of Feb-
ruary, when among other ceremonies, the
names of young women were placed in a
box, from which they were drawn by men
as chance directed, with the same merri-
ment that valentines are exchanged to-
day.
	The pastors of the early church, finding
it impossible to extirpate this heathen cere-
mon changed the form. [---] he cus-
tom on the eve of St. Valentine to have
the names of a select number of one sex
put into some vessel by an equal number
of the other, and thereupon everyone drew
a name which for the time being was called
his or her valentine.
	The custom of choosing valentines exist-
ed very early. Presents of gloves, garters
and jewelry were common as valentines.
						C. J. T.
[Written for Reaper’s Club.]


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

				Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1904		No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Salt Lake Stake Conference..............................	73
Program U. S. D. R., 1904-1905.......................	74
Women Physicians.............................................	75
Lady Warwick and Daughter.............................	75
D. R. Meetings ..................................................	75
Roman Tea Party................................................	75 
R. S. Reports .....................................................	76
Resolutions of Respect......................................	78
In Memoriam.....................................................	78
Obituary.............................................................	78
Mothers Work....................................................	79
The International Council of Women................	79
EDITORIAL—The World in Turmoil...............	76
	Annual Meeting, Banquet and Ball...........	76
	Febuary 29, 1904.......................................	77
	An Old Ladies’ Party.................................	77
	Birthday Anniversary.................................	77
POETRY—When the Lilac Comes...................	73
	My Sister Spirit.........................................	75


WHEN THE LILAC COMES.
When the lilac comes and the young birds sing,
And the violet shows her purple wing,
And the primrose coppice is fair to see,
Like a yellow cloud in an em’rald sea—
Oh, my heart leaps up like a wild bird free—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes, with its wealth of white,
And helio'rope radiance all alight.
With a breath as sweet as the new-mown hay
That rests in twilight at hush of day,
And the acacia uncurls outside my room
With a promise of future life and bloom—
Then my heart like a bird, begins to sing—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes and the sun looks down
On laburnum chains and the snowdrop’s gown,
And the pink-eyed daisies look up to the skies.
And there’s laughter of winds in place of sighs,
And the dimpled brooklet that sings as it flows
’Neath the bramble bush and the budding rose—
Than my spirit laughs like a child at play—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes—in the garden wide
There’s many a blossom the wall besi
That show a glimmer of pink-streaked white
That peeps from its cover to find the light;
And a butterfly bright is sometimes seen.
Like a golden star, near the ivy green;
And from the root of the old oak tree
Tha daffodils golden smile up at me—
My heart is as glad as a heart can be—
	When the lilac comes!
When the lilac comes, our hearts are athrill
With the voice of the cuckoo adown the hill;
And, lo, it is spring in t e gleaming air,
And, lo, it is spring in our spirits fair
And my heart o’erflows as the brook o’erflows
When it hurries away to find the rose;
And my heart o’erflows as a golden sea
Of sunshine over a cowslip lea.
Oh! the world is as fair as a world can be—
	When the lilac comes!
					M. A. Beckingham.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
was held in the Assembly Hall, Saturday,
March 5, Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon
presiding. Singing, ‘‘How firm a founda-
tion,” etc. Prayer by Sister Elizabath
Paul. Singing, solo, ‘‘Only Remembered
for What We have Done,” etc. Roll call,
minutes of previous conference read and
accepted. Counselor S. J. Cannon made an
opening address, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and referred to the noble ex-
ample and heroism of President Horne,
paid a loving tribute to her worth and re-
gretted she could not be present with the

[Column 2]
sisters with whom she had labored so long.
Reports were given from 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th,
13th, 14th and 15th wards. Solo, ‘‘Some
Day,” by Sister Maggie C. Hull.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde of the
General Presidency, addressed the sisters;
referred to the good condition financially,
of the Society in the stake as manifest by
the reports given, felt the change in the
Stake would be a good thing, strengthen-
ing the Church, giving the young a chance
to come forward and take part, each one
developing himself or herself, as well as
helping one another; referred to the faith-
fulness of President Horne, how the Lord
had blessed her always in giving wise
counsel; ‘:we should learn to control our-
selves, we should set good examples; this
life is a proving place for us all; be careful
of our children in all things; be careful how
we judge one another, but be charitable to
each other; we should pray for our presi-
dent.”
	Reports, 16th,17th, 18th, 19th, 20th
wards. Meeting adjourned by singing
‘‘We thank Thee, O God,” etc. Prayer
by Sister Julia C Howe.
	Afternoon session, Counselor S. J Can-
non presiding. Singing, ‘‘Now let us re-
joice.” etc. Prayer, Sister Mary A. C.
Lambert. Singing, quartette; minutes
read and accepted. — Address from Presi-
dent M Isabella Horne to the sisters, read
by Sister Annie Wells Cannon,
PRESIDENT M. ISABELLA HORNE’S
			ADDRESS.
My Beloved Sisters:
	This conference is, as you all know, the
last conference of the Relief Society of what
is now the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, and
the time seems to me, most opportune to
send you my heartfelt greeting, and to
express to you some of my feelings in the
form of an address, reminiscent of our past,
relating to our present and concerning our
future as Relief Society workers
	In some respects this is a sad occasion,
for it means a parting of our ways: Here-
after while still engaged, I hope, in the
same line of work, it will be under differ-
ent  fficers and different names, and we
will meet no more in the same capacity but
hope to meet with you all agaiu in what
ever stakes you may be. I feel attached to
you, every one, with the most tender feel
ings, and shall always look upon your work
with great interest, feeling towards the new
stakes like a mother to her children as they
leave the home and begin making homes
for themselves. There is mingled in my
heart, with the sadness of this occasion,
great joy and satisfaction when I recall the
wonderful work that has been done and the
great amount of good accomplished by you,
my sisters, in thi[-] organization.
	Too much praise cannot be given you for
your untiring labors. Out of nothing but
your own energy and hard work you have
builded granaries, storehouses and meeting-
houses. By your gentle miuisterings to
the sick and afflicted, the poor and the

[Column 3]
needy your great helpfulness to the bishops
in building up their wards, mingled with
your wonderful testimonies of the faith,
you are indeed rich, and great will be your
reward and many the blessings that will
come to you for your labors in these re-
spects.
	Relief Society work has been a part of my
life for the past sixty years or more, for I
attended the meetings of the first Relief
Society organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith in Nauvoo and I wish to testify to
you, my sisters, that Joseph Smith was in-
spiried of God when he effected the organ-
zation of the Relief Society, and it is one
of the most important parts of the Church.
It is so recorded in the book of ‘‘The law
of the Lord.”
	At the meeting in the Tabernacle when
the general organization was made and Sis-
ter Eliza R. Snow was made president,
Brother John Taylor, then the presiding
officer of the Church, had Brother L. John
Nuttall bring to the meeting this precious
book and read from its pages to those pres-
ent, thus showing that this organization of
the sisters was of great importance, for it
was ordained by the Lord; and it is not
sufficient, my sisters, that your names are
on the books as members only, and that
occasionally you respond when called upon
with some slight donation; for we will be 
judged from the books. Zion must work
most diligently, both spiritually and prac-
tically. It is the divine purpose of this or-
ganization that we may scatter the fruits of
our labors where they are needed.
	Twenty-six years ago last December,
while spending a few days at the home of
Sister Elizabeth Howard in Big Cotton-
wood, in company with Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Emmeline B. Wells and others, in a
preliminary way the organization of this
stake was talked over. I recall this instance
now, because Big Cottonwood, as well as
all the wards of the new stakes south of
the city, now Granite and Jordan were a
part of this stake, and there was then some-
years later in Salt Lake Stake more than
fifty branches.
	It was on the 22nd of December, 1877,
that a special meeting was called to organ-
ize the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society.
Bishop Edward Hunter was present with
others of the breth en. Sister Eliza R.
Snow presided. It was then I was called
to be your president and from that day to
the present it has been my most earnest de-
sire to encourage the sisters, both at our
conferences, which we have always held
every three mouths, and during my visits
to the different wards, to continue in th s
great, benevol nt work with all the energy
they could command
	In looking over our present condition we
have much indeed to be thankful for. Our
reports show us to be in a very prosperous
condition. Eight of our wards own Relief
Society halls, and eight own granaries. We
have considerable means on hand, both
cash and merchandise and I am pleased to
state are all th[-] time disbursing m ans to
help others. Through these organizations
we have emigrated many people to Zion,


[Column 1]
found homes for the orphan and the friend-
less and have contributed liberally towards
the building and maintenance of the Tem-
ple and houses of worship, and have, I be-
lieve, endeavored to promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. Towards the Woman’s Build-
ing the Salt Lake Stake was assessed two
thousand dollars, and this we have more
than paid; the general treasurer states we
have given two thousand, one hundred and
fifty-six dollars and sixteen cents. Still
some of the wards are delinquent. The
amount was proportioned among the differ-
ent wards and some have paid in more than
required while others are behind. The
stake record, therefore, may look all right,
more than satisfying, yet, my sisters, do
not allow your wards to go out of the stake
in debt. See to it, each one of you, that
the required sum is made up before you be-
come a part of another stake.
	While our officers’ meetings have been
very, well attended, and great interest has
been shown, our conferences have been
rather discouraging in this respect. The
members do not seem to feel the necessity
of attending and think the society will be
all right if the president or some officer goes
so as to get instruction. Now, my sisters,
this is not right. In order to keep in
touch with the work of this organization,
and receive the benefits thereof, you must
attend your meetings and I hope the aver-
age attendance in your soeiety will here-
after improve. As it is our record shows
only, out of an enrollment of about eighteen
hundred an attendance of six hundred. I
do not wish to find fault on this occasion,
and only mention these things in a kindly
way to urge upon you greater diligence in
your future work. Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the fisrt society of sisters in this last
dispensation. He gave the sisters much
valuable instruction and predicted a great
future for the Relief Society. As soon as
possible after the location of the Saints in
these valleys, President Brigham Young
counseled tho organizing of these societies
in all the stakes of Zion and also predicted
for the sisters a great future. Today we
see these predictions fulfilled, for the Relief
Society is one of the largest and grandest
organizations of women in the world and
by the united efforts of the sisters the good
accomplished cannot be estimated. Con-
tinue, my dear sisters, in your good works
help each other with kind, friendly feelings,
with faith and prayer. Try to promote all
the interests of Zion, by sustaining home
industries and home literature. Remem-
ber the EXPONENT is the organ of our or-
ganization and enlightens you in regard to
Relief Society work. Read the Church
works and carry their teachings in your
own lives and instil them into the lives of
your children. Do not be indifferent about
storing and caring for the grain. Remem-
ber we were commanded by our beloved
leader, Brigham Young, to make this a
part of our work, and I feel to urge upon
you the necessity of attending to this matter
for I judge by the signs of the times, that
before long we will be called upon to open
our granaries, and great will be our shame
if they are empty, or if we have neglected
this duty. We were told through revelation
to save the grain against a day of famine.
Other prophecies are being fulfilled, why
should this one not? Let us be prepared,
sisters for this day, and let the women of
Zion be prepared for all emergencies and
not be like the foolish virgins with their

[Column 2]
empty lamps, but be ready and waiting in
full faith for the coming of the bridegroom.
	Now, as we are about to separate in our
work in this stake, take with you, my dear
sisters, my heartfelt blessing. May the
peace and the blessing of God be in the
hearts and habitations of all who are inter-
ested in the work of the Lord.
	Your sister and colaborer in ihe Gospel,
			M. ISABELLA HORNE.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
gave some instructions and expressed her
feelings upon Relief Society work; exhorted
the sisters to live up to the principles of
the Church and felt that good was being
accomplished all over the world through
this grand society, spoke tenderly of Sister
Horne and their long acquaintance and as-
sociation together and felt she had been a
wise woman.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon who had
been long in the stake with Sister Horne,
said she had enjoyed being with the sisters,
felt that the change in the stake would be
a great benefit to the young in giving them
something to do in the Relief Society work;
she had been so many years associated in
the work that she felt sad in having the
change take place; urged all to be honest
and diligent in doing all they could to roll
on the work.
	Sister E. B. Wells paid a glowing tribute
to President Horne, referred to her mani-
fold labors for half a century and more,
she having been a member of the Society in
Nauvoo; spoke of her great activity in
many ways and many places, her travels at
home and abroad, and gave a sort of his-
tory of the Salt Lake Stake organization,
its officers a[-]d what had been accomplished
in many directions, home industries, etc.
	Solo, Sister M. C. Hull. Sister Clarissa S.
Williams said our interests were still the
same to our fellow laborers, expressed her
love for Sister Horne and many sisters she
had become acquainted with, thought there
was a great work for us to do; responsibility
is a great benefit, it causes us to make ex-
tra efforts when we otherwise would not,
thought the society would increase more
rapidly in the future, double what it had
done in the past fifty years.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings said she
missed Sister Horne, felt to rejoice in the
Gospel, referred to President Smith being
absent from us; she believed all would be
well, the change in the stake would be a
benefit to all.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder: “We have love
for one another, referred to the ordeal of
President Smith, felt she knew the influ-
ence of such conditions for she had wit-
nessed such trials herself she realized the
importance of Relief Society work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards said she remem-
bered Sister Horne many years gone by,
she had tried to take part in the society in
her young life, thought we should pray for
Sister Horne.
	Sister A. W. Cannon read a notice of a
Nurse Class to commence in September,
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Instructor.
	Sister E. B. Wells made some explana-
tions in regard to the National and Inter-
national Councils and moved that the as-
sembly send love and greeting to President
Horne, and by a rising vote express thanks
to those who had assisted in helping to
make the conference a success. Mentioned
Prof. C. J. Thomas and others who had
been helpful, Sister Horne’s counselors,
aids, secretaries and treasurers, and all who

[Column 3]
had labored so efficiently during the admin-
istration of President Horne. The motion
was seconded by Sister Mary Alice Lam-
bert and all on the stand and carried unan-
imously by a rising vote. Singing by a
quartette. Counselor Sarah J. Cannon an-
nounced the conference would be adjourned
forever, so far as she knew.
	Brief remarks in loving words for Presi-
dent Horne by Sister Elizabeth J. Steven-
son, who also pronounced the benediction.
		JULIA S. WOOLLEY, Sec.
		AMELIA F. WARDOUP, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


PROGRAM U. S. D. R., 1904—1905.
		MARCH 16TH.
Alexander Hamilton, Lucy E. W. Smith,
Story relating to the trial of Aaron Burr.
Sarah F. Smith. Patriotic poem or hymn,
name of writer, Maria Y. Dougall.
		APRIL 16TH.
La Fayette, Isabel M. W. Sears. Story
relating to topic, Mira Y. Rossiter. Patri-
otic poem or hymn, name of writer, Julia
F. Lund.
			MAY 16.
Nathan Hale, Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Story relating to topic, Catharine Wells.
Patriotic poem or hymn, name of writer,
Phebe Y. Beatie.
	SEPTEMBER 16TH.
Anthony Wayne, and the capture of
Stony Point, Ella W. Hyde. Story relat-
ing to the Battle of Monmouth and Mollie
Pitcher, Almira H. M. De Wolf. Patri-
otic poem or hymn, name of writer, Eliza-
beth R. Wright.
		OCTOBER 16TH.
John Quincy Adams, Mary A. H Can-
non. Story relating to topic, Emily H. C.
Willey. Patriotic poem, name of writer,
Carol Cannon.
		NOVEMBER 16TH.
Incidents of the occupation of Philadel-
phia by the British, Clarissa S. Williams.
Story relating to Thanksgiving, Martha R.
Groo. Patriotic poem or hymn, name of
writer, Clarissa Y. Spencer.
		DECEMBER 16TH.
Paul Jones and the U. S. Navy, Mary
R. Webber. Story relating to topic, M.
Mabelle Snow. Patriotic poem, name of
writer, Diana F. Rich.
			JANUARY.
Roger Williams, Alice M. Horne. Story
relating to Ann Hutchinson, Eliza Tit-
comb. Patriotic poem, name of writer,
Emmeline B. Wells.
		FEBRUARY l6TH.
Martha Washington and history of the
White House, Florence S. Sears. Patri-
otic poem, name of writer, Emily Y. Claw-
son. Story relating to topic, Ann Lyman
King.


Mrs. Rebecca Douglass Lowe of Atlanta,
ex-president of the General Federation of
Women’s Clubs, was married on St. Valen-
tine’s day to Mr. George Gunton, editor of
Gunton’s Magazine. She will reside in
Washington, D. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY SISTER SPIRIT.
TO EMMELINE B. WELLS.

Oh methinks in worlds afar, sweet sister spirit
	mine—
We knew and loved each other with tenderness
	divine;
That hand in hand together we roamed Elysian
	grove.
Heart beating close to heart with pure supernal
	love.

As children of one Father, our great eternal One!
We waited there His pleasure, we lingered near
	His throne;
Until at length He called us, angel spirits to this
	earth.
To obtain our mortal bodies, thus to gain im-
	mortal birth.

How infinite His wisdom, how great His good-
	ness too.
That still we can together His wondrous works 
	pursue.
That we congenial spirits may labor in His
	cause,
Thus gain eternal blessings by obeying sacred
	laws.

When life’s mission we have finished—our weak-
	nesses o’ercome.
With affection undiminished, may we meet again
	at Home.
May our crowns of endless glory with unceasing
	lustre shine
As reward for this probation, O, sweet sister spirit
	mine.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.
February 29, 1904.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.
	At a recent meeting of the Historical
Society of Lynn, Mass., Mrs. May L. Shel-
don read a paper on “The Doctors of
the Old Town.” She said that the first
doctor recorded in the history of Lynn was
Deborah Armitage, who in early colonial
times trudged from Salem through Lynn
to Malden with her bag of drugs, herbs
and lotions, ministering to the sick of all
classes. For over thirty years she gath-
ered herbs from the pastures, roadside
and swamp, made her salves and lotions,
and put her healing powers to use. She
was devoted to duty, and yielded her life
to its demands. In January, 1860, there
came a heavy snowfall which lasted for sev-
eral days and covered her humble cottage.
When the neighbors came to dig away the
snow, they found her absent. A search
revealed her stiffened body in the snow
near Saugus, where she had been on her
way to minister to a patient.
	Madame Maria Martin in Le Journal des
Femmes for February, has a brilliant arti-
cle on “The Education of the Father.”
She points out that the world has had
abundant preaching on the duties of moth-
ers and it is now time that the attention
of fathers should be called to their duties
to their children, especially in the way of
setting them a good example.


LADY WARWICK AND DAUGHTER.
	Rarely would a wedding in “high life”
abroad concern the readers of this paper,
but an exception would certainly be made
in the recent marriage of Lady Marjorie to
Viscount Helmsley. Marjorie Gervile, as
her mother wished her to be known during
her school days, is the daughter of the Coun-
tess of Warwick, long regarded as the
most beautiful woman in England, and
known the world over for her participa-
tion in industrial and social reforms. As
owner and editor of an agricultural paper,
speaker at socialist congresses, founder of


trades, schools and shops for young women
and in many other ways, she has identified
herself with the interests of the workers.
The latest of the philanthropic schemes is
the purchase of the “Saracen’s Head,” an
inn near her country place in Essex, which
she has now converted into a temperance
tavern, it is said greatly to the benefit of
the surrounding country as it was the only
place in the country where liquor could be
procured.
In the education of her daughter Lady
Warwick has proceeded according to
the same democratic ideals that she advo-
cates for others. Marjorie was sent to the
public schools in childhood and allowed to
play with village children, while at her
home she had a garden and poultry to
care for, a Jersey cow to milk, and was
taught practical dairying and agriculture
and all outdoor sports. Lady Marjorie was
presented at court last year and was at
once regarded as the prettiest peeress in
the kingdom and now she is married to the
heir of one of the historic earldoms of Eng-
land with all the pomp and circumstance
befitting her ancestral home, grand old
Warwick Castle, which no person visits
England without seeing if possible. King
Edward sent the bride a valuable present
with an autograph letter with best wishes
for her happiness, and in this we all may
join, and those who remember Lady War-
wick’s participation in the reception given
by her sister, the Duchess of Sutherland,
to the International Council of Women will
give the heartiest amen.	Ex.


D.R. MEETINGS.
WASHINGTON’S BITHDAY.	
	The Daughters of the Revolution met
Wednesday, February 22, in the EXPONENT
office, at 11 a.m., to commemorate the an-
niversary of General George Washington's
birthday. The Regent, Mrs. Isabel M. W.
Sears, presided. Each one present brought
some sentiment, original or selected, or
spoke a few words as a tribute to the mem-
ory of one whom all true Americans delight
to honor; the stars and stripes were dis-
played conspicuously and other decorations
adorned the walls of the room. Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith, herself an enthusiastic
Virginian, felt proud of her state as the
home of this great and good man, and eulo-
gized his life and labors; at the close of
the reading of sentiments and remarks by
others, including some visitors, Mrs. Mary
McNaughtan and Mrs. Mary Smith Wim-
mer, also Mrs. C. Willis Schow, Mrs. C.
H. Y. Spencer read a poem on General
Washington, written by Miss Josephine
Spencer, which added greatly to the spirit
of the occasion. The meeting opened and
closed with prayer.

	On Wednesday, March 17, the ladies of
the D. R. held their regular monthly meet-
ing, at 3 p.m., in Room 509 Templeton
Building. The Regent in the chair. After
the opening exercises and reading of min-
utes, considerable business was transacted,
and the program of the day carried out.
Mrs. John Henry Smith gave a very enter-
taining and valuable paper on Alexander
Hamilton, which was greatly appreciated,
and she was followed by Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith on Aaron Burr; this paper brought
out many striking attributes of Aaron
Burr’s character hitherto unknown to the


ladies of the Society. Mrs. John D. Spen-
cer read a letter from Mr. Burr’s daughter
to her father, showing her devotion to and
admiration of this man of destiny, reveal-
ing the strong affection between father and
child. Mrs. Spencer also read some ex-
tracts from Blennerhassett, showing phases
of the man’s character entirely different to
the general opinion. The discussion of the
papers was quite edifying. Adjourned un-
til April 16, to convene at Mrs. T. G. Web-
ber’s, 131 Second Sireet. Prayer by the
chaplain.


ROMAN TEA PARTY.
	Those who know Mrs. Gaffney, late
president of the N. C. W. of the U. S.,
will be pleased to see the following notice
of a five o'clock Tea given by her recently
in the historic city of Rome, where she is
spending the winter, her daughter, Miss
Jayta, is with her there. Miss Humph-
reys is the granddaughter of the famous
late Dr. Humphreys who visited Salt Lake
in the spring of 1898 and wrote a book en-
titled "A Flight in Spring." His little
granddaughter was with him on that jour-
ney.
—Ed.
	"A recent issue of L'Italie, a leading
daily of Rome, contains an account of a
social affair in which Americans well
known in Salt Lake participated. It was a
five o'clock tea given by Madame St. John
Gaffney at the Hotel Quirinal. The
charming hostess did the honors with the
most exquisite amiability, assisted by
Chevalier S[--] T. John Gaffney and Miss
Humph[--]ys. Those present were according
to the Roman newspaper, 'the Cardinaux
Seraphin et Vincent Vannutelli, Mgr.
Staniero, protonot aire apostolique; M. de
Navenne, minister of France; the Countess
Mlle Bevilacqua; M. de Jagow, conseiller
de l'ambassade d'Allemague; M. Multodo,
conseiller de l'ambassade d' Espague pres
le Saintsiege; le consul general des Etats
Unis et Mme. de Castro, la baronne Coletti,
le major Edwards, attache militaire de l'
ambassade des Etats Unis avec Miss Ed-
wards, Mrs. Aldrich, M. F. D. et Miss
Crimmins. Mlle. Vannutelli, Mrs. Magee,
Mrs. Stewart, M. et Mrs. Simmons, Mrs.
et Miss Robinson, Mrs. et Miss Mac Cor-
nick, le major et me Serra, Mrs. Vedder,
Mrs. Chester Wecks. don Lelio Orsini, le
compt Bojani, le pere Whitmee, le marquis
Faa di Brnno, le comte Oddi Baglioni, le
comte Gnoli, le marquis Mac Swiney, le
marquis Maestri Molinari, M. Galileo Van-
nutelli, le comte Falconieri di Carpegna,'
and a large number [-]f diplomats and young
people of fashion."


Among all the great people who have
been born in February, Mrs. Isabella
Beecher Hooker is one of the most notable.
On Monday, Feb. 22, she attained the age
of eighty-two and the fact was duly regarded
by the citizens of Hartford, where she has
lived for fifty-four years. Mrs. Hooker is
the last of the distinguished sons and
daughters of Rev. Lyman Beecher, D. D.,
and all of those who gathered lovingly
around Mrs. Hooker at the family banquet
were of the younger generations, children
and grandchildren, nephews and nieces.
Mrs. Hooker is still in active suffrage work
and says she feels as if she should live to 
be a hundred years old. 			Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
[-]ount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH MARCH, 1904


[Column 1]
	THE WORLD IN TURMOIL.
	Although there has been a very decided
movement during the last few years for
universal peace, and many nations have
expressed themselves in favor of the Czar’s
manifesto; yet the indications at present
are that the day is far off when war shall
cease to be. The war recently begun in
the East may spread and continue for a
long period of time; already the devasta-
tion it has caused is fearful to contemplate
the sacrifice of human life most of all; and
famine and desolation ever follow in the
track of war.
	Both Russia and Japan are strong in
their own way, and it is not at all likely
that either will surrender while men and
ships and ammunition last, unless some
foreign power interferes and takes matters
in hand. A few thousand men more or
less slain will not affect Russia’s population
much; there are plenty more to be shot
down or blown up, and their lives are so
hard and barren of pleasure that they have
not much to lose, and in a sense they have
no choice in the matter, for strictly speak-
ing, they are serfs. To be sure, they have
great mili ary commanders (with unpro-
nouncabie names), who are skilled in all the
arts of war, and who are trained in military
maneuvering, and know when and why
and how to attack an enemy or circumvent
the foe perhaps, but the Japanese are fight-
ing more for their country’s protection,
and the Lord may be on their side, and
give them the victory. At any rate, there
is greater sympathy for the “Japs” than for
the Russians, perhaps because they are such
an artistic class of people and seem to
have made rapid progress in many ways
during the last half century; all that we
can say at this distance away is merely
speculative as to facts or results, and time
alone can determine, but one does know
that the havoc of war is terrible. 
It may be that other great nations may
be drawn in to protect their commercial in-
terests, which is scarcely a laudable pretext
for war. unless the protection of life depends
upon it. Let us hope and pray that Amer-
ca may have no lot or portion in this dread-
ful conflict, and though we have not in
America at the present time a war on our
hands, we have many disturbances of one
kind and another, such as labor strikes and
things of that kind, and it does create a
commotion and a sort of unrest that is not
wholesome or uplifting. In peaceful Utah,

[Column 2]
where plenty abounds and one would think
there might be peace, there is a ferment
brewing, and men, and even women, seem
disposed to stir up strife and if possible
cause persecution that may stagnate busi-
ness and bring about hard times unneces-
sarily. Utah was prospering, and the attack
upon her people is wholly uncalled for and
without cause.
	Without entering into the controversy,
we declare that Utah is loyal to the United
States, and has proved her loyalty when
men were needed to go forth to battle, and
it is to be hoped the plans of those who are
plotting to destroy the peace and prosp rity
of this new and flourishing State will come
to naught; that at least here in these moun-
tain vales, apart from war and its horrors,
the people who made ‘‘the desert blossom
as a rose,” may be secure in the possession
of the rights of free citizens of the great
country of the United States, for the free-
dom of which many of their forefathers
fought and bled, and they are not aliens,
but loyal and free citizens, who should have
all the rights and privileges of this free
Republic of America.
Peace, O Peace, when will the nation,
	Lift its eyes and understand
How God holdeth all creation
	In the hollow of His hand.


[Column 1]
ANNUAL MEETING, BANQUET AND BALL
		GRANITE STAKE.
	On the 17th of March of this present
month the Relief Society officers of Granite
Stake celebrated the anniversary of the
first organization of the Relief Society in
Nauvoo, Illinois, in a very happy way.
Committees of ladies had been previously
appointed to take charge of special matters
and President Emma S. Woodruff and her
very efficient Board superintended the
whole, and it proved a grand success in the
entire proceedings from first to last.
	About six or seven hundred of the peo-
ple of the several wards assembled in the
large meeting room. President Emma S.
Woodruff presiding, both her counselors
were on the stand, also the secretary, treas-
urer and some invited guests, President
Frank Y Taylor and Counselor Edwin
Bennion. The stands were prettily decor-
ated with flowers and presented a hand-
some appearance. Several veteran sisters
were brought forward from the audience
and given seats of honor on the platform in
full view of audience. Sisters Margaret
P. Young, Elizabeth Pixton (since deceased)
Relief C. Atwood and Sarah B. Gibson.
	Meeting opened with singing by the con-
gregation, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer by Patriarch John Cook, singing,
“Redeemer of Israel” President Emma
S. Woodruff made a brief but suitable ad
dress of welcome, referred to the day six-
ty-two years before when the Prophet
Joseph Smith had organized the first wom-
an’s society of which we have any knowl-
edge with a few sisters, eighteen in all and
from that small beginning had grown the
great socety with branches all over the
world. The speaker expressed her pleas-
ure in seeing so many assemb'ed and wel-
comed them in a very happy manner.
	A few remarks by other speakers and ex-
pressions of good will, and a duet sweetly
sung by two little girls, Buelah Woodruff
and Cathie McLelland, without accompani-
ment, as there had been an accident to the

[Column 2]
organ, this caused some changes also in
the musical program.
	Sister E. B. Wells referred to the little
meeting held in Masonic Lodge Room where
the society was born, and how magnific-
ently it had grown and spread abroad since
that day. Sister Wells eulogized the lead-
ers of the movement, some who had passed
away and others who were still living;
mentioned President Bathsheba W. Smith
as the only one now alive who had been
present at that memorable meeting. Sister
Armeda Snow Young recited in a very
pathetic and dignified manner the poem
composed by Sister Eliza R. Snow on the
Death and Funeral ceremonies of President
Brigham Young.
	President Frank Y. Taylor made some
interesting remarks upon the labors of the
sisters and praised their efforts and com-
mended their ministrations among the needy
and distressed in the various wards in the
stake; realized they had been a blessing
to the bishops and the authorities; blessed
them in their labors for the future and en-
couraged them to persevere
	Counselor Edwin Bennion spoke a few
minutes and urged the sisters to perfect
union that more might be accomplished,
felt to enjoy the spirit of the gathering of
the people on such occasions, thought we
must be one and come into a unity of the
faith in order to make greater progress.
	Sister Wealthy Richards Clark, one of the
aids in Davis Stake, expressed her interest in
Relief Society work and felt she could learn
something about mothers’ work in visiting
Granite Stake.
	Meeting adjourned, until March 17, 1905,
after singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire
is burning.”. Dismissed with prayer by
brother Helm.
	The company repaired to the banquet
hall in the room below and the scene was
gratifying in the extreme especially to the
hungry ones. Tables loaded with good
things were set the whole length of the
room, snowy linen, china and glass with
appetizing viands and a profusion of flower-
ing plants upon the tables, presented a
striking picture, glowing with brilliant
color. Here Mrs. George M. Cannon,
chairman of refreshment committee, with
her numerous aids in white aprons, etc.,
had displayed their artistic taste in the way
of ornamentation. The curtain over the
platform at the east end of the hall was
raised and the broad platform utilized for
singers, organ, etc.—in place of footlights,
pots of flowers, bright with red crepe paper
for color effect to correspond with the table 
decorations.
	When the numerous guests were seated
at the tables and all was ready, Sister
Woodruff, hostess of the occasion, called
upon President Taylor to ask the blessing
upon the food, and while the people were
partaking of the bounties prepared for their
delectation by the good sisters of the Relief
Society, Prof Stephens and some of the
local musical talent entertained them with
songs and instrumental musical selections.
The Pratt boys, sons of Mathoni Prart,
little Agnes Clive, a veritable musical gen-
ius gave some of her sweetest tunes on the
violin, Miss Sumrherhayes also sang one or
two sweet songs, Miss Snow, of Manti,
gave a dramatic recitation of “Judith”
which was listened to with rapt attention.
	The arrangements for the enjoyment of
all invited were well planned and carried
out. Sister Woodruff and those, who assisted
should be heartily congratulated upon the


success of so large an undertaking. Six
hundred people sat at the banquet, perhaps
more, for the entire company were feasted. 
It was a mammoth undertaking but the 
Relief Society sisters are accustomed to
doing things liberally.
	Late in the afternoon the guests of hon-
or, Presidents Smith and Winder, who had
been expected, arrived and were heartily 
welcomed by the remaining company, 
though many of those from a distance had 
gone home disappointed because of their 
non-arrival.
	In the evening the young people of the 
stake, with a few of the older ones partici-
pated in dancing in the amusement hall
in the same building. President Smith
was among the number who enjoyed the 
dancing, and entered into the festivities of 
the occasion with his usual buoyancy of 
spirit, and desire to make others happy.
	The day was a red-letter one for Granite 
Stake and it will long be remembered by
those who enjoyed the pleasure of the 
meeting, the feasting and the dancing, one 
or all. These festive gatherings are restful
to the mind and a decided change from the 
humdrum of daily vocations which men 
and women pursue in the journey of life, 
and a good way to emphasize a day which 
has become so dear to the women of Zion,
as to be kept the world over.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FEBRUARY 29. 1904.
	In grateful acknowledgment of the many
favors and gifts bestowed on the anniver-
sary of February 29th in this year of our
Lord, it seems a fitting thing to publicly
(through the columns of the EXPONENT)
tender a few words,of appreciation and rec-
ognition to those dear friends who kindly
and generously remembered the day. To the
Utah Woman’s Press Club for the Valen-
tine Party, and Mrs. Maria Francis and
Mary Kelly, who opened their house for
the entertainment, and gave so much
pleasure to the club members. To the
Daughters of the Pioneers, for the delight-
ful reception given at the Bee Hive House,
to Mrs. Julina L. Smith, who gave the use
of the elegant parlors and arranged for
the guests, and to one and all who took
part in the program, and especially the
president, Alice Merrill Horne, whose fertile
brain planned the whole affair. We also
thank the relatives and friends who gath-
ered at the Cannon Farm, and who were so
delightfully entertaining in songs, speeches,
recitations and jokes. Altogether the day
was a festive occasion, the only regret be-
ing the absence of some members of the
family, who were too far away to attend
the gathering. It was a day long to be
remembered, and words are utterly inad-
equate to give an idea of what one wishes
to say in return for honors bestowed, but
we send herewith lovlng thoughts in gen-
erous profusion to all who, either by word,
deed, or wish helped to make the day a 
happy remembrance.


AN OLD LADIES' PARTY.
	Sister Ann Lewis, a veteran Welsh lady
in this city, celebrated her eighty-second
birthday on Tuesday, March 1, at the resi-
dence of her son, Walter J. Lewis. The
party was partly a surprise to the mother,
Mrs. W. J. Lewis having attended to all
the details, inviting the guests, amoug
whom were many devoted friends of the
guest of honor. It was quite a unique


gathering, most of the sisters present were
over seventy, with just a few younger
women The Welsh accent was very ap
parent in the conversation, which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, about
crossing the sea and the plains, taking
leave of home to gather to Zion, and so
on.
	A bounteous repast was served to about
forty sisters, Brother Lewis, her son, being
the only gentleman present at the table.
The genuine good feeling and enjoyment
of the day, including the sumptuous dinner,
was very happifying. Sister Lewis was
the recipient of a large number of presents,
including many cut flowers and potted
plants. These dear, aged sisters thor-
roughly enjoyed the social gathering. The
EXPONENT offers sincere congratulations,
wishing this our beloved sister, who left
her native land for the Gospel’s sake, many
more such happy reunions, and finally to
be reunited to her husband and companion
who has gone on before in the celestial
kingdom, with all their loved ones.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	About a dozen lady friends of Mrs.
Charlotte F. Richards met by invitation at 
the elegant home of her daughter, Mrs.
T. G. Webber, on Tuesday, March 8th, to 
celebrate Mrs. Richards 77th anniversary.
Flowers and gifts in great profusion were 
sent as mementoes of the day and of loving 
friendship. The lady herself seemed very 
young, light-hearted and sprightly and
has no indications whatever of old age.
The dinner was delicious, and the table 
decorations were very like a wedding 
affair, past description by the writer. Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith pronounced the bless-
ing and the guests enjoyed the tempting 
viands and the animated conversation.
Mrs. Webber is widely known as a delight-
ful hostess and the fervent good wishes of 
all present were expressed for many happy
returns of the day, to the guest of honor.
The EXPONENT adds its amen to all the 
beautiful sentiments given, and extends 
congratulations, hoping health, peace and 
joy for Mrs. Richards in the years to come 
for her and her posterity.


[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
GRANITE STAKE.
	On February 10th, 1904, the 14th quart-
erly conference of the Relief Society of 
Granite Stake was held in the Stake house,
President Emma S. Woodruff presiding.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.”
Prayer, Sister Sarah Gibson. Singing,
“Softly Beams.” Roll called and minutes 
of previous conference read and accepted.
Presidents reported: Sarah B. Gibson, Mary 
Belle Hamilton, Ann Eliza Neff, Annie 
Labrum, Patrina Jensen, Sarah A. Turn-
bow, Elizabeth Pixton, Emily Stevenson, 
all were reported as being in first class
order, and each one felt that her own was 
the best.
	The topics touched on were in relation 
to our Traveling sister missionaries, the 
special missionary work and the Temple 
work, also that the dead should be laid
away in a proper manner, that the poor as 
well as the rich should be clothed in the 
best of material, that they should have no
cause to reproach us when we meet them, 
that the sick, the poor and needy are 
tenderly cared for. The subject of wheat

[Column 2]
was touched upon, as also many other 
things. Sister Mary Boyle then sang very 
sweetly “O My Father.” Brother Charles 
Helm then made a few feeling remarks 
in relation to the aged in our midst and 
our duty to the afflicted ones, closed the 
morning session by singing “O, ye moun-
tains high.”
	Prayer by Brother James King.
	Afternoon session, 2 o’clock. After the 
preliminary exercises were attended to the 
officers were voted upon and sustained.
There were present on the stand President 
Frank Y. Taylor, Sister Annie T. Hyde
of the General Board, and all the local
authorities, with the exception of Counsel-
or Katharine Brockbank, who was unable 
to attend on account of sickness.
	Two beautiful selections were rendered 
on the violin by little Miss Agnes Clive.
President Frank Y. Taylor then gave the 
sisters a few suggestions, said we should 
plan our work ahead and do everything in 
a systematic manner and with order, that 
we should try to implant within every 
heart a desire to pay tithing and to observe 
the Word of Wisdom, and keep all the laws
of God. Said “When we are fully con-
verted to all the principles of the Gospel it 
will be no trial for us to observe all these 
things. Admonished all present against
the evils of speaking against the Lord’s
anointed or any in authority over us. We 
should not allow it around our fireside or 
at table or anywhere else.
	A solo was sung by Sister Maggie Hull,
entitled “Let he that is without sin cast 
the first stone.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde encouraged 
the sisters to faithfully perform all their 
duties, that the sweet influences of the 
Lord would always be with them, we 
should be particularly mindful of the 
stranger within our gates, and especially 
the new converts.
	Sisters Maggie Hull and Maria B. Win-
der then rendered a duet, “Sometime,
Somewhere.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff and Coun-
selor Mary P. Young each made a few re-
marks and thanked all who had helped to 
make our conference a success and felt 
that it had been a profitable one.
	We desire to have it known that a whole
family and one other person has been con-
verted through the efforts of our Relief So-
ciety sisters.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Prayer by Secretary Armeda S. Young.
		MARIA B. WINDER, Asst. Sec.
			ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the St.
Joseph Stake was held at Central ward 
meeting house, Nov. 6, 1903, President 
Elizabeth Layton presiding. After the 
opening exercises President Layton said 
she was disappointed, as no doubt the con-
gregation was also, in the members of the 
Central Board failing to arrive in time for 
our conference, but we were honored by the 
presence of President and Sister Udall of 
the St. John’s Stake, Eliza Tenny of 
Dublan, Mexico, the Stake Presidency, also 
members of the High Council. Eight 
branches out of ten were satisfactorily re-
ported.
	Aid Emma Coleman believed the sisters
were, as a rule, trying to live their relig-
ion. Without the Spirit of the Lord we 
should be unable to bear up under the 
duties and trials of mothers. President 
William Johnson: “The Relief Society has


the greatest mission of any organization in
the Church. We should discourage card
playing and profanity.”
	Eliza Tenny: "There is much for us as
officers and members of the Relief Society
to do. The Stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juarez Stake get out plans for
the mothers work and all the local organ-
izations in the stake work in unison. The
Saints have had a hard struggle in Mexico
but the Lord has opened the way for us to
secure our land.” Solo by Stake Counselor
Olive Kimball.
	President Udall rejoiced in meeting with
the Saints of this stake. "Sisters, you do
not have an equal chance with the brethren
unless you improve your opportunities.
The battle is not to the strong, or the race
to the swift, but to those who endure faith-
fully to the end. May the Lord bless our
wives, mothers, sisters and daughters, that
they may accomplish the work assigned
them.”
	Counselor Salina Phillips reported her
visit to Salt Lake City and the General R.
S. Conference, which was a grand success
and spiritual treat. Also read an article
from the Juvenile Instructor entitled "Race
Suicide.” Sister Udall, President of the
R. S. of St. John’s Stake felt built up and
strengthened by attending this conference,
we should show by our works that we do
appreciate the blessings we enjoy.
	At the afternoon session all enjoyed a
rare treat in a lecture given by Aid Sa-
mantha Folly on “Mothers’ Work,” fol-
lowed by a quartette by President E. Lay-
ton assisted by Lottie Larson, Clare Brink-
erhoff and Cynthia Layton.
	President Andrew Kimball gave a dis-
course on various duties of the sisters and
the brethren also. Explained “mothers’
work” and urged all to pursue this course
diligently. Recommended the singing of a
hymn by the family before morning prayer.
Home influence should be such that child-
ren will love to be at home.
	One of Sister E. R. Snow’s poems, “An
Address to Parents,” was rendered by Sar-
ah Webb.
	President Layton believed all felt renewed
spiritually. The sisters should donate
every month to the society, be it ever so
little. Thought the Prophet Joseph set a
worthy example to the brethren by his do-
nation at the organization of the R. S and
asserting that all his charitable acts from
that time on should be through that organ-
ization.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
SISTER B. JANE LUCE SIMONS.
	Born December 1, 1834, near Silver Creek, Cha-
tauqua county, New York; died January 14, 1904,
at Payson City, Utah.
	Whereas, the Supreme Ruler of the universe has
called from our midst by death our beloved sister,
Jane Luce Simons, and whereas she was presi-
dent of the Payson Relief Society for twenty-four
years (previous to the division of Payson into two
wards), performing the duties of said calling in
the fear of God and for the benefit of the sick and
afflicted, thereby gaining the good will and affec-
tion of her associates snd friends, being an honor
to her sex, endowed with the charm of a gracious
presence and a refining power, which she carried
into all the walks of li[-]e in which her lot was cast.
	And whereas she was a resident of the Payson
First ward, and was respected and honored by
all, irrespective of sex or creed, we therefore feel
that we have lost a wise counselor and a true
friend; but know our loss is her eternal gain, and


we hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow
are unknown; be it therefore
	Resolved, that we tender to her bereaved sons
and daughters our heartfelt sympathy, and trust
they will be comforted in the assurance that their
mother is not dead, but has gone to a brighter and
better world. Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions ba
presented to the family of the deceased, and like-
wise be copied and placed on the records of the
Relief Society and a copy sent to the EXPONENT
and our local paper for public[-]tion.
“Gone from the home of earth,
Followəd by deepest love.
To taste of the higher birth—
To dwell in the courts above."
AGNES C. DOUGLAS,
CLARISSA J. MOORE,
MARTHA B. SYMONS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas God in his Infinite wisdom has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved President, and
	Whereas we recognise in Sister Elizabeth Berry
a faithful and energetic worker, therefore be it,
	Resolved by the sisters of the Cedar Fort Relief
Society that we mourn her loss, but that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she set for us to follow.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved our
sincere sympathy and pray God thaf his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is the Father’s gain.
Be it further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon the record of the society, one copy
sent to the family, and one to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT for publication.
EMELINE DUBOIS, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Celinda Hannah Martin widow of the late Josiah
Fleming Martin, died on February 14, 1904, at
the home of her daughter, in Salina, Utah.—Mrs.
Hans. J. Gottfredson, of general debility, having
been afflicted for several years. Sister Martin was
born in Marion County Ohio, on the 29th of Feb-
ruary, 1832, moved with her father’s family, in her
childhood, to Illinois, where in course of time she
married, and moved with her husband to ‘Winter
Quarters’, on the Missouri river, crossed the plains
for Utah in the year, 1852. Moved later to Salt
Lake City where they remained until the Move,
and then located in Payson, moved from there to
Moroni, San Pete, and from there to Salina—in
the year 1865; were compelled to leave Salina on
account of Indian troubles in 1866, and located at
‘Old Chicken Creek’ where they remained until
the re-settlement of Salina in 1871, where they
made their future home. Sister Martin was a true
and faithful Latter-day Saint, unassuming, and
kind to a fault, and a faithful worker in the Relief
Society, and a steady subscriber to the Woman’s
Exponent. She was the mother of seven children,
four of whom preceded her to the great beyond, a
son and two daughters survive her, with a host of
grand-child[-]en and many sincere friends.
	The Funeral services were held on Tuesday the
16th inst., and were well attended. The Speakers
were, Elders—William McFadyen, Niels C. Ras-
mussen and Ex. Bishop James S. Jensen. Appro-
priate music was rendered by the Ward choir. A
large cortege followed the remains of our beloved
sister to their last resting pla[-]e. The grave was
dedicated by Elder James S. Jensen.
J. L.
TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	Sister Christina Liljenquist was born in Bar-
loise, Tyen. Denmark Jan. 13, 1822, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Sept.
18, 1852, and arrived in Utah Sept 13, 1857.
Among the many good things said at her funeral
we quote the following and would add she was a
constant subscriber to the Woman’s Exponent
and said on one occasion to the editor she would
willingly go without one meal a day rather than
do without it for it had been such a comfort to her.
GLOWING TRIBUTE FROM A LOVING FRIEND.
	"Sister Liljenquist, our beloved President, dear
friend and mother, whose body lies before us to-
day, came to Hyrum with her husband and family
in the summer of 1862. In 1863 her husband was
called as bishop of Hyrum, and her responsibilities
and cares were many She was my neighbor and [-]
learned to love and esteem her for her many good
qualities, for her faith and courage in times of trial
and poverty and her devotion to her husband and


children and kindness as a neighbor. On May 9th,
1869, Sister Liljenquist was called as counselor to
Sister Barnum in the Relief Society of Hyrum,
which position she filled with honor for two years,
when Sister Barnum resigned and Sister Liljen-
quist was sustained as president. She acted in this
capacity twenty years with great success and won
the love of her sisters and the gratitude of the
sick, afflicted and downcast She never turned the
needy away, but instead said, ‘If we empty onr
treasury we will get more.’ She was very humble
and her whole desire was to honor the priesthood
and serve the Lord, and through her humility and
faith she gained the confidence of her brethren
and sisters. Her charity never failed—she spoke
well of all. She was always ready and willing to
respond to every call from the priesthood. During
this time Sister Liljenquist was called on a mission
to work in the Logan temple, in company with her
husband, which mission she faithfully performed
for two years when they were honorably released.
She was beloved and kindly remembered by the
temple workers. She was honorably released from
her office as President of the Relief Society May
9th, 1889, on account of old age. Sister Liljenquist
was a faithful and true wife and mother and her
greatest pride was in her children and grand-
children. She has passed through many trials and
has been faithful and true, has fought the good
fight and will receive her reward with the faithful
in the celestial kingdom of God.”
	The members of the Relief Societies sent many
beautiful floral emblems, and one deserving espec-
ial mention was a design “Gates Ajar.”
	The entire community mourns the loss of this
good woman.


OBITUARY.
AT REST.
	Sister Lucinda Curtis passed away on the 26th
day of January, 1904. She was born in
Scarborough, Cumberland county, Maine, Janu-
ary 14, 1831. She was the daughter of Lydia
Smith and Dominicus Carter. They were with the
Saints in an early day, and passed through some
of the persecutions. Her mother died when she
was about seven years old; her father went to Far
West to see about burial things, but was chased
back by the mob, only escaping by the darkness
coming on, the mob stopping at the top of a hill,
while at the foot of the hill the tongue of Brother
Carter’s wagon had come down, and he was
obliged to stop and fix it; but the mob did not
know this, and he was able to escape. He re-
turned home, rolled his wife in a sheet, and thus
she was buried. I have heard the deceased relate
many other sad scenes that they passed through,
and declared their lives were only spared by the
power of God. Lucinda Carter and Ezra H.
Curtis were married December 18. 1846, at Mouut
Pisgah, Pottawatamie county, Iowa. Came to
Salt Lake in 1851, in Captain Horne’s company,
and on to Provo, where they made their home
most of the time until 1875, when they moved to
Sevier county, took up land and made them a new
home.
	Sister Carter was president of the Salina Relief
Society for three years, and was elected president
of the Aurora Relief Society March 18, 1883, and
served until February, 1901, and was released on
account of poor health. The writer of this sketch
worked with Sister Carter for eight years, and
can therefore bear testimony that she was a faith-
ful worker, never ceasing, never tiring, but boldly
struggling to the end. She was a woman of rare
ability in looking after the affairs of her society.
Sister Carter passed through mony hardships, be-
ing one of those called to go and settle Iron county
in an early day. She never became rich in this
world’s goods, but was ever willing to share with
those in need. She was one of those brave spirits
who were ever ready to assist in building up the
kingdom of God. We all learned to love her, and
feel to mourn her loss. There were few like her—
She had a paralytic stroke, and was unable to
speak from Wednesday until the following Tues-
day, when she passed peacefully away.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our heavenly Father has called her to
a higher sphere; therefore
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children, and cherish the
memory and strive to emulate her noble works.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her children, also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for
publication, and be placed upon the rcords of the
Aurora Ward Relief Society.
				LAURA WHIPPLE HOLDAWAY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
CASSIA STAKE.
Lecture I.—Honesty.
	“The honest man though e’er so poor,
	Is king o’ men for a’ that.” Burns.
A. Truthfulness.
		1. Children are prone to exaggerate.
	2. Fear of punishment leads to pre-
	varication. 3. Truthfulness in children
	may be encouraged, if due diligence
	be exercised by parents and teachers.
	(Ref. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 93:1-40;
	Prov. 12:19-23; Prov. 13, 5-6).
	“Lies may be light and accidental, but
they are an ugly soot from the pit, and it
is better that our hearts should be swept
clean of them, without our care as to which
is the largest or blackest.” Ruskin.
B. Stealing.
		1. Envy leads to stealing. 2. Par-
	ents should provide for the reasonable
	wants of children. 3. The only atone-
	ment for theft is confession, and resti-
	tution where possible. (Ref. Exodus
	20:15; Doc. and Cov. Sec. 83:4)..
Lecture II.—Reverence.
	“Fear mingled with respect and esteem.”
A. Reverence for God.
		1. The name of God not to be used
	in vain. (Ref. Exodus 20:7). 2.
	Silence during prayer in home and
	church.
B. Reverence for Priesthood. (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 107:4; 64:34-37;
	Numbers 16:1-36).
		Courtesy to the Church officers.	
C. Reverence for Holy Things.
		1. Behavior in church. 2. Gospel
	topics should be spoken of reverently.
	3. Reverence for the aged.
“Speak to them gently, treat them with care
Give them the fireside’s easiest chair,
They wept for you once parental tear,
Don’t let them weep now, smooth the gray hair.”
Lecture III.—Discipline in the Home.
	“True devotion melts distrust,
	As the sun dispels the snow,
	And too much fierce and ardent heat
	Will dry the fullest fountain too.”
A. Devotion in the Home. (Ref. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 93:40-45; an article
	written by President Jos. F. Smith
	published in Era, Dec. 1903, page
	135).
B. Disobedience. (Ref. I Samuel 15;
	Genesis 4:8-15; Book of Mormon
	II Nephi 5:20:25.
C. Obedience. (Ref. Eph. 6:15).
“And e’er before him who in faith goes,
The manna falls, the sea divides,
The desert blossoms as the rose
And all things good his Lord provides.’
	1. How obedience may be obtained
in the home. 2. Punishment is occa-
sionally necessary. 3. Rule in the
home does not mean tyranny.
D. System.
	1. Routine duties of parents to chil-
dren’s growths. 2. Idleness to be dis-
couraged. 3. Habits of neatness and

[Column 2]
cleanness to be formed. 4. Responsi-
bility of a portion of home life should
be placed upon each child.
Lecture IV.—Evil Habits in Children.
A. Profanity. (Ref. Matt. 5:34-37;
	Exodus 20:7).
	1. Children should not be allowed to
associate with profaners. 2. Parents
should set proper example.
B. Observance of Word of Wisdom. (Ref.
	Doc. and Cov. Sec. 89).
	1. Self respect in children. 2. Self
respect as to body, to dress and con-
versation.
Lecture V.—Courtship and Marriage.
A. Courtship.
	1. Early courtship and prolonged
courtship to be discouraged. 2. Chil-
dren should be instructed by parents,
previous to marriage as to the duties of
married life. 3. Parents should exer-
cise great wisdom in assisting their
children in the choice of life partners.
B. Marriage. (Ref. Doc. and Cov.
	Sec. 132.
	1. Early marriages to be encouraged.
Lecture VI.—The Nursery.
		1. Children should have a room in
	the home where they may indulge
	freely in their play. 2. Acts of selfish-
	ness in the nursery should be checked.
	3. Mothers should plan the games of
	children. 4. Energy of children should
	not be checked too much but directed.
	5. Mothers strive to make home the
	most pleasant place in the community.
	6. When punishment is necessary it
	should be tempered with kindness.
			LOUISA HAIGHT, Prest.,
			LAVINIA BATES,
			MAUDE A. THOMAS, Counselors,
LUCYNTHIA ROBBINS, Secretary.


THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF 
			WOMEN.
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	The days immediately succeeding the
adjournment of the annual executive of the
National Council of Women were so full of
work that it was quite impossible to send
a report of the interesting session to you.
Now it is too late for a report, but not too
late to convey to your readers information
for which the receipt of many letters from
many quarters shows us their writers are
waiting. Neither is it too late to record
the universal pleasure among those present
at the sessions of the executive conference.
With four important exceptions, all of the
national organizations belonging to the
council were represented by their presi-
dents and delegates or proxies and alter-
nates.

	As fraternal delegates, Miss Louise Lee
Hardin, editor of the Business Woman’s
Journal and president of the Business Wo-
men’s Club, and Mrs Bradford, the presi-
dent of the Colorado State Federation of
Clubs, were present. They were given the
courtesy of even the business sessions as 
auditors, and were both invited to speak at 
an evening session. Miss Hardin is a very 
enthusiastic advocate of the organization of 
business woman. She believes that the
pecuniary interests of women may be as
much fostered by such organizations as has

[Column 2]
their intellectual culture been by the ogan-
ization of literary clubs.

	Mrs. Swift’s presidency has thus far
been marked by great energy and zeal, and
the work planned for the coming year im-
plies that the council will have little leisure
until after the next triennial.
	The election of representatives for the
Berlin quinquennial was of primary impor-
tance. Prior to the election, Mrs. Swift
announced that she had asked the Rev.
Anna Howard Shaw to act as her proxy.
Although Mrs. Swift expects to be present
in Berlin, she felt it desirable to have a 
proxy on the ground so that, if for any 
reason she was not able to be present at
every session, the council should not go
unrepresented; and, moreover, she felt it 
desirable to have a proxy with whom she
could confer upon all matters upon which
the council will be called upon to act in its
executive capacity. The election resulted 
as follows:
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was elected by
acclamation the first delegate.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper her alternate.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, the representa-
tive in the National Council of the Florence
Crittenden Mission, and the vice-president
of the American Council is the other delegate.
	Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon, the president
of the National Association of Jewish Wo-
men, was chosen to be her alternate.
	Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson was elected to
be the “speaking representative’’ of the
American Council.
	Mrs: Isabella Charles Davis to be her
alternate.
	A word of explanation of the phrase
“speaking representative’’ seems desirable.
At the Dresden session of the International
Executive last August, it was decided that
the second public meeting of the council at
the quinquennial at Berlin, which will oc-
cur on the evening of June 9th, shall be
devoted to the presentation of the national
councils constituting the International, and
that the program shall consist of an address
necessarily limited to six minutes in length,
by one representative from each of the affil-
iated councils. It was ordered that each
speaker should be invited to make a con-
densed statement of the characteristic fea-
tures of council work in her own country
and of the degree and manner in which the
work of her national council fosters the 
spirit of internationalism.
	Some criticism has been made of the time
limit set for these addresses, but with per-
haps twenty affiliated councils to hear from,
a program allowing six minutes to each 
will afford two hours of steady speaking.
Allowing for the opening and the closing 
and the necessary intervals between the
speeches, although the management may
be perfect and this inevitable loss of time
be reduced to a minimum, the entire pro-
gram will cover two hours and a half. To
be fair, each council must be permitted the
same time. Should it be urged that the
oldest councils, or the councils having the
largest membership, or those representing 
the largest territory, should be given more
time, one must be reminded that each and
all of these suggestions are opposed to the
council idea, the abounding value of which
rests in the fact, that the council respects
neither geographical extent nor numerical
strength, and that it is the desire to value
every council with exclusive reference to
the contribution of what is essentially char-
acteristic in its nationality.


[Column 1]
	I have few times heard the remark, “It
is hardly worth while to cross the ocean for
the sake of speaking six minutes.” No
doubt there have been words uttered in
much less than six minutes that have cost
much more in time and money than will
the journey to Berlin cost any of the par-
ticipants in the quinquennial of the council;
but no one who considers the program of
June 9th, as initiated above, from the point
of view that those who take part in it come
from their respective countries simply “to
speak six minutes,” is as yet imbued with
the council idea. One goes, not for what
she herself is to say, but for what all the
others who come up to Berlin will say. One
goes to contribute a single facet to the dia-
mond, a single sentence to the speech which
all will make, a single aspect to the whole
which I call internationalism.
	One other very important matter bearing
upon the quinquennial and the internation-
al congress was decided. The local com-
mittee, of which Frau Hedwig Heyl is
chairman, has determined to decorate the
corridors of the halls where the meetings
are to be held with a collection which will
represent the work and progress in art of
the women of the different countries includ-
ed in the international council. A special
committee has been formed to take charge
of this exhibit, of which Frau Margarethe
Keyner is the chairman. The exhibit is
to include the following classes of objects.
	“First: Portraits of characters who have
rendered real and great service on behalf of
the Woman’s Movement, either as propa-
gandists or as practical workers.
	“Second: Works of art, such as busts,
statuettes, and paintings which illustrate
woman’s work, especially with regard to
decorative purposes.”
	To each country is assigned a definite
amount of wall space in the corridors Be-
sides this, the committee states that some
decorative pictures and objects in plaster
can be placed in the refreshment room,
“not more, however than six for any coun-
try.”
	To take charge of the representation of
the artistic work of American women, a
special committee was appointed, which
consists of Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson, head
of the department of art in the American
council, and Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, the
only sculptor among the American patrons
of the international council. This commit-
tee has already begun its work, and the
known skill and taste of its members, to-
gether with their reputation for doing well
whatever they undertake, is a guarantee
that if the artists to whom they apply make
cordial response, the place which is assigned
will be creditably filled.
	A most interesting report was brought in
by Mrs. Hollister and Mrs. Quinlan con-
cerning the representation ot the American
council at the Louisiana Purchase Expo-
sition. Although disappointment was, per-
haps, felt in some quarters when it was first
announced that the board of lady managers
of the exposition would admit no organiza-
tion into their building, it seems from every
point of view to be much more desirable
that, the council shall have quarters in the

[Column 2]
administration building, where the United
States government has granted it space.
Mrs. Sparklin, of St Louis, is the chairman
of the local committee in charge, and Mrs.
Swift, who went to St. Louis after the ad-
journment of the council executive to give
personal attention to the matter, has great
confidence that the council will have every
opportunity for adequate representation.
It may be well here again to say that all
national organizations and all local councils
affiliated with the national council a[-]e
asked, through their respective officers, to
correspond directly with Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, whose address is 507 Kirby Av-
enue west, Detroit, Michigan, concerning
its representation, since it is desired that all
affiliated bodies shall have an equal oppor-
tunity to share the benefits of the council
headquarters.
	Mr, A. S. Ford, the editor and publisher
of “Madame”(which by written vote of the
national council had already been adopted
as its organ), attended one session and was
received with great cordiality by the execu-
tive, whose members see in this new me-
dium of publicity a means of reaching large
numbers of women who are not members
of any of the affiliated organizations, or in-
deed of progressive societies of any kind.
As a means of communication among its
own members, particularly its official mem-
bers, the Bulletin will be continued, edited
as heretofore, by the corresponding secretary,
Mrs. Flo. Jamison Miller, who made an
admirable summary of her year’s work in a
report which pleased both by its wit and by
the amount of work which it evinced.
	Miss Jessie Ackerman, the chairman of
the press committee, will have charge of
the two pages that are given in “Madame”
each month to conned interests, and in her
official capacity will organize also a syn-
dicate for furthering council interests.
	Since the adjournment of the council ex-
ecutive, I have received from Frau Stritt
the list which it was hoped would arrive
in time to be reported upon at the execu-
tive. I refer to the list of American women
to whom official invitations have been is-
sued to attend the international congress,
which is to follow the council. This in-
cludes one hundred and eight names of per-
sons, about one-half of whom have been
nvited to speak, and the other “to partici-
pate,” which means to take part in the
open discussion which will follow formal
papers. This indication of the generous
attitude of the German committee toward
the American council will be much appre-
ciated by our women everywhere. The
number of official invitations sent to this
country largely exceeds what I had antici-
pated as possible. The only ones of the
list of nominees sent over by the American
council to the German committee not in-
vited are those constituting a third list,
which were very tardily sent in some time
after the first and even the second list had
been forwarded It is to be hoped that
many women who have thought that it
would be impossible for them to go will
now, upon the receipt of their official invit-
ations, reconsider the matter and decide to
accept an opportunity which will afford many

[Column 3]
privileges besides meeting with the women
workers of other nations.
	I take this opportunity to ask those of
my compatriots who have received such of-
ficial invitation, kindly to let me know
whether they will be able to accept it, and,
if so, about what time they intend to sail.
This request is made because of a plan that
is being worked out, by which it is hoped
some advantages and concessions may be
secured from railway and steamboat com-
panies for members of the council and the
congress. Now that the invitations must
already have been received, I should like
our women to notify me of their intention
before March 21st.
	Since my last communication to the Expo-
nent two more councils have come into affil-
iation, that of Austria; which, having been
organized in 1902, applied for affiliation at
a meeting of its executive convened to con-
sider the matter on January 8th, 1904. In
the first week of February, Froken Gina
Krog, who has served as the honorary vice-
president of the national council for Nor-
way since 1899, had the great happiness to
see her labors culminate iu the organization
of a national council for her country under
her presidency, which also immediately
voted for affiliation with the international
council.
	It will interest the readers of the Wo-
man’s Exponent to know that the agenda for
the quinquennial of the council will contain
a proposition already indorsed by ten coun-
cils, for placing the advocacy of political
equality upon the council program for pro-
paganda.		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	President of the International Council
					of Women.
Indianapolis Ind., March 1st, 1904.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.						TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
	JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
	GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


It is announced that the Japanese gov-
ernment has accepted the offer made by 
Dr. Anita Newcomb McGee to take a party 
of nurses to Japan. No nurse is to be in-
vited by Dr. McGee except graduate nurses
who have done field and hospital duty in 
the United States army, and the number 
who will go will depend on voluntary con-
tributions to defray expenses. The first 
party expects to sail in March.


Women’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol.32						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1904						No. 11


CONTENTS.
English Churchyards and Some Queer Epi-
	taphs.............................. Lydia D. Alder.	81
Mother’s Work................................................	82
New York Letter........... Emily W. Cummings	83
D. R. Meeting................................... E. B. W.	83
EDITORIAL.—Conference Luncheon and Rec-
	eption......................................................	84
	Editorial Notes........................................	84
	Daughters of the Pioneers.......................	84
Brief	History of the Stake Board Primary
	Association of the Salt Lake Stake.........
	.......................................... Ella W. Hyde	84
Elizabeth Pixton..............................................	85
Relief Society Nurse Class 1904.....................
	...................................... Emma A Empey	85
Mother’s Work.................................................	85
In Memoriam....................................................	87
Resolutions of Respect.....................................	87
International Quinquennial...............................	87
POETRY—Trust....................... J. A. Edgerton	81
	Loving Words................... Lydia D. Alder	83


TRUST.
	To be content,
		That is the best!
	Not to be indolent
		And simply rest,
But having done what duty calls to do,
And having been to your soul-impuls true,
Then worry not because you do not see
Results. Leave these unto the time to be.
Do what you can. Trust God for the event,
	And be content.
	To be content!
		Who in his soul
	Learns this accomplishment
		Has gained the whole.
He who can master self alone is great;
He who can work and likewise can wait,
Greatly deserve, and weary not the Lord
By constant intercessions for reward,
Know all will be returned that you have lent,
		And be content.
		To be content
			Is wisdom true!
		Know what for you is meant
			Will come to you.
Cry up the heights your motto, 'Onward, on!"
Then climb nor pause to count the distance
	gone.
Think not of self; but if some other soul
Is faint, assist and point him to the goal.
Thus mount and help until life's day is spent,
	And be content.
	To be content,
		This is the best!
	Life's sun and storm are blent,
		And both are blest
All glory love and joy that soul secures,
Who strives, and overcomes and who endures,
For God is all, and you with Him are rife-
Know this, and you have gained the goal of
	Life.
Take thou this blessing that is heaven-sent,
		And be content. 
						J. A. Edgerton.


[Column 1]
ENGLISH CHURCHYARDS AND SOME
		QUEER EPITAPHS.
	The churchyards of England! Graves of
the uncounted dead! The frailty and un-
certainty of human life so constantly in re-
membrance!
	Cities have grown up all around, and
over many of them, grass, high and dank,
waves in the wind that sobs and moans
among their headstones. In many instances
they are so worn by time that their letter-
ing cannot be distinguished.
	In the churchyard of Milton in Kent, the
scene is most touching. In the portion bear-

[Column 2]
ing date of the eleventh century and earl-
ier, the graves of those who must have been
the wealthy ones of the time, present a sad
picture. Those covered by solid slabs, with
head and foot stones, are upheaved, as
though from the effects of an earthquake,
but that is not the reason. O, no! this tells
of the return to dust, of all that was laid
here to sleep; the consequent settling down
of the stones speaks ominously.
	In some instances the head stone is much
the lowest; in others some other part.
Some up, some down, others cracked by the
elements to which they are ever exposed;
pieces falling off, some that are thick and
heavy, and some actually decaying. Noth-
ing to tell, who found a resting place here,
their names or estate. Thoughts of the
Resurrection come to the mind, more forci-
bly here, than almost any other place, the
ground seems to sway, and tremble, the
stones upheave as though the occupants
were about to come forth. But it is only
the destruction caused by time.
	The skull and cross bones are raised on
the head stones of many of the older graves.
What a hideous emblem! Like the doc-
trines of that time, they make one shudder.
Fit objects to accompany the belief, that in-
fants not a span long, were consigned to
the abode of fire and brimstone, if they had
not been sprinkled. This is one of the old-
est Churches in England. Its records going
back to 1100, A. D. l ke many others it is
built of small black, flint stones, put to-
gether with mortar and cement. About
one hundred feet up in the turret wall,
green ivy is growing out of the cement, be-
tween the stones, it looks so strange as
there is none, on any other part of the
building. How could it have gotten there
is the question. Life in an unexpected
place. Was a seed mixed with the mortar?
or did one cling to the moss, as it was
wafted on the wings of the wind? or did a
bird carry it there? The abuttments of the
Church are all covered with moss, but no
ivy only in this spot so high up. Its his-
tory none may tell. But there it is, serenely
looking over this city of the dead. The
graves, even of later years, are all grown
over with moss, that one must scrape it off,
to read the inscriptions. One low, plain
headstone, close by the walk, tells this
simple story. “Her mayden name was
Mary Smith, 1637.” The English long
“S,” is used, and “birth” is spelt “byerth.’’
Near this grave is a sun dial it has lately
been restored, and is really a fine one. It
was placed there about 150 years ago. Its
solid stone base, though so thick, has been
cracked twice across, but is now braced and
cemented together One can imagine time
laughing at the efforts, man puts forth, to
perpetuate anything. O, if only those hor-
rid skulls would not grin over the cross
bones among these scenes of desolation!
	The long dark grass unmown, neglected,
thick with the moss germs that creep among
it, what of its story? The answer is appar-
ent. Those who in ages gone, took pride in
those graves and watered them with the
tears of affection,—sacred, because of the
precious dust that sleeps there—have also

[Column 3]
joined the procession, that is marching on,
they in their turn have come here lying
down to rest: while the following genera-
tions, have gone into the world to other
lands, leaving their treasures behind,
“where the rude forefathers of the hamlet
sleep” The new part of the cemetery,
shows how the world has progressed. The
graves are neatly kept, white stones take
the place of grey: but they are not so strong,
and in a less number of years, than have
passed over those before described, no trace
of them will be found. Nice iron fences
surround the graves, while lovely flowers
and plants bloom over them On a stone
surrounding a grave, read the following:
“How glorious” a hand—pointing heaven-
ward—“are the feet of the righteous.”
	The lovely September weather, was one
to walk through the green lanes of Eng-
land. The day has been warm and balmy.
The sun is well rounded to the west, when
a visit to the old church at Tunstale is un-
dertaken. It is a lovely walk of two miles.
Entering the church, we find a workman
from London, who is repairing the organ,
and permits us to visit through the build-
ing. Many here too, are sleeping the last
earthly sleep. Some really fine monuments,
tell of the notable ones of other days. Some
are of clear yellow, white with roses and
leaves entwined, raised as a beau[-]iful bor-
der, all around the side they stand about
four feet high with Latin inscriptions on the
top, bearing date 12th century. Under the
stone floor are vaults, belonging to some of
the ancient families, some bearing only the
name. On a dark slab, over one just at the
foot of the channel, is the following: “In
memory of Lillian who died in the sure
hope of a glorious resurrection on the 4th
of January, 1809, aged 17 years. An error
in transposition, but it set the time of her
resurrection. In the church yard are some
also very queer. One reads to the memory
of M. Chambers. “What kind of a man he
was, the resurrection day will discover.”
	Here are some tall fine yew trees under
the wide spreading shade of one, are twenty-
five raised mounds. A quaint winding
path ascends to the church-yard, flowers
blooming all along the way while some del-
icate tea roses, adorn the surrounding plots.
Among the more modern, on a white stone
is an angel in gold, raised on the marble,
wings and all. It is a pretty place though
the grass here, is high and dark also.
	The city cemetery in Sittingbourne, the
walks are wide and white; lawns well kept,
white shrubs of various kinds, trimmed in-
to fantastic shapes, add to the beauty, and
general effect. It is laid out on a sloping
hill, not too steep, but rolling. Whether
one looks upon it from the main entrance,
or the one from the Recreation ground, it
is equally enchanting. It is strictly mod-
ern. The stones and crosses are of fine
white marble. On the graves bloom many
red geraniums, which show so plainly
among the tomb stones, taking away the
cemetery look by their warmth of color.
Near the main entrance stands the residence
of the keeper, almost buried among trees
and flowers. A short distance away, is the


building, with a high covered arch, on one
side the church, on the other the chapel.
Services are conducted in either, according
to the belief of the departed. Many fune-
rals drive straight through to the arch,
when the coffin is borne in on the shoulders
of six men.
	If the family is wealthy, the mlnister of
the Church of England clothed in his
black and white robes, proceeds down to
the entrance gate, and meets the procession,
reading as he slowly walks along in a
drawling, mournful voice, "I am the Res-
urrection and the life; whoso believeth in
me though he be dead, yet shall he be made
alive."
	The wealthy dead of the town are mostly
buried here. The trees attract attention,
so many varieties; some from other lands,
Scotland, America and elsewhere. Numer-
ous inscriptions many from the Holy Book
are written on the stones, while verses
adorn others, expressing the feelings of
those who mourn. Here are a few of the
original ones.
"Vain to the dead are tears, and vain is praise;
And vain each fond memorial we can raise;
The grave should teach, the grave should e'er im-
	part,
Such truths as melt the eye, and mend the heart."
"Sleep on beloved husband, take thy rest;
Lay down thy head upon thy Savior's breast;
We loved thee well, but Jesus loved thee best."
	"I shine in the light of God,
		His likeness stamps my brow;
	Through the shadow of Death, my feet
			have trod
		And I reign in glory now."
"He has gone, and the grave hath received hiim'
	It was Jesus who called him away;
He has gone to the Lord who redeemed him,
	From the night to the splendor of day."
		"Faint not for fear, His arms all near,
			He changeth not, and thou art dear;
		Only believe and thou shalt see
			That Christ is all in all to thee."
							LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHERS' WORK.
BEAVER STAKE.
	The object of Mother’s Work is to help
bring mankind to a higher standard through
the development, advancement and better-
ment of mothers.
	“Water does not rise higher than its
fountain.” “Nations do not rise higher or
faster than their women are climbing the
paths of progress.”
	“Mother, how divine your mission
		Here upon this natal sod!
	Keep, oh keep the young heart open
		Always to the breath of God.
	All true trophies of the ages
		Are from mother-love impearled;
	For the hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rules the world!”
Lesson I.—Pre-existencee.
	Ref. Job 38:3-7; Doc. and Cov., sec. 76:
13; Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 25; 12.
	I. Pre-natal Individuality.
	Ref. Gen. 25:21-24; Doc. and Cov., sec.
29:36; Rev. 12; 7-12; Pearl of Great Price,
pp. 9, 41.
	II. Pre-natal Influences.
	a. Heredity—ancestral characteristics and
influences. b. Parental influences, espec-
ially the mother’s. Judges 13:1-5. c.
Dwell on and emphasize which influence
should be courted and encouraged and
which restrained or avoided.
	III. Influence of Environments—mental-
ly, morally, socially, spiritually and physi-
cally.

[Column 2]
Lesson II.—Mortal Existence.
	Mortal existence—The union of the spirit
and element.
	I. Object of mortal existence—That we
may receive a fulness of joy which can
only be obtained through experience gained
in a mortal state. Doc and Cov., 93:33,
34.
	II. Channel of mortal existence—Parent-
hood—the only channel through which this
object may be attained.
	a. Importance of parenthood. Millions
of spirits yet unborn who are entitled to
mortal existence. We who have received
this blessing, are under moral obligation to
in turn do our part for those who are yet to
receive bodies. (The first great command-
ment, Gen. 1:28). To what extent are we
obligated to fulfill this divine injunction?
b. Reproductive faculties—The greatest
given by God to man. The highest penal-
ties attached to the abuse of these faculties
—Morally, intellectually, socially, spiritu-
ally and physically. What bearing does
the second commandment have on this sub-
ject? Exodus, 20:5, 6.
Lesson III. —Motherhood
	“The mother in her office holds the key
of the soul; and she it is who stamps the
coin of character.”
	1.True mother-love.
	a. Compare true mother-love with vanity.
b.Will true mother-love shield a child from
all responsibility and hardship? c. From
just punishment or reproof? d. The grati-
fication of the child’s desires or the mother's
present convenience, will not be considered
in preference to the ultimate good of the
child.
Lesson IV—Infancy.
	I. Influence of the mother.
		“Would you know the baby’s skies?
		Baby s skies are mother’s eyes—
		Mother’s eyes and smiles together
		Make the baby’s pleasant weather!
		Mother, keep your eyes from tears,
		Keep your heart from foolish fears,
		Keep your lips from dull complaining
		Lest the baby thinks its raining.”
	a. Whether we will or not, it is at the
cradle that education begins. b. How do
a mother’s looks and tone of voice affect the
infant physically? 
	II. Physical care.
	a. The bath—Cleanliness is next to God-
liness. Explain the benefits of bathing. Is
it wise to bathe delicate babies daily? b.
Dress. Comfort the primary consideration.
c. Food. Regularity. Great care should
be taken in the selection, preparation and
quantity of artificial food. d. Benefits of
sufficient sleep taken regularly. e. Neces-
sity of fresh air and sunshine to the well-
being and development of the baby. f. The
evil effects of excitement.
Lesson V.— Childhood--Physical Develop-
	ment.
	I. Food.
	a. Plain, nourishing and easily digested.
b. Name suitable foods. c. Condiments
and too much sweets and meats should be
avoided. d. Cultivate proper appetites
while young. e. Watch the digestion.
	II. Clothing.
	a. Plain and loose. b. Bad effect of
high-heeled shoes. c. Benefits of going
barefoot.
	III. Necesssty of regular bathing and
care of the teeth.
	IV. Proper poise of the body necessary
to health and grace.

[Column 3]
	V. A reasonable amount of work should
be provided to properly develop brain and
muscle.
	VI. Give the good effects of ventilation
and airing of beds.
Lesson VI.—Power of Example.
	I. Example a more effective teacher than
precept.
	II. Parents’ words and actions are re-
flected in the children, therefore the import-
ance of speaking proper and pure language.
	III. Consider the degrading effects of
slang, impure language, indecent jokes and
loud laughter.
	IV. Profanity—Third commandment.
	V. Gossip, evil and lightly speaking and
irreverence for sacred things. Beware of
destroying the influence of teachers and re-
ligious and secular authority by making
slighting remarks of same.
Lesson VII.— Obedience and Order.
	I. Necessity of obedience.
	II. Value of prompt obedience.
	III. Obedience the parent of order. Or-
der is the best manager of time, the prime
agent in private economy, accumulator of
wealth, the preserver of peace and the pro-
moter of home comfort and happiness.
	a. How does order put confusion to
flight? b. Give the value of order in the
expenditure of means and in the manage-
ment of housework. c. Explain how order
and industry are the soul of household
thrift.
	IV. Teach orderly habits.
	a. Economy of putting things in their
proper places.
Lesson VIII.—Industry.
	Labor—All labor is noble and holy. Let
thy great deeds be a prayer to thy God.
1. Industry is the soul of thrift. Explain
how. 2. Explain how industry promotes
health and dispels melancholy. 3. Why is
constant, wholesome occupation necessary
for the intellectual, moral, spiritual and
physical growth of she child? 5. Give the
benefits of children waiting upon themselves
as much as possible and bearing some re-
sponsibility in the household. 5. What is
the best plan for creating in children a love
for work? Is it wise for mothers to hire
their children to labor?
Lesson IX.—Discipline.
	“Train up a child in the way it should go
and when it is old it will not depart there-
from.” 1. How does discipline contribute to
the pea e, order and comfort of the home?
2. Give the advantage of children who are
trained at home, by wise parents, in the
habits of industry, thrift, attention, study
and cheerful obedience, over those who are
not. 3. Name the blessings of children
who are disciplined by parents in purity,
love, gentleness, kindness and a sacred rev-
erence for right and the Great Creator and
Redeemer. 4. Necessity of proper parental
control. a. Unity and harmony necessary
in successful parental government. b. Par-
ents cannot hope to govern successfully un-
less they practice self control, 5. Show the
bad effects of deceit and broken promises of
parents to children. 6. Discuss the best
methods of controling and punishing chil-
dren.
Lesson X.—Deportment.
	1. Respect to parents, brothers, and sis-
ters. a. Children who respect the authority
in the home will be respectful to the auth-


ority of school teachers, their superiors in
temporal affairs and the authority of God,
which is manifested through His prophets.
	2. Self-respect. a. Show how children
who are trained in proper self-respect will
not stoop to do anything mean improper, or
unbecoming. 3. Show the beauties of con-
sideration and kindness to the aged and in
firm, sympathy for the maimed, crippled
and deformed and charity for those who
falter and fail. 4. Explain the necessity
of training children to respect public and
private property. 5. Due reverence for
houses of worship and all other sacred
places and things, also the Lord’s anointed.
Lesson XI.—Gospel Training.
	The commandments of God concerning
the rearing of our children. Doc. and Cov.
68, Sec. beginning at verse 25. 1. Give
methods of promoting faith in the child. a.
Show how prayer develops and strengthens
its faith. b. Explain how faith in the
promises of God helps children to resist
temptation. 2 The necessity of parents
teaching their children true repentance. a.
Give the evil effects upon the child of un-
repented sins. Forgiveness is the sure re-
ward of repentance. 3. Prayer a divine
command. The authorized channel of com-
munication between God and man in all
ages. a. Object—to direct the mind of man
to his Creator, b. Show the necessity and
give the benefits of prayer. c. Discuss the
proper mode and time for prayer. d. Give
the value of children taking part in family
prayer and asking a blessing upon the food.
e. Parents, particularly the mother divine-
ly commisioned to direct the infant mind to
God through prayer.
Lesson XII.—Continuation of Gospel Train-
	ing.—Tithing
	1. Law of God. Lev. 27th ch., 30-34.
Doc and Cov. 119 sec. a. Name some of
the blessings to be gained by obedience to
the law of tithing. Mal. 3: 10; 11, 12
Prov. 3. b. Parents should teach and train
their children that one tenth of their earn-
ings and income after they become mem-
bers of the Church, belongs to the Lord,
and that they have no right to use it. 2. It
is an imperative duty of parents to see that
their children attend regularly the Sunday
School, Primary Association and Religion
Class, and that all parts are prepared for
the same. a. Discuss how these organiza-
tions are especial helps to parents in rearing
and training their children in the fear and
admonition of the Lord. b. Explain how the
child is benefitted spiritually, morally and
intellectually by attending these organiza-
tions. Parents must live the Gospel them-
selves, if they expect their children to be-
come good Latter-day Saints.
			ALICE G. WHITE,
			MARY A. WHITE,
			MARY E. GUNN HARRIS,
			SARAH C. MAESER,
			MARY FERNLEY,
						Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Some Utah women have sailed on board
the Cretic expecting to attend while ab-
sent the International Congress to be held
in Berlin, Germany. Alice Merrill Horne,
Lydia D. Alder, Miss Ludina Christenson
and Miss May Alder. Mrs. Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Mi[-]s Foster, Mrs. Mary S.
Horne and Miss Lillian Horne intend to
sail June 2, on the Cretic.


LOVING WORDS
O, loving words, speak loving words,
	The world is full of care
Speak loving words, O, loving words
	And with them breathe a pray’r,
Speak loving words, such loving words,
	The path is rocky-steep
So oft we stumble, lose the way,
	The road is hard to keep.
Oft times the fair day ends in gloom
	Fierce storm clouds break o’er head
The sun goes down, e’en at its noon,
	Its glory—warmth all fled
Life’s storms cross o’er and o’er our way,
	Such bitter tears are shed
As in the chamber lone we weep,
	Alone but for our dead.
Speak loving words, speak loving words
	They soothe the heart, the tear,
It is the way the Master trod
	E’en was the sparrow dear.
The sad, distressed and weary bless.
	They unto God are dear;
For lo, the Savior waiting stands
	To wipe away each tear.
Speak loving words, speak loving words
	The broken heart, bind up,
So in the trial you are blessed
	Though ’tis a bitter cup.
Some day, your Savior you will meet,
	His glorious face will see;
He wept in anguish on the sod;
	Prayed in Gethsemane.
Then loving words He’ll speak to you.
	Who helped the suff’rer live,
And crowns and kingdoms wildering fair,
	To you He yet may give.
Then feed the poor, the needy aid.
	Speak loving words so sweet,
Thus endless blessings will be yours,
	Love twines them round your feet.
					LYDIA, D. ALDER.


NEW YORK LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	I enjoy reading your little paper, which is al-
ways full of instructive reading, I take great
pleasure in watching the progress that is being
made by our Relief Society organizations at home
and throughout the world.
	I am sorry to note that so many of our faithful
workers seem to be passing away. Only a few
seem to be left to tell us of the interesting inci-
dents of the early days of the Church.
	We held a meeting here in New York on the
17th March, in commemoration of the first Relief
Society organization, as I presume was done in
most of the places where there is a society. We
had a nice program; and spent an agreeable
evening.
	Our society here, though not very large, is in
good condition, and all seem to be desirous of do-
ing what they can for its advancement. It is
composed mostly of those who have embraced the
Gospel here, though a number of our sisters from
home have been enrolled from time to time; but,
of course, their stay is of short duration. We have
felt, however, their support, both in an intellectual
as well as a financial way, for which we feel very
grateful.
	The sisters here are energetic, and full of faith,
and are anxious to learn all they can. and what
they can best do to forward the interests of the
cause.
	We have been able to do quite a good deal of
charitable work. Our means is obtained mostly
by entertainments and from members of the soci-
ety, as it has not been deemed practical as yet to
carry out the system we have at home, the distanc-
es between the homes of the Saints being so
great. Some are located here, others in Brooklyn
and elsewhere.
	Most of our meetings are held here, but we en-
deavor to hold one every month in Brooklyn,
where much interest is always taken and a good
spiri t prevails.
	We hold sewing classes quite often, but many
that woul d like to attend are holding positions
and are engaged during the day, so that our at-
tendance is small; but we have been able to ac-
complish a good deal in aiding those who are not
able to get such work done any other way. As
soon as we relieve those conditions we intend
making articles to sell—we have already a quilt
almost completed, which we think will bring a
nice sum.
	We have devoted much of the winter to


studying the “Women of the Bible.” It has
been very interesting, and I assure you very
profitable. We also hold a monthly meeting
either at my house or at President McQuar-
rie’s. In this meeting the Elders are invited to
meet with us. A paper is read by one of the sis-
ters, and the topic fully discussed. A great deal
of interest is taken, and much valuable instruc-
tion is derived from such meetings.
	The sisters express great satisfaction from the
lessons and experience that they are having,
which they feel are calculated to better fit them
for the defense of their faith, which is so often
required of them, especially when the “Mormon
question” is agitated, as it is so frequently is by
the press.
	I feel very much endeared to the sisters associ-
ated with me, whom I believe to be loyal and true
Latter-day Saints. Many of them are called upon
to make great sacrifices and have much prejudice
to overcome, but through prayer and unbounded
faith are triumphant.
	The secretary has forwarded reports, or fur-
nished them, rather, to the conference, which I
presume you have received in due time.
	I had no idea of giving you such a detailed ac-
count when I started to write, but thinking that
you might want to hear something of what we
are doing here, I have ventured to trespass upon
your valuable time,
	With sincere regards, your sister in the Gospel,
						EMILY M. CUMMINGS.


D. R. MEETING.
	The regular monthly meeting of the U.
S. S. D. R. was held on Saturday, April 16,
at the residence of Mrs. T. G. Webber, at
3 p.m. Vice Regent Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie presiding in the absence of the Re-
gent Mrs. I. M. W. Sears. Prayer was
offered by the chaplain Mrs. P. T. Farns-
worth and the reading of minutes and tran-
saction of miscellaneous business was at-
tended to as usual, after which the Secre-
tary Mrs. George A. Smith read the paper
prepared by the Regent. The subject was
General (Marquis) De La Fayette, and was
well written and contained much valuable
information concerning this great and good
man, the friend of Washington and of lib-
erty, that ought to be garnered in the
minds of every patriotic woman. Mrs.
Smith read the paper with much pathos as
though she loved her subject, and it was
very evident Mrs. Sears had put deep feel-
ing into its construction and arrangement.
Mrs. Mira Young Rossiter gave the story
which was quite diverting on account of its
giving much of the fashion of the La Fay-
ette period, and was quite apropos to the
time. Mrs. Richards, (mother of Mrs.
Webber) recalled some incidents concern-
ing these fantastic costumes worn some
years afterwards, and Mrs. E. B. Wells re-
membered hearing her mother tell many
times of meeting La Fayette on his last
visit to the United States. Mrs. Julia F.
Lund read with great fervor the Star
Spangled Banner and the Marsailles, the
National songs of both the countries La Fay-
ette loved so well.
	There were present three or four invited
guests, friends of the hostess, who seemed
to enjoy the meeting very much.
	The handsome parlor and library were
decorated with stars and stripes and the
colors of the Society; and delicions refresh-
ments were daintily served after which the
meeting adjourned to May 16, to be held at
the home of Mrs. George A. Smith.
						E.B.W.


Mrs Jennie Nelson of Ogden has been
elected by the Utah State Republican Con-
vention an alternate delegate to the National
Republican Convention. In a state where
women cast half the votes a woman delegate
should have been elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1904


CONFERENCE, LUNCHEON AND
			RECEPTION.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall in this city, Saturday, April 2,
1904, meetings commencing at 10 a. m. and
at 2 p. m., as usual, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding. The stands were
very prettily decorated with flowers and
potted plants and presented a pleasing
appearance. The Relief Society banner,
which was made for the Jubilee of the
Church in 1880, was displayed upon the
organ. This banner is quite large and is
made of home made silk, heavily fringed
and handsome lettering. The Assem-
bly Hall was filled with sisters, and a few
brethren, and most of the stakes of Zion
were represented by officers, many of them
from long distances.
	A luncheon was given by the General
Relief Society at the noon hour, from 12
m to 2 p. m., at the residence of Bishop
W. J. Beatie, 55 N. West Temple, con-
venient to the Assembly Hall, and about
one hundred guests were entertained at
tables. It was a very pleasant affair and
gave the sisters from a distance an oppor-
tunity of meeting their president and coun-
selors and others in a social way, where
they could enter into conversation, exchange
greetings and get a little better acquainted
with each other.
	Monday evening, April 4, a reception
was tendered the Relief Society Stake pres-
dents and officers by the General Society,
at the residence of First Counselor, Annie
Taylor Hyde. Invitations had also been
issued to the First Presidency of the Church,
the Patriarch, the Apostles, Presidents of
Seventies, Presiding Bishops and other
Church authorities, also to the Presidency
and General Board of the Young Ladies’
and Young Men’s Associations.
	The elegant parlors and dining hall of
Brother and Sister Hyde’s residence were
handsomely decorated for the occasion and
the affair was altogether one long to be
remembered. There was delightful music
and some vocal selections given by Sister
Maggie C. Hull and others. Brief ad-
dresses were made by the General Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and by President
Jane S Richards, of Weber Stake, Presi-
dent Emma S Smith of Snowflake Stake
Arizona, President Ann C. Woodbury, of
St. George Stake and others.
	The evening was most enjoyable, and
as this is the first reception given by the
General Society to the officers of the sever-


al stakes and missions, it is an event wor-
thy of special importance and one of sig-
nificance.


[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE PIONEERS.
	The annual meeting of the Daughters of
the Pioneers was held at the residence of its
Founder-General Sister Annie Taylor Hyde
on April 11, 1904. Meeting opened with
prayer by the Chaplain, Sister Margaret P.
Young, Counselor Isabel M. Whitney
Sears, took charge of the meeting in the ab-
sence of the President, Sister Alice Merrill
Horne, Counselor Elizabeth S. Wilcox was
also present, Secretary read the minutes of
the last annual meeting—and the names of
the daughters whose papers were ready,
were read by the Secretary and they were
admitted to membership in the Society.
	The program for the year which had been
prepared by a Committee consisting of the
President Alice Merrill Horne, [-]er Coun-
selors, Sisters Isabel M. W. Sears and Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox also, the Historian of the
Society, Sister Edna L. Smith and Treasurer
Minnie Horne James was submitted for ap-
proval and accepted by the meeting.
	Sister Alice K. Smith gave the history of
the Society with a sketch of its Founder
Annie Taylor Hyde which was very inter-
esting and contained many important items
valuable to the Society which is one of
great historical value to the Latter-day
Saints perpetuating the memory of heroes
and heroines, the pioneers of the Great
American Desert.
	Sister Zina Young Card one of our
most eloquent speakers addressed the meet-
ing, her subject being, “A Broken and a
Contrite Heart,” dealing with the martyr-
dom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the
Church. A most pathetic theme which she
handled with the true spirit of a Saint in
very deed.
	Remarks appropriate to the occasion were
made by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson. The meet-
ing must have been significant of the great
work which the Society has undertaken,
viz., to follow out the plan of forming com-
panies of tens, fifties and hundreds as did
the original pioneers.
	The President has mapped out work that
seems almost marvelous in theory and scope
and will give those engaged in its develop-
ment an experience specially educational in
the history of the past half century.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Pioneers was held on Sat-
urday April 23, 1904, at the home of Sister
Phebe Young Beatie at 3:30 p. m. Counse-
lor Isabel M. W. Sears in charge. As it was
a very stormy day the attendance was
light, but the meeting was enjoyable, after
prayer by the Chaplain, Miss Phebe
Scholes gave a reading from the journal of
her grandfather, President Wilford Wood-
ruff which gave an accurate description of
the entrance of the pioneers into the Salt
Lake Valley and of other important inci-
dents in connection thereto, Sister Clarissa
S. Williams read in a tender voice and most
effective style the hymn, “A poor wayfaring
man of grief,” before commencing Sister
Williams gave in brief a good word picture
of the author of the hymn and brief sketch
of his life work.
	Sister Lucy Russell Pratt read a paper
written by herself on her mother’s life,
Sister Hannahette Snively Pratt a pioneer
of 47 and combined with it something of
the history of her aunt her mother’s sister,

[Column 2]
Susannah S. Young, their lives were in
many respects similar. Sister Nettie Y. Eas-
ton was invited to speak of her mother, Sis-
ter Clara D. Young the first pioneer woman,
and said a few words in praise of her noble
character, mentioned some of her charitable
deeds. After the closing exercises meeting
adjourned to meet at Sister W. N. Will-
ams, May 24, 1904.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters will please excuse the minutes
of the General Conference of the Relief So-
ciety not appearing in this number as it
was impossible to prepare them in time.
They will appear in the May number of the
paper.
	There are now four new Stake organiza-
tions of the Relief Society in Salt Lake Co.
Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign, as
yet no Conferences of these Relief Society
organizations have been held, but will be
probably in the near future.
	Sisters Mary Alice C. Lambert and Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson have been appointed by
the General President to attend Cache Stake
Relief Society Conference at Logan, April
30, and Hyrum Stake Conference May 2,
1904.
	On Friday, April 22, 1904, the first Re-
lief Society Conference of the Blackfoot
Stake of Zion was held in Shelley, Idaho,
the newly elected President Ann H. Walk-
er presiding. Sisters Emily S. Richards
and Priscilla Smith representatives from the
General Board attended the Conference and
gave instructions.
	By invitation of the President of Relief
Society Morgan Stake, Sisters Mary Alice
C. Lambert and Lydia D. Alder attended
the Relief Society Conference of that Stake
of Zion, on Sunday, April 17. Sister Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson attended the Relief So-
ciety Conference of Davis Stake held at
Centerville, April 28, by invitation.
	We have on hand minutes of many Re-
lief Society Conferences and Seventeenth of
March celebrations, we are glad the sisters
send them in and such condensed minutes
as we can find space for will be used, but
the material is at hand to help make history,
and therefore it is not sent in vain. The
Outlines of Mother’s Work have taken
much of the space in our little paper and
we trust our sisters understand and appre-
ciate this fact as it has been with a view of
helping the branches in their respective lo-
calities.


BRIEF HISTORY OF THE STAKE BOARD
	PRIMARY ASSOCIATION OF THE SALT
	LAKE STAKE.

	After the first organization of the Primary
Associations by Sister Eliza R. Snow, the 
associations increased so rapidly throughout
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion that it was de-
cided to organize in a Stake capacity.
	The first stake organization was effected
on June 19, 1880, Ellen C. Clawson being
chosen as president, with Camilla C. Cobb
as first and Annie Davis (now Watson) as
second counselors, and Vilate Young as
secretary. Shortly after Lydia A. Wells
was appointed second counselor, Annie
Davis having resigned
	The sisters held these positions until the 
death of Sister Clawson which occurred in
1896, she having held the office of president
for seventeen years, during which time a


[Column 1]
number of changes had been made in the
secretaryship, Vilate Young was followed
by Caroline C. Raleigh, as secretary, after
which Bessie Dean was appointed. Ida
Whipple followed Sister Dean and held the
position until 1896, when she offered her
resignation. During the seventeen years
of the existence of this organization great
progress had been made in the advancement,
of Primary work in the Salt Lake Stake
	On September 12, 1896, a reorganization
of the Stake Board was effected. Camilla
C. Cobb having been a very efficient work-
er was selected as president, and she chose
for her counselors Lydia A Wells and
Mary L. Morris, with Ella W. Hyde as
secretary. Catherine Wells as treasurer,
Julia C. Howe and Ida Whipple Taylor as
aids.
	As the associations multiplied and the
Primary work increased, President Cobb
found it necessary to call more aids to her
assistance, and on June 5, 1897 she ap-
pointed Jane S. Hill and Lauretta Corn-
wall as aids to visit the country wards.
	On May 7, 1898, she also appointed as
aids to the Stake Board, Jessie P. Jones,
Fanny Wool[-]ey, Mary A. Tudenham and
Eliza Bergen, and soon after this Millie P.
Bassett and Clara Beebe were added to the
list of aids. As the work advanced, more
aids were required and on May 4, 1900.
Betsy Howarth and Josephine Woolley
were appointed.
	On August 4, 1900, the organist, Sister
Laura Cushing, having resigned, Lizzie
Thomas was appointed stake organist. On
March 2, 1901, Mary L. Morris offered her
resignation as second counselor in the Stake
Board on account of ill health, and Fanny
Woolley was appointed in her place, and in
September of the same year, Sister Woolley
having been called on a mission to Colorado,
Millie P. Bassett was chosen to fill that
vacancy.
	As the ranks of the aids were reduced,
Olive Pixton was appointed on October 12,
1901 to act in that capacity. On May 3,
1902, Emma Jeremy and Lucy Chanberlain
were selected, and on May 2, 1903, Mary
T. Smith was appointed an aid, making a
complete band of noble, energetic workers
in the Primary cause.
	On April 11, 1903, Nellie Penrose Whit-
ney was appointed Stake Chorister, and
with her musical experience, combined
with the efficient service of Lizzie Thomas,
the musical department has been one of
the most pleasing features in the Primary
conferences and entertainments.
	In January, 1902, the Children’s Friend
the organ of the Primary Associations,
published by the General Board, was issued
and has since been a guide to the associa-
tion, lessons being prepared for each grade.
Since its introduction into the associations,
they have been conducted more uniformly,
and better work has been done.
	Since the reorganization of the Stake
Board in 1896, great improvement has
been made in Primary work in the Salt
Lake Stake of Zion. Through the untir-
ing efforts and wide experience of President
Comilla C. Cobb, and the aid and co-oper-
ation of her co-laborers, the associations
have increased in numbers and member- 
ship, and have been raised to a much
higher standard of excellence than form-
erly.
	Too much praise cannot be given to
President Cobb for her untiring zeal for the
advancement of the work, for her moth-
erly counsel and advice, and her loving

[Column 2]
words of encouragement, which will ever
be remembered by those who received them,
and will be a guide to those who may con-
tinue in the work.
	The Primary Stake Board has now dis-
solved on account of the division of the
Salt Lake Stake, but the members of the old
Board will always hold in affectionate re-
membrance the years they labored together
with love in their hearts for each other and
the children for whom they labored.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ELIZABETH PIXTON.
	Sister Pixton, who was called suddenly
from this life, March 21, 1904, to join her
husband and loved ones who had gone be-
fore, had been for many years a conspicu-
ous figure in this vicinity; she was a wom-
an of great strength of character, and un-
common executive ability. She will be
missed in various ways, and in many
places. She was a woman of great integ-
rity to the Gospel and of a generous na-
ture, her good deeds will live in the mem-
ory of many whom she helped without
letting “her right hand know what the
left hand doeth,” according to the scrip-
ture.
	Sister Pixton was president of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville at the time of
her death, and had held the office over
twenty years.
	A sketch of her life was published in
the EXPONENT, February 15, 1900, short-
ly after she had celebrated her 80th birth-
day anniversary. On that happy occasion
about three hundred people assembled in
her honor at the meeting house in Tay-
lorsville. Many tributes were given her at
that time of affection and friendship, and
she was honored by all present each of the
speakers testifying to the high esteem in
which she was held by the community,
and her liberality to the poor and needy
was favorably commented upon.—E. B. W.
	The Relief Society officers of the Granite
Stake of Zion, to which she belonged,
wishing to do honor to her memory have
prepared the following—
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our much esteemed sister and
colaborer, has by the hand of divine prov-
idence been removed from our midst, and
has, we feel confidently assured, gone to a
better world, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express
our tender sympathy for the bereaved fam-
ily, and to acknowledge her labors and
ministrations of kindness, as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word.
Therefore be it
	Resolved, we do humbly testify that
charity and humility were leading traits of
her character, and that her last act the day
before her death was one of charity, and
that her simple and unassuming manner
was beautifully illustrated in her last re-
quest, “that her coffin should be plain and
no flowers placed upon it, as the money
could be used to better advantage.”
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and that they and the sisters of the
society over which she presided so long
may follow her noble example of diligence
and faithfulness.
	Resolved that these resolutions be re-


corded in our stake record and also pre-
sented to the family and published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMA S. WOODRUFF,
MARY P. YOUNG,
CATHARINE H. BROCKBANK,
	In behalf of Granite Stake Relief Society.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The above class will commence Septem-
ber 19th, 1904, continuing eight months.
Four lessons a week will be given by Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, the class instructor,
and lectures by other physicians and sur-
geons of Salt Lake. There will also be a
course of lectures on cooking and ot her im-
portant subjects connected with the nurse
profession, by members of the General
Board of the Relief Society or by those
whom they may appoint.
	Charge of tuition $10 00.
	Students will furnish their own text
books designated by the Class Instructor.
	The students shall each sign a contract
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days or
whatever pay shall be designated by the
superintendent for two years from the date
of graduation.
	Anyone desiring to take the nurse course
and not paid for by the Relief Society of
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract.
All correspondence on this subject should
be addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55
N. West Temple Street.
				EMMA A. EMPEY,
	Superintendent Relief Society Nurses’
		Classes.


MOTHERS' WORK.
PAROWAN STAKE.
Lecture I.—Pre-existence of spirits.
	Sing Hymn, “O My Father.” Give a
talk explaining the doctrine expressed in
the hymn. Speaker read the hymn, as proof
that we have a Father in Heaven. Prove
that all existed with God and His only be-
gotten Son before we came to this earth.
What was our condition in our pre-exis-
tant state?
	References.—John, 1 14. John 16, 28.
John 17th, 5. Heb. 12, 9. Matt. 6. 9. Job
38, 4 7. Num. 27, 16. Ecc 12, 7. John 3,
2. Jer 1, 4-5. Rev. 12, 7-9. As set forth in
“Woman who art thou, What is thy Mis-
sion, By Pres. John Taylor. Added upon.
Jude 6.
	Questions.—1. What proofs have we
that we have a Father and Mother in
Heaven? Read explanation on marriage in
Compendium, also Gen. 1, 7. 2. Had we
developed as thoroughly as we could in the
spirit world? 3. Did we all keep our first
estate?
Lecture 2.—Object of existence.
	(a) Whence we came, (b) Who we are,
(c) Where are we going? (d) Object is to
benefit humanity and to gain eternal life.
	References.—(a) Pearl of Great Price,
page 32. Alma 13, 3-7. Eph. 1, 3-4-5.
Tit. 1, 2. (b) John 3, 2. Heb. 12, 9. (c)
I Nephi, 28, 8. Doc. and Cov. 43, 44-45.
Ecc. 12, 7. Pearl of Great Price, page 22.
Rev. 20, 6. Doc. and Cov. 29, II. (d)
Multiply and replenish the earth. Gen. 1,
28.
	Questions.—Will all get back to our
Father’s home? Doc. and Cov. 29, 9-14-21.
What was the first commandment given to
Adam and Eve? When was it given? How


[Column 1]
can we benefit humanity? How may we
gain eternal life.

Lecture 3.—Divinity of Parents Mission.

	Love and attributes as God planted them
in the human heart for a holy purpose. Mar-
riage a divine covenant for the propagation
of the race. Woman as a helpmate.
	References.—Read articles on marriage
(Com) John 5, 42. Tit. 3, 4. 1 Cor. 11, 11.
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132. Sec. 49, 15-18.
1 Cor. 11, 3-12. Gen. 2, 24. Doc. and Cov.
Sec. 23. Gen. 2, 18.
	Questions.—Why is love implanted in
the human heart? 2. Is the mutual attrac-
tion of the sexes proper? 3 Enumerate the
ways in which women can be truly help-
mates. 4. When was woman divinely
chosen to be a mother? 5. What is truly
woman’s mission?

[-]ecture 4.

	(a) As mothers in Israel what manner
of women should we be? (b) Very prayer-
ful. (c) A sound mind in a sound body.
(d) Deportment to husband and children.
(e) Seek knowledge from all good sources,
truth, wisdom and the Holy Spirit. (f)
Motherhood a gift from God.
	References.—Doc and Cov. The prayer-
ful life by A. O. Woodruff, Young Wo-
man’s Journal Jan. 1[-]04. Eph. 5 chapter
22-25 vs.
	Questions.—1. What are some of the qual-
ifications necessary to be a true mother in
Israel? 2. Was the 25th Sec of the Doc.
and Cov. given for Emma Smith only? 3.
Should mothers devote their time entirely
to their home? 4. Why is it necessary to
keep our bodies sound and healthy? 5.
Why should we be careful in our deport-
ment around our home? 6. Is Motherhood
a gift from God?

Lecture 5—Prospective Mother.

	What shall we do to have our babies
healthy and happy? A life in harmony
with the gospel is the perfect example.
Discuss the physical needs of the body.
Freedom of dress, out door exercise, clean-
liness, food, fresh air and sunshine. Power
to guide and control oneself. Study well
one’s character before undertaking the grave
responsibility of Motherhood.
	Questions.—1. Give experiences what ef-
fect certain tendencies of the mother have
upon the child. 2. Does our temporal con-
dition effect our children? 3. To what ex-
tent should women exercise?

Lecture VI.

	Mental development, choice of literature.
The social life of the mother Spiritual de-
velopment, following the steps of the Sav-
ior. Parents may have the kind of spirits
they are worthy of.
	Questions.—1. What course should a
mother take in order that her child may
have the proper development? 2. What do
you think of mothers going into society
during this period? 3. Did the Roman and
Grecian nations honor prospective mothers?
4. Were children welcome by the Jewish
nation?

Lecture VII Care of the Infant.

	The baby’s wardrobe. How to care for
the infant. Discuss ventilation and sleep-
ing apartments. The baby’s food, when to
feed and quantity. Baby’s bath, baby’s ills
and how to treat them.
	Questions.—1. How should baby be

[Column 2]
dressed? 2. Why have flannel next to the
skin? Should the clothes be long or short?
3. Do you think a child should be fed at
regular intervals? 4. Why should a child
be bathed and how often? 5. Should a
baby learn to creep before it walks? 6.
Should a child be given water often? 7.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient,
what artificial food do you think best?

Lecture VIII.—First Years of the Child.

	Obedience is heavens first law. As the
twig is bent so the tree inclines. “Too
much indulgence has spoiled many a child,
too much love not one. Love brought the
child into the world and the more love we
give them the more we have for ourselves.”
“Love begets love.” Home is the child’s
world. Keep it uppermost in our
minds. One of the first steps is to gain
the child’s confidence. Habits are formed
in infancy.
	Questions.—What lessons of obedience
should a child learn in the first five years of
its life? 2 Illustrate love and indulgence.
3. In what way would we have more love
if we gave more? 4. Should we gratify the
child’s wishes about pleasure and outings?
5. How can we gain a child’s confidence?
6.What habits are formed in infancy?

Lecture IX.—Physical Development.

	Teach the child proper attitudes. Observ-
ance of the Word of Wisdom is essential to
physical development. The rights of chil-
dren in the home. Pay strict attention to
questions and give suitable answers. To
put children off or to send them away, what
effect does it have on the child’s character
	Questions.—1. What are proper attitudes.
2. How shall we entertain our children in
the home? 3. Should each child have some
part in keeping up the home? 4. What
effect has responsibility on character? 5.
How far should the freedom of a child ex-
tend in the home? 5. Why are idle mo-
ments dangerous to the child?

Lesson X.—Mental, Moral and Social
	Development.

	Overcome evil with good. Encourage
virtue and vice will disappear. Selection of
good books and companions should be
taught early in life. A mother’s influence.
The part a mother takes in the forming of
character cannot be over-estimated. It is a
social duty to be cleanly of speech, person
and dress.

	True politeness is to do and say,
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.

	Questions.—1. How can we overcome
evil with good? 2. Illustrate how we can
encourage virtue? 3. Name some good
books suitable for children of all ages. 4.
llustrate how a mother helps to form a
child’s character. 5. Why should we be
clean of speech, person and dress?

Lecture XI.—Spiritual Development.

	Each day should properly begin with
prayer. Peace, love and contentment come
from within. Christ the true ideal. One
life which embodies all the virtues, should
be made the example in the life of all. Give
special religious training in order that hon-
or for the priesthood may be fostered. Why
should the lesson of obedience be one of the
foundation stones of character building.
How is obedience connected with our spir-
tual progress?
	Questions.—1. Why should each day begin
with prayer? 2. Do favorable temporal sur-

[Column 3]
roundings make us contented and happy?
3. How do parents constantly teach morals
good and bad to their children? 4. How
soon does a child have a moral sense? 5.
What special religious training should be
given in order that children may obey or
honor the Priesthood?

Lecture XII.— The Development of the
	Child to Man and Womanhood.

	Teach the child the sacred laws of life be-
fore he gains the knowledge from evil
minds. Be sure you have his confidence
and then pay strict attention to every need.
Assist the children in choosing suitable
companions and books. During the devel-
opment period the boy and girl should be
tenderly and wisely guarded.
	Questions—Do you think children should
be taught the sacred laws of life, and how
soon? How can we gain their confidence,
and what are their needs? How can we as-
sist our children in choosing their compan-
ions and books? To what extent should
our boys and girls be allowed to participate
in dancing and other exciting pastime?

		WOODRUFF STAKE.

Lecture I.—Mission of Woman.

	a. Influence of womanhood. b. Trials
and temptations of woman. c. What are
the accomplishments of women?

Lecture II.—Qualifications for Married
	Life.

	a. How to make oneself worthy of a good
husband. b. Desirable traits of character
in the opposite sex.

Lecture III.—Marriage.

	a. Marriage ordained of God. b. The
necessity of Marriage. c. Knowledge gained
by obedience to the laws of God.

Lecture IV—Marriage (continued.)

	a. Teach the sacredness of the Temple
marriage compared with the temporal. b.
Dwell upon the rights of eternal inherit-
ance. c. Warn against disinheritance.

Lecture V.—The Home.

	a. Kingdom of woman, she should reign
as queen. b. The necessity of contentment
in the home.

Lecture VI.—Prenatal Culture.

	a. Parents should learn the lesson of self-
control. b. Preparation for motherhood.
c. Proper diet. d. Cleanliness.
			SARAH TYSON,
						President.
			ALICE JACKSON,
			HANNAH TELFORD,
			KATIE EPPICK,
			PEARL BROUGH,
			AMELIA JACKSON,
						Committee.

		JORDAN STAKE.

“Woman, know thyself
	And know thy mission too,
Thou camest from thy Maker’s
		hand,
	A mighty work to do.”
				Eliza R. Snow.

Lecture I.—Woman.

	a. Infancy.—1. Food, 2. Hygiene. 3.
Dress. b. Childhood—1. Manners. 2. Oc-
cupation. 3. Play. c. Maidenhood—1. Mor-


al training. 2. Education. d. Wifehood.
e. Motherhood.
There is none
“In all this cold and hollow world no fount
Of deep, strong, deathless love like that
	within
A mother’s heart!”
Mrs. Hemans.
Le[-]ture II.—Home.
	a. Orderly and attractive. b. School of
character. c. Proper literature. d. Econ-
omy.
	“A crust your own is a feast, but a feast
from creditors is famine.”
Lecture III.—Habit.
	a Self-denial. b. Purity. (Reference
“School and Fireside,” Karl G. Maeser.)
“The purest treasure mortal times afford,
Is—spotless reputation; that away,
Men are but gilded loam, or painted clay,
A jewel in a ten-times barred-up chest
Is—a bold Spirit in a loyal breast.”
Shakespeare.
Lecture IV—Dress.
“We sacrifice to dress, till household joys
And comforts cease. Dress drains our cel-
	lar dry,
And keeps our larder lean. Puts out the
	fires,
And introduces hunger, frost and woe,
Where peace and hospitality might reign.”
Cowper.
	a. Simplicity. b. Plain and neat. “The
body is the shell of the soul; the dress the
husk.’ c. Richest dress. “The richest dress
ts always worn on the soul. The adorn-
ments that will not perish and that all most
admire, shine from the heart through this
life. God has made it our highest, holiest
duty to dress the soul He has given us.”
d. Changes, Manners. “Men of sense fol-
low fashion only so far that they are neith-
er conspicuous for their excess nor peculiar
by their opposition to it.”
Lecture V.—Family Government.
	“Govern by kindness and love.”
Joseph Smith.
	a. Respect for Priesthood. b. Respect
of parents for each other. c. Respect of
parents for children. d. Respect of child-
ren for parents. e. Respect of children for
each other.
Lecture VI.—Faith-
	a. Ordinances of the Gospel. (Ref.
Gems of Prophet Joseph Smith and all
other Church works.
FIDELIA NELSON,
EMMA J. BUTLER,
Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.
			MARY E. HARRIS.
 “Leaves have their time to fall, 
	And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath, 
And stars to set—but all, 
Thou hast all seasons for thine own, oh Death.”
	Mary E. beloved wife of E. F. Harris, and
daughter of Thomas and Ann H. Gunn, departed
this life February 29, 1904, from pneumonia She 
was born September 15, 1868, in Adamsville,
Beaver County. She was a counselor in the Y. 
L. N. M. I. Association, and secretary of the Sab-
bath School in that ward for a number of years. 
She taught school in every settlement of Beaver 
County except one. She was married in Septem-
ber, 1891, to Brother C. J. Harris, of Beaver City,
who in the following October took his departure to


fill a mission to Great Britain. During his ab
sence she supported herself by teaching school and
also contributed towards his support while in the
mission field. She was the mother of three sons,
one ef whom preceded her to the spirit world. She
filled the office of stake secretary of the Relief
Society in an able and satisfactory manner for a
year and a half previous to her demise Although
she had been a partial invilid for several years,
she was a devoted and affectionate wife and
mother, and was an efficient Latter-day Saint in
every sense of the word. She leaves a grief-
stricken husband, two children, an aged mother,
one brother, four sisters and a host of relatives and
friends to mourn her untimely departure.
	Funeral services were held in the L D. S.
meeting house November 2, 1903, at 2 o’clock p.
m. The speakers all paid a high tribute to her
pure, exemplary life and stirling worth. She was
highly respected, esteemed and beloved by all
who knew her.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Alwise Creator has seen fit to call
from this sphere of action our worthy and beloved
sister and co-laborer, Mary E. Harris, therefore
be it
	Resolved, that we strive to emulate her unwav-
ering faith, her fidelity to purity and truth, her de-
votion to her home and religious duties, and her
humility and respect and obedience to proper
authority.
	Resolved that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
and love to the bereft husband and children and
to the worthy mother and to the brothers and sis-
ters and to all other dear ones and that we sin-
cerely pray our Heavenly Father that He will fill
their wounded souls with the comforting and heal-
ing influence of His Holy Spirit, that they may
realize that she has only gone before to enjoy the
rest and reward of a well spent life.
	That a copy of these resolutions be given to the
esreemed husband and the worthy mother, and
one be sent to the Woman’s Exponent for publi-
cation.
			ALICF M. T. TANNER, Sec.
Beaver, Utah, March 10, 1904.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In Memory of Sister Josephine F. Nash who de-
parted this life, July 25, 1903, at Salem, Utah,
was born in Letmis Tiania, Norway, Feb. 23, 1854.
Adopted by the Relief Society.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father, in his infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call home our beloved sister
and
	Whereas, we feel in the death of Sister Nash a


sore bereavement and regret that she should be
called from our midst so soon, be it
	Resolved, that we do express our sorrow and ex-
tend our sympathy to her family, and also, be it
	Resolved, that we keep in memory her great and
noble patience, and loving kindness to all fellow
mortals and that we ever emulate her example.
	Resolved that these resolutions be published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT and that a copy be given
to the family of Sister Nash.
						SISTER GARDNER.
	In Memory of Sister Annie Peterson, Born in
Plesing, Denmark, Nov. 20, 1814. Died in Salem,
Utah, Jan. 15, 1904. Adopted by Relief Society.
	Whereas, our beloved sister Annie Peterson,
has after a long and useful life, been called home
by our Heavenly Father, be it
	Resolved, that we express our love for sister
Peterson and our appreciation for the good and
noble work she has done among us, Be it also
	Resolved, that we sympathize with her beloved
ones who still remain with us and who feel the loss
of a mother and wise counselor.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be published in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and that a copy of them
be sent to her family.
						MARY EDMAN.


INTERNATIONAL QUINQUENNIAL.
INFORMATION CONCERNING THE AP-
PROACHING THIRD QUINQUENNIAL OF
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL AND THE
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS IN BERLIN.
	I am in constant receipt of letters asking
for more minute information than has been
given in previous articles in regard to var-
ious details of the approaching Quinquen-
nial and its accompanying international Con-
gress. Every inquirer has received a per-
sonal reply, but, as the plans are matured,
and in that process necessarily to some ex-
tent modified from time to time, I will ask
all interested in the subjects to consider that
this constitutes a correct answer to date to
any questions that may have been asked
me. If, as in some instances will be the
case, the information communicated differs
from that communicated in personal letters,
I beg them to understand that the differ-
ence in the dates between this communica-
tion and the letters they may have receivd
from my office, accounts for any changes
in the information.
	Being in receipt of frequent advices from
Berlin I can confidently assure my country-
women that every provision possible is be-
ing made by the German committee of Ar-
rangements for the succees of both Council
and Congress, and for the comfort, conveni
ence and hospitable entertainment of all
who may attend them. The German Com-
mittee of Arrangements is responsible for
the preparations for the Congress only,
which is to be held under the auspices of
the International Council and immediately
succeeding the Quinquennial proper; but
the German Committee is interpreting its
responsibilities very generously. Although
the preparations for the Council proper are
in the hands of a large Committee of Ar-
rangements composed of the General officers
of the International, the Presidents of all
affiliated National Councils, and one mem-
ber from each Council especialy appointed
to serve on this committee, and, although
this committee of which the President of
the International Council is the Chairman,
has worked constantly since Mid September
for the success of the Council, it goes with-
out saying that there are many matters of
detail relating to the local situation which
cannot be arranged by correspondence. In
regard to all these, the German Committee
is generous with both advice and practical
help.
	It is not improbable that all the sessions


[Column 1]
of the Council, Executive and Public, may
be held in the Reichstag Building. This
is greatly desired, but if the strenuous eff-
orts to secure it fail, beautiful and ample
accommodations will be found in the Phil-
harmonie. Should the Council be honored
by being granted the Reichstag, as even its
large hall will be too small to accommodate
the Council on the occasion of its Peace and
Arbitration meeting, and, as for other reas-
sons, the Parliament House will not be suit-
able for such a meeting, that may probably
be held in the very beautiful Cirkus Schu-
man. Either in the Reichstag or in the
Philharmonie, a room will be set aside for
the use of the Council during the Quinquen-
nial week as a Central Bureau, or what in
this country we should call a “Business
Headquarters.” The Chairman of the
Sub-Committee on Hospitality recommends
as what we in the United States would call
“Hotel Headquarters” Das Palast Hotel,
Koenig Gratzer Strasse, Leipziger Platz.
	This hotel is conveniently situated to the
halls in which the meetings of both Coun-
cil and Congress will be held, and is rec-
commended as being in all respects desir-
able.
	The cost per day of a room with light
and service included is from four to ten
marks according to location; of breakfast
one mark and a half. I am at the present
time in correspondence with the proprietor
of the hotel and hope to secure such accom-
modations as will enable us to announce as
Hotel and Social Headquarters. As one of
the chief advantages of such a gathering of
women from all parts of the world is the
promotion of their real acquaintance with
one another, it seems to me most desirable
that as many as possible shall secure their
rooms in this hotel recommended as head-
quarters. If any of our American women
going over desire a cheaper hotel, one in
the same neighborhood named “Hotel
Bellevue” in Potsdamer Platz is recom-
mended. Here according to location rooms
are from three to seven marks, breakfast
one and one fourth marks, luncheon and
dinner in proportion. For the benefit of
any Council of women who prefer to make
other arrangements, I give the address of
the chairman of that special section of the
Hospitality Committee whose functions it
is to find accommodations in hotels and
pensions, and will remind ladies who prefer
privite hospitality that the German women
have very generously provided to secure
this in so far as possible for those applying
for it. Frau Cubitz, Lutzow Str. 85 B. Ber-
lin W. Germany.
	I am in constant receipt of letters from
women who have received the general invi-
tation to speak at the Congress or to “par-
ticipate” in it, asking for a statement of
their specific subjects, and of details con-
cerning their individual work. Since it is
only with the details of the Council pro-
gram that I am directly and responsibly
concerned, I am obliged to refer all such to
the chairman of the Committee of Arrange-
ments, Frau Marie Strit, Wintergarten,
Strasse 3, Dresden, Germany, or to the Cor-
responding Secretary of the German Coun-

[Column 2]
cil whose address is Berlin West 10 Frieder-
ich Wilhelm Strasse 7.
	As for the program of the Council proper,
it is being developed, with as much rapidity
as could be expected where so many coun-
tries are involved. The President has is-
sued a call to the Committee of Arrange-
ments inviting as many members as possi-
ble to convene in a preliminary meeting on
Saturday, June 4th, so that any inside de-
tails, of which there are always so many on
the eve of any great gathering, may be
provided for. It must be understood that
all preparation that can possibly be made
by correspondence, will be made in ad-
vance; that the President of the Interna-
tional Council will arrive in Berlin a week
or ten days before the opening of the
Quinquennial, and that the preparations
which must be made on and after June 4th
will be reduced to a minimum. The pro-
gram for the Quinquennial in large is as
follows:—
		SATURDAY, JUNE 4TH.
	Meeting of the Committee of Arrange-
ments to endorse arrangements already
made by the Executive in Dresden supple-
mented by correspondence during the year,
etc., etc., and to take action upon final de-
tails.
		MONDAY, JUNE 6TH.
	The morning will be occupied by meet
ings of Standing and Special Committees of
which there are now five.
	a) Press, whose chairman is Mrs. Emily
Cummings, 44 Dewson St., Toronto, Canada.
	b) Peace and Arbitration, whose acting
chairman is Mrs. May Wright Sewall, 633
N. Penna. St. Indianapolis, Ind.
	c) Legal Position of Women, whose chair-
man is Baroness Olga von Beschwitz. 5
Mozart Str. Dresden Germany.
	d) Finance, whose chairman is Mrs Dig-
ham 284 St. George St. Toronto, Canada.
	e) International Relations whose acting
chairman is the President.
	The President has asked the chairman of
every committee to convene her associates
at this time in order that any propositions
which the different committees may wish to
submit to the Executive may be considered
in such special sessions of the committees.
	The afternoon of Monday will be occu-
pied by a meeting of the Executive Comm-
ittee proper when the program will in-
clude:—
	a) To receive reports of Standing and
Special Committees.
	b) To affiliate New Councils.
	c) To elect New Patrons.
	d) To present unfinished business which
has been turned over to this particular
session.
		TUESDAY, JUNE 7TH.
	Both morning and afternoon will be occu-
pied by sessions of the Executive.
	The mornings of Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday, June 8th, 9th and 10th will
also be occupied by sessions of the Execu-
tive before which many important matters
announced in the Agenda will be brought.

[Column 3]
	All the numerous amendments to the
constitution which have been proposed dur-
ing the Quinquennial period will be brought
forward for action. While many of these
are merely formal, and others concern
merely the method of transacting business,
there are still a large number of vital im-
portance. It will be proposed at the ap-
proaching Quinquennial that two very im-
portant subjects be added to the one which
has already in 1899 been adopted for propa-
ganda. Thus far, the Council has been
committed to making propaganda only for
Peace and Arbitration. At Berlin, it will
consider the propriety of adding to its pro-
gram.
	a) Abolition of White Slave Traffic.
	b) Political Equality for Women.
	I wish to call attention to the phrasing
of this second proposition. Even our
Council Workers often speak of this as being
a recommendation of “Suffrage for Women”
and then treat this phrase as if “Suffrage
for Women” means the same degree of
political liberty in all countries. A little
reflection will show that between “Woman’s
Suffrage” as it is understood in the United
States and “Political Equality for Women”
as it is understood in the Council, there is
a wide difference, but the principle demon-
strated in the former is clearly recognized
in the latter. The proposition as it will
stand on the Agenda is as follows:—
	“INASMUCH AS ALL GOVERN-
	MENTS EQUALLY EFFECT THE
	MEN AND WOMEN LIVING UNDER
	THEM. THEREFORE, BE IT RE-
	SOLVED THAT UNDER ALL GOV-
	ERNMENTS WHETHER NOMINALLY
	REPUBLICAN OR MONARCHICAL
	WHATEVER POLITICAL RIGHTS OR
	PRIVILEGES ARE ACCORDED TO
	MEN OUGHT ON CORRESPONDING
	CONDITIONS TO BE ACCORDED TO
	WOMEN.”
	It will be seen that this proposition seeks
to abolish the political distinctions which
have been based solely on sex.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


IN MEMORIAM
	Died at Lewiston, Cache county, Utah, March
7, 1904, Sister Abigail Thorne Pond, one of Utah’s
Pioneers Sister Pond was born in the town of
Sempronious, now Moravia, Cayuga county, state
of New York, April 2, 1821. being at time of her
death 82 years, 11 months and 5 days old. She
embraced the Gospel in her childhood, being bap-
tized on the 30th of September, 1838, and was the
first in the neighborhood where she lived to offer
herself for this sacred ordinance. She emigrated
to Nauvoo in 1841, and was well acquainted with
the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith. She was taught the principle of plural
marriage and embraced the same, being married
in the Nauvoo Temple Jan. 26, 1846, to Elder
Samuel Russel. They left Nauvoo with the
Saints when they were driven from their homes,
and endured cheerfully all the hardships and per-
secutions of that historic period. They arrived in
Salt Lake City, Utah, in September, 1841, Some
time after their arrival in Utah the husband apos-
tatized and went with his first family to California.
Some years later she became the wife of Brother
Stillman Pond.
	Brother and Sister Pond were among the early
settlers of Richmond, where they raised their fam-
ily and where Brother Pond went to his well-
earned rest. Sister Pond then moved to Lewiston,
where most of her children were living, and has
resided here for a number of years, tenderly loved
by her children, grand-children, and a host of
friends. She was a faithful Latter-day Saint, and
a devoted wife, a kind and loving mother, and a
friend to the oppressed. She was a member of
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, was president of the
organization in Richmond for a number of years,
and was a faithful worker until her health failed.
She awaits a glorious resurrection with the just.
RHODA M. HENDRICKS,
Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY 
					AND NURSING.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Marilla Daniels 

								Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

				Vol. 32		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1904		No. 12.


CONTENTS.
Discipline and Development.................
	...........................Elizabeth Fletcher	89
Mother’s Work—Snowflake...................	90
Visit to St. George Stake........................
	...........................Ann C. Woodbury	91
Home and its Influence..........................
	.......................Mary A. C. Lambert	91
Mother’s Work—South Sanpete.............	91
General Conference Relief Society........	93
International Quinquennial.....................	95
In Memoriam..........................................	96
Yellow, Purple, White.............................	96
EDITORIAL—Our Little Paper.............	92
	Editorial Notes................................	92
	Birthday Party Bee Hive House.....	92
	A Pleasant Party..............................	92
	Birthday Gathering.........................	93
POETRY—The Healer.....Ellis R. Shipp	89
	A Storm on the Atlantic Ocean.......
	................................Lydia D. Alder	89
	My Treasures...............Ray Hulbert	91


THE HEALER
Small bud with its frail stem broken,
Sweet song that was left unsung—
Fond love that was never spoken—
And the harp that was left unstrung!

Fair bud with its frail stem bended,
Bruised flower that might have bloomed,
All future promises ended—
All of thy glories entombed,

Ah! the harp sent forth no message,
Alas! it was left unstrung—
Its echoes all hushed and silent!
The beautiful song unsung,

Love-words, which never were spokeu,
Left longings forever void—
The vows which were made and broken—
Bright visions and hopes destroyed.

Then where, oh, where is the guerdon
For hopes all blighted so soon?
The potent touch of the Master,
Will set life’s music in tune.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.


A STORM ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN.

	The storm-king reigns in fury,
		The sea is dashing high;
	The waves white capped are lashing,
		Where e’er may rest the eye.
	Our steamer good the “Cretic”
		Rides o’er the billowy wave,
	Then sinks deep in a valley
		As though in wat’ry grave.

	The storm-king’s legions howling,
		Incessant chorus sing;
	On masts and ropes are playing
		Wild winds, whose tones they fling.
	O, grand the storm-king’s fury,
		The tempest’s awful sound;
	When as abyss, then seething
		The waters rush around.

	The sky of inky blackness
		With ne’er a ray serene,
	Envelopes as a mantle,
		Rain fierce beats in between;
	A sea comes o’er the vessel,
		With crushing, deaf’ning roar;
	Receding, then is sullen;
		O, may it come no more.


’Mid creaking of the timbers
		Propeller’s whirl in air,
	And madd’ning splash of water,
		I hear my loved ones’ prayer,
	Far o’er the Rocky mountains,
		I know they plead for me, 
	That safe we’ll reach the harbor, 
		Across the stormy sea.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
DISCIPLINE AND DEVELOPMENT.
	“Obedience to parental command was
Heaven’s first law”. It is no less important
now than it was at the beginning of man’s
career on the earth.	Happy indeed is the
home where a proper discipline is main-
tained; with Paul we say “Children obey
your parents in the Lord:” for it is right.
“Honor thy father and mother;” which is
the first commandment with promise that it
may be well with thee and thou mayest live
long on the earth. And ye “fathers, provoke
not your children to wrath, but bring them
up in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord.” I consider the foregoing very ap-
propriate in the lesson of mother’s work.
Parents should exercise proper control over
the child.	And in order that we mothers
may find out better the way to properly
control our children, I wil endeavor to bring
out a few points. Why should the parent
control the child? Why not let him follow
his own inclination? I think we can all
readily see what kind of a household that
would be; instead of the home being one of
peace and order that it should be, just the
opposite would be the result, Secondly:
that proper ends may be accomplished with
the least effort. The third reason, for the
sake of character development, which is a
very good reason; for if a child is left to
grow up in this world where there is so
much sin without some one to watch and
guard him and point out to him both the
good and the evil, and whenever the least
tendency toward evil is shown, to check it
at once; he is apt to develop much more of
the evil than the good. 
	One of the first lessons to the child should
be that of prompt and willing obedience to
parents. And the very best way to obtain
this result, is never to require or ask a
child to do anything that is beyond its cap
acity; and we should consider all the cir-
cumstances surrounding it. And then after
the requirement is made, always see to it
that the child obeys the request. Now in
this connection a great deal depends upon
how we speak to a child when we ask him
to do anything. If we speak in a command-
ing or harsh tone of voice, and at the same
time call him lazy or something similar it
is no more than natural that the child rebels
and refuses to obey. While on the other
hand if he is spoken to in a gentle tone of
voice, and at the same time calling him by
some pet name, he will almost invariably
jump up and run to do the mother’s bid-
ding. And let me say to you mothers,when
your child does this, never forget to repay
him with a smile, a gentle caress and a
pleasant thank you.

[Column 2]
	Parents should get the child’s confidence.
This is very true, and a very improtant fac-
tor in helping to guide the child right.
Mothers should encourage their children in
telling about the little incidents that hap-
pen to them when out of her company.	I
have seen mothers when their little boy or
girl has come full of excitement about
something that has happened; instead of
that mother listening and taking a lively
interest in both the joys and sorrows of what
the child has to relate, she will possibly give
him or her a push, and say “Oh dont both-
er me, I dont care anything about that.” A
child treated in this way a few times soon
becomes reticent and don’t bother to tell
mother of the little troubles of everyday life,
and in that way the mother loses her op-
portunity of giving her counsel when it
would be of the most benefit. And as the
girl and boy grow older instead of making
mother the confidential friend and advisor
that she should be, their confidence is placed
somewhere else, and in some instances the
counsel they receive from others, instead of
leading them right has just the opposite
effect.
	There is another view of thls subject. A
parent’s every action should be such that
the children will have the utmost cofid-
dence in them. I consider the practice that
some parents indulge in of deceiving their
children and making promises to them that
they never intend to fulfill the worst kind of
discipline. Parents should be very careful
about making promises to their children;
they should consider all the circumstances;
and then, after the promise is given, always
see that it is fulfilled: unless it is impossible
for reasons that the child himself can under-
stand. While on the other hand a parent
that is continually making and breaking
promises soon loses the confidence of the
children and as a consequence the power of
control is weakened. In a family we find
different characteristics in each child and
for that reason no special rule can be laid
down; different methods may be necessary
for the training of each child. Therefore,
how necessary that parents should do all in
their power to gain that knowledge necess-
ary to rear their children, so that they may
become noble men and women. And how
thankful we should be that we are so situa-
ted that we can avail ourselves of good
teachers for our children. Our brethren saw
the necessity of this; therefore the different
organizations in the church for the benefit
of the young. All churches have the Sunday
School but that is not sufficient so in ad-
dition to our Sunday School we have the
Primary and Religion classes and Improve-
ment Associations. If a child is sent regu-
larly to these different organizations as they
get old enough, and they learn the lessons
there assigned to them, there is not much
danger of their going very wrong.	But
some parents say I can’t get my children to
go, they will go to Sunday School occasion-
ally and quit that altogether when they are
sixteen or thereabouts. What’s the matter?
well there are different reasons; but do you
know that I think that the greatest fault lies
with the parents. Sometimes they are kept


[Column 1]
at home for some trifling thing, and they
lose their interest; and sometimes they
have lessons assigned them, and instead of
the mother helping her boy or girl in
preparing that lesson If it should be a little
difficult, they will perhaps not give them
the necessary time in which to prepare the
same. And as we all know it sometimes
takes a very little thing to discourage a
child. But if they once get out of the habit
of going, Oh, how hard it is to get them
started again. So for that reason, we should
be on guard and when any inclination is
shown of not wanting to attend meetings,
use every endeavor to overcome their objec-
tions. I dont believe in forcing a boy or
girl to meeting or threatening them with
punishment if they don’t go, but kindly
show them the good that they will derive
from attending. Now while we are on the
subject of good teachers, I would like to say
a few words in favor of sending our boys
and girls to the Church schools, for I know
as well as I want to, that it is one of the
greatest of all helps to parents in making
good Latter-day Saints of their children.
When boys and girls are about sixteen or
eighteen we all know that it is about the
hardest time for the parents to get them to
attend to their religious duties; but if we
place them in a Church school about that
time and keep them there for a few years,
and at the same time give them the proper
example and training at home, I think that-
in ninety cases out of a hundred they will
come out good Latter-day Saints, besides
being prepared in other ways for the battle
of life.
	Parents should be united in the govern-
ment of the child. I think we will all agree
on that, for it would certainly be an uphill
business in training any child where the
parents were not united in their methods of
government. One parent should never in-
terfere with the other while the child is be-
ing corrected or punished, but if you feel
that the correction or punishment is unjust,
wait until the child is out of hearing before
finding fault in any way; and then try to
harmonize ideas for the benefit of the child.
Parents that have the habit of finding fault
with each other before their children cannot
expect anything else but that they will
grow up quarrelsome with each other and
their playmates; and not only that, but they
lose the reverence and respect for their par-
ents that they should have. Another reas-
on why one parent should not interfere with
the other, is that it is apt to make the child
feel that he is being unjustly dealt with.
	The next question, what condition of
mind should the parent be in while admin-
stering punishment? The answer should
be, never punish in anger. I wonder how
many there are of us that follow that rule,
I dare say that none of us do it altogether.
But it is a true principle nevertheless.
Some of the best thinkers and writers tell
us that we should never whip a child while
angry. Now I should like to know how
many mothers would whip unless they were
angry. I think there are very few, but we
don’t like to acknowledge that we whipped
our child because we were angry. Oh no,
we say, it was because he had done some-
thing for which he deserved a thrashing.
But I would like to ask; does whipping do
any good anyway? We can all answer that
for ourselves, but I am decidedly of opinion
that it does more harm than good every time.
Then you might say, what are you going
to do to correct your child when he does

[Column 2]
wrong?, the answer is this. The home
should be as far as possible, natural, and of
such a nature, that the child himself will
feel that the correction is just. For instance,
if a child tells a falsehood, and it becomes
known to the rest of the family, he should
be made to feel that he has done that for
which he deserves the suspicion of the whole
family. All eyes shou'd be turned upon
him with a pitying distrust. Or if your little
boy whittles your furniture with his new
pocket-knife and you give him a slap for it
perhaps as soon as your back is turned he
will only do it again. But if you deprive him
of the use of his knife for a few days, he
will have time to realize the loss of it, and
he will not be very likely to repeat the
offense.
	I don’t think that any good ever came
from telling a little child; “The bad man
will get you if you don’t be good" or that
“There’s a big bear out there” or similar
expressions. In fact very bad effects follow
such practices. In the first place the child
is frightened, and is apt to grow to be of a
nervous disposition; but that is not the worst
of it. It will not be long before the child
finds out that he is being deceived, that the
mother to whom he has always looked as
being perfect has actually been telling a
falsehood. Mothers did you ever think of
it in that way before? did you ever stop to
realize that you were teaching your little
child the first lesson in deception. It is just
such practices and others that I have tried,
in this lecture to show the evil effects of, that
tend to weaken parental control. I have
already given you my opinion of whipping
children as a means of punishment and as
I said before, it not only does no good
but causes a feeling of resentment, and has
often been the means of causing children to
tell falsehoods; and what more could we ex-
pect than that a child who gets a whipping
every time it does wrong; naturally tries to
evade that kind of punishment, even if he
has to tell a falsehood to do so.
	I have [-]ndeavored in my weak way to
follow the subject of this lecture; and to
sum it all up. we find that the main points
to be remembered are. Unity of parents.
Kindness but not indulgence. Firmness but
not harshness. And above all let the ex-
ample be such that when our everyday life
is reflected in the actions of our children,
that they may bring joy and happiness to
us instead of sorrow and remorse. May
this be our happy lot is the sincere desire of
ELIZABETH FLETCHER, PROVO.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

Lesson VII.—Employment for Children.

	“From toil he wins his spirits light
	From busy day the peaceful might.”
								GRAY.
	(a) A busy life cannot well be otherwise
than cheerful, (b) Let the child assist his
parents in the home at a very early age and
help him to feel that his aid is necessary
and appreciated, (c) Cultivate a desire in
the child to work his way honestly and
bravely, (e) All labor that is honest is
honorable too. (f) Parents do wrong in
keeping their children too much sheltered
and enervated by parental indulgence.

Lesson VIII.—Amusements.

	(a) Have them adapted to both the ment-

[Column 2]
al and physical development of the child,
(b) Teach him to invent games and be will-
ing for him to invite other children in to
participate. (c) Do not let amusements in-
fringe upon the sacredness of the Sabbath
Day or upon the rights and property of
others, (d) Avoid excesses particularly in
dancing (Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 246,
Vol 37.

Lesson IX.—Politeness

	“Politeness is to do and say
	The kindest thing in the kindest way.”
	(a) Proper respect for the rights and
privileges of one another at home and
abroad. (b) Politeness is the result of good
sense and good nature. It is a pait of good
morals. (c) Levity of manner unbecoming,
(d) Americans are afflicted with pretension.
Let the Latter-day Saint mother seek to
eradicate the evil. (e) “A graceful be-
havior towards superiors, inferiors and
equals is a constant source of pleasure.”

Lesson X.—Make Home Attractive.

		“Let Love Abound,”
	(a) A gilded palace is not a home, it is
not a formal school of staid solemnity and
rigid discipline that constitutes a home. (b)
“’Tis there the twig is bent.” (c) Encour-
age music both vocal and instrumental. It
induces children to spend their evenings at
home. (d) Pictures of a proper character
have a refining influence. (e) Flower gar-
dens cultivated by both boys and girls.

Lesson XI.—Make Home Attractive. (con-
tinued).

	“You may break, you may shatter the vase if you
		will.
	But the scent of the roses will hang’round it still.”
	(a) Family devotions. No child can fail
to be impressed where all is sincerity. (b)
Good books are as necessary as good com-
pany. They are an evidence of culture. Let
them be adapted to the capacity of the
child. (c) Make a specialty of church
works. (d) Baneful effects of dime novels.
(Ref. Juvenile Instructor page 274-586,
Vol. 37).

Lesson XII.—Habits of Children

	“Habit in a child is at first like a spider web if
neglected it becomes a thread of twine next a cord
of rope finally a cable—then who can break it?”
	(a) Habit is a man’s best friend or worst
enemy. (b) All the virtues or vices, all the
actions of mind or body may be chained by
its despotic power. (c) The importance of
forming only good habits. (d) Bad habits
are broken only by perseverance and earnest
prayer. (e) The importance of mothers
watching the habits of her children from
earliest infancy, (e) Regularity in diet,
sleep, work, play etc.
	Emma S Smith, President; Sarah Driggs,
Mary J. K. West, Counselors; Della F.
Smith, Secretary; Janet M. Smith Treas-
urer.


Fort Madison, Ia., boasts having as one of
its most respected and patriotic citizens
Mrs. Rachel Albright, who is a grand-
daughter of Betsy Ross, who made the
first American flag. Mrs. Albright was
born in the home of her grandmother,
Betsy Ross, in Philadelphia, June 16, 1812
and was brought up under Mrs. Ross’ care.
She there learned the art of making flags
at her grandmother’s knee, and Mrs. Al-
bright still carries on this work.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MY TREASURES.
		BY RAY HULBERT.
I am standing today on the evergreen bank
	O’erhanging the River of Time;
In the distance behind me are memories rank—
	Before me the future sublime.

About me are twining the affections of old,
	Like tendrils of new-grown moss;
While pictures of silver and threads of gold
	Are gleaming amid flakes of floss.

As I stand on the banks of this beautiful shore,
	Now washed by the Waters of Life,
I find fresh among the bright treasures of yore,
	The pearls of the present are rife.

And my heart wells upward, toward the Great
		White Throne,
	As I glean of these rubies so bright,
And I offer to him who sitteth enthroned,
	My treasures for His World of Light.


VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	The Presidency of the St. George Stake
Relief Society left St. George May 2nd, and
in the afternoon met with the Relief Society
of Leeds where Bishop McMullin met with
us and we reorganized the Society.
	Sister Susan Harris, the former president,
has moved to Wyoming, and Helen Mc-
Mullin takes her place as president. Ada
McMullin and Mary Olsen counselors. The
sisters were well pleased with our visit.
Sister Mary G. White, Stake president of
the Primary was with us and the Primary
was also reorganized. Caroline McMullin
president, Mrs. Frank McMullin and Emma
Angel counselors; we had a nice meeting,
and went on to Toquerville where counse-
lor Mary D. Batty presided at meeting of
the Relief Society as president Spilsbury
could not attend. There was a full attend-
ance and the organization was complete.
The next morning at 8 a. m. held primary
and just before the meeting closed the
school bell rang and the children ran from
the meeting like a flock of sheep, for the
school room. We then went to Virgen by
the “twist” which is a hard road, and held
Relief Society at 2 p. m. with President
Hilton presiding. We had an enjoyable
time. The sisters appreciate the yearly
visits. We here appointed Primary meet-
ings to be held as we returned.
	We went on to Grafton where we had a
general meeting. So few people live there
that it is hard to keep up the associations,
but they are striving to do right. We spent
the night with Lottie Russell and others.
Went to Rockville on the 8th and had
meeting at 10 o’clock Mary L. Stout presid-
ing: she is the mother of 15 children and
quite a young looking woman, another lady
there has had the same number. “Utah’s
best crop,” is exhibited here. We met with
77 children in the Primary association Sis-
ter Farnes presiding.
	At the close of the meeting we went on
to Springdale and spent the night at the
Bishop’s. The scenery here is grand and the
fresh mountain air is very invigorating.
	At 10 o’clock a. m. met with the Relief 
Society, Bishop Oliver Gifford met with
us. At 2 p. m. met with Primary and re-
turned to Rockville, where we spent the
night with Sister Ida Miller a widow. 
	We went to Virgen on the 6th and met
with the Primary, many of the mothers met
with us, Sister Stratton presided, we had a
nice meeting and returned to Toquerville,
and held an officers meeting with the Relief
Society.


Went to Leeds on the 7th and had Pri-
mary meeting, Caroline McMullin presiding,
a lot of well behaved children live here.
We went on to Harrisburg and met with the
people there, had a good time.
	We returned to St. George having been
gone 6 days, held 13 meetings, traveled 90
miles and enjoyed ourselves very much,
visiting with the Saints.
				ANN C. WOODBURY


HOME AND ITS INFLUENCE.
	If we only realized the importance the
influence of home has upon the life of our
children, we would strive to make it the
most desirable place for them.
	This can be done by making the children
feel that it is necessary for them to do their
part to bring this about.
	Children ought to be taught to be help-
ful and considerate for their parents or
elders. Mothers make a great mistake when
they bring their children up to expect to be
waited upon.
	It naturally makes them selfish, when if
they are taught from their infancy to per-
form small acts to save mother, and if it is
impressed upon their minds through love,
it will come quite natural to them to do so.
Many mothers may think that this is too
much trouble, they would rather do it them-
selves it is too much bother; we must not
think this if we wish them to grow up to be
useful; we wish them to be happy and have
a good time and therefore they should be
helpful.
	The influence of home and its surround-
ings stay by us all through our lives, then
how careful we ought to be that those im-
pressions are of a pleasant and profitable
nature.
	We should be very careful of the com-
pany that they keep; rather have them
bring company home, than go out to seek
it, by doing so we have a better chance to
judge of their companions.
	It is also necessary that we as mothers
set before them by example as well as pre-
cept that we should wish them to follow
“as we sow so shall we reap,” if we make
good impressions they will be lasting.
	Solomon says, “My son keep thy fathers
commandment and forsake not the law of
thy mother. Bind them continually npon
thy heart and tie them about thy neck.”
	“When thou goest, it shall lead thee; and
when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and
when thou awakest it shall talk with thee.”
	The wise man Solomon realized this.
MARY A. C. LAMBERT.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.
	Pre-natal life and hints to prospective
mothers.

	Lecture I.— The first great command, “Mul-
tiply and replenish the earth”
	(a) Necessity of faith in God as a guiding
star to expectant mother. (b) Urgent ne-
cessity for a knowledge of the sin and
danger of destroying pre-natal life. (c)
Danger of marking children greatly exag-
gerated, mothers should not permit their
thoughts to dwell on unpleasant and disa-
greeable things. (d) Duty of mothers to cul-


tivate the qualities they wish their children
to possess.

Lecture II.

	(a) Necessity of society, one’s proper com-
panionship for pregnant women. (b) Pro-
priety of going out during this period. (c)
Folly of false modesty. (d) Dress hygienic
and becoming. (e) No corsets or tight
bands. (f) Clothing suspended from the
shoulders. (g) Rubbing with oil to relieve
tension of abdominal muscles.

Lecture III.

	(a) Abundant exercise. (b) Daily walks.
(c) How to avoid constipation by correct
diet. (d) Plenty of fresh fruit and pure
water. (e) Abstain from tea, coffee, and
all drugs and stimulants, live according to
nature.

Lecture IV.—Heredity.

	(a) Grave responsibilities of parents. (b)
Injustice to children who are forced to in-
herit disease and sin. (c) Necessity of a
prayerful united effort on the part of parents
to overcome tendencies, whether physical,
moral or mental, that they may not be trans-
mitted to their children. (d) Rights of
children to be well born. 

Lecture V.—Care of Mother after confine-
ment.

	(a) She should insist on perfect ventilation
and scrupulous cleanliness. (b) Also abso-
lute quiet and freedom from care. (c) Mild
and simple diet of such a nature as will pre-
vent constipation. (d) Tea and coffee are
harmful in their effects. (e) No stimulants
unless ordered by a competent physician.
(e) No callers should be permitted.

Lecture VI.—Care of the Infant.

	(a) No water for the first bath. (b)
Thorough rubbing with oil applied with a
soft cloth followed by careful wiping. (c)
No food except the contents of the mother’s
breast and warm water which has been
previously boiled. (d) Don’t waken a child
to exhibit to visitors. (e) Avoid strong light,
tight bands and too much clothing. (f)
Also clothes unnecessarily long. (g) Give
frequent and thorough rubbing with the
hand, (h) Regular nursing is important.
	ALVIRA L. COX, President R.S.


The U. S. D. R. met May 16 at the home
of Mrs. George A. Smith. The rooms
were elaborately decorated with the Stars
and Stripes, Society colors, pictures and
the flags of nearly all the European coun-
tries. Regent Mrs. Isabel M. Whitney
Sears presided and after the usual prelimin-
aries Mrs. Sears read an entertaining sketch
of the life of Nathan Hale of revolutionary
fame. Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth followed
with a poem to his memory written by a
daughter of the Revolution Virginia Frayer
Bayle, Miss Wells gave the courtship of
this celebrated hero. There were present
as guests Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards, Mrs.
Lucy Smith Acomb and Mrs. Charles W.
Nibley. The meeting was very enjoyable
and after adjournment delicious refresh-
ments were served to all in a dainty fashion
and a social hour was made particularly
pleasant.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpa[--]el
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1904


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

This number of the paper completes the
thirty-second volume of the Woman’s Ex-
ponent, and we cannot but congratulate
the women of Utah in having had a voice
in the press of this Western land so many
years. It is the oldest woman’s paper in
the West and has done good service for the
Rocky Mountain region in standing for po-
litical equality, and the higher education of
women, as well as for her moral, social and
industrial advancement; not only these, but
for the principles of truth and righteous-
ness, as contained in the Blble, also in the
Book of Mormon, and the revelations given
in this last dispensation through the Proph-
et Joseph Smith and other inspired men.
The paper has been a potent factor in
helping forward the organizations of women
in many lines; formerly it was the only
paper to stand for the asoociations, and in
looking over the early numbers one finds
much of interest pertaining not only to the
Relief Society, the Retrenchment Associa-
tion, the Primary, the Kindergarten, the
Silk Association, the Deseret Hospital, the
Woman’s Cooperative Store, and so on; and
it contains almost a complete history of
woman’s work in Utah, and matters per-
taining thereto.
It has done good educational work for
the people young and old; some of our best
writers today made their first appearance in
the columns of the Woman’s Exponent.
Although we have many other papers taking
up the different subjects in special lines, yet
the Woman's Exponent is as much needed
as ever it was, for where we only had a few
people to read, we now have many, and
a great variety is needed to meet the de-
mand. And while we may acknowledge
that it is not all that we could desire it to
be, let us try to make it better and more ac-
ceptable by giving it substantial support.
That is exactly what is needed.
If the sisters in the Relief Society would
urge the members everywhere to take the
paper and pay for it, there would soon be a
very radical change in its appearance and
the regularity of issues each month.
Much space has been taken in publishing
the Outlines of Lectures since the com-
mencement of the mother’s work in the
society and other matters have been left
out, but as much care as possible has been
taken by the editor in adjusting copy satis-
factorily. We have not been able to give as
much space for reports as heretofore,but hope
we can do more in the future. And here we


may perhaps explain that it is impossible
to publish even brief reports of all the Stake
conferences held during the year. In the
future we shall be obliged to condense re-
ports of meetings more than ever before
because we have more Stakes of Zion, more
missions, more meetings; and we must
necessarily have a few other things to make
variety.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

We are happy to be able to state that our
beloved mother in Israel, Sister M. Isabella
Horne, is very much improved in health,
and we hope and trust will soon be well
enough to visit among the sisters and speak
in the Relief Society conferences of the new
stakes of Zion recently organized, because
of the division of the Salt Lake Stake over
which she presided more than a quarter of
a century.
Since the April conference the General
Board and missionary sisters have visited
several Stake Conferences of the Relief
Society. Blackfoot (a new stake) was vis-
ted by Emily S Richards and Priscilla
Smith; Cache and Hyrum Stakes by Mary
Alice Lambert and Elizabeth J. Stevenson;
Benson and Oneida by Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Rebecca E. Little; Beaver by Sophia
T. Nuttall and Elizabeth S. Wilcox; Malad
Stake and Washakie by Elizabeth J. Steven-
son; Jordan by Phebe Y. Beatie and Carrie
S. Thomas; Box Elder by Mary Alice Lam-
bert; Emery, Elizabeth J. Stevenson and
Carrie S. Thomas; Taylor and Alberta in
Canada, by Counselor Annie T. Hyde and
Louise L. Greene Richards.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY PARTY BEE HIVE HOUSE.
	A very pleaaant party was given in the
parlors of the Bee Hive House (the official
residence of the President of the Church) in
honor of the 82nd anniversary of the birth-
day of the General President of the Relief
Society, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. The
arrangements of the affair as we understand
were in the hands of her nieces, and some
of the Temple sisters. The decorations
were mostly carnations and roses, of these
82 carnations were given by the sisters as-
sociated with her as their President in the
Temple; other ladies gave a variety of
beautiful flowers and a number of other
presents, useful and ornamental.
	Sister Smith is very widely known and
dearly loved, she is a pioneer woman in ex-
perience and practical economy in all the
departments of home life. In carding, spin-
ning, dyeing and weaving in early days
here, she was an adept, and in cutting and
making all household wearing apparel,
table and bed linen, carpets, etc.—no one
surpassed her in skill and ingenuity as far as
we know. In the organizations among wo-
men old and young she has had an active
part and though both temporal and spirit-
ual in character has maintained an even bal-
ance, and yet has always been a good equal
suffragist. Like her illustrious husband,
who was one of the foremost men of his
time, she believed in equal rights, and in
doing things, more than in talking about
doing things.
	The day was not auspicious so far as the
weather for it rained, rained, rained, and
literally poured at last, reminding one of
Longfellow’s Rainy Day:

[Column 2]
“The day is cold and dark and dreary,
It rains and the wind is never weary,
Thy fate is the common fate of all;
Into each life some rain must fall,
Some days must be dark and dreary.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, the honored
guest, looked like a queen among her
“maids of honor," ladies of the court, and
the sisters vied with each other in bestow-
ing honor on one so worthy, as this venerable
woman of more than four-score years, whose
countenance beamed with love and good-
will towards all.
	The conversation was general and there
were some charming musical selections
given on the piano by Miss Roberts—Miss
May Merrill, grandaughter of the guest of
honor gave a humorous recitation “Wo-
man’s Rights.” Miss Priscilla Smith also
recited one of a similar style.
	Dainty refreshments were served by
young girls and the President Joseph F.
Smith and his Counselors John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund came in for an hour
or so and partook of the repast and partici-
pated in the social conversation. President
Winder pronounced the blessing.
	The hearty congratulations, good wishes
and blessings Sister Smith received during
the afternoon, and the love expresed for her
amounted to an ovation rarely given to any
one, and it was all genuine in tone and sen-
timent, truly she deserves it all and far more.
Her long life has been one of devotion to
duty and full of integrity to the Gospel and
the cause of Zion. May she live yet many
years to enjoy the love and friendship of
those among whom she has labored so long,
and to see Zion redeemed, and the dearest
wishes of her heart realized, and may her
life grow brighter as time goes on, for she
has earned rich blessings.
“Who soweth good seed shall surely reap;
The year grows rich as it groweth old;
And life’s latest sands are its sands of gold.”


A PLEASANT PARTY.

One of the most congenial meetings of
dear friends and renewing of acquaintances
was at a party given by Dr. Margaret C.
Roberts in the spacious parlors of her new
home on C. street in this city, Thursday
May 5, at 2. p. m. It was in every respect
a restful gathering, as we remember it was
called a Kensington, but only a few of the
very industrious ladies had work in their
hands. The rest of us were only talking
to and admiring and complimenting each
other and the hostess, who had made it
possible for us to have this rare opportun-
ity under such favorable circumstances.
About fifty ladies were invited, and per.
haps forty were present. The decorations
were roses, carnations and lilacs, and the
entire suite of rooms were simply beautiful;
The musical part of the entertainment was
delightful to all lovers of good singing.
Mrs Leslie W. Snow sang in her most
charming way “Tell Me” and “For All
Eternity,’’ afterwards, Mrs. Maggie Freeze
Bassett,one of our favorite singers rendered
in a sweet voice “My Rose Marie,’’ and
“The Old Man’s Dream.” Miss Larson
a very popular soloist, gave in her clear
melodious voice “O, Dry Those Tears,”
“Speak Love”“Cavellieria Rusticana” and
Jenny Lind’s Swedish song by which she
gained such popularity. The music added
greatly to the enjoyment of the afternoon.
Dainty refreshments were served on small
tables the ladies being congenially seated


though nearly all were friends of long
standing, and the social intercourse was the
real charm of the gathering, and over the
teacup or over the chocolate it is expected
ladies express their views freely. However
one need only say the entire affair including
conversation, music, vocal and instrumental
tea and service and all the accompaniments
from going inside the door to the leave tak-
ing “speed the parting guest,” was an
afternoon to be remembered for years after-
wards, and the writer often thinks serious-
ly in these gatherings of our sisters, shall
we who are here today all ever meet again?
Let us hope however, that we who assem-
bled at the Doctor’s party may meet again
as happily as on that day. It seems formal
to add that common-place saying;

‘‘Blest be that spot, where cheerfnl guests retire,
To pause from toil around the evening fire
Blest that abode where want and pain repair,
And every stranger finds a ready chair.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	93


BIRTHDAY GATHERING.

The nineteenth of April ult., was the
81st anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Margaret Pierce Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, and herself a pioneer of
1847, coming into the valley in the famous
company that followed the pioneers in May
1847, and located the “Old Fort” on Pio-
neer Square. Her father and mother, Bro-
ther and Sister Pierce, also brought with
them in company with their daughter Mar-
garet, Sister Eliza R. Snow, companion for
Sister Margaret, her own sister Mary hav-
ing died in Winter Quarters.
Margaret P. Young was born in and
reared in Chester Co., Penn, of Quaker par-
entage and still retains much of that native
simplicity of manner and speech always no-
ticable and pleasing. Aunt Margaret as
she is familiarly called by those who know
her intimately, is still active in mind and
body, and is fond of company and of society
and able to do her own cooking and enjoys
household employments. She is also a work-
er in the Salt Lake Temple.
The evening of her birthday, about forty
or fifty guests, relatives and friends assem-
bled at the residence of her son, Elder B.
Morris Young (by invitation), Sister Young
has resided, since leaving the famous “Lion
House” where she spent most of her life,
in the house with her son; the rooms were
all opened for the occasion and prettily dec-
orated with flowers and plants. Among the
guests were President Joseph F. Smith, Dr.
Seymour B. Young, President Frank Y.
Taylor, Bishop Millen C. Attwood, Patri-
arch McGee, Elders Louis Kelch, George
Crismon and Counselor Noah S. Pond of
Pocatello Stake and other brethren. Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith of the general
Relief Society, Sisters Julina L. and Edna
L. Smith Amelia F. and Lizzie Riter
Young, Annie Taylor Hyde and several
other sisters, old friends and true, and many
other women. There was some good music
interspersed with conversation which was
mostly of a reminiscent character, old times
and doings of other days.
Sister Margaret was the recipient of a
number of presents and of many warm con-
gratulations and good wishes for years to
come. The feeling of genuine hospitality
was delightful and the coming together of
old friends is always a sort af inspiration
and the hours flew swiftly by. The refresh-
ments prepared and served by Sister Ar-
meda S. Young were delicious, and the


geniality of spirit that characterized the
whole affair was restful and most enjoyable.
The writer on her own account and as ed-
itor of this little paper adds her congratula-
tions and good wishes, having known Aunt
Margaret intimately for many long years
and in joy and in sorrow has always found
her the same loyal friend.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
The April conference of the General Re-
lief Society was held in the Assembly Hall,
in this city, Saturday, April 2, meetings
commencing at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. as
usual. The stand was prettily decorated
with plants and the elegant Relief Society
banner hung on the organ looked very ap-
propriate.
President Bathsheba W. Smith and all
the general officers and several members of
the General Board were on the platform.
President B. W. Smith presiding.
Conference opened with the hymn: “How
firm a foundation.” etc. Mrs. Maggie C.
Hull, leading, Miss Lottie Owen, assist-
ing, Mrs. Maria Francis, accompanist.
Prayer by the secretary, Sister E. B. Wells,
Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Je-
hovah.”
President B. W. Smith addressed the sis-
ters.
“My dear sisters, I greet you with a
happy greeting, this is a fine looking con-
gregation, I love the Relief Society and I
pray the Lord to direct our efforts in the
labor of love in which we are engaged,
laboring for the sick, the poor and the
needy, and may we lay up treasures in
heaven, and none ever step aside from the
path of truth and righteousness. I pray
the Lord to direct every word that shall be
spoken. We will have to make our speech-
es short, and we must condense our
thoughts. I believe in short speeches and
short prayers. May the Spirit of the Lord
be in this assembly. Amen ”
President Rebecca Rawlins Benson
stake: In our stake the poor have been
especially well looked after in our wards the
past winter. The Mother’s work has been
a great help in bringing out many. We
sent three nurses to the last nurse class, and
that has only made us feel that we
need more The doctors found them very
efficient helps. The more we do the more
we find to do.
President Susannah P. Booth, Box Elder
Stake: We are working in love and union.
We number nineteen branches. The
president at Park Valley died this last
winter. We have not yet started to visit in
the outside settlements, but intend starting
as soon as the weather will permit. We
have been called upon to make 150 yards
of carpet for the Logan Temple, also our
president of Box Elder Stake wants us to
make 150 yards for our Tabernacle in
Brigham City. We joined with the Y. L. N.
M. I. A. to buy the carpet for the Taber-
nacle. Mothers cannot always leave their
little folks to go to meeting, and we sym-
thize with the mothers who cannot get to
the meetings.
President Mary A. Sorenson, Emery
Stake: We have a noble band of workers.
We have started the mothers work. We sent
our outline to be approved and have had it
back again and scattered copies among the
sisters, and the Y. L. M. I. A. are helping
their mothers. If we find aged sisters who
cannot attend the meetings we take the

[Column 2]
meetings to them. We sent two nurses to 
the class in Salt Lake and wished we could
do more. The sisters are doing much good
in charity with their cash and merchan-
dise, and we are working in union. The
Bishops meet with us and the Presidency
of the Stake also.
Counselor Elizabeth S. Critchlow, Hy-
rum Stake: We have visited all our
branches, and we hold officers’ meetings
monthly; have not started our Mothers’
work, but have had our outline printed, it
will bring in a great many young moth-
ers. We have our wheat stored in a good
place. Sometimes the meetings are taken
to the homes of the sisters who cannot at-
tend, and it seems to do good.
President Artemissia S. Seegmiller,Kanab
Stake: Our stake is fully organized, and
all are doing good work. We are just
getting started in the Mother’s work. Our
young mothers cannot attend meetings
much during the school year, and the
young people generally are occupied with
Mutual Improvement and Sunday school
work. We are not storing grain as we do
not raise in that locality what we consume.
May the Lord give us the spirit of this
work.
President Marinda Bateman, Jordan
Stake: We are doing all we can in taking
care of the poor and the sick and in stor-
ing grain, and we sent three competent
nurses to be trained, and we are anxious to
have quite a number more. We are trying
to do every duty and keep pace with others
in the work.
Sister Hull and Sister Burton sang a
duet which was very beautiful.
President Annie S. Musser, Liberty
Stake, felt weak in her new position, she
had called two meetings, had worked with
the Y. L M. I A. for the last five years,
but her sympathies had always been called
out to the poor. She felt to do the best she
could, relying upon the Lord in the per-
formance of her duties.
President Williamina Erickson, North
Sanpete Stake; We are trying to fulfill all
requirements, and I am happy to say that
the young sisters are much interested in
the Mother’s work; our older sisters are
laboring and doing all they can for the
sick, they are doing a noble work in this
direction. We visit through the stake once
a year, and we are all united.
Counselor Jane Holt, Davis Stake: We
have commenced the Mother’s work, and
are doing all we can in other directions in
storing wheat and in caring for those who
need assistance. We have not done much
visiting of late on account of the sickness of
Brother Grant. We hope to be diligent
and faithful in all things.
President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake: The Stake Board and workers are
united with each other. Our attendance
has improved since we have had the Moth-
er’s work, and the work has been beneficial.
We have some grain stored, and we are
contributing towards the Woman’s Build-
ing, and the sisters are all anxious and try-
ing io enlarge the subscription for the EX-
PONENT. We have it in each ward in our
meetings, on our tables, so that the sisters
can get all the instruction possible.
President Elizabeth DeLong, Panguitch
Stake: We are working in perfect har-
mony, our branches are fully organized,
but we have long distances to travel and
cannot visit any in the winter, it is so very
cold and dangerous even for men. Our
main object is charity and Mother’s work


[column 1]
secondary, but we are interested in it. We
read from the Church works and the EX-
PONENT in our meetings, and try to carry
out the instructions given for our benefit.
	Sister Margaret Hull then favored the
audience with a solo beautifully rendered,
“Sometime, Somewhere.”
	President Alvira L. Cox was especially
pleased to hear the sweet music of the
singers of Zion. Reported the stake all in
good running order. Hold conferences
once in three months. It is very interesting
to hear the uniformity of the reports given
here. Mother’s work has been the means
of bringing out many young sisters. In
our stake some branches are building more
granaries, for our granaries are full to over-
flowing. The presidents are always at
meetings unless detained by sickness.
	Mary Swindle, secretary Monroe Stake:
We have a good band of sisters. Ours is a
large stake, nineteen branches. We al-
ways visit once a year. Our meetings are
very well attended. We have testimonies
first and then the lectures on Mother’s
work. We have quite a large quantity of
wheat and considerable money on hand to
buy more.
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the sis-
ters briefly, had been called upon unex-
pectedly. Mentioned her pleasure in hear-
ing the good reports from far away stakes,
realized the sisters were faithful and dili-
gent, wished there was time to hear from
all, felt we were greatly blest in this good-
ly land.
	Sister Margaret Salmon reported for Sum-
mit Stake. Stated that the president, Ce-
lestia Y. Pack her board and assistants made
a point of going around visiting all branches,
they worked in perfect harmony. In the
Mother’s work they had taken up literary
subjects and lectures on the Women of the
Bible. We had a nurse class taught in our
stake, and have a number of very efficient
nurses.
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson, Teton Stake:
We endeavor to visit our branches twice a
year, and the sisters are united and are
greatly blessed in their labors; we have not
a large amount of grain on hand; our stake
is somewhat new, but we are trying to
serve the Lord, asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all present.
	President Annie R. Duke, Wasatch Stake:
Our sisters are united and all the branches
are in good working order, our Mother’s
work is splendid, many young sisters are
joining; still our main work is looking af-
ter the sick and the needy; we have con-
siderable grain stored, the Lord has abun-
dantly blest us, we visit our stake twice a
year.
	Sister Leah Blackburn, Wayne Stake,
made a good report, especially in regard to
the grain on hand, and said they visited
among the sick and needy.
	President Sarah Tyson, Woodruff Stake:
This was her first report, the stake had
been reorganized last summer; she had
visited all around since, traveled over six
hundred miles but found them all in good
order; she had been traveling two nights to
come to the conference; was pleased to be
present; had not yet begun Mother’s work,
but they were ready to do so.
	Congregation sang, “Zion stands on hills
surrounded,” dismissed with prayer by
President Emma S. Woodruff. Meeting
adjourned until 2 p. m.
_______

	Afternoon session: President B. W.
Smith presiding. Singing by members of

[column 2]
the Temple choir, Prof C. J. Thomas lead-
ing, duet “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.” Prayer by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, sing-
ing “Sometime, Somewhere,” Sister Maria
B. Winder and Sister Lottie Owen.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was the
first speaker. It is quite an inspiring sight
to see so many present, and I am sure that
it will be an inspiration to our president to
have so many gathered together, we have
been trying to get a little closer together
this time, by giving a luncheon today, try
to love each other more and become better
acquainted with one another, we should
criticize ourselves, and try to improve, have
a system and work and plan ahead. The
Lord will ask us to give an account of the
way in which we train our children. This
planning and arranging beforehand will
help us to progress, and we must not stand
still. Sister Hyde asked the blessing of
the Lord upon all and peace, love and con-
tentment to abide with us.
	Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang in her
sweet voice “Ave Maria,” accompanied by
Mrs. Kate Romney Stewart, the music was
very uplifting.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, after
speaking of her desire to get nearer to the
sisters, she related the story of the devotion
of a young girl and of the amphitheatre at
Rome when so many of the saints were
thrown to the hungry wild beasts to be torn
in pieces, how she was entreated by her
father, how he plead with her to give up
her faith that she might be spared to him,
he was old and feeble and gray-headed, and
he needed her, and after his persuading and
beseeching her, she said, “Yes, she could
give it up but the spirit within her could
not.” It is the spirit within us that helps
us to be diligent and faithful and zealous
in the Lord’s work. Charity, what a great
word it is, how much it conveys to us all,
who are engaged in the Relief Society
work; spoke of a conversation she had recent-
ly with a strange lady about our organiza-
tions and how astonished she was to learn
what we were doing. Sister Dusenberry
believed in strewing flowers in the pathway
of our workers, and not waiting until they
are dead to do them honor, their lives may
be barren of pleasure, let us show our ap-
preciation while they still live.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams said this was
a magnificent audience; we are all working
for our salvation in the heavenly kingdom,
striving to be true mothers and true wives.
The Ave Maria that Sister Pugsley sang
appeals to me; how many of us have sent
up that prayer to our Heavenly Father.
“Humility is one of the chief things to
help us to obtain favor and blessings;” she
also dwelt upon unity, her prayers were
constantly for the Relief Society, for our
Father in heaven to direct us by His Holy
Spirit to do right.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox felt if we were
to separate here and go to our homes, we
had heard so much it would be a feast; so
many songs that had been uplifting to our
spirits, so much in the music, and in the
words; this great audience is a witness of
the interest in this Relief Society work.
The maternal instinct is developed by the
work we have undertaken in the Society,
even in those who have not children of
their own, and those who are denied this
world's good, the rich poor, and the poor
rich. Our Father does not give us these
longings, not to have them realized, “Some-
time, Somewhere.” The practical work of
the Society will so extend that many more

[column 3]
will feel its benefits. Referred to a society
where they made plain clothes for children,
thought it a very useful thing, many
mothers would be glad to buy good plain
clothing, when they could not have time to
do the needle work.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little felt it a pleasure
to meet and shake hands with those who
came twice a year to the general assem-
blies; “The veterans who belonged to the
generation that preceded us have made such
untold sacrifices and practiced such self-
denial for their religion that their descend-
ants should have some of it in them,” re-
lated some striking incidents of personal
self-sacrifice and spoke of attending a fu-
neral recently of a sister who had presided
over a society 35 years and in all that time
had never refused a call made upon her.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon loved the Re-
lief Society and had always loved it, was
proud to think of the great work that had
been accomplished, and the growth of the
organization now numbering something like
33,000. “I am glad that my mother has
been engaged in this great charity,” related
the story of a Captain’s widow and two
little children, who was sick with consump-
tion the Relief Society cared for her and at
her death took care of the children, what a
comfort it was to the dying woman to know
they would be provided for. Sister Cannon
spoke of the Mothers’ Congress here some
years ago and the woman who came ex-
pressly to teach patriotism to our children;
but found there was no occasion whatever
for her teaching, the speaker felt that in
the Mother’s Work we should teach patrio-
tism and good citizenship, it was always in-
teresting to the little ones to talk of the flag,
its thirteen stripes and forty-five stars.
	Sister Cannon also spoke of the nurse
class felt it to be an important step in the
right direction.
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne said it is
always a pleasure to commune with the
saints, dwelt upon charity and the need we
have to exercise it, thought we should drop
our sorrows and cease repining, we must be
more companionable to our children, we
have to contend with the spirit of darkness;
we should be stronger than any other wo-
men, because our husbands have to go
away upon missions and we need more
strength than others. We must save our
strength so we can give some of it in our
Relief Society to help the work. Sister
Horne spoke upon the home and what it
should mean to our children.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth thought
we as mothers did not appreciate the advan-
tages of the age in which we are living.
The mother begins the process of training
with the infant in her arms she fills her
children with the principle of love; as mem-
bers of the Relief Society, we have every
opportunity to gain the confidence and love
of our sisters. I pray that we may go on
in this way and instruct our children not
only in the Gospel, but in patriotism; we
know we are descended from the makers of
this great union, and our boys were among
the finest soldiers in the Phillipines, and we
have every reason to be proud of their rec-
ord, let us do our duty faithfully to our
families, and our Relief Society.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, spoke of the re-
ports given in the morning, how systematic
and business-like they were made; thought
our sisters showed their ability; spoke of re-
porting the Relief Society at the Nation’s
capital, referred to the woman who came
here to teach mothers and was now the


[Column 1]
prime mover in the Smoot case; related the 
story of the woman who made great pre-
paration for a distinguished guest and re-
fused to help those, who came to her dur-
ing the day because of expecting this great 
man but when she was worn out with work 
and waiting and had retired for the night, 
he visited her and she asked him, why he 
did not come as he had said he would, and 
he answered, that he had visited her three 
times during the day and each time had 
been turned away; the good we can do for 
others is the greatest good we can do; she 
thought the way to make our children love 
us is to let them help us. 
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie said she had been 
asked to speak of the nurse class, she felt it 
had been a great success this last year and 
hoped it would accomplish even more this 
year, and that the Presidents of Stakes will 
try to get good, virtuous, high-minded young 
women to take the nurse course of training; 
said you all remember Aunt Zina how 
night after night and day after day she 
visited the sick and the dying and brought 
comfort into hundreds of homes. Let us 
emulate her example and be comforters and 
do good as she did, and let us learn how to 
do these things well. 
President Jane S. Richards felt we had 
enjoyed a great feast here today, it does me 
a world of good to think we can meet and 
give each other a greeting; spoke beauti-
fully of visiting the humble, some are not 
so well off in this world's goods, but that 
don't need to make any difference, try and 
hunt up those that no one else finds and 
seek to do them good even if they do not 
belong to the church. "I know a woman 
who goes to see every one that is sick and 
poor and don't get a chance to go to meet-
ings and she hires a carriage and takes them 
out riding; she don't go visiting and take 
tea with her neighbors, but she does do 
good to those in need; Sister Richards spoke 
of President Young coming in once when 
she was sick, had been sick over a year and 
what comfort the visit gave her; there was 
an old couple she always sent for twice a 
year to her home and they always had a 
little meeting. Afterwards spoke of the work 
of the Society in her own stake and the good 
feeling that existed there and closed by say-
ing, "May we live faithful and not be 
afraid to go home when we are called is my 
prayer." 
Sister E. B. Wells felt more then delight-
ed to see such a magnificent congregation, 
said it is a compliment to our President her 
associates and to the organization itself. 
Some of the sisters have been detained at 
home by sickness, Sister Horne has been 
ill all winter, and Sister Susan Grant one 
of our best Presidents who should have 
spoken here today, has a very sick son. 
Speaking of doing good to each other made 
her think of the love feast given in Kirtland 
by Bishop N. K. Whitney and his wife 
when they invited all the poor and lame 
and afflicted to the feast and the Prophet 
Joseph Smith came and sat at the table with 
them and partook of the hospitality extend-
ed to them, and he blest and comforted them 
greatly. 
President Jos. F. Smith was invited to 
come to this conference but was too busy,
—the great pressure of business prevent-
ed him. It is a great thing to preside over 
the Relief Society, the sun never sets on the 
Relief Society it extends around the world. 
Our President wishes me to present the 
names of the general officers to be voted up-
on here. 

[Column 2]
The secretary presented them and they 
were sustained unanimously. 
Sister E. J. Stevenson said, "I love this 
work I have been greatly interested today 
in the excellent things we have heard, the 
Lord bless you my sisters and may His 
spirit be with you all. If I had twelve 
daughters I would want every one of them 
to take the course in nursing. May peace 
and union and charity dwell among you is 
my prayer. 
President B. W. Smith, made a few clos-
ing remarks hoped all had time enough 
to talk, was glad and rejoiced to see so 
many at the conference; blest all with peace 
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon 
the congregation. 
Singing, "Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow" dismissed with prayer by 
Sister Priscilla Jennings. Conference ad-
journed for six months. 
E. B. WELLS, General Secretary. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, 
Secretary pro tem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
INTERNATIONAL QUINQUENNIAL. 
(CONCLUDED.) 
A Third very important proposition seeks 
to secure the proper representation not only 
of different nationalities, but of different
races in the official corps of the Council. It 
is proposed that the constitution be so 
amended as to prohibit the International 
Council from having any two of the five 
chief executive officers from the same coun-
try and also from having any two of the 
five chief executive officers from the same 
race. 
It is evident from the propositions that 
have been sent in that there will be work 
enough to fill full the week of mornings 
and the half week of afternoons or evenings 
that have been reserved for business. 
As has before been announced, there are 
to be three Public Sessions of the Conncil.
For the first of these the program in gen-
eral will be as follows:—
a) Welcome by the President of the Ger-
man Council.
b) Brief response by the President of the 
International Council who will then intro-
duce the General officers, the Presidents of 
Affiliated National Councils and the Hon-
orary Vice-Presidents representing countries 
where Council organization is in progress.
Each of these will present a brief greeting 
after which the address of the International 
President will be given. 
The Second Public Session will occur on 
the evening of Thursday June 9th when 
each of the Affiliated National Councils will 
be represented in a speech of six minutes 
by a person specially elected for that purpose. 
The "Speaking Representative" for the 
United States will be Mrs. Ellen A. Rich-
ardson of Boston who will be present as will 
also her Alternate Mrs. Isabella Charles 
Davis of New York. The list of "Speaking 
Representatives" for this occasion will be 
furnished later to the papers. 
The Evening of Friday June 10th will be 
devoted to the advocacy of Peace and Arbi-
tration, when speeches will be delivered in 
the three official languages of the Council; 
Lady Aberdeen delivering the address in 
English, Madame Bogelot of France, that 
in French, and Baroness Bertha von Sutt-
ner that in German. 
So long and full a program of business 
as will be presented at the Executive cannot 

[Column 2]
be given in detail here. This outline will 
be sufficient to indicate its character and the 
interest which will attach to it. 
The week following the Council will be 
occupied by the International Congress con-
vened under the auspices of the Interna-
tional Council. Of this the complete pro-
gram upon which the German Committee 
has been working assiduously for many 
months is almost complete and later will be 
published in its entirety. At this writing, 
it is sufficient to say that the four sections 
into which, as previously announced, the 
Congress is divided will hold simultaneously 
six sessions each on the successive morn-
ings of that week, while the program for 
the evenings when the Congress will be 
assembled as a whole, instead of in sections 
will be as follows:—
Monday, June 13th—“The Present Stat-
us of the Woman's Movement in all Organ-
ized Lines." 
Tuesday, June 14th—“Frauen lohne.”
Thursday, June 16th—“The Relation of 
the Woman's Movement to Political Parties 
and Religious Sects." 
Friday, June 17th — “Woman’s Suff-
rage." 
Saturday, June 18th—“The Underlying
Principles and the Aims of the Woman's 
Movement." 
In relation to social functions concerning 
which I have received many inquiries, so
far as the Council is concerned, there will 
be an official reception given to it by the 
German Council on the evening of June 
8th, and there will be many other official 
and non-official social affairs from June 6th 
to June 11th, inclusive, while the evening
of Wednesday June 15th has been chosen 
by the German Committee of Arrangements 
for the official reception to the Congress. 
The President is in receipt of information
which leads her to believe that the Inter-
national Council will be received with the
greatest possible hospitality at the German 
capital, but it is premature at this time to 
announce with more definiteness anything 
concerning the social functions. 
In reply to many inquiries, I will say 
that it is not in accordance with the Ger-
man custom to charge an admission fee, to 
sell tickets, rent boxes or anything of this 
kind for such public meetings, so the public 
meetings will be free to all. 
During Council week, there will be, of 
course, only one meeting at a time in pro-
gress excepting when the meetings of 
Standing and Special Committees are con-
vened, and as the more distant countries 
will very likely be represented by the same 
woman on more than one such committees 
an attempt will be made to make even these
meetings successive rather than simultan-
eous in so far as is possible. 
The Business Sessions of the Council are 
not open to the public. In reply to many 
inquiries as to who are eligible to sit in the 
Executive Sessions of the Council, I will 
say that those who are entitled to a vote on 
the Executive are only the following:—
(a) The General Officers. 
(b) The President of each affiliated Na-
tional Council or her Proxy. 
(c) Two delegates from each affiliated 
National Council or their respective Alter-
nates.
Although these are the only ones with a 
constitutional right to vote, there may also 
be present the following: —
(a) Chairman of all Standing Commit-
tees. 
(b) Honorary Vice-Presidents.


(c) International Patrons. 
(d) The special member appointed by 
each Council to represent it on the Com-
mitee of Arrangements. 
The classes above enumerated have a con-
stitutional right to be present with or with-
out a vote as indicated. 
The President of the International will 
also invite to be present: 
(a) The Speaking Representatives from 
each Council where such representative is 
not included in any of the foregoing lists. 
(b) All members of all of the five Inter-
national Committees. 
(c) All Proxies and Alternates for the 
voting members of the Executive even 
though the latter be also present. 
(d) Also the four members elected or ap-
pointed by each affiliated National Council 
to attend the Quinquennial and Congress as 
"Hearers." 
It will easily be seen that with twenty
countries already in the Council, there is a 
possibility for a very large assembly of wo-
men each of whom will have some vital offi-
cial relation to the Council. 
There has been some anxiety expressed 
by Americans lest the German papers might 
not give a helpful degree of publicity to the 
proceedings of the Council and Congress. 
No anxiety need be felt upon this point. It 
has been already arranged with the great 
German newspapers that they shall send 
competent reporters to all meetings that are 
open to the public, while to the other pap-
ers in Germany and to papers outside of the 
Empire official reports will be forwarded. 
The preparation of these reports will be en-
trusted to a commission of a few skillful 
journalists to be selected by the German 
Committee of Arrangements. 
As for the American contingent, as nearly 
as I can judge from letters received, there 
will be in the neighborhood of a hundred 
and fifty women in attendance upon the 
Council and Congress at Berlin. Many of 
these have already sailed, having gone over 
in little groups from time to time for a 
month or two of travel prior to the opening 
of the Council. From present advices, I 
think, that in the neighborhood of fifty 
Council women will sail on Friederich der 
Grosse on May 19th. 
Having tried to reply as briefly as poss-
ible in order to clear up all the perplexity, 
which seems to hang about this subject, 
with many of my correspondents, I now so-
licit further letters of inquiry from anyone 
who may read this article, who desires in-
formation not herein furnished. To promote 
"The New Internationalism" that "Inter-
nationalism" which is co operative instead 
of competitive, peaceful instead of bellige-
rent, and which results in honest friendship 
instead of jealous rivalry, is the object of 
the International Council whose President 
believes that this object will be almost im-
measurably promoted by the meetings that 
will occupy the time from the 6th to the 
20th of June 1904. 
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL. 
President of the International Council of 
Women.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO. 
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as 
much as possible for your money. TRY US 

[Column 2]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 9, 1904, at 
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake 
City. Those desiring to attend will 
please communicate personally or by 
letter. 
Save Your Money! 
And when you get a dollar, deposit it 
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, the oldest and largest savings 
bank in Utah. 
Since the establishment of the bank 
we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
ings accounts. 
The laws of Utah permit married 
women and also children who are minors 
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have 
you such an account? If not, open 
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said 
interest Semi-annually. 
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 Main Street. 
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY 
AND NURSING.
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her 
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904. 
One student free. Write for particulars. 
This class recommended by the General 
Board of the Relief Society.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM
Sister Martha Proctor, who departed this life 
after a lingering illness, on March 22, 1904, was an 
efficient teacher for many years in the Union 
Ward, Jordan Stake Relief Society, which position 
she filled with honor, till failing health caused her 
to cease her labors. She was a woman of sterling
qualities. 
When a girl she was a mother to her father's 
motherless children, and came to the valley in the 
early fifties, and lived at the home of Squire Wells, 
where she was married from to David Proctor.
She leaves a husband, five children, twenty-four 
grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren.
The speakers at her funeral were many, includ-
ding Brother Rulon S, Wells. All testified to her 
integrity and great love for her family and friends. 
The singing by the choir was lovely and appropri-
ate. The opening prayer was offered b Elder 
John Sharp, the closing one by Elder Henry Brown 
of South Cottonwood. 
The ward meeting house was beautifully draped 
and the lovely flowers showed the esteem in which 
our beloved sister was held by her many relatives 
and friends. 
The pall bearers were her grandsons. She was 
tenderly laid away In a vault at South Cottonwood, 
the grave being dedicated by Elder James Proctor. 
M. A. SMART, Pres. R. S. 
SISTER AGNES CUTLER. 
The grim reaper, death, visited the Jordan Stake 
Relief Society on March 9, 1904, and took from us 
our faithful and beloved stake counselor, Sister 
Agnes McGregor Cutler.
Sister Cutler was born August 13, 1843, at Bon-
hill Dumbarton, Scotland. Emigrated to America 
in 1849 with her parents, William and Ann Mc-
Gregor, crossed the plains with ox teams to Utah 
in 1852, and endured all the privations of pioneer 
life and settled in Salt Lake City. Married Broth-
er Harmon Cutler of West Jordan, December 19, 
1857; was the mother of five children, three sons 
and two daughters, one daughter and two sons 
survive her of the Cutler family. Harmon Cutler 
died in the year 1868, and she married Frederic A. 
Cooper, of West Jordan, in 1870. They had three 
children, two sons and one daughter, one son now 
living. She left three sons, one daughter, twelve 
grandchildren and hosts of relatives and friends to 
mourn. She died in Salt Lake City, at her sis-
ter's Mrs. Sarah Mitchell, on March 9, 1904. 
Sister Cutler was a natural Latter-day Saint, 
and was always an active and earnest worker and 
was noted for kindness and hospitality, and she 
never was so happy as when administering to the 
wants of the poor and comforting the down-
hearted. 
When the West Jordan Relief Society was or-
ganized in January, 1868, she was chosen one of 
the first teachers, which position she held until 
May 6, 1868, when she was elected second counse-
lor to President Althea Gardner. She was chosen 
first counselor to President Louise Egbert on Dec-
ember 12, 1880. She filled that position until July 
6, 1891, she was then chosen president of the West 
Jordan Relief Society, which position she filled 
with honor until the ward was divided in 1896; 
she was honorably released from being president 
of West Jordan and appointed president of East
Jordan, which office she held until Jan. 21, 1900;
she was then chosen second counselor to President 
Marinda Bateman in the Relief Society of the Jor-
dan Stake of Zion. 
Although we miss her kind and loving face from 
our midst, we know that our loss is her gain, and 
that she will be welcome on the other side by 
many loved ones, she has seen much sorrow and 
we feel that her death was hastened by the shock 
of hearing of the death of her dearly beloved son, 
Edward, who was accidently killed in a mine in 
Park City about three months before her death. 
Another cause of regret was the absence at her 
bedside and funeral of her only daughter, Eliza-
beth Williams, who was in Idaho, and could not 
be reached in time. 
Through all her trials and sorrow she was al-
ways cheerful and pleasant and never complained 
and died as she had lived, a true Latter-day Saint.
We mourn her absence, but rejoice in her rest, 

[Column 2]
for we know she will receive the reward of the 
faithful. 
MARINDA BATEMAN, Stake Pres.
ELIZABETH GARDNER, Sec.


YELLOW, PURPLE, WHITE.
LIBERTY, UNITY, FRATERNITY—PEACE
COLORS.
As decorations for the peace meetings 
the following suggestions are offered:
Flags may be used in every available 
space--the flag of our own country and the 
flags of any and all countries which can be 
had or can be made of simple materials at 
hand. In a particularly prominent place 
should hang the peace flag, which can be 
made by any one without much difficulty 
from simple materials. It is a tri color,
emblematic of liberty, unity and fraternity. 
Yellow is next to the flagstaff (which is 
blue) purple in the centre and then white 
at the end. The motto, "Pro concordia 
labor," (we work for peace) may be placed 
upon the flag; also an olive branch. Over 
the flag sheathed swords might be hung as 
an additional symbol of peace. Flowers 
and the colors used in the peace flag would 
be suitable for decoration. 
Any picture suggestive of peace would 
make appropriate decorations; as, for ex-
ample, the picture of Wm Penn's treaty 
with the Indians or the picture of Corn-
wallis surrendering at Yorktown. 
The committee in charge of the various 
meetings will know best what they have 
at their disposal with which to decorate, 
and this matter must be left largely to their 
discretion, but the foregoing suggestions 
may be of service to those who are in doubt 
how to proceed. 
ISABEL M. W. SEARS, 
MARY A. H. CANNON.

